02 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Tablighi Jamaat headquarters cleared||All occupants of the Tablighi Jamaat headquarters, at the centre of an extensive net of the novel coronavirus transmission, were evacuated by early Wednesday, even as the authorities scrambled to identify and quarantine visitors who had returned home to various parts of the country. At least 29 more occupants tested positive on Wednesday, taking the total in Delhi alone to 53. Of around 310 delegates from Kerala, only 60 have returned to the State, and are under quarantine. The missionary sect’s followers travel extensively, and efforts are on to trace the rest. At least 500 participants from Haryana are in quarantine. Cabinet Secretary Rajiv Gauba held a videoconference with the Chief Secretaries of all the States. “Most of them are testing positive. We have so far got only about 15 negative cases. If you put 2,000 people in a closed building, everyone is bound to have it,” a Delhi government official told The Hindu . The official said they were coordinating with other States and evacuating people from different mosques in the city. “People who have visited the centre are present in other masjids. We have visited at least 15 such mosques in the city,” said the official. 2,346 evacuated The Delhi police Special Branch and the Delhi government shifted 275 foreign nationals to quarantine from various mosques and places in and around the national capital. They were associated with Tablighi Jamaat. A total of 2,346 people were evacuated from the Markaz (centre), which serves as the international headquarters of the sect, at Nizamuddin, and 536 of them were sent to hospitals and 1,810 were sent to quarantine facilities, the Delhi government said in a statement in the evening. The evacuation was completed around 4 a.m. on Wednesday, Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia said. “The operation lasted for three-and-a-half days, and extensively in the last 36 hours.” He said the Delhi government prepared a list of the people evacuated, along with their phone numbers, and the police were looking into it. “The cyber cell will investigate the numbers and look into who all they met and where are the rest of them. And where are the people who met them,” he said. The asymptomatic people, who have been moved to the quarantine facilities, are not being tested immediately, but will closely be monitored, officials said. Mr. Sisodia requested all visitors to the centre in March to report to the authorities. “If you do not come forward or if you are ill and are hiding it, action will be taken against you,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tablighi-jamaat-headquarters-cleared/article31232225.ece
02 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||India sees a sharp spike in infections||India reported three deaths and 376 new cases on Wednesday — the highest-ever single-day increase in its COVID-19 tally. This brought the total confirmed cases to 1,637 and took the death toll to 38. One hundred and thirty two persons have been cured/discharged from hospitals after recovery, the Union Health Ministry said at its daily press briefing, which was the shortest in a month as questions were restricted to a couple of media outlets. Reports from the State Health Departments put the number of positive cases at 1,897, with 1,702 active ones. The number of deaths stood at 55. An official of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said 47,951 tests had been conducted so far, including 861 by private laboratories, and 126 ICMR laboratories were involved in testing.  Days after the lockdown began on March 24, several migrant workers were out on the streets of Delhi and other cities, trying to return home to Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Madhya Pradesh and West Bengal. The Home Ministry ordered the States to prevent their travel and provide them with food and shelter. “The situation is under control,” a Home Ministry official said. “21,486 relief camps have been set up and 6,75,133 persons are being sheltered.” The Health Ministry issued an advisory for proper quarantine and “psycho-social measures” for migrants on Tuesday. Under this, trained counsellors and/or community group leaders of all religions would visit them in relief camps and provide support. The measure followed a directive from the Supreme Court to deal with the migrants in a “humane manner”. The Railways are modifying coaches to accommodate 80,000 isolation beds. Twenty-four categories of medical devices would be regulated as “drugs”, according to a decision by the National Pharmaceutical Pricing Authority. This would prevent suppliers from hiking rates to more than 10% of their prices. The Ministry of Ayurveda, Yoga & Naturopathy, Unani, Siddha and Homoeopathy also recommended measures for self-care in preventive healthcare to boost immunity, especially for respiratory health.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/india-sees-a-sharp-spike-in-infections/article31232217.ece
02 April 2020||New Delhi,||Centre defines J&K domicile rules||The Union government has issued a notification defining “domiciles” in the new Union Territory (UT) of Jammu and Kashmir for protecting jobs in the Group D category and entry-level non-gazetted posts for the domiciles. On August 6 last, the Centre withdrew J&K’s special status under Article 370 and Article 35A of the Constitution and bifurcated it into the UTs of J&K and Ladakh. Changes in PSA Tuesday’s notification of the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) makes changes to the Public Safety Act (PSA) by removing a clause that prohibited J&K residents booked under the Act to be lodged in jails outside. The notification scraps all pension benefits such as car, driver, accommodation, phones, electricity, medical facilities and rent-free accommodation to former J&K Chief Ministers. The order says the domiciles will be eligible “for the purposes of appointment to any post carrying a pay scale of not more than Level 4”. The Level 4 post comprises positions such as gardeners, barbers, office peons and waterman, and the highest rank in the category is that of a junior assistant. A senior government official said the reservation for domiciles would not apply to Group A and Group B posts, and like other UTs, recruitment would be done by the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC). “This is according to the norms in other UTs and States. Recruitment by the UPSC expands the search for talent across the country,” the official said. Vacancies in posts According to the MHA’s reply to a parliamentary panel on February 18, there are more than 84,000 vacancies in J&K, of which 22,078 pertain to Class IV employees, 54,375 to non-gazetted and 7,552 at the gazetted level. The order defines a domicile as one “who has resided for a period of 15 years in the UT of J&K or has studied for a period of seven years and appeared in Class 10th /12th examination in an educational institution located in the UT of J&K or who is registered as a migrant by the Relief and Rehabilitation Commissioner (Migrants).’’||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/centre-defines-jk-domicile-rules/article31232221.ece
02 April 2020||HYDERABAD,||Doctor assaulted over death of COVID-19 patient||Medical fraternity at Gandhi Hospital were agitated after COVID-19 patients, family members of another patient who died, allegedly assaulted a junior doctor on the seventh floor on Wednesday evening. Hyderabad police have registered a case against those who misbehaved with the hospital staff. Four members from a family, including a woman, were admitted in the isolation ward of the hospital and all of them tested positive for coronavirus. One among them, a 49-year-old patient, died on Wednesday evening. Telangana Junior Doctors Association members alleged that two male family members attacked a general medicine junior doctor, blaming doctors for the death. “One of the patients, an old man, was in a critical condition in the last two days. We had informed his two family members about his condition but they did not give us permission to intubate (to provide oxygen) the patient. After he died, the two family members slapped the doctor and assaulted security guard,” said a junior doctor from the hospital. Soon after the incident on Wednesday evening, junior doctors gathered at the entrance of the main building in protest. Senior officials from the police and Health department visited the hospital to bring the situation under control. “Despite multiple appeals, the COVID-19 patients came out of their ward and started walking around. The junior doctors in their mid 20s are putting their lives at risk by attending to patients. People have to understand the kind of efforts that are put in by the doctors, nurses, and other staff,” said an official. Condemning the assault on doctors, Health Minister Eatala Rajender said strict action would be taken against the attackers. “Measures will be taken to ensure that such situation does not arise again,” Mr Rajender said. Director General of Police M Mahender Reddy said the Police department will beef up security immediately and take all necessary measures to provide protection to all the doctors and para medics treating COVID-19 patients. Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police (DCP) A Bhaskar overall in-charge of the security will be assisted by additional DCP S Srinivas Rao and Task Force. Meanwhile, 12 more cases of COVID-19 were reported in Telangana on Wednesday, taking the total number of active cases to 88.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/doctor-assaulted-over-death-of-covid-19-patient/article31232494.ece
02 April 2020||COIMBATORE,||Police intercept container trucks packed with migrants||The Coimbatore police have arrested five truck drivers for attempting to illegally take 250 migrant workers in container trucks to their native places in Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan, violating the nationwide COVID-19 lockdown. Three trucks bearing Haryana registration numbers and two with Delhi registration have been seized. The workers were employed in Pollachi, Sulur, Palladam and Dharapuram and were out of work following the lockdown imposed a week ago. They were mostly working in the construction sector on daily wages. They had, through an agent, agreed to pay a specified amount for the transportation, a trade union source said. All the workers have since been shifted to employee camps. The police said that the trucks were stopped by a team from Singanallur station at A.G. Pudur around 2 a.m. on Tuesday during a routine vehicle check. Upon checking inside, Inspector M. Muneeswaran and Sub-Inspector Arjun Kumar found about the workers. While three trucks with 197 persons were bound for Rajasthan, two others bound for Madhya Pradesh had 53 persons on board. Following this, the drivers H. Rajendra Singh (40), J. Balaram (38) and B. Anilkumar (28) from Delhi, and R. Indrapal Singh (28) and R. Mukesh Patil (32) from Uttar Pradesh were arrested but let out on bail. Cases were booked under Sections 143, 269 and 270 of the IPC, along with Section 177 of the Motor Vehicles Act.  Hunt on for agent Assistant Commissioner of Police, Coimbatore East, M. Somasundaram, said that the district administration was providing food and essentials to the workers. Sub-Inspector Kumar said that the trucks were returning empty from Kochi and the group of workers got in touch with the drivers through their contacts. Coimbatore Collector K. Rajamani said that the revenue and police officials were hunting for the agent who arranged for the transport of the migrant workers. AITUC (Tamil Nadu) Construction Workers’ Union deputy general secretary N. Selvaraj said that following the lockdown, wages had not been paid to the workers. The sub-contractors are not willing to take responsibility for providing them food. N. Murugesan, secretary, Coimbatore Lorry Owners Association, said that fleet operators here always obtained due permission before using vehicles for transportation.  (With inputs from Wilson Thomas, M. Soundariya Preetha and R. Akileish in Coimbatore)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/police-intercept-container-trucks-packed-with-migrants/article31232309.ece
02 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||67 test positive in a single day||The COVID-19 outbreak cases connected to the Tablighi Jamaat meeting in New Delhi increased the total positive cases in the State to 111 on Wednesday, causing panic in at least eight districts where multiple cases were reported in a single day. At least 70 of the 87 cases reported before 7 p.m. are of the persons who had attended the meeting in Nizamuddin in the national capital and their close contacts, while 16 are of foreign returnees and their close contacts and one is of a person who had come from Rajasthan, according to the Health Department bulletin. After 7 p.m., 24 new cases were reported and the travel history of these persons was being tracked, officials said. During the past 24 hours as of Wednesday evening, over 470 samples, all of Delhi returnees and their contacts from eight districts, were tested and 43 tested positive. The authorities found out that about 1,085 persons from the State attended the event and more than 1,050 of them have been traced. CM’s plea Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy said 21 Delhi returnees are to be traced, and appealed to them to come forward by utilising the 104 helpline. He said results of samples of the remaining Delhi returnees were awaited. Before 7 p.m. on Wednesday, 812 samples of Delhi returnees (543) and their contacts (269) and 358 samples of foreign returnees (218) and their contacts (140), besides 143 samples of persons who showed COVID-19 symptoms were tested. Guntur district has reported 20 cases till date followed by Krishna, Kadapa and Prakasam with 15 cases each. West Godavari has reported 14 cases till date followed by Visakhapatnam 11, East Godavari 9, Chittoor 6, Nellore 3, Anantapur 2 and Kurnool one. All the cases in Kadapa and West Godavari districts have been reported in the last 24 hours. People can dial the 104 helpline for reporting symptoms or other information related to the outbreak. People can also inform authorities about whereabouts of the unreported Delhi returnees or foreign returnees.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/67-test-positive-in-a-single-day/article31232210.ece
02 April 2020||Rajulapudi SrinivasTANUKU (WEST GODAVARI),||One dead, four critical after consuming sanitiser chemical||A youth died and four others were hospitalised after they reportedly consumed a sanitiser chemical as liquor shops were closed owing to the lockdown in the State. The deceased has been identified as D. Naveen Murthy Raju (20). Four others were admitted to various private hospitals and their condition is stated to be critical. According to Eluru Range DIG K.V. Mohan Rao, one of the victim P. Veeresh, a native of Velpur village in the district managed to get half litre of Isopropyl alcohol (a disinfectant used as solvent in some wiper fluids) while unloading the chemical in a company located at Pydiparru village. Later, he called up his friends — Naveen, T. Durga Rao, V. Shyam Sundar and A. Venkatesh — of the neighbouring villages. They got tempted to the liquor odour of Isopropyl and reportedly consumed the chemical near Kavalipuram Cheruvu, on Monday. Condition serious Kovvur Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP) K. Rajeswar Reddy said Naveen fell sick on the same night. He was rushed to a private hospital where he was declared brought dead. “Other victims were also admitted to hospital and their condition is stated to be serious. A couple of the youth lost their vision. During investigation, it is revealed that the company procured Isoprophy alcohol for preparing sanitisers during the lockdown period in wake of COVID-19,” the DSP told The Hindu . “The victims were addicted to alcohol. A case has been registered,” the DIG said.  Cautioned “Action will be taken against the shops which sell chemicals and solvents unauthorisedly. Persons having information on illegal sale of chemicals may alert Excise police over 18004254868, 9491030853 or 0866-2843131,” Mr. Brijlal said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/one-dead-four-critical-after-consuming-sanitiser-chemical/article31232188.ece
02 April 2020||CHENNAI,||110 new cases from Delhi event in T.N.||Tamil Nadu’s tally of confirmed coronavirus disease (COVID-19) cases crossed the 200-mark on Wednesday. With 110 more persons who attended the Tablighi Jamaat conference at Nizamuddin in Delhi testing positive for COVID-19 in 15 districts, the total number of cases in the State increased to 234. Health Secretary Beela Rajesh said of the 110, one person was from Myanmar and another from Indonesia. “Till yesterday, 80 people who attended the Delhi conference tested positive for COVID-19. With today’s count, a total of 190 who attended the conference have tested positive in the State,” she told reporters. However, it was not clear if the count of 80 included the contacts of these travellers. The 110 persons were in the following districts — 28 in Coimbatore, 20 in Theni, 17 in Dindigul, nine in Madurai, seven each in Tirupattur and Chengalpattu, six in Tirunelveli, five in Sivaganga, two each in Kancheepuram, Tiruvarur, Erode and Thoothukudi and one each in Karur, Tiruvannamalai and Chennai. Till Tuesday, the Health department had tracked 515 persons, who had returned to various parts of the State after attending the conference. Ms. Rajesh added that Tamil Nadu had not progressed to Stage-3 transmission as all these cases belonged to one particular group.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/110-new-cases-from-delhi-event-in-tn/article31232219.ece
02 April 2020||Greater Noida,||Facility for migrants in U.P. district awaits first occupant||The Jaypee Sports Complex on the Yamuna Expressway, the largest facility created by the Uttar Pradesh government in Gautam Buddha Nagar to provide shelter to stranded migrant workers, with a capacity to accommodate 2,000 people, has zero inmates so far, The Hindu found during a visit here on Wednesday. Spread over approximately 12 acres, the facility consists of an estimated 57 large tin sheds – some of which have been designated ‘family sheds’ – lined with wooden panelling to keep a check on the ambient temperature as summer progresses, mats with visibly clean white sheets, sanitation and potable water supply, in addition to separate toilets for men and women. The only thing seemingly missing at the camp over the last two days since it was set up, according to officials associated with its creation and upkeep, is the people for whom it exists. “Before the Yamuna Expressway Industrial Development Authority (YEIDA) took over this property in February, this facility was utilised to house up to 10,000 construction workers engaged in different projects by the builder concerned. Now, given the necessity to practise social distancing to check the community spread of COVID-19, it has been decided that it will accommodate no more than 2,000 individuals,” an official present at the site said. “We have been here for the last two and a half days and not even a single migrant worker has turned up. We suspect most of them went to Agra along the banks of the Yamuna on foot or via the currently unused railway lines that criss-cross the area,” said another official. Former DM’s plan The former District Magistrate of Gautam Buddha Nagar, B.N. Singh — who was transferred earlier this week following a rebuke by Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath over the high number of COVID-19 cases in the district comprising Noida and Greater Noida — had issued an order last Sunday under the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897, designating the area as a shelter home for migrants in the midst of their exodus to their respective hometowns. After the order, arrangements for as many as 6,050 migrant workers were made at 28 shelters spread across 60-odd kilometres between Noida and Jewar. Most of these, according to sources familiar with the developments in this regard, are either vacant or have “very thin occupancy”. “YEIDA has made all the necessary arrangements for migrant workers, who were not able to travel to their respective hometowns, at this facility. We look forward to receiving anyone in need of shelter here,” said Navneet Goyal, Officer on Special Duty, Land, YEIDA.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/facility-for-migrants-in-up-district-awaits-first-occupant/article31232433.ece
02 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||State reports 24 new positive cases, 12 from Kasaragod||Kerala reported 24 new positive cases of COVID-19 on Wednesday, nine of which are cases of people who had returned to the State from Dubai and Sharjah while the rest were all primary contacts of the imported cases. Of the 24 new cases, 12 were reported from Kasaragod, three from Ernakulam, two each from Thiruvananthapuram, Thrissur, Kannur, and Malappuram, and one case from Palakkad. Till date, the State has reported 265 cases of COVID-19, out of which, 237 are currently under treatment in various hospitals. Briefing media, Chief Minister, Pinarayi Vijayan said that of the 265 COVID-19 cases reported by the State so far, 191 were imported cases (disease imported by people with a history of foreign travel or expatriates who returned to the State), while 67 cases were reported in the primary contacts of imported cases. Seven cases were that of foreigners who were tested positive while in Kerala. Twenty-six people, including four foreigners, have since recovered from their illness and have been discharged while two people lost their lives. At present, 1,64,130 people are under surveillance, of whom 622 are in isolation wards in various hospitals. Mr. Vijayan said that in the next four days, Kasaragod Medical College Hospital would be fully equipped as a dedicated COVID care centre. He said that the Health Department would be strengthening the mental health services and providing counselling online to people in quarantine. These steps were required to combat the issues of stigma and discrimination faced by some over their COVID-19 positive status as well as the misinformation campaign involving the disease He added that the Health Department was making arrangements to ensure that vaccinations for children would go ahead without interruption. Mr. Vijayan said that the current lockdown was definitely helping in imposing physical distancing and reducing social interactions and that this would help the State in its efforts to contain the epidemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-reports-24-new-positive-cases-12-from-kasaragod/article31232547.ece
02 April 2020||Bengaluru,||Bengaluru Urban, Mysuru among top 25 hotspots in the country||Bengaluru Urban and Mysuru feature among the top 25 COVID-19 hotspots in the country, while Chickballapur is fast emerging as one over the last 14 days. Besides, Bengaluru is also among the top seven cities with a high case load as on March 30. These were some of observations made by the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MoHFW) in its “COVID-19 Status Health Report” on Wednesday. Pankaj Kumar Pandey, Karnataka’s Commissioner for Health and Family Welfare, said Bengaluru is among the top seven cities in the country with the highest number of confirmed cases. According to the report, Karnataka is among the 10 States that contributes to more than 80% of India’s total COVID-19 cases. Maharashtra, Kerala, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, Jammu and Kashmir, Telangana, Gujarat, Tamil Nadu, and Punjab are the other States. While there are multiple emerging hotspots in Karnataka with a high number of confirmed cases, where immediate containment is needed, Bengaluru is among the top seven cities in the country where more than 30 cases each have been reported. As of Wednesday, Bengaluru had 48 confirmed cases. While eight have been discharged from designated hospitals in Bengaluru, the city witnessed one death so far. According to the report, Bengaluru Urban saw 23 cases in the last 14 days alone. On a brighter note, the Ministry recognised Karnataka for adopting best practices. Among the nine States, whose best practices have been mentioned in the report, Karnataka’s direction to those under home quarantine to send 14 selfies to the government per day, one every hour from 7 a.m. to 9 p.m., using the Quarantine Watch app has been recognised. The State Health Department had announced two days ago that defaulters were liable to be shifted to a mass quarantine centre. The report also makes mention of Victoria Hospital “being developed” as a dedicated COVID-19 facility with 1,200 isolation beds, 15 ICU beds, and 20 ventilators. Aggressive testing V. Ravi, senior professor and Head of Neuro-Virology at NIMHANS, said Karnataka’s case load is high because the State has been testing aggressively. “Of the total 42,000 tests conducted in the country, more than 10% have been done in Karnataka,” he said. “Also, Bengaluru has had the highest influx of foreign passengers and it is because of this Karnataka is one of the early States where cases were reported. Efficient contact tracing is helping identifying more cases,” he said. C.N. Manjunath, director of Sri Jaydeva Institute of Cardiovascular Sciences and part of the State’s COVID-19 task force, said the high case load was expected as Bengaluru is the IT capital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bengaluru-urban-mysuru-among-top-25-hotspots-in-country/article31232256.ece
02 April 2020||HYDERABAD,||Restricted entry to Gandhi hospital||Entry to Gandhi Hospital will be limited to healthcare professionals, COVID-19 suspects and patients. Attendants will not be allowed. The decision was taken after an assault on a junior doctor there on Wednesday evening. “The entire Gandhi Hospital is dedicated to COVID-19 patients and is a big isolation facility,” said an official. Family members will be allowed to the building opposite the hospital. Telangana Junior Doctors Association (TJUDA) members demanded deployment of CRPF personnel at the entry point to each floor of the hospital. They also demanded an assurance from Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao over the issue. “Personal Protection Equipment (PPE) has to be provided to all healthcare professionals working in isolation wards and emergency wards,” TJUDA members demanded. Hyderabad police commissioner Anjani Kumar reviewed the security arrangements.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/restricted-entry-to-gandhi-hospital/article31232498.ece
02 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||India welcomes foreign donations to PM-CARES||India welcomes foreign contributions to the PM-CARES fund to fight the threat posed by the novel coronavirus, a source said here on Wednesday. The official highlighted the shortage of ventilators and personal protective equipment for medical professionals, which needs to be addressed urgently. “The pandemic is unprecedented. In view of this, India has taken a decision to accept foreign contributions to the PM-CARES fund,” said a source. The PM-CARES fund, a public charitable trust, was set up in response to the emerging requirement for resources. “Contributions can be made by individuals and organisations, both in India and abroad,” said the source familiar with India’s plans to deal with the crisis. The official described the shortage of ventilators and personal protective equipment as “acute”, which prompted Indian diplomatic teams to look for reliable supplies from different parts of the world. “We are working with our ambassadors to deal with the huge shortage of ventilators and other equipment,” the official said. The issue also featured during Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s video discussion with 130 Indian envoys on March 30. The official said the bulk of the equipment and relief materials were flowing in through independent organisations as special contributions, while the government was purchasing the items that were in short supply in the health sector.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/india-welcomes-foreign-donations-to-pm-cares/article31232222.ece
02 April 2020||Belagavi,||Complaint against Minister||Congress leaders have complained against Women and Child Welfare Minister Shashikala Jolle for violating lockdown protocols in Nippani town on Sunday. The Minister violated provisions of Section 144 of Cr.PC and COVID-19 lockdown protocol by organising an event to thank the police and doctors in Nippani on Sunday evening, party leaders said in a complaint submitted to the Tahsildar on Wednesday. The complaint alleged that the Minister had gathered a huge crowd of her supporters and walked along with them in the main streets of Nippani during the lockdown. Social distancing was not maintained, the leaders said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/complaint-against-minister/article31232466.ece
02 April 2020||Bengaluru,||COVID-19 cases touch 110 in State||Nine new COVID-19 cases were detected in the State on Wednesday, taking the total number of positive cases to 110. While three are being treated in the intensive care unit, two have been put on ventilators. The condition of the remaining patients is stable, said Jawaid Akhtar, Additional Chief Secretary, Health and Family Welfare and Medical Education. He told presspersons that three more cases had been detected in Nanjangud. The remaining were from Bengaluru and Dakshina Kannada. The department also issued a circular directing the district administration to screen migrants housed in shelter homes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/covid-19-cases-touch-110-in-state/article31232257.ece
02 April 2020||April 02 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Too early to detect impact’||The impact of the lockdown on arresting the spread of COVID-19 can be gauged only after two weeks, government and independent experts suggest. “The incubation period of the virus is 14 days. Therefore, the cases we are seeing are older cases (from before March 24). So only once these old cases are discounted can we judge the impact of the lockdown,” Raman Ganga-khedkar, Chief Scientist, ICMR, said.Page 9||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/too-early-to-detect-impact/article31232208.ece
02 April 2020||April 02 2020 00:00 IST,||Phones to be tracked||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday announced that the mobile phones of all those who have been asked to home quarantine themselves will be tracked by the Delhi police to keep a check on their movement. Several other countries have used this technology to contain the spread of COVID-19 and it was one way to ensure that people abide by quarantine norms, Mr. Kejriwal said.page 9||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/phones-to-be-tracked/article31232209.ece
02 April 2020||New Delhi,||Five Delhi doctors test positive for COVID-19||At least three doctors of different Delhi hospitals and two doctors from Aam Aadmi Mohalla Clinics have tested positive for COVID-19. While it is alleged that a doctor working at the Safdarjung Hospital contracted the infection while treating COVID-19 patients, the hospital hasn’t confirmed it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/five-delhi-doctors-test-positive-for-covid-19/article31232437.ece
02 April 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||Couple tie the knot at a police station in Odisha||A young couple in Odisha’s Bargarh district found no safer place than a police station to solemnise their marriage on Tuesday. Pabitra Sahoo and Lakshmi Meher had been in love for more than a year and did not want to delay their marriage.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/couple-tie-the-knot-at-a-police-station-in-odisha/article31232435.ece
02 April 2020||JAIPUR,||Devotees dispersed at Rajasthan dargah||About 100 devotees, who defied the lockdown and gathered for observing the rituals of ‘Urs’ (death anniversary) at a dargah in Ajmer district, were dispersed by the police with the use of mild force. The six-day ‘Urs’ of Sufi mystic Khwaja Fakhruddin Chishti at the dargah ended on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/devotees-dispersed-at-rajasthan-dargah/article31232436.ece
02 April 2020||Tiruppur,||Tiruppur gets disinfection tunnel||Tiruppur District Collector K. Vijayakarthikeyan inaugurated a disinfection tunnel as part of the precautionary measures against COVID-19  in Thennampalayam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tiruppur-gets-disinfection-tunnel/article31232361.ece
02 April 2020||MANGALURU,||Man arrested for spreading rumours||A man was arrested in Mangaluru for allegedly spreading malicious content and rumours on social media against Karnataka government functionaries engaged in the work against the COVID-19. He has been identified as Nizam alias Neeza. He was produced before the local court and remanded to judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/man-arrested-for-spreading-rumours/article31232469.ece
02 April 2020||MANGALURU,||Normal in Mangaluru||A day after the mad rush when three-day shutdown was relaxed on Tuesday, the situation returned to normal with no panic buying after the administration decided to offer relaxation window everyday from Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/normal-in-mangaluru/article31232470.ece
02 April 2020||HUBBALLI,||Those in home quarantine to be moved to lodge||As per the direction of the State government and the district administration, a lodge in Hubballi is being converted into a quarantine centre and on Wednesday, the Hubballi taluk adminis- tration took into its possess-ion rooms in the lodge.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/those-in-home-quarantine-to-be-moved-to-lodge/article31232473.ece
02 April 2020||Bengaluru,||In despair, farmers destroy crops||Supply-chain distortion of farm produce owing to the lockdown has hurt farmers and consumers. There have been reports from across the State of farmers, in despair, destroying their own crop.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/in-despair-farmers-destroy-crops/article31232261.ece
02 April 2020||Bengaluru,||Lockdown: Bescom sees 25% less demand||The Bangalore Electricity Supply Company (Bescom), that accounts for nearly half of the State’s total power needs, is seeing 25% lesser power consumption than normal. The main reason is the lockdown of commercial establishments and industries, that account for roughly 30% of the load.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/lockdown-bescom-sees-25-less-demand/article31232259.ece
02 April 2020||Bengaluru,||IISc. researchers building ventilator from scratch||As India races to overcome the possibility of a shortage of ventilators in its battle against COVID-19, a team of engineers at the Indian Institute of Science (IISc.) is building a prototype of an electro-mechanical ventilator from scratch, using only components found or made in India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/iisc-researchers-building-ventilator-from-scratch/article31232260.ece
02 April 2020||Chennai,||State takes steps to curb vegetable shortage||Anticipating a shortage of vegetables in the next couple of months as a fallout of the COVID-19 crisis, the State Agriculture Department has initiated a two-pronged strategy to tackle any such eventuality. The department, through its main arm – the horticulture wing – is motivating farmers to produce more vegetables in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-takes-steps-to-curb-vegetable-shortage/article31232305.ece
02 April 2020||Chennai,||Come forward if you attended Delhi event: CM||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Wednesday requested those who had participated in a religious conference at Nizamuddin in Delhi to come forward so that they can be tested for COVID-19. He also said that if any of those who had participated in an event conducted by Isha Foundation were found displaying symptoms, they would also be subjected to testing. The Chief Minister inspected an Amma Unavagam at Santhome on Wednesday morning.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/come-forward-if-you-attended-delhi-event-cm/article31232307.ece
02 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||DGCA allows flights to carry cargo in cabin||The Director General of Civil Aviation on Wednesday allowed airlines to carry cargo within passenger cabin and on seats, apart from the aircraft belly, in order to enable them to accommodate more freight in view of the lockdown and manage cost-efficient operations. Airlines will have to obtain permission from the DGCA and ensure that the cargo is restrained and will not interfere with emergency evacuation. Aircraft manufacturers such as Airbus and Boeing allow their airplanes to be used in this manner and have detailed guidelines to ensure safety. In order to stow consignments on and below passenger seats, airlines will have to obtain additional permission “Operations without passengers and with cargo in the passenger compartment will require suitable number of crew member/ personnel to survey and access all areas of the cabin during all phases of flight,” says the latest DGCA advisory. So far, 74 cargo flights have been operated in the past one week by Air India, Alliance Air, IAF, Pawan Hans, IndiGo and SpiceJet. Passenger airlines like Air India, SpiceJet and IndiGo have conducted a total of 64 flights among them. The Indian Air Force (IAF) has airlifted nearly 25 tonnes of medical supplies in the last three days from Delhi, Surat, and Chandigarh to Manipur, Nagaland and the Union Territories of J&K and Ladakh, a statement said. The IAF’s C-17, C-130, An-32, AVRO & Dornier aircraft are being used for the assistance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/dgca-allows-flights-to-carry-cargo-in-cabin/article31232154.ece
02 April 2020||New Delhi,||It’s too early to detect lockdown impact||The impact of the lockdown on arresting the spread of COVID-19 can be gauged only after two weeks, government and independent experts suggest. On the evening of March 24, Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced a nationwide 21-day lockdown to arrest “community transmission” of the novel coronavirus, or SAR-CoV-2. Between March 24 and April 1, the number of COVID-19 positive cases has more than doubled — from 606 on March 25 to 1,637 on April 1. This, however, was slower — about half the rate of growth from the week before when only 151 cases were confirmed on March 18. The growth in number of positive cases in India is slower than in many countries that are dealing with the worst of the pandemic. On March 8, the U.S. recorded 541 cases in two days, and the figure nearly doubled to 994 cases. In the last week, however, it has risen by 75%. Indonesia, which as on March 31 had 1,528 cases and therefore roughly in the league of India, is also recording a similar growth rate. It had 686 cases on March 24 or a little fewer than half the cases from today. Though it has laws restricting movement, there is no lockdown. Government experts and independent researchers concur that it is early to estimate the impact of the lockdown on slowing down the spread of the virus. “The incubation period of the virus is 14 days. Therefore, the cases we are seeing are older cases (from before March 24). So only once these old cases are discounted can we judge the impact of the lockdown. Whatever models and statisticians say, nobody can really predict the outcome of the epidemic,” Raman Gangakhedkar, Chief Scientist, Indian Council of Medical Research, and spokesperson for COVID-19 communication, said at a press briefing. Sujatha Rao, former Secretary of the Health Ministry, tweeted on Tuesday: “Impact of lockdown can only be known after April 5. Today’s infections are of the situation two weeks ago.” However, both of these reflect the extreme outer limit of the incubation period — defined as the time taken to contract the virus and an infected person manifesting symptoms. The World Health Organization says incubation is commonly five days. For more testing Giridhar Babu, an epidemiologist and physician associated with the Public Health Foundation of India, said it would take a minimum of three weeks and a lockdown would be useful only with heightened testing, particularly to catch those who might be carrying the virus but were not yet manifesting symptoms. “Lockdown alone, without an increase in finding the new cases either through a syndromic approach or increased rate of testing, is not enough to break the chain. Also reviewing of the States with silent areas [where very few cases are reported] is important,” he said in an e-mail.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/its-too-early-to-detect-lockdown-impact/article31232151.ece
02 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Expedite tracing of Tablighi attendees, Centre tells States||Cabinet Secretary Rajiv Gauba on Wednesday held a videoconference with the Chief Secretaries of all the States a day after the Tablighi Markaz at Nizamuddin was evacuated and the area — the latest COVID-19 hotspot — put under an intense lockdown. Prime Minister Narendra Modi is to hold a video call with all the Chief Ministers on Thursday. A government statement said Mr. Gauba “sensitised” the Chief Secretaries that contact tracing of the congregation attendees (spread over multiple States) be undertaken on a war footing and quarantine procedures enforced. He also stressed that many of the congregation had violated visa terms. While appreciating that on the whole the lockdown was being implemented well, he said all the benefits announced by the Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman last week under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana be disbursed within the week. Supply chain worries have been top of the mind with the government allowing transport of all goods across various State borders last week. But Mr. Gauba again told the Chief Secretaries that this needed to be smoothed further and that manufacture and supply of goods, especially essential ones, be maintained across the States. India has entered the second week of a three-week lockdown over the COVID-19 pandemic. On Tuesday, the country saw its largest spike in COVID-19 positive cases, more than 200 in over 24 hours, as the Tablighi Markaz case came to light.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/expedite-tracing-of-tablighi-attendees-centre-tells-states/article31232119.ece
02 April 2020||Srinagar,||Baby out of quarantine in Srinagar||In a glimmer of hope, more than 230 people, including a seven-month-old baby, were discharged from administrative quarantine centres in Kashmir on Wednesday after two weeks. Meanwhile, seven more people tested positive for COVID-19 in J&K, taking the total to 62. Travelling with his wife and two children, Mudasir Ahmad Bhat of Sundoo village in Kulgam said he was frightened when he heard the announcement made on March 19 as their flight landed at the Srinagar airport. Shock news “It was after eight months my family and I were returning home from Leh. It took us time to absorb the announcement made about our quarantine. I was not carrying enough clothes and blankets. I was worried about my seven-month-old son Zaid Mudasir and seven-year-old daughter. Thankfully, we had a comfortable stay. Our son became everyone’s favourite on our discharge day on Wednesday,” Mr. Bhat told The Hindu . “We ensured that the baby, for being the youngest in quarantine, is well fed and attended on time,” Mir Manzoor, Executive Magistrate, said at Srinagar’s Silver Star Hotel where 56 people travelling from Leh were quarantined since March 19. “We have advised all these discharged families to spend two more weeks in home quarantine so that the chain is broken further. None of the quarantined persons have tested positive during their stay,” he said. An official said 236 people had been shifted from the administrative quarantine centres after successfully completing their 14-day period. An official said none of them showed any symptoms. By World Health Organization (WHO) guidelines, many infected people show symptoms within two weeks. “These locals were kept in well-equipped hotels and government accommodations. They had come from COVID-19-affected parts of the country and overseas,” said Additional Deputy Commissioner, Srinagar, M. Haneef Balkhi. “Today, special buses were provided to them to reach their districts,” he added. Another batch of 370 people will complete their quarantine on Thursday. Meanwhile, seven more patients tested positive for COVID-19, taking the total number of cases to 62.  We ensured that the baby, being the youngest, was well fed and attended Mir ManzoorExecutive Magistrate||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/baby-out-of-quarantine-in-srinagar/article31232148.ece
02 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||DRDO to make five-layer masks||A laboratory under the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) has made arrangements to make 20,000 five-layered masks a day and the DRDO was also engaged in minor modification of ventilators so that one machine could support four patients at a time, its Chairman Satheesh Reddy told Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Wednesday. At a review meeting of the Ministry held through videoconferencing, the three Service chiefs and other officials too apprised the Minister of their efforts, a statement said. Mr. Reddy said that 50,000 litres of sanitisers made by the DRDO labs were supplied to various security entities, including the Delhi Police and another one lakh litres distributed all over the country. “A five-layered nanotechnology mask N99 is being made on a war footing. A total of 10,000 have already been made and soon per day production will be extended to 20,000,” the statement said. Chief of the Defence Staff Gen. Bipin Rawat said that separate hospitals have been identified to exclusively deal with COVID-19 and more than 9,000 hospital beds were available. “Over 1,000 evacuees are quarantined at facilities in Jaisalmer, Jodhpur, Chennai, Manesar, Hindan and Mumbai. Their quarantine period will end by April 7,” he said. Besides airlifting tonnes of medical supplies, regular airlift of COVID-19 test samples from Ladakh to Delhi was being undertaken, stated Air Chief Marshal R.K.S Bhadauria. Army chief Gen. Manoj Naravane informed the Defence Minister that more than 8,500 doctors and support staff were available to extend necessary assistance to the civilian administration. On providing assistance to neighbouring countries, he said that “assistance to Nepal in the form of medical equipment will be delivered shortly”. Navy chief Admiral Karambir Singh said naval ships were on a standby to extend any assistance. Retired health professionals have been kept in readiness, said Lt. Gen. Anup Banerji, Director General Armed Force Medical Services (AFMS). Approximately, 25,000 National Cadet Corps (NCC) cadets are being mobilised for local assistance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/drdo-to-make-five-layer-masks/article31232160.ece
02 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||SC to hear migrant workers’ issue||The Supreme Court on Wednesday agreed to urgently hear a petition filed by activists Harsh Mander and Anjali Bhardwaj that the declaration of the 21-day national lockdown without prior information “precipitated an unprecedented humanitarian crisis” for migrant workers, resulting in their exodus to their home towns. The petition said the lockdown caused widespread panic across the country and led to job loss for millions of migrant workers. It was mentioned by advocate Prashant Bhushan before a Bench led by Justice L. Nageswara Rao, which agreed to take up the plea when the court assembles next. The petition wants the Centre and States to jointly and severally ensure payment of wages/ minimum wages to migrant workers within a week, whether employed by other establishments, contractors or self-employed. It also sought a direction from the court to the Central and State governments to immediately activate the National and State Advisory Committees of experts in the field of disaster management and public health to deal with COVID-19. “The order, for which no prior intimation was given, created a panic across the country and led to the instantaneous loss of jobs and wages of millions of migrant workers employed in establishments or self-employed as street vendors, rickshaw pullers, domestic house helps, petty job workers, etc. This led to the large-scale exodus of migrant workers to their hometowns,” the plea said. The petition said the declaration spread panic to such an extent that “ workers crowded in large numbers of many thousands at bus terminals, railway stations, inter-State borders, potentially exposing them to the virus.” Mr. Mander and Ms. Bhardwaj criticised the Ministry of Home Affairs communication that employers should continue to pay the wages to their workers. They said the communication does not take into account the harsh realities that establishments that employ migrant workers are mostly small themselves and can ill-afford to pay their wages during a lockdown.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-to-hear-migrant-workers-issue/article31232116.ece
02 April 2020||April 02 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Pay MGNREGA workers in advance’||Congress president Sonia Gandhi wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday to consider paying advance wages to workers who are registered under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA). This is Ms. Gandhi’s third letter to Mr. Modi since the announcement of the lockdown. Stating that the MGNREGA has been a critical lifeline for the rural poor during economic distress, Ms. Gandhi said, “However, social distancing norms have rendered all work unfeasible during the lockdown. Furthermore, even after the works commence, the MGNREGA workers have to wait for more than a month to receive wages. Given the urgency... the government may consider immediate advance payment of wages for 21 days to registered and active MGNREGA workers.” The Congress president suggested that the advance wages can be adjusted against the work to be done after the MGNREGA sites are opened up for regular work. Seeks rollback The party slammed the government for reducing the interest rates on small savings and the Public Provident Fund (PPF) amid fear of income loss because of the pandemic. “In times of acute distress and uncertainty about income, people depend on the interest income on their savings,” former Finance Minister P. Chidambaram tweeted, demanding a rollback.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pay-mgnrega-workers-in-advance/article31232113.ece
02 April 2020||New Delhi,||States warned against exemptions||Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla on Wednesday wrote another letter to the States cautioning that “some States are allowing exceptions beyond what has been allowed under lockdown measures by the MHA [Ministry of Home Affairs].” Mr. Bhalla said the exceptions amounts to violation of the lockdown measures under the Disaster Management Act, 2005 and might defeat the overall objective of containing the spread of COVID-19. On March 24, when the 21-day lockdown was announced, the Ministry issued a slew of guidelines to be followed by the States for “containment of COVID-19 epidemic”, and asked all “enforcing authorities to note that these strict restrictions fundamentally relate to movement of people, but not to that of essential goods.” Minister of State for Home G. Kishan Reddy contributed a month’s salary to the Prime Minister-CARE fund that has been set up to collect money to tackle the COVID-19 pandemic. Mr. Reddy also allocated Rs. 1 crore from his MPLAD fund to the PM-CARE account.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/states-warned-against-exemptions/article31232138.ece
02 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Industry eyes manufacture of 50,000 ventilators a month||The Association of Indian Medical Device Industry (AiMed) is looking at the production of 50,000 ventilators a month by May, particularly with companies such as Maruti Suzuki and Mahindra & Mahindra committing support to help scale up production of medical devices. “Huge efforts are being put to increase medical device manufacturing capacity by the manufacturers ... big companies like Maruti Suzuki, Mahindra & Mahindra, Kalyaani, Tata Motors, Hyundai, etc. will possibly offer to collaborate with our members to rapidly scale up production of ventilators. The aim is to produce 50,000 ventilators per month by May,” Rajiv Nath, forum coordinator at AiMeD, said. The press statement issued by the association noted that as per a Brookings report, the country might need anywhere between 1,10,000 and 2,20,000 ventilators by May 15 in the worst-case scenario and the number of ventilators available today in the country is about 57,000. “There is a pressing need for ventilators in India and a huge disparity in their availability in various States. For instance, Mumbai has 800 to 1,000 ventilators, while States such as Tamil Nadu and Madhya Pradesh have 1,500 and 1,800 respectively. Bengaluru has approximately 400 ventilators, whereas Kerala has 5,000,” the statement said. AiMeD said seven of its ten major manufacturers have confirmed that the current production capacity of ventilators is 5,500-5,750 pieces per month, compared with production of about 2,700 units in the previous month. SkanRay, the leading ventilator manufacturer, has created a consortium with BEL, BHEL and Mahindra & Mahindra to ramp up production from 2,000 units per month to 5,000 units per month, and to 30,000 pieces per month by May. Likewise, AgVa Healthcare has tied up with Maruti Suzuki to scale up production from 400 units per month to 4,000 units in April and 10,000 units per month by May.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/industry-eyes-manufacture-of-50000-ventilators-a-month/article31232166.ece
02 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Masks and thermal scanners among 5.38 lakh items donated||The National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) has received offers for more than 5.38 lakh items, including over 1,000 digital thermal scanners and 100 full-body thermal scanners, in donation to fight COVID-19. As of Wednesday, the donated items included 8,275 N95 masks with exhalation valves, 43,000 triple-layer surgical masks, about 230 personal protective coverall garments, 8,770 face shields and 2,638 personal protective goggles that can be used by doctors. About 30,000 examination gloves of large and medium sizes, close to 23,000 Nitrile gloves of various sizes, and more than 60,000 bottles of sanitisers of 100 ml and 500 ml packaging sizes, have also been donated. In all, 469 donation requests have been initiated. Close to one lakh individuals and more than 4,100 organisations have registered as volunteers till Wednesday. The volunteers have come forward to contribute in the areas of health services; communication and public awareness on the precautions to be taken; assistance in producing personal protection equipment and offering tech-based solutions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/masks-and-thermal-scanners-among-538-lakh-items-donated/article31232169.ece
02 April 2020||New Delhi,||Don’t communalise Tablighi issue: CPI||Two Left parties slammed the BJP for allegedly propagating the narrative of “criminalisation and communalisation” of the Tablighi Jamaat gathering in Nizammuddin, which has emerged as a hotspot of COVID-19. CPI general secretary D. Raja said, “There is an attempt to make even the fight against coronavirus into a Hindu-Muslim issue. It began with re-telecast of Ramayan and Mahabharat and now singling out one community for the spread of the virus. A health calamity of gigantic proportions should not be reduced into a communal issue.” “This is a humanitarian disaster and not a time to rake up religion in it,” he said. ‘Bid to divert attention’ The CPI(ML) said the government was trying to divert people’s attention from its by drawing the Hindu-Muslim binary. “It is clear that the Central government had the power and responsibility to screen foreign visitors, and also to issue clear advisories prohibiting large gatherings. It failed to do so,” it said in a statement. Till mid-March, the Centre was denying that COVID-19 represented a health emergency. Instead of regulating crowds, the BJP was busy promoting the visit of U.S. President Donald Trump and warnings by Opposition leaders in early February were ignored, the party alleged. The CPI(ML) also slammed the Delhi government’s decision to file criminal charges against the Tablighi Jamaat. “The gathering was held with the approval of the Delhi police [which comes under the Ministry of Home Affairs] and the concerned SDM [Sub-Divisional Magistrate] office that falls under the Delhi government. If the gathering was illegal, why did the Delhi government not issue an order stopping it,” it asked.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/dont-communalise-tablighi-issue-cpi/article31232125.ece
02 April 2020||New Delhi,||The hand of another Indian is suspected in Kabul attack||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) registered a case on Wednesday to probe the terror attack at a gurdwara in Kabul last week, in which 27 Sikh worshippers, including an Indian, was killed. Muhammed Muhsin, a 29-year-old man from Kerala’s Kasaragod, is suspected to be one of the three attackers. A senior official said there were indications that more than one Indian could have been involved in the attack. Also a suspect is Sajid Kuthirummal, a shopkeeper from Kasaragod, part of the group of 21 men and women that left India in 2016 to join the Islamic State in Khorasan Province (ISKP) in Afghanistan. While Muhsin was not part of the group, he last spoke to his mother nine months ago. He moved to Dubai in 2018, and the family did not inform the police that he was missing. This is the first instance of the NIA registering a case for a terror attack committed outside India. The NIA Act was amended last year to empower the agency to investigate terror attacks committed outside India, “affecting Indian citizens or affecting the interest of India”. The NIA registered the case under various sections of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, the Indian Penal Code and Section 6(8) of the NIA Act. About 150 persons were present in the gurdwara when the attack took place. “Proscribed terrorist organisation the Islamic State in Khorasan Province claimed the responsibility for this terror attack,” the NIA said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/the-hand-of-another-indian-is-suspected-in-kabul-attack/article31232126.ece
02 April 2020||Bhopal,||Nine people in same locality of Indore test positive||Indore, the largest and most populous city of Madhya Pradesh, bears an overwhelming burden of 63 of the 86 COVID-19 cases in the State. Three persons from the city, two from Ujjain and one from Khargone had died from the illness. A man in Bhopal had escaped from quarantine in Indore. As many as 19 residents of Indore tested positive for COVID-19 on Tuesday night and 17 earlier during the day, the steepest spike in cases on a day, according to the Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Medical College, Indore. The samples of a 65-year-old man from Khargone, who died while undergoing treatment at a private hospital in Indore on March 29, tested positive. Among the new cases in Indore, nine patients live at the same postal address in Tanzim Nagar. They include six women aged 45, 21, 30, 36, 23 and 30, two toddlers aged three and five, and a boy aged eight. A man aged 39 and a woman 66 also share an address at another location in Indore. “Two men aged 24 and 74 living in one address in Indore have a contact history. They were home quarantined by health officials. This means they may have had contact with someone positive within the family,” said Rahul Rokade of the college. A woman aged 24 also had contact history. Most cases earlier didn’t have a contact or travel history. In addition, said Dr. Rokade, a man aged 22 visited New Delhi. “The rest of the patients don’t have a travel or contact history.” Meanwhile, Khargone became the seventh district to be hit by the outbreak, recording its first case. “The man from Dhargoan village in Maheshwar tehsil of Khargone was admitted to M.Y. hospital’s chest ward in Indore on the afternoon of March 23 with a complaint of bilateral pneumonia,” said Dr. Rokade. “He succumbed to the illness in a cardiac pulmonary arrest at 6.20 p.m. on March 29.” The patient’s sample was taken when he was admitted in accordance with the guidelines, he said. He didn’t have a travel or contact history.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nine-people-in-same-locality-of-indore-test-positive/article31232145.ece
02 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Rs. 1 crore to kin of staff who die fighting virus||After an emergency Cabinet meeting on Wednesday, Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal announced that if anybody loses their life while serving any COVID-19 patient, be it sanitation workers, doctors, nurses or any other staff, temporary or permanent, from government or private sector, their next of kin would be given Rs. 1 crore as a mark of respect for their service. Mr. Kejriwal announced the honorary compensation while holding a video conference with Delhi government’s medical staff on COVID-19 duty. He said the scheme, which had been created for the families of soldiers from the national capital who were martyred, had now been extended to include medical staff who were on the front line fighting the virus, putting their lives at risk, to save others. “Your contribution is no less than a soldier’s... if any healthcare personnel, including government or private doctor, nurse and sanitation worker, dies while serving coronavirus patients, the government will give Rs. 1 crore for their families,” he said. The CM thanked the medical staff on behalf of the people of Delhi and across India||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rs-1-crore-to-kin-of-staff-who-die-fighting-virus/article31232129.ece
02 April 2020||New Delhi,||Five Delhi doctors test positive for COVID-19||At least three doctors of different Delhi hospitals and two doctors from Aam Aadmi Mohalla Clinics have tested positive for COVID-19 in the city, according to officials. But only one of the doctors has been confirmed to be infected while treating patients. A resident doctor from the Biochemistry Department of the Safdarjung Hospital tested positive for COVID-19 on March 26, according to hospital sources. Her husband, a senior resident doctor in Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel Hospital, Pusa Road, later tested positive. He works in the Paediatrics Department and they are residents of south Delhi. While it is alleged that the doctor working at the Safdarjung Hospital contracted the infection while treating COVID-19 patients, the hospital hasn’t confirmed it. According to sources, she is a third year postgraduate student of the Biochemistry Department. Also, another doctor working at the Delhi State Cancer Institute has tested positive for COVID-19, officials said on Wednesday. The hospital has been shut and is being sanitised. “A senior resident from Delhi State Cancer Institute has tested positive. His brother had come back from the U.K. a few days back and had met him. We are looking into the reason behind his case,” Health Minister Satyendar Jain said. Apart from these, earlier this month, a 49-year-old male doctor, who works at an Aam Aadmi Mohalla Clinic (AAMC) tested positive. Later the doctor’s wife, a 48-year-old woman, who is also a doctor at an AAMC, tested positive for the virus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/five-delhi-doctors-test-positive-for-covid-19/article31232133.ece
02 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||No need for additional spectrum for now, say telecom operators||Telecom operators on Wednesday said they had seen a flattening of demand on their networks due to various measures, including streaming services reducing the video quality to standard definition (SD). Hence, they did not require additional spectrum to maintain quality of networks amid the 21-day nationwide lockdown. “Over the past few days, the industry, in concert with actions coordinated with the DoT, has seen a flattening of traffic demand on members’ networks,” Cellular Operators Association of India (COAI) director-general Rajan S. Mathews said. Mr. Mathews added that some of these actions related to streaming services reducing their content from HD (high definition) to SD, local municipalities working with operators to bring sealed towers back on line and some redistribution of traffic on the network, among other things. “We believe there is no such present need and operators remain confident that the steps they have taken presently can maintain the relatability and quality of their networks and services,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/no-need-for-additional-spectrum-for-now-say-telecom-operators/article31232134.ece
02 April 2020||New Delhi,||All safety measures being taken for crew: Air India||Air India said on Wednesday that is has taken adequate measures to protect the health and safety of its crew. The statement was in response to criticism from pilots’ unions that complained of poor precautionary steps taken by the airline when operating special flights to repatriate foreign citizens stranded in the country. “All possible measures have been taken towards their health and safety as the safety of our air crew is paramount to us at Air India. Best available Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) are procured for our crew including masks, gloves, apron, hazmat suits, sanitisers. Aircraft are fumigated and disinfected as per Ministry and Manufacturers SOP,” said the statement. The airline also said that its doctors were available for its crew and employees.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/all-safety-measures-being-taken-for-crew-air-india/article31232152.ece
02 April 2020||NEW DELHI/KOLKATA,||CBSE to give 10 days notice for fresh exams||Out of the 40 papers for Class 10 and 12 board examinations that the Central Board of Secondary Education was forced to put on hold due to the situation caused by the COVID-19 pandemic, only papers in 12 key subjects for Class 12 will be rescheduled. The remaining examinations will not be held, CBSE said in a statement on Wednesday evening. The Board has not announced fresh dates for the rescheduled examinations. Instead, it promised to give students, schools and all stakeholders at least 10 days notice as and when it is in a position to hold the examinations again. Class 10 students had almost completed their exams, with only two subjects — Information and Communication Technology, and Computer Applications — remaining. Both of those exams will not be held now, and the Board said it would provide instructions for assessing those students. For Class 12 students, the CBSE has said it will reschedule papers in 12 subjects: Business Studies, Geography, Hindi (both Elective and Core), Home Science, Sociology, Computer Science (old and new), Informatics Practicals (old and new), Information Technology and Biotechnology.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cbse-to-give-10-days-notice-for-fresh-exams/article31232170.ece
02 April 2020||Srinagar,||Kashmir parties oppose new domicile laws||Regional parties, including the recently floated J&K Apni Party (JKAP) that met Prime Minister Narendra Modi recently, the National Conference (NC) and the Peoples Conference (PC), deplored the Centre’s move to bring in new domicile laws to the Union Territory of J&K. “This order is a casual attempt, cosmetic in nature, to hoodwink the people of J&K who genuinely believed that post October 31, 2019, their rights and privileges in the matter of employment and other rights would remain as it had been,” JKAP president Altaf Bukhari said. He termed it “most unfortunate”. Mr. Bukhari said the order was totally unacceptable to his party. “In the matter of employment-non -gazetted, gazetted posts in the service and admissions to professional colleges, a tangible legal and constitutional mechanism was supposed to be put in place to safeguard and protect these privileges of the people of J&K, who had been the permanent residents. The new notification regarding domicile rule is not immune to any judicial review.” There were sections of the order that were antithesis to what was promised by the Prime Minister and the Home Minister on the floor of Parliament of “a better domicile law for the residents of J&K”, he noted and demanded that it should be put in abeyance. ‘No protection’ NC vice-president Omar Abdullah said, “At a time when all our efforts and attention should be focused on the COVID-19 outbreak, the government slips in a new domicile law for J&K. Insult is heaped on injury when we see the law offers none of the protections that had been promised.” The PC, headed by Sajad Lone, described the order “short of expectations even for those who expected some reconciliation process”. A PC spokesman said, “The new definition of ‘domicile’ is humiliating and insulting... We had no expectations but this particular order has made the disappointment even more intense. The government of the day has embarked on an erroneous path and seems to be in no mood to rectify wrongs...”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/kashmir-parties-oppose-new-domicile-laws/article31232123.ece
02 April 2020||April 02 2020 00:00 IST,||Centre defines J&K domicile rules||The two constitutional provisions that were withdrawn — Article 370 and Article 35A — let the legislature decide the “permanent residents”, prohibiting a non-J&K resident from buying property there and ensuring job reservation for its residents. On Tuesday, the MHA issued the Jammu and Kashmir Reorganisation (Adaptation of State Laws) Order, 2020, through which it amended 109 laws and repealed 29 laws of the erstwhile State and inserted the “domicile” clause in the Jammu and Kashmir Civil Services Decentralisation and Recruitment Act, 2010. The order was issued at 11.07 p.m. Under the 2010 Act, the clause for “permanent resident of the State” has been substituted by “Domicile” of the Union Territory. The Act pertained to employment in the civil services, comprising “district, divisional and State” cadre posts. Only permanent residents of J&K were eligible to apply for the gazetted and non-gazetted posts. The amendment allows non-domiciles to apply to these posts. “Children of Central Govt. officials, All India Services, PSUs, autonomous body of Centre, Public Sector Banks, officials of statutory bodies, Central Universities, recognised research institutes of Centre who have served in J&K for a total period of 10 years” will be domiciles. The domicile status applies to “children of such residents of J&K who reside outside J&K in connection with their employment or business or other professional or vocational reasons but their parents should fulfil any of the conditions provided”. Another official said, “All posts that are up to the rank of junior assistant and below are open only to domiciles, the entire non-gazetted services has been reserved. Only a few positions such as police sub-inspectors are directly recruited at a higher level than junior assistants.” The Jammu and Kashmir State Legislature Members’ Pension Act, 1984, has been amended by the MHA. It fixes the pension for former legislators and councillors at Rs. 75,000 a month. Changes in PSA The MHA order has also made amendments to the PSA, 1978. It changes the criteria for appointing the PSA advisory board on the recommendation of a search committee headed by the Chief Secretary instead of the Chief Justice of the J&K High Court. It also bars sitting High Court judges to be made part of the board without the Chief justice’s consultation. The board has a crucial role to play in release of detenus. The order scraps a clause that dealt with the power to regulate place and conditions of detention. There are 12 States, including Himachal Pradesh, where provisions of special status under Article 371 apply. The provisions pertain to regulation of ownership and land transfer in order to conserve the limited resources and to ensure that the State preserves its unique identity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/centre-defines-jk-domicile-rules/article31232127.ece
02 April 2020||April 02 2020 00:00 IST,||India welcomes foreign donations to PM-CARES||The issue of the short supply of essential items made the headlines after nurses and doctors sent video messages to Mr. Modi, urging for lifesaving devices. However, at the last weekend, Serbia purchased medical items from India, prompting a debate. The official, however, clarified that the supplies to the Serbian government did not include the prohibited items. Along with the other countries of the SAARC region, India has set up the SAARC-COVID-19 Emergency Fund for helping the front-line health workers with the personal protective equipment. Mr. Modi took up similar issues and urged for a global approach at a videoconference with G20 leaders. The official indicated that India would be open to having the issue discussed at the United Nations Security Council. “However, it is a matter to be taken up by the members of the Security Council,” he said. The Ministry of External Affairs has set up a dedicated wing for communications with the Indians abroad, many of whom are eager to return home. The wing has so far received 3,300 phone calls and 2,500 emails.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-welcomes-foreign-donations-to-pm-cares/article31232130.ece
02 April 2020||April 02 2020 00:00 IST,||110 new cases from Delhi event emerge in T.N||“After we made a fervent appeal asking persons who had attended the conference to come forward and report to officials, this number has increased to 1,103 persons. We have admitted them to isolation wards in hospitals, and we have lifted samples from 658 of them so far. We will test samples from the remaining persons in the next 24 hours,” the Health Secretary said. The department had earlier mentioned that 1,500 persons had travelled to Nizamuddin from TN and it was a “dynamic figure”. It appeared that around 300 to 400 persons are still in Delhi, and many of them have tested positive after laboratory testing. But the exact numbers were not clear, she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/110-new-cases-from-delhi-event-emerge-in-tn/article31232128.ece
02 April 2020||April 02 2020 00:00 IST,||Tablighi Jamaat headquarters evacuated||The Delhi police said Maulana Saad, the head of the centre, remained untraceable. He has been charged with defying restrictions on gatherings. Thousands had gathered at the centre and dispersed between March 13 and March 24 when the nationwide lockdown came into force. Those who remained at the centre could not leave as all transport facilities came to a halt. A senior police officer said personnel from the local police station had visited the building on March 23 and earlier to communicate the restriction on gathering of over 50 people. “We have got to know from the media that there is an FIR. But we haven’t got a copy of the FIR. We are ready to cooperate with the police if they summon us or if they come to us,” Fuzail Ahmad Ayyubi, advocate for the centre, said. “The authorities have sanitised the Markaz and closed it. We have offered it to be used as a quarantine facility, but it is up to them,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tablighi-jamaat-headquarters-evacuated/article31232131.ece
02 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||SC declines to hear Michel’s bail plea||The Supreme Court on Wednesday did not intervene in a plea for bail filed by Augusta Westland VVIP chopper scam accused Christian Michel James. The accused had said he was vulnerable to COVID-19 infection while in custody as an undertrial. A Bench led by Justice D.Y. Chandrachud asked Michel to first present his bail plea before the Delhi High Court. The accused had cited the recent order passed by the Supreme Court to de-congest crowded prisons in a bid to stop infection from spreading within and from prisons. “The agedness and a pre-existing ill state of health will make the applicant’s (Michel) body more susceptible to the infection than any other ordinary prisoner with a normal health condition,” the plea argued. The CBI had said that he should not be given bail as he could influence witnesses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-declines-to-hear-michels-bail-plea/article31232167.ece
02 April 2020||JAIPUR,||Devotees defying lockdown dispersed from dargah||About 100 devotees, who defied the lockdown restrictions and gathered for observing the rituals of ‘Urs’ (death anniversary) at a dargah in Sarwar town of Rajasthan’s Ajmer district, were dispersed by the police with the use of mild force. The six-day ‘Urs’ of Sufi mystic Khwaja Fakhruddin Chishti at the dargah ended on Wednesday. Though the police had given permission to five persons from the world-famous dargah in Ajmer for offering a ‘chadar’ (sacred cloth) at the Sarwar dargah, several others joined them. When the police asked them to vacate the dargah premises, they allegedly objected and confronted the police. Dargah’s mutawalli (manager) Mohammed Yusuf told The Hindu that while all gates of the shrine had been closed, some local devotees scaled the wall and tried to join the offering of ‘chadar’. “This was clearly in violation of the prohibitory orders,” he said. According to the police sources, six persons were arrested under Section 151 (arrest to prevent cognisable offences) of the Criminal Procedure Code on charges of infringement of orders banning the assembly of people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/devotees-defying-lockdown-dispersed-from-dargah/article31232438.ece
02 April 2020||LUCKNOW,||U.P. records its first two virus deaths||Uttar Pradesh recorded its first two fatalities due to COVID-19 on Wednesday. They were a 25-year-old man from Basti, whose relatives allegedly hid his travel history to Mumbai, and a 72-year-old man from Meerut. The patient from Basti died at the Baba Raghav Das Medical College in Gorakhpur. Subsequently, it was reported that he was infected with the virus, BRDMC principal Ganesh Kumar told The Hindu . The patient in Meerut, a diabetic who was suffering from chronic pulmonary disease, tested positive on March 29, said R.C. Gupta, principal of the Meerut Medical College. Earlier, the patient’s son-in-law tested positive. Meanwhile, 13 new patients tested positive in U.P., taking the tally to 116.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/up-records-its-first-two-virus-deaths/article31232439.ece
02 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||SC judges give Rs. 50,000 each for relief||All the Supreme Court judges, including Chief Justice of India (CJI) Sharad A. Bobde, have contributed Rs. 50,000 each to the PM-CARES fund to aid the nation’s fight against COVID-19. Earlier, Justice N.V. Ramana, the senior-most judge after the CJI, had donated Rs. 1 lakh each to the PM-CARES fund and the funds of the Andhra Pradesh and Telangana Chief Ministers. Prime Minister Narendra Modi thanked the judges via Twitter for their “exemplary and inspiring gesture” to strengthen the fight against COVID-19. Former Chief Justice of India and former Kerala Governor P. Sathasivam has donated Rs. 1 lakh to the Tamil Nadu Chief Minister’s Public Relief Fund.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-judges-give-rs-50000-each-for-relief/article31232155.ece
02 April 2020||Guwahati,||Mizo boy donates Rs. 333 from savings||A seven-year-old boy in Mizoram has donated his entire savings of Rs. 333 to a State fund to fight the COVID-19 pandemic. The boy, Rommel Lalmuangsana, handed over a polythene bag containing the amount — mostly coins and a few currency notes — over to the village task force at Kolasib Venglai in Kolasib district on Tuesday. The boy’s gesture drew the attention of Mizoram Chief Minister Zoramthanga who tweeted: “May the good Lord bless you abundantly. You are a hero.” The boy’s parents were quoted as saying that he insisted on giving the money for the fight against the pandemic after watching appeals on television and social media.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mizo-boy-donates-rs-333-from-savings/article31232163.ece
02 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Plea in SC to ensure fair sale of goods||The Supreme Court on Wednesday asked the Union and Delhi governments to respond to a petition for a direction to ensure fair and equitable sale and distribution of masks, hand sanitisers and liquid soap among the public to deal with COVID-19. A Bench, led by Justice L. Nageswara Rao, issued notice to the governments on the petition filed by the NGO, Justice For Rights Foundation, that the prices of these protective items had increased manifold. The petition said the notifications that the government had issued on the prices of face masks and hand sanitisers had little effect. “...even after the issuance of such notification and orders, several chemists throughout the country have not reduced the prices or [were not] deterred from selling the essential commodities at a higher price,” the petition said. It called for guidelines and a task force to enforce the price control orders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/plea-in-sc-to-ensure-fair-sale-of-goods/article31232164.ece
02 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Anti-people move: CITU||The Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU) on Wednesday termed the government’s decision to cut interest rates on small savings an “anti-people” decision that would adversely hit senior citizens. “This is the second reduction in interest rate on small savings in a span of less than one year, last being in June 2019. This will affect financially the mass of the populace, the superannuated, income-less several crores of senior citizens, in particular, who survive mainly on the meagre return on savings,” a CITU statement said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/anti-people-move-citu/article31232114.ece
02 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Phones of quarantined to be tracked’||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday announced that the mobile phones of all those who have been asked to home quarantine themselves will be tracked by the Delhi Police to keep a check on their movement. Several other countries have used this technology to contain the spread of COVID-19, and that tracking mobile phones was one such way to ensure people abide by quarantine norms, he said. “The government has given 14,345 phone numbers to the Delhi Police on Wednesday to track them, in addition to 11,084 numbers it had shared on Tuesday. Strict action would be taken against those not adhering to the government’s order on home quarantine,” Mr. Kejriwal said. Making the announcement during his daily digital briefing, the Chief Minister reiterated that there has not been any community transmission of COVID-19 in Delhi. He added that for those persons who do not have ration cards, the Delhi government said it was a challenge to distribute ration to them but it had has created a system for roughly 10 lakh people who do not have ration cards. “I want to request all those people to apply for a ration card on the Delhi government e-district website. You can take the help of MLAs and SDMs. You will not get a ration card but will get ration every month till COVID-19 persists,” Mr. Kejriwal said. No salary cut Appealing to employers to not cut salaries of their employees, Mr. Kejriwal said, “Today is April 1, and to release the salaries of the employees, the employers, and their accountants need to work through the offices. For this, the Delhi government is issuing two passes each to the employers for the next two days, so that they can release the payments online to their employees.” The Delhi government also announced that it has initiated the process of giving assistance of Rs. 5,000 to daily wage labourers associated with construction work during the lockdown. “The money is being transferred directly to the account of these labourers. The Delhi government has released Rs. 5,000 assistance amount for 32,358 registered workers on March 31. A total amount of Rs. 16.18 crore has been given to the registered construction workers of Delhi,” the government said. It added that it will soon give the assistance amount to nearly 9,000 workers as well whose applications are still pending.  The AAP government has given 14,345 phone numbers to the Delhi Police on Wednesday to track them, in addition to 11,084 numbers it had shared on Tuesday Arvind Kejriwal Chief Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/phones-of-quarantined-to-be-tracked/article31232135.ece
02 April 2020||April 02 2020 00:00 IST,||Arm’s length||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/arms-length/article31232143.ece
02 April 2020||Srinagar,||7 Tablighi associates booked in J&K||Seven people associated with Tablighi Jamaat were booked for hiding their travel history on Tuesday. The Chairman, District Disaster Management Authority, Kathua, ordered the filing of a FIR against seven locals who belong to the Tablighi Jammat for hiding their travel history. “These seven people have a travel history to Nizamuddin and were hiding the same. All others not disclosing their travel history will be booked soon,” said an official. The administration also quarantined the entire escort of Srinagar Mayor Junaid Azim Mattu after the brother of a police personnel tested positive for COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/7-tablighi-associates-booked-in-jk/article31232149.ece
02 April 2020||New Delhi,||JEE-Advanced test postponed||IIT Delhi, the organising institute for the Joint Entrance Examination (JEE-Advanced) 2020, on Wednesday announced that it has postponed the examination that was scheduled to be held on May 17. The exam will be rescheduled after JEE (Main).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/jee-advanced-test-postponed/article31232161.ece
02 April 2020||New Delhi,||Women students stranded due to lockdown can reach out for help: NCW||Women students stranded in different cities away from their homes due to the lockdown can contact the National Commission for Women (NCW) for help, its Chairperson Rekha Sharma said. Ms. Sharma assured them that the NCW would work with State governments to ensure that “help reaches them”. On Tuesday, Ms. Sharma held a meeting with NCW members to discuss the matter. “Had meeting with @NCWIndia members and discussed how we can help girl students who got stranded in different cities and couldn’t go home. Will be reaching out to universities to get the details,” Ms. Sharma said in a tweet.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/women-students-stranded-due-to-lockdown-can-reach-out-for-help-ncw/article31232136.ece
02 April 2020||Srinagar,||3 labourers die in Kashmir after trekking in snow to avoid lockdown||Three persons died on Wednesday while walking through a mountain pass in Banihal to reach home, in a bid to avoid the stringent implementation of lockdown on the National Highway in Kashmir. An official said around seven people, all labourers, decided to avoid using the Srinagar-Jammu Highway to reach Banihal from Ramban and trekked a mountain pass full of snow. Only three managed to reach home and informed the locals about four others being trapped in snow. A rescue team reached the spot. “One was declared dead on his arrival at hospital. Two succumbed later,” they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/3-labourers-die-in-kashmir-after-trekking-in-snow-to-avoid-lockdown/article31232146.ece
02 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Ten lakh flats, houses to come under containment zone||The Chennai Corporation has planned to expand COVID-19 containment zones across the city, said Corporation Commissioner G. Prakash. Currently, just 25,000 houses are covered in the containment zones. Once containment zones are expanded to cover the entire city, across 426 sq.km., at least 10 lakh apartment complexes and individual houses will be included in field-level operations to control COVID-19. “The Corporation has launched COVID-19 containment-related exercises in all locations where positive cases have been reported. Currently, 10 containment zones have been earmarked in 21 locations across Chennai. COVID-19 positive cases have been reported in the 10 zones,” said Mr. Prakash. “Each containment zone has 2,500 houses. The houses will be monitored by Corporation workers every day, checking if residents have symptoms. The exercise will continue for a month,” said Mr. Prakash.  “Over 15,000 personnel, including SHG members, will be used by the Corporation to scan the containment zones, every day. The term ‘scan’ means workers will note down symptoms of residents in each household,” said Mr. Prakash. “As many as 10 lakh locations, including apartment complexes and individual houses, will be monitored daily by the 15,000 workers. Doctors will further examine the residents who have symptoms. The field-level containment plan for the entire city is ready. We will get 100 doctors, in addition to the 200 doctors in Corporation hospitals. Thirty doctors are already at work, containing COVID-19 in the city,” said Mr. Prakash. Many doctors who have received appointment orders have requested a few days to join duty. The Corporation is also planning to use services of primary schoolteachers for implementing the plan. Vacancies in posts Currently, the civic body has around 50% vacancies in posts of sanitary inspectors, who play a key role in pandemic response. The civic body has just 110 sanitary inspectors in 200 wards of the city. Each sanitary inspector is in charge of one ward, with an average of 50,000 residents. But most sanitary inspectors are handling additional charges of the neighbouring ward, affecting containment-related exercises. Some women belonging to SHGs have reportedly agreed to join containment-related exercises, said officials. Many SHGs have already started manufacturing masks to prevent the spread of COVID-19. Some wards have at least 120 SHGs, with 20 members each. But such SHG members have said that they would carry out containment operations only after the Corporation provides personal protective equipment. “The Chennai Corporation has not even supplied masks for Amma canteen staff,” said an SHG member.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ten-lakh-flats-houses-to-come-under-containment-zone/article31232314.ece
02 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Two-pronged strategy to tackle veggie shortage||Anticipating a shortage of vegetables in the next couple of months as a fallout of the COVID-19 crisis, the State Agriculture Department is adopting a two-pronged strategy to tackle any such eventuality. The department, through its main arm – the Horticulture wing – is motivating farmers to produce more vegetables in the State. The fact that the current period happens to coincide with the season for the cultivation of vegetables in the State has come in handy for the authorities. Simultaneously, the Agricultural Marketing and Agri Business Directorate — another arm of the Agriculture Department — is in touch with officials of supplier States such as Maharashtra and Karnataka to ensure the steady supply of vegetables. As Tamil Nadu receives an average of 250 truck loads of big-sized onion (around 6,250 tonnes) every day from Nashik, Maharashtra, the officials of the western State had, at an inter-State conference coordinated by the Centre on Tuesday, assured their counterparts in T.N. that there would be no shortage of onions, a senior official of the Agriculture Department said. Karnataka is another supplier State, which provides tomato, potato and carrot. Agra in Uttar Pradesh has been a consistent provider of potato to Tamil Nadu’s markets. As for the domestic production of vegetables, Tamil Nadu, on an average, produces 50 lakh tonnes of vegetables annually, of which tapioca accounts for about 27 lakh tonnes; tomato 3.2 lakh tonnes; onion 2.2 lakh tonnes; and brinjal 1.2 lakh tonnes. Seventy Uzhavar Sandhais (farmers’ markets) in different districts have been relocated to bigger sites outside the limits of cities and towns so that the norms of social distancing could be followed. In the meantime, the Agriculture Department is overseeing the distribution of urea to the Cauvery delta, where there are plans to raise paddy over 50,000 hectares. Called ‘summer paddy’, this crop will cover 30,000 hectares initially. On Wednesday morning, a consignment of 1,200 tonnes of urea reached the Thanjavur railway junction. The State will get nearly 14,000 tonnes more shortly. Ordinarily, the summer paddy is not encouraged. But given the present circumstances, the authorities are willing to give latitude to the farmers, who have been advised to adhere to social distancing norms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-pronged-strategy-to-tackle-veggie-shortage/article31232351.ece
02 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Kothwal Chavadi shifts base||The Chennai Corporation on Wednesday shifted the market at Kothwal Chavadi to the Broadway bus stand. Corporation officials clarified that while all retail shops at Kothwal Chavadi were shifted to Broadway bus stand, wholesale outlets were not disturbed. Just 20 wholesale shops at Kothwal Chavadi were open on Wednesday. Most wholesale traders were unable to open shops because of restrictions on the movement of vehicles. Gathering of crowds A few days ago, Corporation Commissioner G. Prakash had inspected the Kothwal Chavadi market and ordered its shifting due to the gathering of huge crowds in the area. “At least 200 retail shops on Anna Pillai Street and Malaya Perumal Street were shifted to the Broadway bus stand on Tuesday night. The market started operations on Wednesday. Over 4,000 people can visit the market without violating the norms of social distancing,” said a civic official. People started visiting the market on Wednesday by 4.30 a.m., and most products were sold before noon. The Broadway bus stand, a famous landmark in the city, is expected to attract a large number of people wanting to purchase vegetables at an affordable price, said officials. On Wednesday, many retail outlets reported a sharp increase in the retail prices of vegetables. Corporation officials have made arrangements for parking and garbage clearance at the market.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kothwal-chavadi-shifts-base/article31232328.ece
02 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||After two positives, staff of store in mall put under quarantine||After two staff members of a store at the Phoenix mall in Velachery tested positive for COVID-19, public health authorities have brought all employees of the store under their direct watch, and have asked them to quarantine themselves at home. In case of any symptoms, they have been asked to call local health authorities or contact the COVID-19 control rooms. On March 27, a 25-year-old woman, who worked at the store, tested positive for COVID-19. She is undergoing treatment at the Government Hospital in Ariyalur. On Tuesday, her co-worker, a 28-year-old man, also tested positive and was admitted to the Government Medical College Hospital in Tiruvannamalai. An official of the Directorate of Public Health and Preventive Medicine said that all staff of the store were already under home quarantine, and disinfection measures had been taken. “We have traced all contacts. All staff of the store are under our direct watch, as they reside in multiple districts. We did not want to create panic. So we told the store management to get details of persons who visited the store from their database. Their phone numbers will be available in the billing database, and we told them to send individual messages, asking them to contact the health authorities in case of symptoms,” a health official of the Chennai Corporation said. He added that the management has reached out to nearly 360 persons using details from the database, through broadcast messages. The officials said that the safety advisory had been sent personally to all of them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/after-two-positives-staff-of-store-in-mall-put-under-quarantine/article31232320.ece
02 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Medicos write to Health Minister seeking adequate protective gear||With the one-year Compulsory Rotatory Residential Internship (CRRI) having been extended by a month for interns of the 2014 MBBS batch, the Tamil Nadu Medical Students’ Association (TNMSA) has requested the State government and hospital administrations to provide them with, and ensure the availability of, adequate protective gear such as personal protective equipment, N95 masks and hand sanitisers to combat the coronavirus disease (COVID-19). In a memorandum to the Health Minister, the association requested the government to ensure the availability of necessary protective gear in the workplace without any compromise. They suggested that the 2014-batch interns could be kept as a reserve medical team for managing the disease. Noting that the global pandemic may last a few more months, the association urged the government to postpone the upcoming Tamil Nadu Medical Services Recruitment Board exam for medical officers and recommend that the Union government postpones NEET PG 2021. TNMSA also requested college and hospital administrations to issue the CRRI completion certificates at the end of the original period of posting without any delay, provided the candidates have received no negative remarks during their internship, get them registered with the State Medical Council and issue university degree certificates. This is because any delay would affect their seniority when it comes to registration with the Tamil Nadu Medical Council as their counterparts in private medical colleges have completed their CRRI, the memorandum said. The association also urged the government to sanction salaries and ensure that its members would benefit from the incentives announced for healthcare providers involved in COVID-19 management.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/medicos-write-to-health-minister-seeking-adequate-protective-gear/article31232349.ece
02 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||A mad rush for kabasura kudineer||Many pharmacies selling AYUSH medicines have been witnessing long queues of people looking to buy kabasura kudineer, in the belief that it will help keep COVID-19 at bay. However, experts have clarified that kabasura kudineer, a Siddha concoction, was only suggested to the government for possible use as a complementary medicine in the treatment of COVID-19 or for those considered highly vulnerable. Usman Kani, a resident of Vettuvankeni, who visited the Indian Medical Practitioners’ Co-operative Pharmacy and Stores Ltd in Adyar, was disappointed that kabasura kudineer was not available. “I was, however, told about another drug that will help in boosting immunity,” he said. While Mr. Kani said he was going to use this as an additional precaution, apart from maintaining hygiene and distance, a few others who came to buy the drug seemed to strongly believe that it would prevent COVID-19. C. Dinesh Kumar, who runs an AYUSH pharmacy, said that he had sold 2,000 bottles of kabasura kudineer and other Siddha drugs which he termed as ‘immunity boosters’ on Monday alone. He said the demand went up after the PM’s meeting with renowned AYUSH practitioners. G. Sivaraman, a Siddha practitioner and managing director of Arogya Healthcare, said that kabasura kudineer was never suggested as a drug to prevent or cure COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/a-mad-rush-for-kabasura-kudineer/article31232318.ece
02 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Friends come together to help||Over the last few days, the footfall at the Amma Unavagam on Sivagnanam Road in T. Nagar has increased significantly. Initially, the customers were mainly security personnel posted outside the apartment complexes in the area. The queue has been getting longer since Friday. Jayalakshmi, in-charge of the Unavagam, said that more people sought the canteen facility, as they had no other place to go to eat. According to the employees, usually, around 120 people visit the facility. But in the last week, the number has jumped to 200, as word spread that food was being offered for free. Ms. Jayalakshmi said that a person had offered to pay for all those who ate at the canteen — be it breakfast, lunch or dinner. “I issue tokens and give him the numbers. He pays for the customers,” she said. S. Balasubramanian, who is funding the food, said it was a team effort by a group of school friends. The initial plan was to distribute cooked food, but since the government had ruled against it, they decided to fund the canteens. The group chose Amma canteens in Mylapore, R.A. Puram, T. Nagar and Greenways Road. The group has allocated Rs. 15,000 a day for the purpose. The group is also helping 250 homeless persons, sheltered in four community halls, in Alwarpet, Mandaveli, Mylapore and Abhiramapuram, by providing them essential supplies that the organisers ask of them, Mr. Balasubramanian said. Mr. Balasubramanian and five of his friends do the field work, while behind them is a team of 100 others, working to carry forward the work, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/friends-come-together-to-help/article31232322.ece
02 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Why do people step out of their homes? Police collate reasons||It looked like rush hour on Padi flyover on Wednesday morning as close to a hundred vehicles clogged the roads after the police conducted a surprise check on motorists flouting the lockdown. The men and women in uniform stopped every vehicle and noted down registration numbers. “We wanted to find out how many people step out of their houses for essentials and medical emergencies and how many just to roam the streets. We are also checking to find out how many are going around the city with curfew passes,” said a senior officer. Further action will be taken based on the data collected. “We will decide if we have to reduce the number of curfew passes or take measures to prevent people from leaving their locality,” the officer added. The checking led to a jam on the flyover, a junction for vehicles coming from Villivakkam, Thirumangalam, Korattur and Retteri. “There were too many people. Since we checked each vehicle, there was a pile-up,” said an officer. M. Balaji, a motorist who was on the way to a hospital with his mother, said: “They checked our papers and took down details. The police did their duty as people are roaming the streets without realising the seriousness of the pandemic.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/why-do-people-step-out-of-their-homes-police-collate-reasons/article31232324.ece
02 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CM urges those who attended Delhi conference to come forward||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Wednesday requested those who had participated in a religious conference at Nizamuddin in Delhi to come forward so that they could be tested and treated for COVID-19, if necessary. Mr. Palaniswami also said that if any of those who had participated in an event conducted by Isha Foundation were found displaying symptoms, they would also be subjected to testing. Amma Unavagam The CM inspected an Amma Unavagam at Santhome on Wednesday morning. He checked if the people there were following social distancing norms and also interacted with a few of them. “Of the nearly 1,300 persons from Tamil Nadu who participated in the meeting in Delhi, 515 have been identified and are being tested for COVID-19. Of these, 45 tested positive yesterday. We are trying to trace the remaining participants who had returned to the State, but have been unable to obtain their addresses. They should come forward, considering the intensity of the spread of the virus, which will affect not only them, but their families and wider society as well,” Mr. Palaniswami said. The CM said the government would provide the individuals concerned adequate medical treatment to help them recover, and it would be easier to treat the virus if the symptoms are identified at the initial stage itself. “Many of those who tested positive are recovering,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-urges-those-who-attended-delhi-conference-to-come-forward/article31232346.ece
02 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Donations pour into CM’s relief fund||As of March 31, the Chief Minister’s Public Relief Fund has received contributions to the tune of Rs. 36.34 crore from corporates, other organisations and the public to aid the battle against COVID-19. TVS Motor Company and Sakthi Masala have contributed Rs. 5 crore each; Asian Paints and Simpsons Rs. 2 crore each; DMK Foundation, Tamil Nadu Governor’s Office and Tamil Nadu News Print and Papers Ltd Rs. 1 crore each; and GRT Jewellers and DLF Foundation Rs. 50 lakh each, among others. Former Union Minister M.K. Alagiri, Kanchi Kamakoti Peetham and Madras Talkies, among others, have contributed Rs. 10 lakh each, according to a press release. IT major HCL will donate 500 ventilators worth Rs. 37.5 crore to the Tamil Nadu government to help treat those affected by COVID-19, another press release said. Kanimozhi’s gesture DMK MP Kanimozhi on Wednesday released Rs. 50 lakh from her MPLADS fund for setting up a lift in the government hospital in Thoothukudi. “When I visited the hospital, the doctors told me that a lift was necessary for the ward for treating patients who tested positive for COVID-19. I met the district collectors and handed over the money to them,” said Ms. Kanimozhi, who was elected from the Thoothukudi Lok Sabha constituency. She has already contributed Rs. 1 crore for combating the disease. Earlier, Ms. Kanimozhi gave personal protective equipment and sanitisers to doctors, nurses and other medical staff.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/donations-pour-into-cms-relief-fund/article31232354.ece
02 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||No sunny prospects for folk artistes this summer||The summer season is normally a time when there is no dearth of opportunities for folk artistes to perform at temple festivals. But this time around, with all the programmes booked forKodai Thiruvizha— summer festival at temples of folk deities – having been cancelled due to the COVID-19 threat, folk artistes in Tirunelveli, Thoothukudi and Kanniyakumari districts have been deprived of their livelihood. Unlike other sections of society, folk artistes depend primarily onKodai Thiruvizhato eke out a living, and the money they earn during the season helps them sustain themselves for the rest of the year. “There will be more than 2,000 artistes in these districts who will now be unable to run their families. The government should supply essential commodities and extend financial assistance to us,” said Kaniyan Koothu artiste V. Muthuperumal, who was forced to cancel his daughter’s wedding due to the lockdown. The possibility of postponing the festival is ruled out since the rainy season will not allow any celebration after May. Villages do not organise festivals after the schools re-open. Usually, right from the beginning of March, these artistes would have programmes lined up from Monday to Wednesday and again between Thursday and Saturday. It would be a tightly-packed schedule for artistes of Kaniyan Koothu, Naiyandi Melam, Villu Paatu, Thappattam and Karagam. “Artistes generally borrow from money-lenders. Now, the pandemic has closed the prospect of borrowing money too,” said Nagaswaram player and Naiyandimelam artiste Panakudi R. Siva. While Naiyandi Melam artistes — who play Nagaswaram and Thavil — could perform at weddings, other artistes don’t get such opportunities. Mr. Siva said he was not sure whether the economic slowdown caused by the disease and the lockdown would affect his prospects next year as well. “Organisers of the festival will not be in a position to collect the money as they do in normal times. The trend will reflect in our salaries and we will be forced to perform for lower amounts,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-sunny-prospects-for-folk-artistes-this-summer/article31232353.ece
02 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Tiruvallur district quarantines 250 villages||In a move to contain spread of COVID–19, the Tiruvallur district administration has quarantined 250 villages and has made them self-sufficient by forming village committees to supply essentials. There are nine taluks — Gummudipoondi, Ponneri, Uthukottai, Tiruvallur, Tiruttani, Athipattu, R. K. Pettai, Poonamallee and Avadi — in Tiruvallur district, in which there are over 525 villages. As on date, close to 2,000 people, who have either returned from abroad or have shown symptoms of COVID-19, have been placed under quarantine in the district. To prevent people from leaving their villages and getting infected, the district administration has decided to quarantine all such villages. “As of now we have quarantined 250 villages. In each hamlet, we have formed committees headed by the Village Administrative Officer and comprising the panchayat president, vice president, anganwadi worker, teacher and five youngsters from each street in the village. In the city limits, ward-level committees have been formed,” said Collector Mageswari Ravikumar. She said that one team will be allotted for 150 houses.The team has a WhatsApp group. The youngsters will go door-to-door and create awareness about COVID-19. In case a house needs vegetables or medicines, the team will get it. “Besides if anyone shows symptoms, the medical team will be brought to the village. The team will also take steps to prevent stigmatising. They will take care of the welfare of migrant labourers too,” she added. The remaining villages will also be quarantined. The local vegetable and meat sellers will be roped in to provide essentials to the residents. “No one will be allowed to enter or leave the villages. The village entry and exit points have been barricaded,” said R. Sridhar, assistant director, panchayats, Tiruvallur. For details Tiruvallur residents can checkhttp://stopcorona tiruvallur.com/.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tiruvallur-district-quarantines-250-villages/article31232337.ece
02 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Corporation launches ‘Corona Monitoring App’||The Chennai Corporation launched a ‘Corona Monitoring App’ that can be downloaded from its website. Corporation Commissioner G. Prakash said that if any resident has symptoms, including fever, dry cough and breathlessness, he/she has to take a photo of their door or a selfie from their house, and send it in. “It will reach our server, and we will instantly know the location. Our medical team can then examine whether the symptoms are normal or require a higher level of medical attention,” he said. The app gives users three options — quarantine capture, general fever symptoms and report crowded spots. While ‘quarantine capture’ requires users under quarantine to send in photos of the label outside their home, persons with symptoms can send a photo using fever symptoms option. If a resident comes across a crowded spot, they too can send in a picture.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corporation-launches-corona-monitoring-app/article31232316.ece
02 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘To flag animals in distress, call helpline’||People can contact the animal helpline to report about animals in distress or for related queries, the State government has said. The government has also advised District Collectors to ensure that cattle, street dogs and pets abandoned by their owners are fed and taken care of by animal lovers and NGOs. K. Gopal, Principal Secretary, Animal Husbandry & Fisheries Department, said arrangements are in place to provide food and treat sick animals. “People can contact the toll free number 1800-425-5880 and 1962 or mail anh.tn@nic.in,” he said. Mr. Gopal explained that the government had also directed the district collectors to allow the movement of vehicles carrying poultry products and materials for making poultry feed. ‘Chicken and eggs safe’ Describing as misleading a rumour that eating chicken and eggs would cause COVID-19, he said staying away from poultry products would on the one hand deprive people of the protein content in their food and on the other cause enormous loss to the poultry farmers. “Poultry products offer cheap, but high quality protein. They will boost immunity, which is the need of the hour,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/to-flag-animals-in-distress-call-helpline/article31232348.ece
02 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Felicitated at home||Senior MTC officials gave colleagues who retired on March 31 a pleasant surprise by visiting their homes and and presenting them pension certificates, work appreciation certificates and sweets. The corporation said that it usually organises a meeting to felicitate retirees at Pallavan House. But due to the lockdown, officials were asked by the MD to visit the homes of 71 retired employees.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/felicitated-at-home/article31232332.ece
02 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Change in fishing ban dates likely||The annual fishing ban for mechanised boats in the State is likely to be advanced this year. It usually begins on April 14 and goes on for 61 days. However, since fishermen have already been asked to abstain from fishing, the government has written to the Central government, urging that the ban be considered from March 23 till May 23, instead of June 14. Fisheries Department director G.S. Sameeran said that the Chief Secretary had written the letter and several other States too had followed suit. If the suggested change is implemented, the fishing ban dole is likely to be paid in April itself.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/change-in-fishing-ban-dates-likely/article31232335.ece
02 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||It has been raining bail orders in HC||The Madras High Court has been lenient in granting interim bail to the accused even in murder, attempt to murder and corruption cases by taking into consideration various factors including the threat posed by the pandemic COVID-19. Justices A.D. Jagadish Chandira and P. Rajamanickam have ordered the release of many accused on interim bail after observing, in their individual orders, that the interim relief was being granted in view of the extremity of the present situation. When a bail petition filed by K. Appu came up for hearing, Justice Rajamanickam found that the petitioner had been accused of being part of a gang that had abducted an individual and murdered him due to personal enmity. The judge granted interim bail till April 27 to the present petitioner too. The court passed similar orders with respect to lorry driver Ramesh who had been booked by Kalasapakkam police in Tiruvannamalai district for attempting to murder a SSI of Police when the latter attempted to prevent smuggling of river sand on January 7. Justice Chandira granted interim bail till April 28 to R. Elavarason, SE in Regional office of the Union Ministry of Road Transport and Highways in Chennai and M. Murugaboopathi, Divisional Engineer of State Highways department. However, the court desisted from granting any relief to a person booked under POCSO Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/it-has-been-raining-bail-orders-in-hc/article31232338.ece
02 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||DMK sends legal notice to BJP and Twitter||The DMK has sent a legal notice to the BJP leadership in Tamil Nadu and the Centre as well as microblogging site Twitter for “spreading malicious” news on social media that the party had not made any contribution towards combating COVID-19. DMK organisation secretary R.S. Bharathi, in the notice, said the DMK Trust donated Rs. 1 crore and all the MLAs and MPs of the party had donated one month’s salary besides releasing money from their constituency development fund. The notice was sent by party MP and senior advocate P. Wilson on behalf of Mr. Bharathi to BJP’s national president J.P. Nadda, State president L. Murugan, CEO of Twitter inc., and MD of Twitter India. “Our president (M.K. Stalin) has written to the Corporation Commissioner to make use of Kalaignar Arangam as an isolation ward to treat patients tested positive for the disease. Our party leaders in many districts have come forward to give their hotels and educational institutions for the treatment of patients,” Mr. Bharathi said. Demanding an unconditional apology from BJP leaders, Mr. Bharathi said they should jointly pay Rs. 100 crore towards the Chief Minister’s Public Relief Fund. He urged Twitter to remove the offending tweets.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmk-sends-legal-notice-to-bjp-and-twitter/article31232342.ece
02 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Curbs extended||Police Commissioner A.K. Viswanathan on Wednesday extended the prohibitory orders, already in force in the State since March 24, till 6 a.m. on April 15. To prevent the spread of COVID-19, the CM announced restrictive measures from March 24. The Commissioner then issued the order under Section 144 of the Cr.PC from 6 p.m. on March 24 to 6 a.m. on April 1. As the period came to an end, he extended the curbs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/curbs-extended/article31232325.ece
02 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Curfew passes for caregivers||The Office of the State Commissioner for Persons with Disabilities has given instructions to all District Collectors to issue curfew passes to caregivers of differently-abled persons. A letter said that as physically challenged persons were facing difficulties in getting essentials like food, ration and medicines due to the absence of caregivers, passes should be liberally given to the caregivers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/curfew-passes-for-caregivers/article31232330.ece
02 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Help to deal with stress||The Department of Public Health, in association with the National Health Mission, has come out with helplines to support people battling isolation and distress due to the lockdown. It has prepared a chart with helpline numbers in various districts. The department has asked people to stay clear of negative thoughts. The numbers for Chennai are: 9444297058, 9940211077 and 9840244405.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/help-to-deal-with-stress/article31232331.ece
02 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Don’t attribute political motive to Nizamuddin cases: Murugan||Tamil Nadu BJP president L. Murugan on Wednesday urged people not to attribute any political or religious motives to those who had attended a meeting at Nizamuddin West in Delhi and were later found to have contracted COVID-19. In a statement, Mr. Murugan said, “I request those who had attended the meeting, their family members and those who had come into contact with them to come forward and get themselves tested at government hospitals. Kindly do not take this lightly, and do extend your full cooperation to the government as it takes measures to combat the spread of the disease,” Mr. Murugan said. He said the government should test everyone who comes forward from this cluster, in the interest of people’s welfare.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dont-attribute-political-motive-to-nizamuddin-cases-murugan/article31232355.ece
02 April 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore tops in State with 34 positive cases||With 28 persons testing positive for COVID-19 here on Wednesday, Coimbatore has the highest number of cases in the State - 34. Of those who tested positive on Wednesday, 27 had attended the Tablighi Jamaat conference in Delhi. While 21 of them are from Mettuaplayam, six are from Pollachi. All of them were admitted to the Government Medical College and ESI Hospital. The other person who tested positive and got admitted to the hospital on Wednesday is the husband of the Podanur Railway Hospital doctor who is already in the isolation ward of the ESI Hospital along with her 10-month-old son, her 58-year-old mother and 51-year-old housemaid after they all tested positive earlier. Two others, a woman from K.K. Pudur who returned from Spain and a businessman from Tiruppur who returned from London, are under observation at the hospital. According to Health Department officials, 32 persons from Mettupalayam were put under observation when they returned from Delhi after the conference. While 21 tested positive on Wednesday, 11 others tested negative. The officials explained that 12 persons from Pollachi and Anamalai areas had attended the conference and six of them tested positive on Wednesday. Results awaited The officials were awaiting the test results of nine persons from Annur and 17 persons from Coimbatore city, who had attended the conference. The Health Department said the condition of all the 34 positive cases in Coimbatore, and the others under observation at the ESI Hospital for exhibiting symptoms, was stable. The department will demarcate containment zones at Mettupalayam, Pollachi and Anamalai in view of the new positive cases. Health workers will conduct door-to-door checks to know whether residents in these localities have symptoms of COVID-19 such as fever, cough, cold, sore throat and breathlessness.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-tops-in-state-with-34-positive-cases/article31232387.ece
02 April 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Fire tenders used to spray disinfectant||With every Government Department diverting their manpower and machinery for COVID-19 prevention activities, the Fire and Rescue Services too have joined the battle. All the 12 fire stations in Coimbatore district are supporting local bodies such as the Coimbatore Corporation and the municipalities to disinfect public places as well as residential areas. District Fire Officer P. Krishnamoorthy said that 16 fire tenders attached to the stations were engaged in spraying disinfectant on request from local bodies. With more suspected cases reported from places like Mettupalayam, some areas of Coimbatore city, Pollachi and Anamalai, local bodies sought the help of Fire and Rescue Services to disinfect these place. On Tuesday, such sanitation works were conducted in places such as Pollachi, Mathinapuram, RVG Nagar, Kandasamy Nagar, Sakthi Nagar, Jeeva Street, S. Kumarapalayam, Ganthi Nagar, Nagoor, Government Hospital Mettupalayam, Sirumugai, Then Thirupathi temple, Coimbatore south and NGP Nagar. Fire brigades are also distributing food to the homeless, stranded persons and street dogs. They are also supplying masks stitched by them to the needy. Police use water cannon The Coimbatore City Police used water cannon vehicle to disinfect prominent buildings including the District Collectorate and Coimbatore Medical College Hospital (CMCH) as a precaution against COVID-19. The vehicle, named ‘Varun’, has a capacity of 16,000 litres, according to a senior police officer. The city police procured bleaching powder with the help of the district administration and used it to prepare the 16,000-litre disinfectant, the officer said. An Inspector, a Sub-Inspector and three police personnel will be in-charge of the operations on a daily basis.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fire-tenders-used-to-spray-disinfectant/article31232390.ece
02 April 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Vegetables at your doorstep from today||The door-to-door distribution of vegetables that Municipal Administration Minister S.P. Velumani had promised a few days ago will begin here on Thursday. The Corporation has joined hands with the Department of Agriculture Marketing to distribute vegetables in 25 vehicles -- five each a zone, civic body sources said on Wednesday. While the department would handle procurement, the civic body would do the distribution. The Corporation would distribute the vegetables in packets priced at Rs. 100 each. Tomato, onion, coconut, curry leaves and two or three other vegetables would be in the packet in such quantity that the price of a packet remained at Rs. 100. The type of vegetables and their quantity would change everyday but not the price, department sources said.It had identified 25 persons from among farmers, members of farmers’ self-help group and societies to sell the vegetables. The Corporation would deploy 25 vehicles for the purpose on Thursday and in the next on or two days increase the number of vehicles to 100 at one each a ward. The Corporation planned to fix public address system to the vehicles to alert buyers but that would take time, the civic body sources said. The civic body would also take care of the route chart to ensure that the vehicles covered as many areas as possible. Mr. Velumani might inaugurate the vegetable distribution around 10 a.m. at the Corporation, the sources said. MP’s suggestion Earlier, in a letter to District Collector K. Rajamani, Coimbatore MP P.R. Natarajan suggested delivery of vegetables at door steps to prevent crowding by traders and buyers at vegetable markets.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vegetables-at-your-doorstep-from-today/article31232382.ece
02 April 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||11 more returnees from Tablighi Jamaat to be traced||The district administration, Coimbatore City Police and the civic body officials were on the lookout for 11 persons who returned to the city after attending a gathering in at Markaz Nizamuddin, the headquarters of the Jamaat, in Delhi. Sources said that the administration had identified 82 persons who attended the meeting. Of those, it had located and quarantined over 70 persons from Mettupalayam, Anamalai, Annur and a few at hospitals in Mettupalayam, Pollachi, Annur at the ESI Hospital in the city. Even as the administration was trying to locate the remaining persons it was also looking at a new place to quarantine them, perhaps a college hostel or a private hospital. The sources said that while none of the identified persons voluntarily disclose his or her participation, they did not resist attempts to go to hospitals, either. As for the remaining persons, the administration, through officials from the Department of Public Health and Corporation, had reached out their families, collected their other details and their recent travel history. It would soon locate them to take to a quarantined facility. In a related development, the Coimbatore Corporation had also declared Ukkadam a containment zone, after it came to light that a few of the residents who attended the Tablighi Jamaat event were from the area. With Ukkadam joining the list, the total number of containment places in the city stood at three – Saibaba Colony (K.K. Pudur) and Podanur being the other two. The Corporation’s urban health nurses and paramedical staff were going door-to-door in Ukkadam to check if residents within a km radius of the house of the person concerned had fever or showed COVID-19 symptoms. Each of its deployed workers would check 50 houses a day, dividing the area in to sectors, the sources added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/11-more-returnees-from-tablighi-jamaat-to-be-traced/article31232380.ece
02 April 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||‘Don’t rush to ration shops’||Ahead of the exercise to distribute Rs. 1,000 to each rice card holders and essential commodities at no cost to all card holders, the district administration has asked people to not rush to the shops. In a release issued here on Wednesday, it said all rice or other card holders need not rush to the shops on Day One (today), as the State Government had issued orders to ensure that all rice card holders get Rs. 1,000 each. The administration said it had taken steps to advertise at shops the distribution schedule, based on number of cards attached to each of the 1,419 shops. As for those families that had lost their cards, one of the family members who had his or her Aadhaar linked to the ration card could go to the shops to collect the cash, grocers using the one-time password sent to their mobile number. To oversee the distribution, the administration had designated the following officers: Coimbatore South – District SC, ST Welfare officer – 99526-48475; Coimbatore North Distribution Circle II – RDO (North) – 82206-55666; Coimbatore North Distribution Circle I– District Manager (TASMAC) – 94450-29716; Mettupalayam – District Supply Officer – 94450-00245; Annur – District Inspection Cell Officer – 94431-40697; Sulur – Thasildar (Social Security Schemes) – 86675-59812; Perur – RDO (South) – 94450-00442; Madukkarai – District Manager (THADCO) – 94450-29457; Kinathukadavu – District BC and Minorities Welfare Officer – 94454-77853; Pollachi – Sub Collector – 94450-00445; Valparai – Assistant Commissioner (Urban Land Tax) – 76019-54524; and, Anamalai – Assistant Director (Land Survey) – 97516-13688.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dont-rush-to-ration-shops/article31232381.ece
02 April 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Sales at Gandhipuram mofussil bus stand||Starting Thursday, there will be vegetable sale at the Gandhipuram mofussil bus stand. In the mofussil bus stand, more than 100 vegetable vendors from the now-closed T.K. Market would be selling their goods, the sources said. In a related development, following the closure of the Mettupalayam Road Bus Stand for vegetable sales after traders violated norms, the Corporation had evolved a mechanism to continue vegetable sales at the Ramalingam Chettiar Higher Secondary School ground on Alagesan Road, Saibaba Colony. Sources said that the civic body had divided vegetable vendors in two groups, vegetable-wise. If there were 24 tomato vendors from the now-closed Anna Retail Vegetable Market, Mettupalayam Road, the civic body had divided them into two groups. The first group would sell tomatoes on odd days and the second group on even days. Like this the Corporation had divided the traders into two groups to ensure that on all days all vegetables were available to the members of the public. This was to ensure that there was no crowding there as there would be fewer vendors.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sales-at-gandhipuram-mofussil-bus-stand/article31232379.ece
02 April 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Postal Dept. to transport medical emergency materials to Madurai and Pollachi||The Department of Posts on Wednesday booked medical emergency parcels to be transported from Coimbatore to Madurai and Pollachi through its Logistics Post. The parcels will be transported in a vehicle on Thursday morning from Coimbatore and will reach the destinations by noon, said Sudhir Gopal Jakhere, Senior Superintendent of Post Offices, Coimbatore. Medical emergency materials such as masks, worth Rs. 36,000, were booked by a customer in Coimbatore to be delivered to the Government Hospital in Madurai. Another customer had booked medicines to be delivered in Pollachi. These would have been normally sent by Speed Post. It was decided to use the Logistics Post as the vehicles have passes and can be transported without stopping anywhere. “I have written to Indian Medical Association in Coimbatore and also to private hospitals that they can use the services of the Postal Department to transport medical equipment and emergency goods to other places during the lockdown period,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/postal-dept-to-transport-medical-emergency-materials-to-madurai-and-pollachi/article31232383.ece
02 April 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||684 held for violating prohibitory orders||The police arrested 684 persons on charges of violating the prohibitory orders issued as part of national lockdown on Tuesday. Police arrested 119 persons in 111 cases and seized 44 vehicles on from them. Similarly, Coimbatore rural police registered 499 cases. They arrested 565 persons and seized 512 vehicles from them. Those arrested in these cases were released on bail.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/684-held-for-violating-prohibitory-orders/article31232394.ece
02 April 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Hindusthan group’s gesture||Hindusthan Group, Coimbatore, has expressed its willingness to dedicate its 100-beded hospital in Mettupalayam to treat COVID-19 positive patients. The group chairman T.S.R. Khannaiyann conveyed the group’s willingness in a letter to the district administration on Wednesday, said a communiqué.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hindusthan-groups-gesture/article31232378.ece
02 April 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||‘Aavin booths should sell only milk packets’||Collector C. Kathiravan has asked Tamil Nadu Cooperative Milk Producers’ Federation (Aavin) to sell only milk packets through its agents and outlets to the customers and warned of action if tea, coffee are sold at the outlets to the customers. In a release, he said that after Section 144 was clamped in the district, only essential commodities, including milk could be sold to the people. He said that agents and people who run the Aavin outlets across the district were allowed to sell only milk packets and not other products. He warned that licence of the outlets would be cancelled and closed if violations were found.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aavin-booths-should-sell-only-milk-packets/article31232365.ece
02 April 2020||KARUR,TAMIL NADU||Bank donates Rs. 5 crore||Karur Vysya Bank has donated Rs. 5 crore to the Prime Minister’s National Relief Fund. The gesture by the bank comes as part of its Corporate Social Responsibility initiative for measures aimed at containing the spread of COVID-19 pandemic, an official release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bank-donates-rs-5-crore/article31232672.ece
02 April 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Popular demand pulls down price of veggie bags by Rs. 50||One thousand take-away vegetable bags were sold out at 10 locations across the city through mobile outlets on Wednesday. A Madurai Corporation official said that 100 vegetable bags were sold at each location. In view of the huge demand for these bags, the Corporation has decided to reduce the price of the bag by Rs. 50. These bags will have 16 different vegetables and be sold at Rs. 200 from Thursday. The sale of these bags was facilitated by the Corporation to prevent crowding of people at markets as a measure to contain the spread of COVID-19 pandemic. Volunteers from various non-governmental organisations helped the sellers in selling these bags to the people. Each vegetable bag, which will be priced at Rs. 200, will contain essential vegetables like potato, onion, cabbage, carrot, tomato, brinjal, green chilli and ginger. ‘Change’ problem A Corporation official said that though the vegetable bags were sold out on Wednesday, the civic body decided to reduce the price of the bag as it was also difficult to give change to the people. “Many people paid Rs. 500 and it took a lot of time to give them the change. So, we reduced the number of vegetables from 19 to 16 and the cost of the bag to tackle this problem,” said the official. Also, the new price would be affordable to many more people, said the official. Banu Balakrishnan, a resident of Kochadai, said that the sale of these bags was a boon for the people during the lockdown. “We are scared of buying vegetables at markets as it is extremely difficult to maintain personal distance there,” she said. Advocate S. Muthukumar, a volunteer, said that on Wednesday they sold vegetable bags even in the parts of Anna Nagar which were cordoned off after reporting of COVID-19 positive cases. The volunteers said that the civic body had provided face masks, gloves and sanitisers to them. Personal distance between customers was also ensured during the sale of the vegetable bags, they added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/popular-demand-pulls-down-price-of-veggie-bags-by-rs-50/article31232632.ece
02 April 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Papad units in a fix||Summer season in Madurai usually sees a number of small houses in Chintamani and Anuppanadi areas turning into tiny appalam (papad) manufacturing units. This work requires tremendous skill and patience, says S. Karupayee, 34, of Chintamani. Since February 28, many workers have been asked to go home as there is no way of exporting the packaged item. K. Radha Jeyalakshmi, who co-owns Madurai Pandian Appalam, says they have completely stopped exporting papads due to COVID-19 outbreak. Stocks worth Rs. 30 lakh have accumulated. “Papads last for a maximum of five months. So we have no choice but to stop production,” she says. At big papad companies in Chintamani, which export the product to other countries, labourers usually get a monthly salary and work through the year. Many other companies set up shop only during the season to make the most of the Madurai heat. K. Janani, 26, says she works only in summer. Now, there is no scope for this additional income. “Unfortunately, since it is not classified as an essential commodity, we have been asked to stay back. I have got some additional amount apart from my February salary. We must all stay back at home,” she says. President of Madurai Appalam, Vadam, Moar Vathal Producers’ Welfare Association G. Thirumurugan says they have submitted a petition to the State government urging it to procure papad stocks at production cost and give them to people as part of monthly ration supply. Or else, papads will go waste, he adds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/papad-units-in-a-fix/article31232626.ece
02 April 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Former Mayor’s appeal to Stalin||Former Madurai Mayor and Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam functionary C. Ramachandran on Monday appealed to his party to reinstate former MP K.P. Ramalingam as its agriculture wing secretary. In a press release issued here, he said the DMK cadre and functionaries were shocked to hear of Mr. Ramalingam’s removal from the post. Mr. Ramalingam had recently suggested that there was no need for the State government to convene an all-party meeting to discuss steps taken to fight COVID-19. While Mr. Ramalingam’s remark went against party president M. K. Stalin’s demand for an all-party meeting on the issue, there was nothing wrong in airing a point or suggestion. After all, the DMK had millions of cadre, who believed that the party was functioning in a democratic manner under the leadership of Mr. Stalin. Considering his long-standing position in public life, the DMK president should reconsider the decision and reinstate Mr. Ramalingam in the larger interest of the party, Mr. Ramachandran said. When the State government and officials were fighting COVID-19, the DMK should stand with the people in fighting the pandemic and not send a wrong message at this hour of crisis, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/former-mayors-appeal-to-stalin/article31232637.ece
02 April 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Release Rs. 1,000-crore wage arrears: MP||Madurai MP Su. Venkatesan has alleged that the Centre had not released about Rs. 1,000 crore due for Tamil Nadu under Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme. The arrears - Rs. 671 crore in cash and Rs. 300 crore in materials - were pending for the last two-and-a-half months. “It is painful contradiction that the Centre announced an increase in wage of Rs. 20 per day for the job scheme workers on one side and had kept two-and-a-half month wages pending on other side,” he said in a letter addressed to Union Minister for Rural Development Narendra Singh Tomar. Alleging that only 7% of job card holders received full 100-day work a year under the scheme, he said when the situation was such a cruel reality, denial of wage arrears that too in a critical juncture was highly atrocious. Stating that merely tendering apology by Prime Minister Narendra Modi to the poor people who were subjected to untold hardships under the lockdown was not enough, he said the apologies would not fill the hungry stomachs. He said the nation-wide lockdown due to COVID-19 threat had made the lives of the rural poor miserable, as their livelihood sources had been shut down. So the Rs. 1,000-crore arrears must be released immediately, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/release-rs-1000-crore-wage-arrears-mp/article31232630.ece
02 April 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Nine new positive cases in Madurai district||Six persons from Melur and three from Elumalai in the district tested positive for COVID-19 on Wednesday. The infected persons, all middle-aged men, attended the religious conclave held at Nizamuddin in Delhi on March 9 and 10. Collector T.G. Vinay said that a containment plan involving closing of streets had been prepared. In Melur, 2,714 houses, where 10,448 people live, came in the containment zone. The Collector said that all households would be screened every day. “On Wednesday, nine persons reported mild cough which cannot yet be classified as COVID-19. Medical officers in the area have prescribed medication for now. Based on the severity of their condition over the next few days, a decision on isolating them will be taken,” he said. The area which has been declared containment zone in Elumalai is densely populated with 32,828 people living in 7,957 houses around a mosque. Now, a total of 14 people, including three from the family of the first COVID-19 fatality in Tamil Nadu, are at the isolation ward of Government Rajaji Hospital in Madurai after they tested positive. One other person, who has been infected, has been admitted to a private hospital in the city. The Collector said that tests were conducted on three others from Tirumangalam area, but they tested negative. “We have put in place a containment plan there as well,” he added.  18 in isolation The number of persons kept in isolation ward in Virudhunagar Government Hospital rose to 18 after close contacts of some of those who had attended the Tablighi Jamaat conference in New Delhi volunteered to be under closer observation. This is besides the 15 persons identified to have attended the conference. Only one positive case for COVID-19 has been reported so far in Virudhunagar district. Minister for Dairy Development, K.T. Rajenthra Bhalaji said here on that efforts would be made for door delivery, if need be, of essential goods and Rs. 1,000 assistance to 5.66 lakh rice card holders through Public Distribution System. Chairing a review meeting of COVID-19 precautionary measures at Srivilliputtur, Watrap, Sattur and Vembakottai on Wednesday, Mr. Bhalaji said that card holders should avoid crowding at the 1,001 ration shops for the distribution of freebies. On Wednesday, a large number of card holders gathered before ration shops seeking tokens. However, when they could not maintain personal distancing, the police advised them to return home. The tokens would be distributed in their houses. Collector R. Kannan said that only on Thursday cash and goods would be distributed at the 1,001 ration shops. From the next day, along with tokens the cash would be door delivered to prevent crowding. “Though we would ask only 100 card holders, as per the date and time mentioned in the tokens, to come to the ration shops every day to collect the goods, we are also exploring the possibility of home delivery of goods through volunteers,” he added. Rice, sugar, palm oil, toordal, wheat would be distributed to 5.66 lakh family card holders eligible to get rice.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nine-new-positive-cases-reported-in-madurai/article31232628.ece
02 April 2020||NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||Three govt. hospitals to treat only COVID-19 patients: Minister||Minister for Electricity, Excise and Prohibition, P. Thangamani, has said that government hospitals at Namakkal, Rasipuram and Tiruchengodu would provide treatment only to COVID-19 patients and other patients visiting these hospitals would be treated at private hospitals. Addressing mediapersons after chairing a review meeting with the Collector and officials at the Collectorate here on Wednesday, he said that 18 persons who were tested positive for COVID-19 in the district were in the isolation wards at the three hospitals and added that their condition is stable. He said that the three hospitals will treat only COVID-19 affected patients and other patients visiting these hospitals, including pregnant women, would be accommodated at private hospitals and treatment provided to them. He said that 1,850 beds, including beds at private hospitals, are kept ready for treating persons with symptoms, and added that accommodation is made for doctors at their work place. Mr. Thangamani said that 18 persons had attended the conference in New Delhi and the areas where their houses were located were already quarantined. He said that disinfection work is being carried out across the district and asked people not to panic. Health officials said that a total of 543 members were house quarantined in the district after positive cases were reported on Tuesday. They said that disinfectants were sprayed in the areas and in the houses twice a day and asked people to report to the health staff if they have any symptoms. Meanwhile, Collector K. Megaraj and Superintendent of Police Ara. Arularasu along with health officials inspected the quarantined houses in a few areas and monitored the survey and quarantining process.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-govt-hospitals-to-treat-only-covid-19-patients-minister/article31232368.ece
02 April 2020||P.A.Narayani,TAMIL NADU||AA members opt for conference calls||It is around 9.45 p.m. and Palani*, a resident of Melur in the district, speaks during an Alcoholics Anonymous (AA) session held through audio conference call enabled by the generation of a number in a website. “Hello, naan oru kudi noyali (I am a patient of alcohol addiction),” he begins. “With the closure of liquor shops and restriction on movement to contain the spread of COVID-19, the past one week has indeed been a difficult journey. But, regularly attending AA sessions through calls keeps me motivated to stay away from alcohol and helps me sail through the period. In fact, I helped my wife clean the house today and played carrom with my children,” he says. Ever since the lockdown started, hundreds of AA members from across the State like Mr. Palani are encouraging themselves to remain sober by regularly attending these sessions. Senior members say many new alcoholics are also attending their sessions to find psychological support at a time when liquor outlets remain closed. Gaurav*, chairman of AA group in Madurai, says initially one session was introduced for each day in the region and the number of one-hour sessions got increased, as more people started attending them. “Currently, we have sessions from 6.30 a.m. to 10 p.m. An increasing number of people from various parts of the State now speak during these sessions. In Madurai, we have even had more than 70 people participating during one session,” he says. “In every sitting, we observe that many alcoholics, who are attending the session for the first time, share their experiences on how they are coping during this time,” says Anab*, a senior member of Madurai AA group. “I feel positive when I speak in the conference group as they can understand what I go through now. When senior members share their success stories in giving up alcohol, I get inspired,” says Jagdishor*, an alcoholic from Valayankulam, who has been attending the virtual meetings for the past one week. Realising that the 21-day lockdown period can be best used to help the alcoholics recover from addiction, the AA members are individually calling up alcoholics from the region and encouraging them to attend the sessions, says Mr. Anab. “They don’t require medical treatment, they can make use of the psychological support from the members and recover during this period. The only thing that is required is the individual’s desire to give up alcohol,” he says. The members say they are also working towards having a conference call facility to connect all Tamil-speaking AA members from across the globe. Those from Madurai region who are interested in taking part in the meetings can contact 9080028119, 7305149112 or 7305149113. They can also visit www.aagsoindia.org (*All names have been changed on request)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/alcoholics-anonymous-members-opt-for-conference-calls/article31232629.ece
02 April 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Stranded French tourists take special flight to Paris||A group of French tourists stranded here due to the global lockdown following the COVID-19 pandemic returned home on a special flight from Chennai to Paris on Wednesday. A group of 138 tourists were taken to Chennai airport in four buses from here at 12.45 p.m. Their return was facilitated by the Consulate General of France in Puducherry and Chennai. 300 nationals In a press note, the Consulate General of France in Puducherry and Chennai said it had organised the return of 300 French nationals stranded in Puducherry, Auroville and various places in Tamil Nadu. With the authorisation of the Government of India and the assistance of local authorities, buses and shuttles were organised for the transfer of the French nationals to the Chennai airport. A special flight chartered by the French Government was arranged to take the tourists to Paris on Wednesday evening.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stranded-french-tourists-take-special-flight-to-paris/article31232343.ece
02 April 2020||RAMANATHAPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Tablighi Jamaat meeting participants being screened||Out of 4,125 foreign returnees in the district, 1,158 persons had completed home quarantine, said Collector K. Veera Raghava Rao here on Wednesday. Speaking to reporters, he said that 1,044 migrant workers, 354 homeless people and 174 tourists/pilgrims and 761 people from other States had been identified, screened and kept in institutional quarantine in different locations. It had been identified that 33 persons from the district had attended the Tablighi Jamaat meeting in Delhi recently and 17 of them had been identified and screened. Earlier, Fire and Rescue Services personnel sprayed disinfectants in bazaar and other areas here. Theni Twenty persons from Chinnamanur, Periyakulam, Theni and other places, were found to have symptoms of COVID-19 virus, said Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam here on Wednesday. They had attended the New Delhi meet. The areas where their houses were located would be declared containment zones to check people for fever, cough and breathlessness. Special teams had been formed for the purpose. Till the curfew ended on April 14 midnight, movement on roads would be restricted. Only transportation of essential commodities would be permitted. Dinidigul Collector M Vijayalakshmi said that 89 persons from Dindigul district had attended the Delhi meet and 17 persons had been tested positive for COVID-19. All of them were under treatment at the Government Hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tablighi-jamaat-meeting-participants-being-screened/article31232612.ece
02 April 2020||RAMANATHAPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Eight Nagapattinam fishermen in quarantine||Collector K Veera Raghava Rao, on Tuesday, facilitated eight fishermen from Nagapattinam to land ashore off Pamban. He received a call from the public that the locals, apprehending that they may be carrying COVID-19 virus, were not letting them in. The Collector sent a team of officials to help them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/eight-nagapattinam-fishermen-in-quarantine/article31232671.ece
02 April 2020||SIVAGANGA,TAMIL NADU||Solace for the stranded||Giving away Rs. 500 each, sari, dhoti, rice and vegetables to 12 migrant families from north India, who were stranded in Manamadurai on Wednesday, Minister for Khadi and Village Industries G. Baskaran directed officials to take care of them until the curfew was lifted and they returned home. Sri Ayyasami Trust had come forward to help the migrants. The Minister also gave away face masks to the staff of government hospitals in Sivaganga and Tirupuvanam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/solace-for-the-stranded/article31232651.ece
02 April 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Rations to be supplied at doorstep of quarantined residents||Elaborate arrangements have been made for supply of PDS rations at the doorstep of family cardholders living in quarantined streets of Kumbakonam. The COVID-19 financial assistance of Rs. 1,000 for rice card holders will also be distributed to them along with the provisions. While tokens have been issued to family cardholders to draw the financial assistance from PDS outlets, the cash will be distributed to people residing on Madhappa Lane and other nearby streets that have been quarantined, Collector M. Govinda Rao said in a release on Wednesday, The streets have been closed to public movement since a resident of Madhappa Lane tested positive for COVID-19. Along with financial assistance, the ration for the families in the streets will also be distributed from April 2 to April 15. As far as other areas of the district are concerned, distribution of financial assistance will be made at PDS outlets for 100 smart cards per day.  Retail markets Meanwhile, the Kumbakonam Municipality has set up temporary vegetable retail markets at 25 places in the town in order to prevent crowding at wholesale vegetable markets on the border of the municipality near Dharasuram and at Palakarai within the town. Further, the vegetable vending unit of Chandrasekarapuram Cooperative Wholesale Market in Kumbakonam has also taken up mobile vending of vegetables in the town. Vegetables are sold in retail to consumers in different parts of the town using a mini-van, the press release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rations-to-be-supplied-at-doorstep-of-quarantined-residents/article31232656.ece
02 April 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Pat for moratorium||Farmers representatives have welcomed the State government’s announcement of moratorium for agriculture loans taken through cooperative societies. At the same time they urged the government to consider waiver of these loans in view of the financial stress being experienced by the farmers due to the COVID-19 virus pandemic. In a statement, the president, All Farmers Organisations Committee, Tamil Nadu, P.R.Pandian welcomed the announcement but also pointed out that farmers were finding it difficult to take up regular farming activities in view of the virus scare. Further, the ryots were unable to get their horticulture produce such as banana, watermelon, mango and vegetables marketed due to the nation-wide lock down as the transporters and traders fear movement of perishable commodities during this period could not be achieved in time. He had also demanded that the financial assistance of Rs. 6,000 per annum to farmers extended through the Pratan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi Yojana be provided as one-time payment considering the problems faced by the farming community. Stating that farmers who have taken up pulses cultivation were unable to harvest the same, the State Vice-president, Thamizhaga Vivasayigal Sangangalin Koottamaippu, R.Sugumaran said that only waiver of crop loans would help farmers wriggle out of the debt trap. Already non-availability of farm hands and non-availability of fertilizer have jeopardized the summer cultivation, he added. While welcoming the announcement, the president, Nasuvini Riverbed Farmers Welfare Association, V.Veerasenan, however, said the announcement lacks clarity. Because, a farmer who takes agriculture loan from a society has to repay it in lump sum with interest once he completes the harvest. At the same time those who had converted their agriculture loan as a long term loan would also be repaying the loan on instalment. Thus, asking the borrower to repay the loan with interest after three months would not bring any succour to the farming community, he said and demanded waiver of the entire loan or at least the interest part of the loan should be considered by the government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pat-for-moratorium/article31232648.ece
02 April 2020||THANJAVUR/TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Special homams performed at temples||The Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowment Department on Wednesday organised special homams and pujas at select temples in Tiruchi, Thanjavur, Tiruvarur, Nagapattinam and Pudukottai districts in the wake of COVAD-19. According to sources, Rudra homam , Mriththunjay homam and Danvanthri homam were performed at Thyagarajaswamy temple (Tiruvarur), Naganathaswamy temple (Thirunageswaram), Swaminathaswamy temple (Swamimalai), Nageswaraswamy and Kasiviswanathaswamy temples (Kumbakonam), Aabathsagayeswaraswamy temple (Alangudi), Vanjinathaswamy temple (Srivanjiyam) and Srinivasaperumal temple (Nachiyarkovil). It has also been planned to perform yagnas (oblations in fire) at Dhenupureeswarar temple (Patteeswaram), Bhanapureeswarar temple (Kumbakonam), Saraparameswaraswamy temple (Thirucherai), Sarangapaniswamy temple (Kumbakonam) and Oppiliappan temple (Thirunageswaram) on Thursday and at Aadhi Kumbeswaraswamy temple (Kumbakonam) and Agneeswaraswamy temple (Kanchanur) on Friday, the sources said. The homams have already been performed at Brihadeeswarar temple (Thanjavur), Seshapureeswara swamy temple (Thirupampuram), Piravimaruntheeswaraswamy temple (Thiruthuraipoondi), Rajagopalaswamy temple (Mannargudi) and Kothandaramaswamy temple (Vaduvur). Also, pujas have been held at Muktheeswarar temple at Mahakalikudi in Tiruchi and Bhrahadambal temple at Thirukokarnam in Pudukkottai. However, all temples remained closed to public and the homams were performed by priests.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/special-homams-performed-at-temples/article31232653.ece
02 April 2020||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Mobile vegetable shops launched to prevent crowds at markets||Two mobile vegetable shops started functioning in the town on Tuesday to ensure personal distancing and prevent crowding at markets in the wake of COVID-19 threat. After procuring vegetables from ‘Pasumai Pannai’ shop near new bus stand, the mobile shops will visit residential areas and sell a bag with a variety of vegetables for Rs. 200. Corporation Commissioner V.P. Jayaseelan, who launched the service, said depending on the patronage, this service would be expanded. The Corporation has provided personal protection equipment - N-95 mask, coverall and gloves - to sanitary workers who collect garbage from houses where foreign returnees are quarantined. “Special vehicles with two workers will visit the 450 houses. The garbage will be buried deep in the garbage yard and disinfected,” said Mr. Jayaseelan. In Tirunelveli district, Radhapuram MLA I.S. Inbadurai launched mobile vegetable shops at Valliyoor. Ramanathapuram Collector K. Veera Raghava Rao has launched three mobile shops in Ramanathapuram. He said three make-shift markets had been established at Raja school ground, new bus stand and Pattinamkaathan. Officials were in the process of identifying spacious locations in the district where more such markets would be opened so that personal distancing could be maintained.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mobile-vegetable-shops-launched-to-prevent-crowds-at-markets/article31232619.ece
02 April 2020||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Kanimozhi releases Rs. 50 lakh more from MPLAD fund||Kanimozhi, MP, who has already released Rs. 1 crore from the Local Area Development Fund for anti-COVID-19 operations in the district, released Rs. 50 lakh more for creating more facilities in the virus 19 treatment ward in Thoothukudi Medical College Hospital. When she visited the hospital on Wednesday, Dean Thiruvasagamani informed her that more funds would be required for creating additional facilities, including elevator in that ward. After promising him of releasing more funds for these works, Ms. Kanimozhi, who met Collector Sandeep Nanduri at the Collectorate, handed over the letter for releasing Rs. 50 lakh from the Fund. Earlier, she handed over protective gear for doctors, nurses and conservancy workers involved in treating COVID – 19 patients. She opined that the relief of Rs. 1,000, announced by the State government for the unorganised sector labourers should be increased and appealed to the people to cooperate with the government and the police by remaining indoors.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kanimozhi-releases-rs-50-lakh-more-from-mplad-fund/article31232633.ece
02 April 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||90 persons isolated at Tiruchi GH||Nearly 90 patients, all attendees of the Tablighi Jamaat conference in Delhi have been admitted to the isolation ward for COVID-19 at the Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital here since Monday night. Nearly 30 identified persons were brought to the hospital at around 9 p.m. on Monday night. Another 50 were brought in the early hours of Tuesday morning, R. Yeganathan, Medical Superintendent, MGMGH said. Some others were brought earlier. Samples were being collected from all of them for tests. The attendees had all taken part in atwo-day conference at the Tablighi Jamaat, an Islamic organisation at Nizamuddin. Speaking to The Hindu , District Epidemiologist Aravind Kumar said that as soon as news of the increasing cases of COVID-19 among the attendees came, a list was prepared by the Health Department. “With the help of Revenue and police officials, we are continuing work to trace the participants. We are also seeking help from the people we have already traced in telling us who accompanied them,” he said. With this, the total number of persons admitted to the isolation ward at GH stood at 96, including two from Karur and three from Pudukottai, besides the sole positive patient.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/90-persons-isolated-at-tiruchi-gh/article31232610.ece
02 April 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Customers, shops and officials try to get their act together||Medical shops in the city have a beeline of customers amid apprehensions over stocks running out and possible extension of the lockdown. “A majority of our customers who take daily dosage for conditions such as hypertension or diabetes are buying medicines for a month. Normally, it is only for a week or two,” said a pharmacist at a chain outlet in Thillai Nagar. The buying spree also includes medicines for cold and fever, he added. The long queues are mainly the result of fear that the medicines may run out of stock, said K. Deepa, a customer and resident of Thennur. “It is the beginning of the month and medicines will be available. However, it is possible that they may run out later. So, why take chances,” she asks. Another customer, M. Pushpa, a resident of Puthur, attributes her presence at a medical shop to apprehension that the curfew may not be lifted as scheduled on April 15. “My father has sufficient medicines to last him at least until the lockdown ends, but he wants me to buy additional quantity. With the number of coronavirus cases increasing, he thinks that the lockdown will not be lifted soon,” she says. K. Manoharan, president, Tamil Nadu Chemists and Druggists Association, assures of steady supply of stock. “Since medicines are essential commodity, there will be no shortage. While an artificial paucity may be created by hoarders, we have enough stock to handle the situation,” he says. Some shops have fixed a cap on purchase to curb shortage. “We are not allowing customers to buy medicines for more than a month,” he says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/customers-shops-and-officials-try-to-get-their-act-together/article31232662.ece
02 April 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Manapparai-Vaiyampatti belt building workers in dire straits||A week after the nationwide lockdown for containment of the novel cornavirus came into force, several thousands of construction workers in Manapparai-Vaiyampatti belt have their fingers crossed as they have are left with no money. Absence of agricultural activity in the region has dealt a double whammy. The labourers who used to make a living by working daily at construction sites in Tiruchi city and suburbs have now been pushed into a situation of complete dependency for livelihood on the government relief of Rs. 1,000 per family card holder for the lockdown period for containment of novel corona virus. The curtailment of train services had dealt a severe blow to their livelihood. The workers used to avail themselves of the utility of the season tickets for to and fro travel to Tiruchi and back. The construction sector in Tiruchi has always been entirely dependent on the passenger train service between Tiruchi and Dindigul. “It is because of the presence of workers from the Manapparai-Vaiyampatti belt that the construction industry in the city has not found the need to employ work force from the Northern States,” Babu, a building contractor, said. Though the government has taken steps to ensure farm activities are not affected, it has meant precious little for the daily labourers. For, the farming sector in that region is in a dire crisis. The lockdown has meant that the farmers have no option but to helplessly let the flowers they have cultivated on thousands of acres to wither away on the fields. Unlike in the case of agricultural crops, the flower cultivators are required to incur heavy costs for electricity. In fact, the flower cultivators pay hefty amounts as deposit for securing power connection, Muthukrishnan, a flower trader said. The farmers spent as much as Rs. 2.70 per sapling from the nurseries in Hosur for raising the flower crop. But, all have gone waste. Private loans In fact, a good number of farmers abandoned agriclture and took to construction work after the Gaja cyclone caused destruction to their standing crops. With only hope for better times in their minds, the farmers mobilised the money by pledging jewellery and raising private loans at exorbitant interest rates to raise the crops. There is no scope now to extricate them from the debt trap. There is a huge possibility of penury claiming lives in the Manapparai-Thuvarnkurichi-Marungapuri belt, a farmer observed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/manapparai-vaiyampatti-belt-building-workers-in-dire-straits/article31232650.ece
02 April 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Start-up founded by SASTRA alumnus designs innovative kits||Having developed a cost-effective respiratory product for the country's defence personnel earlier, a biomedical research and development start-up founded by an alumnus of SASTRA Deemed University has approached the State government with innovative kits it has developed for the country's fight against novel corona virus. The efficiency of the products: AURA Dokat (to deployed in the isolation wards to support doctors and paramedics), CURA Dokat (Autonomous robot with UV light tower to disinfect hospital beds and environment) and CURA Docket (to disinfect the novel coronavirus using UV light), products developed along with two other start-ups was explained by V. Pragadeeswaran, Founder and CEO of Aries Biomed Technology, Coimbatore, to senior officials of the Health Department. As a pioneering company to manufacture unique products for biomedical testing and validation, the start-up company that came into being during 2015 had developed and manufactured mobile handy turbine-based resuscitation units for Defence Bio-Engineering and Electro Medical Laboratory (DEBEL) Research and Development unit of DRDO. The autonomous robots helps in reducing exposure risk to medical personnel and improving efficiency. Running along photosensitive strips on the ground to carry trays of food and medicines, the robots equipped with optical and magnetic sensors know where to stop, and returns to the origin after the task is completed. The CURA Dokat has proved more effective in sanitising entire rooms, especially on door handles and shadow areas, significantly reducing population of microbes under five minutes. The UV-disinfectant robots can be used to sanitise hospitals, emergency medical service vehicles and isolation wards. The rays are detrimental to microorganisms. There must be no person in the room when the robot is activated, Mr. Pragadeeswaran, who had completed M. Tech in Biomedical Engineering in SASTRA Deemed University said. Incubated in PSG-STEP facility, the start-up funded by Biotechnology Industry Research Assistance Council and Department of Science and Technology, had tied up with Katomaran, another start-up specialising in Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning, to develop the innovative products to deal with novel coronavirus. The start-ups had in recent years designed emergency transport ventilators and anaesthesia ventilators. “There is no need for sophisticated ventilators to treat COVID 19 patients. A basic model with the required functionalities could be manufactured cost-effectively even for Rs. 1,000 to 1,500 per unit, when manufactured on a large scale,” Mr. Pragadeeswaran said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/start-up-founded-by-sastra-alumnus-designs-innovative-kits/article31232649.ece
02 April 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Volunteers feed hungry street dogs||The canine population on the streets across Tiruchi city is now getting fed, thanks to a group of animal lovers. The main source of food for the dogs is usually roadside stalls and tea shops. With none of them functioning, the canines have been having a hard time. Now, a 30-member volunteer group cooks food and crisscrosses the length and breadth of the city to feed the starving street dogs. The initiative was started by G. V. Karthik, an animal rights activist who has been feeding about 15 to 20 street dogs near his house during the lockdown. He realised that the plight of all dogs across the city would be similar. He pitched his idea to Citizens Forum chairman M. Sekaran, who welcomed it. “With his help we were able to scale up our efforts,” the activist said. Mr. Sekaran applied and acquired ID cards and permission required for volunteers to travel around the city and feed the dogs during the curfew. A total of 50 kg of rice is being fed to nearly 600 dogs along with discarded chicken pieces bought from poultry stalls. “The smell of meat draws the dogs. They eat well because of it,” Mr. Karthik said. Funds for the food are contributed by the volunteers themselves. The team was also able to set up a central kitchen since Tuesday night. “Until yesterday, we were cooking at home. A community hall owner in Singarathope was kind enough to give us the space, gas and vessels to cook,” he said. With all shops closed, the volunteers found the dogs hungry. “They gobbled down the food this morning,” he recalled. The volunteers would make two rounds a day, one in the morning and the other in the night, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/volunteers-feed-hungry-street-dogs-in-tiruchi/article31232617.ece
02 April 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Farm fresh outlets at your doorstep||The Department of Cooperation has launched five mobile farm fresh outlets and they will visit various parts of the city during the day. The outlets will sell vegetables at affordable and fixed rates. On Tuesday, the outlets sold tomato at Rs. 20 a kg, ladies finger at Rs. 40, brinjal and bitter gourd at Rs. 25, snake gourd at Rs. 20 and green chillies at Rs. 15 a kg.The daily rates will be notified at the mobile units. Residents can dial the notified numbers: Amaravathi Cooperative Wholesale Stores - 9865272820; Chinthamani Supermarket – 8489446427; Sri Renganatha Cooperative Stores – 7010001506; Thiruvanaikovil Cooperative Stores – 9715628572; or the Tamil Nadu Government Officers Cooperative Stores – 9443530459. The mobile outlets have been launched in addition to the 14 farm fresh outlets functioning in the district. The service will facilitate purchase of vegetables right at the doorstep of residents, according to a department official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/farm-fresh-outlets-at-your-doorstep/article31232667.ece
02 April 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Market shifted||Tiruchi Collector S. Sivarasu on Wednesday announced that the temporary vegetable market along the Cauvery river bridge in the city will not function from Thursday. Instead, the market will function from near Chathram Bus Stand and residents can make their purchases from 6 a.m. to 2.30 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/market-shifted/article31232669.ece
02 April 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Violators booked||City police have booked 336 cases and arrested around 1,000 persons for violating prohibitory orders. As many as 968 two-wheelers have been seized and parked at Armed Reserve Grounds at K.K. Nagar. Penalty to the tune of Rs. 2.08 lakh has been collected. Stern action will continue against violators.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/violators-booked/article31232670.ece
02 April 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Melapalayam cordoned off||Police cordoned off Melapalayam on Wednesday after 16 residents from this densely populated place tested positive for COVID-19 on their return from a religious congregation in Delhi recently. Even after the State government clamped prohibitory orders under Section 144 of Criminal Procedure Code and then the Union government enforced nationwide lockdown to contain COVID-19 threat, the restrictions did not have much effect in Melapalayam as people went about their business, going on two-wheelers and visiting the shops and markets to buy meat, grocery and vegetables. Repeated appeals from police and civic body officials to the residents to stay in their houses and not venture outside to ensure personal distancing were in vain. But, when the news that 17 residents of Melapalayam have been tested positive for COVID-19, a good number of residents remained indoors since Tuesday evening while it was business as usual for others till Wednesday morning. Only after the police started putting barricades across roads to stop vehicular movement completely, the roamers chose to remain indoors, fearing punishment and filing of cases against them. Seventy nurses and as many Corporation personnel have been deployed in Melapalayam. Accompanied by the police, they will visit every house to check the residents for cough, cold and fever, the symptoms for the dreaded viral infection. Policemen deployed on Ambasamudram Main Road appeal through public address system to the residents to remain indoors until the viral threat subsides completely. Outsiders have been barred from entering Melapalayam. The Corporation has deployed in Melapalayam large number of conservancy workers, who initially hesitated to work in an area where 17 COVID – 19 positive cases have been identified, to clear garbage. “We’re organising a mass cleaning drive in and around Melapalayam after conducting a similar exercise in mid-March. Disinfectant is being sprayed on all streets of Melapalayam,” said Corporation Commissioner G. Kannan. Meanwhile, a higher secondary school in Melapalayam has been converted into a temporary facility to isolate family members of the COVID – 19 positive patients and those who attended the Delhi meeting. Palayamkottai MLA T.P.M. Mohideen Khan, who released Rs. 40 lakh from his constituency development fund for creating more medical facilities in Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital for treating patients affected by the viral infection, released Rs. 5.75 lakh on Wednesday for buying SARS – CoV- 2 virus test kit. He handed over the order for releasing the amount to Dean M. Ravichandran.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/melapalayam-cordoned-off/article31232616.ece
02 April 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||19 more, including doctor, in isolation ward||Nineteen more persons, including a doctor from Kayalpattinam, who had attended Tablighi Jamaat meeting in Delhi recently, have been admitted to isolation wards. Among them, five are from Kodeeswaran Nagar in Tirunelveli, eight are from Tenkasi, two each from Kayalpattinam and Petmanagar and one each from Kayathar and Authoor in Thoothukudi district. Their blood and swab sample results are awaited. Meanwhile, the local bodies concerned have started disinfection in areas where their houses are located. After 27 persons from Tirunelveli, Kanniyakumari and Thoothukudi districts, who had attended the Delhi meet, tested positive for COVID – 19, the district administrations have started searching for those who accompanied them to Delhi. Even as 5 COVID-19 positive patients, including four persons who had participated in the religious conference, are undergoing treatment in Government Medical College Hospital at Asaripallam, the Kanniyakumari district administration has launched search for more after isolating their family members. Two from Thengaaipattinam, one each from Dennison Street and Velladichivilai and a youth from Manikattipottal, who is working in Chennai airport, have been tested positive for the viral infection and are undergoing treatment now. Since the police have found that three more persons from Kanniyakumari district have participated in the conference, efforts are on to locate them. Moreover, their family members and others who were in touch with the COVID – 19 positive patients have been kept in home quarantine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/19-more-including-doctor-in-isolation-ward/article31232613.ece
02 April 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Three focus teams formed||Collector Shilpa Prabhakar Satish, at a review meeting on Tuesday, has formed three teams to look into issues connected with the lockdown. Their contact details are: Backward Class and Minorities Welfare Officer (for complaints pertaining to price of fruits and vegetables) – 0462 2500141 / 2501141; Adi Dravida and Tribal Welfare Officer (for food and shelter for the neglected) – 0462 2501074 / 2501076; District Social Welfare and District Differently Abled Welfare Officer (for supply of food, medicines and essential commodities for senior citizens and the physically challenged) – 0462 – 2501034. Meanwhile, the public want more vegetable shops opened to prevent crowding in the temporary shops. Since they go to the already crowded ‘Uzhavar Sandhai’ at Melapalayam or Maharaja Nagar, new vegetable market may be opened on a four-acre land near NGO Colony Periyakulam to ensure personal distancing, said Nallaperumal, secretary, Confederation of Residents’ Welfare Associations of Ward 27.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-focus-teams-formed/article31232620.ece
02 April 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||TMB donates Rs. 5 crore||Thoothukudi-based Tamilnad Mercantile Bank has contributed Rs. 5 crore to the Prime Minister’s Relief Fund (PM-CARES) towards COVID-19 mitigation measures. In a statement, Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer of TMB K.V. Rama Moorthy has said to fight against the spread of deadly virus, doctors, nurses, sanitary workers and police personnel were working round-the-clock risking their life. India needed lot of medical equipment to help the affected. Hence, the bank was donating Rs. 5 crore, as a supportive measure to wage the war against COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tmb-donates-rs-5-crore/article31232634.ece
02 April 2020||tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Tiruppur gets unique ‘disinfection tunnel’ to fight against COVID-19||In a unique move, Tiruppur District Collector K. Vijayakarthikeyan inaugurated a ‘disinfection tunnel’ as part of the precautionary measures against COVID-19 at the entrance of the Uzhavar Santhai in Thennampalayam on Wednesday. This initiative might be the first of its kind in the State, Mr. Vijayakarthikeyan told The Hindu . It was set up by the District Administration in collaboration with Young Indians, the youth wing of the Confederation of Indian Industry. Two sets of three nozzles each will spray 1% sodium hypochlorite solution per 1 ppm (parts per million), as people walk for a duration of between three to five seconds inside the tunnel.  ‘Can kill virus’ “Upon contact [on surfaces], it is efficient enough to kill the virus,” the Collector said. Workers and members of the public were advised to raise their hands with their palms facing front while entering the tunnel to ensure efficient disinfection. However, this disinfection tunnel is only a supplement to precautionary measures such as frequent hand-washing, he said. The total cost of the tunnel was around Rs. 90,000. With a capacity of 1,000 litres, the disinfection tunnel will work uninterrupted for 16 hours, hence requiring refilling only once a day. More such tunnels will be set up across the district in the future, Mr. Vijayakarthikeyan said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tiruppur-gets-a-disinfection-tunnel-to-fight-covid-19/article31232334.ece
02 April 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Quarantine zones established in parts of Ooty, Coonoor and Kotagiri||Quarantine zones were set up in parts of Udhagamandalam, Coonoor and Kotagiri on Wednesday, as the test results of eight persons from the Nilgiris who attended the Tablighi Jamaat event in Delhi were awaited. On Wednesday, the district administration moved to cordon off the heavily populated Khandal area in Udhagamandalam town, where a couple of people who attended the event on March 21 were said to be residing. Police barricades were erected along the roads leading into the area and people were prevented from entering or exiting the area without just cause. The Khandal area, home to most of the conservancy workers employed by the municipality, and is one of the most crowded parts of Udhagamandalam town was then disinfected. Vehicles were used to announce restrictions on people leaving their houses, with officials reiterating their request to people to not step out of their houses and stay indoors. Parts of Coonoor and Kotagiri towns too, where a few of those who attended the event had been staying were quarantined. The eight persons, who attended the event in Delhi, were being kept in the isolation ward of the government headquarters hospital in Udhagamandalam. Nilgiris District Collector J. Innocent Divya visited Khandal inspected measures being taken to prevent any outbreak of the virus in the area.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/quarantine-zones-established-in-parts-of-ooty-coonoor-and-kotagiri/article31232392.ece
02 April 2020||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||‘Fill vacant pharmacist posts soon’||With the fight against COVID-19 going through a crucial phase, pharmacists in Virudhunagar district want the State government to fill up around 1,000 vacancies of pharmacists in government hospitals and primary health centres across the State. They claim that no new recruitment has taken place for the past two years ever since a recruitment drive by Medical Recruitment Board ran into a legal tussle over qualification of the candidates for the post of 353 pharmacists. While usually only those candidates with Diploma in Pharmacy were eligible for the post, the government allowed even those with Bachelor in Pharmacy to compete for the post. “Now, with the case pending in High Court, the posts could not be filled up and in the course of time, many had retired or promoted to the post of Medical Store Officer,” one of them said. The common idea about pharmacist among the people is that they just distribute medicines to the out-patients in Government Hospitals and PHCs. “It is only the pharmacist other than the medical officer who can give medicines to the patients. Besides, just handing over different types of tablets or drugs, they need to explain to the patients the dosage and whether to take it before or after meals,” another pharmacist said. Besides, the pharmacist had to make intent for the medicines and surgical needs of hospitals and collect them from the Tamil Nadu Medical Services Corporation warehouse. It is the pharmacist, who need to distribute the medicines to various wards of the hospitals and to the operation theatre. “For the simple masks and syringes to various life-saving drugs, a pharmacists must ensure uninterrupted supply to meet emergency needs,” he added.  With about 25% of the posts lying vacant across the State, the pharmacists from PHCs had been shifted to Government Hospitals to manage the situation. “Still, it has been a tough job to cater to the huge number of outpatients coming to the GHs. People often turn restless when wiating for long periods of time. They do not understand that we need to be very careful in giving the right medicines prescribed by the medical officers. A small mistake can endanger the lives of patients,” he added. In PHCs, either the nurses or clerical staff, mandated with the duty of registering the names of patients, were handling the medicines. The government that is making emergency recruitment of doctors, nurses and lab technicians at this critical moment of COVID-19 scare, should also recruit pharmacist to make things easier for all. The Medical Recruitment Board has elected candidates among those who could not make it during the previous recruitment drive for both doctors and nurses. “This was to save time in fresh recruitment process. The same methodology could be adopted for the recruitment of pharmacist posts also,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fill-vacant-pharmacist-posts-soon/article31232636.ece
02 April 2020||VIRUDHUNAGAR,TAMIL NADU||Extended||The Department of Transport has extended the validity of vehicle permits and fitness certificates that are due for expiry from February 1 to June 30. This has been done in order to maintain uninterrupted transportation of essential goods under the lockdown period, a release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/extended/article31232621.ece
02 April 2020||April 02 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||588 report to officials overnight||After the State government made an appeal to those persons who had attended the Tablighi Jamaat conference in Nizamuddin, Delhi, but remained untraceable, to voluntarily report to the authorities on Tuesday evening, 588 people approached district officials overnight. This took the total number of persons who had come forward to 1,103. “We used multiple methodologies. Religious leaders were contacted. We involved revenue officials and utilised police intelligence. As soon as the appeal was made, phones started buzzing, and people started coming in voluntarily overnight. Teams from the respective Collectorates brought them to the isolation facilities. Containment plans were immediately chalked out,” Health Secretary Beela Rajesh told reporters. “The containment plan was centred around all 1,103 persons in question, and involved District Collectors demarcating a 5-km radius as a containment zone and another 2-km radius as a buffer zone to take up door-to-door checks to prevent the spread of COVID-19. This would be the focus for two days,” she added. In Tirupattur district, 22 persons who had attended the conference were traced and placed under hospital quarantine. Collector M.P. Sivanarul said five of them were from Tirupattur, seven from Vaniyambadi and 10 from Ambur. The Karaikal administration sealed the house of one of the six persons from the district who had attended the meeting, after the man, in his mid-fifties, developed symptoms of COVID-19. In Tiruchi, nearly 90 persons had been admitted to the COVID-19 isolation ward at Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital since Monday night. Nearly 30 identified persons were brought to the hospital on Monday night, while another 50 were brought in during the early hours of Tuesday, R. Yeganathan, Medical Superintendent, MGMGH, said. In Coimbatore, the district administration, the city police and the Corporation officials were on the lookout for 11 persons who had returned to the city. Sources said the administration had identified 82 persons. It had located and quarantined over 70 of them from Mettupalayam, Anamalai, Annur and a few in the city at various hospitals. Ukkadam, Saibaba Colony (K.K. Pudur) and Podanur were declared containment zones. Twenty-five persons from Cuddalore district were admitted to the isolation wards at Cuddalore Government General Hospital, Rajah Muthiah Medical College and Hospital in Chidambaram and General Hospital in Vriddhachalam. Quarantine zones were set up in parts of Udhagamandalam, Coonoor and Kotagiri as the test results of eight persons from the Nilgiris who attended the Tablighi Jamaat event in Delhi were awaited. One person, who had returned from Nizamuddin on March 23, was quarantined along with his family members in Krishnagiri. From 13 districts at the beginning of this week, COVID-19 has spread to many more districts in the State. Tirunelveli and Coimbatore topped the list with 29 positive cases each, followed by Chennai and Erode with 26 cases each. As on date, 77,330 persons continue to be under home quarantine, while 4,070 persons have completed the 28-day quarantine period. A total of 2,726 samples have been lifted till date. A total of 995 persons have been admitted to isolation wards, according to the bulletin issued by the Directorate of Public Health and Preventive Medicine. More cases in Puducherry The number of COVID-19 cases in the Union Territory has gone up to four, with one more person who returned after attending a religious conference at Nizamuddin in New Delhi testing positive for the virus. The 54- year-old person, hailing from Thiruvandarkoil, has been admitted to the Indira Gandhi Government Medical College.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/588-report-to-officials-overnight/article31232358.ece
02 April 2020||April 02 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Ensure personal distancing at ration shops: Collector||With COVID-19 relief assistance of Rs. 1,000 and essential commodities to rice ration card holders to begin at ration shops across the district on Thursday, the district administration has asked the public to ensure personal distancing while standing in queue at the shops. The State Government had announced that card holders would receive cash, besides rice, sugar, cooking oil and dhal free-of-cost at their respective ration shops. On Wednesday, the Collector inspected Kollampalayam Vandikaran Thottam ration shop and checked the tokens that were kept to be distributed to the card holders. He inspected the markings made to ensure personal distancing of one metre between persons while in the queue. He said that each token will carry the date and time of issue of cash and asked one member of the family to come to the shop. “People should ensure personal distancing”, he said and asked officials to ensure the same during the distribution tomorrow. Meanwhile on Wednesday, workers at the ration shop began distributing the token to card holders at their residence. At a ration shop in Surampatti Four Road, people started gathering in front of the shop in the morning. Later, police personnel told them that tokens will be distributed to them at their houses and asked them to return. In Salem, distribution of tokens began on Wednesday. Though it was announced that tokens would be distributed to the card holders at their houses, people gathered in front of shops in the morning. At Devangapuram ration shop, long queue could be seen where people refused to follow personal distancing.  Special Correspondent adds from Dharmapuri: Starting from April 2, the rations and Rs. 1,000 per family card as part of COVID-19 relief measures, will be distributed through token system in public distribution system outlets servicing a large number of households. According to a release, tokens will be distributed in the PDS outlets. Collector S. Malarvizhi has urged the public not to crowd the shops and ensure the norms of physical distancing are strictly adhered to.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ensure-personal-distancing-at-ration-shops-collector/article31232371.ece
02 April 2020||April 02 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Plea to Tablighi meet participants||Collector S. Malarvizhi has called upon participants of the Tablighi Jamaat event in Delhi to come forward and alert the administration to facilitate quarantining. In the wake of the Nizammudin headquarters of the TJ becoming a hotspot for the number of COVID-19 infections and the spotlight turning on the participants from Tamil Nadu, the district administration has called upon those who attended the event, if any, from the district to come forward and identify themselves in order to enable the administration to contain any potential infection. Further, public, who have knowledge of such participants are urged to alert the administration and their identity shall be protected. The district administration has also called upon those, who had worked as domestic help in the neighbouring States or in other districts of Tamil Nadu, and those who had worked as salespersons in the big shopping malls, and drivers for airport cabs, call taxis from February to go into self-quarantine immediately.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/plea-to-tablighi-meet-participants/article31232372.ece
02 April 2020||April 02 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Managing pregnancy and childbirth||“Doctor, I am in my 31st week of pregnancy; neighbours and friends tell me that I am more prone to get the infection. I am afraid. What should I do?” As obstetricians taking care of mums-to-be, we have received many a phone call seeking help and reassurance. The fear and anxiety is understandable. Thorough knowledge of the infection and its consequences will certainly help allay this fear and anxiety. Does pregnancy make a woman more susceptible to coronavirus infection? Although pregnancy is an immuno-compromised state, we know from years of experience that most pregnant women go through pregnancy without any major compromise. Compared to the general population they are more likely to contract the infection and hence categorised as a high-risk group. There is, therefore, a need for more strict measures to be followed by both the pregnant women and their caregivers. Sneezing, running nose, sore throat, fever and sometimes cough – extremely common symptoms. Then, how does one differentiate the common cold from a possible corona infection? Common treatment for such symptoms would be steam inhalation, paracetamol and antihistaminics (for cold). In the absence of exposure to or contact with a known COVID suspect or history of travel within close contacts, the initial treatment should contain the infection. If however your symptoms persist, become more severe or recovery is delayed – it may be an indication of a more severe respiratory infection and you should contact your doctor. Please do not panic as this may still not be indicative of a COVID infection. Kindly ascertain from your doctor regarding the place of consultation. It may not be the clinic where you regularly visit. The need for social distancing and self isolation cannot be overemphasized. Pregnant women should stay indoors, not participate in social gatherings and postpone “baby showers”. If a family member develops a cough or cold you should isolate yourself for a minimum of two weeks in a separate room or till he/she recovers. Our knowledge of the infection itself and its spread is limited. Given the limited information currently available, it would be prudent to strictly adhere to social distancing, especially beyond 28 weeks of pregnancy. There is insufficient evidence at present to support vertical transmission from mother to baby in utero, during delivery or breast feeding. Reports of miscarriage, growth restriction in the baby, especially when the infection occurs in the last trimester and induced preterm labour, though occasional, should be kept in mind.  Routine Antenatal (pregnancy) Care  You may be at various stages in your pregnancy. Trimester I or upto 12 weeks, after pregnancy confirmed on ultrasound scan, there is no need for an urgent AN visit. Certain scans i.e., the first trimester scan, anomaly scan and growth scan are time-bound and you should contact your doctor. If you do not have any significant risk factors i.e., age, multiple pregnancy (twins), raised blood pressure, diabetes or other medical or pregnancy related disorders, you can at your doctor’s discretion reschedule your monthly visits. The aim would be to minimise exposure to the women and their caregivers. Routine clarification of doubts can be over telephone or video calls.  Delivery and immediate post partum  Your obstetrician and maternity unit may not be able to comply with all aspects of care you may have agreed to in your birth plan. Safety is of utmost importance and this will be definitely ensured. Risks of airborne transmission is high during normal delivery and precautions will be taken even if you are not a COVID suspect. If an emergency caesarean section is required, your doctor will advise you accordingly. You can breastfeed your baby. Isolation may be advised only if there is suspicion or history of exposure.  Home Delivery  We have had requests for “home delivery” as it is presumed to be a “safer” place than a maternity unit in a hospital. Delivery at home certainly has many attendant risks and should be strongly discouraged in the current scenario. Monitoring of the mother and foetus may be sub-optimal. Access to emergency care, if it becomes necessary, i.e., transport, availability of blood and maternity units and personnel may be very difficult to organise.  Working women  Working women without any co-morbid factors can continue to work but must follow social distancing. If you are more than 28 weeks pregnant or have any risk factors it is best to coordinate with your workplace and your doctor and make a decision. There could be a number of asymptomatic individuals among us who are carrying the virus. The care of pregnant women affected by the coronavirus will be protocol driven and is not discussed here. Remember, my dear parents to be. Our priority should be reduction of transmission and safety first. My wishes to all of you for a smooth, safe pregnancy and delivery.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/managing-pregnancy-and-childbirth/article31232341.ece
02 April 2020||April 02 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Aavin maintains procurement level||Despite difficulties in marketing dairy products due to the lockdown, Tiruchi Milk Producers Union — popularly known as Aavin — has decided against scaling down procurement from milk producers. According to official statistics, Aavin has marginally surpassed the volume of procurement when compared to the corresponding period of last year. As on Wednesday, the daily procurement stood at 4,26,000 litres. It was 4,24,000 litres on the same day in 2019. The average milk procurement hovers around 4.2 lakh litres for the last one week. Since many of the private dairies reduced procurement due to restrictions in inter-State and inter-district movement of transport, milk producers, who had so far been supplying to them, diverted it to Aavin. “We make sure of procuring daily milk collection from the farmers associated with our member societies. It will not be reduced,” said C. Karthikeyan, Chairman, Tiruchi Milk Producers Union, Tiruchi. As a special step, he said it had been decided to explore the possibilities of procuring milk from other farmers. Steps were taken to draft them under Primary Milk Producers Co-operative Socities. R. Suman, General Manager, Aavin, Tiruchi, said the supply of milk to various institutions, hostels and hospitals had declined as all of them had closed down. However, sale of milk through agents for domestic consumption had gone up for the last one week. It increased to 1,15,000 litres as against 1,09,000 litres a day. Before the lockdown, milk for domestic consumption was supplied twice a day. It had now been restricted to once a day. The agents were asked to complete sale of milk before 9 a.m. Besides local sales, two lakh litres of milk was being sent to Chennai daily. About 60,000 litres was sent to Aavin’s milk powder plant in Tiruvannamalai. The remaining quantity was being sent to Erode for its milk powder plant, Mr. Karthikeyan added.  Dairy Data  Daily procurement now: 4,26,000 litres  Procurement same time last year: 4,24,000 litres||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aavin-maintains-procurement-level/article31232658.ece
02 April 2020||April 02 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||SPCA invites volunteers to feed street dogs||The Society for Prevention of Cruelty to Animals is seeking to enrol volunteers to feed street dogs in Krishnagiri town limits. With the lockdown in place, the stray animals are out on the streets without any source of food, according to the SPCA. Water bowls Further, to prevent street animals from starvation, SPCA had taken up feeding of the dogs and setting up water bowls for the animals to drink to beat the extreme summer. In Hosur, SPCA has already taken up feeding of street dogs through its line up of volunteers. The SPCA, has similarly invited volunteers to help feed animals. The task would entail cooking of food provided by the SPCA and feeding the street dogs in various localities on a daily basis up to April 15. SPCA will provide volunteers with raw materials and meat for cooking, vehicles to transport the food and feed the animals at different stops. The volunteers will also be provided with protection gear, including badges, for movement during the lockdown. Teams of three persons will be assigned a area for feeding of the street dogs. Interested youth and animal lovers in general are encouraged to volunteer for the task. Persons interested may contact Sanjay Tanesh, general secretary, SPCA on 97913 81308.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/spca-invites-volunteers-to-feed-street-dogs/article31232374.ece
02 April 2020||April 02 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||House of man who went to Delhi religious meet sealed in Karaikal||The Karaikal administration has sealed the house of one of the six persons from the district who were known to have attended theTablighi Jamaat meeting at New Delhi, after the man in his mid-fifties was found to have symptoms of COVID 19. The results of the samples of the six persons and their contacts, who have been kept under isolation at the Government Hospital after being subjected to tests on Tuesday and Wednesday are awaited, District Collector Arjun Sharma said. Four other persons have been kept in quarantine. More samples will be tested as per medical protocol, the Collector said, requesting people with knowledge of those who had attended the conference to pass on the information to the helpline 04368 - 261242. At this stage, all essential civil supplies will function with restrictions in Dharmapuram locality where a buffer zone and containment zone has been created around the sealed house, with police deployment. Regular health check up will be carried out for residents in the locality as per the protocol specified by the Central Government. There is no cause for panic. The Collector clarified that no one has tested COVID-19 positive as yet, and that the sealing of the house in Dharmapuram was a precautionary measure.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/house-of-man-who-went-to-delhi-religious-meet-sealed-in-karaikal/article31232647.ece
02 April 2020||April 02 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Complaints of glitches in door delivery system||It is a week since the Corporation announced phone-in orders and door delivery of groceries, but the social distancing measure has been hit by glitches. Six major private grocery chains, GRO Mart, Kaveri Super Market, Femina Shopping Mall, Reliance Retail, Kumudham Departmental Store and Pothy’s Super Market, were shortlisted under the scheme and their mobile and landline customer service numbers publicised through social media. Customers were advised to place their order by phone from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. and allow a day for delivery. However, shoppers continue to throng the markets for groceries and fresh produce due to lack of response to phone calls. Shortened working hours — 6 a.m. to 2 p.m. — have added to the frenzy. “The larger difficulty has been to figure out which shop is open and what items are in stock,” S. Lakshmi, a resident of Ramalinga Nagar, told The Hindu . “One of my medicines has to be taken with skimmed milk. Since it comes from another State, the stocks are low now.” Also, shoppers are made to wait outside before being allowed inside in small groups. Only some stores have made seating arrangements, forcing others to stand in the sun for a long time. “Once you go in, there is panic among buyers, as store personnel ask you to make the purchases quickly because there are other customers waiting for their turn,” said a shopper in Cantonment. “Even though tokens are issued, many jump the queue,” he rued. There are complaints about shortage of products such as bread, readymade batter, yoghurt and feminine hygiene products. Those with small children at home also point to lack of recreational items on sale as most stores have closed down their novelty and stationery sections. Big fruit and vegetable vendors are seen functioning a little beyond the stipulated time. “Although we are supposed to close by 2 p.m., it can take longer as everyone has to be properly billed,” said a counter clerk at a leading store with a long line of customers. However, phone-in delivery has largely been trouble-free for customers ordering meat and chicken, especially after poultry and eggs were declared to be safe for consumption. Personal shopping has become a challenge for those with the elderly and infirm under their care. “I live with my aged father, who usually walks down to buy fruits and vegetables. But I am afraid to send him out now. On the other hand, I cannot leave him unattended for long at home while I am out shopping,” said K. Kalaivani, a local resident. “His medicines are have become difficult to purchase because of the rush in pharmacies.” Telephone calls from The Hindu to the designated stores for their reaction went unanswered.  “We have to close by 2 p.m., but it can take longer as everyone has to be properly billed counter clerk at a store||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/complaints-of-glitches-in-door-delivery-system/article31232664.ece
02 April 2020||April 02 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Person who attended meet quarantined||One person, who had returned on March 23 from the headquarters of Tablighi Jamaat in Nizammudin in Delhi has been quarantined along with his family members here. His swab sample has been collected and sent for COVID–19 test. The person, however, has been asymptomatic without any manifest symptoms upon arrival eight days ago, said Collector S. Prabhakar to The Hindu . Yet, the person along with the family members have been asked to remain in home quarantine for the next 14 days. A total of 20 persons from the district had attended the event. Of them, 18 had attended in early February and returned to the district between February 8 and 10. They have completed 30 days now without any symptoms. However, they too have been asked to be confined to their homes. One participant from the district had remained in Delhi, Dr. Prabhakar said. Police have registered a FIR against a person for jumping quarantine. “All of those quarantined in the district are being monitored by the local panchayat officials, revenue and police.” One of the quarantined persons was seen strolling outside the house, and the authorities were alerted. A FIR has been registered against the person,” the Collector said. The Tablighi participants aside, the administration has identified 58 persons, who had arrived from Gujarat to various mosques in Krishanagiri fo religious studies. The persons were identified and were asked to be quarantined in the respective mosques itself.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/person-who-attended-meet-quarantined/article31232373.ece
02 April 2020||April 02 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Sprayers distributed||Collector C. Kathiravan distributed a set of sprayers each to the 225 village panchayats in the district for effectively carrying out disease prevention methods. Currently, the district administration is taking various precautionary measures to prevent spread of COVID-19, and disinfectants are sprayed at quarantined areas. Each pack includes, power sprayer, battery-operated sprayer, disinfectants, bleaching powder, mask and gloves. All these items were distributed to the Block Development Officers in the 14 panchayat unions in the district at the Collectorate here on Wednesday. He also distributed packs containing essential commodities worth Rs. 2,200 to 58 differently-abled persons, who were involved in various activities at the railway stations. The pack contains 20 kg rice, vegetables and essential commodities that would serve them during the lockdown. Mr. Kathiravan distributed the packs to District Revenue Officer S. Kavitha in the presence of officials at the Collectorate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sprayers-distributed/article31232369.ece
02 April 2020||April 02 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Maintaining vigil||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/maintaining-vigil/article31232376.ece
02 April 2020||April 02 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||More important things||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/more-important-things/article31232623.ece
02 April 2020||April 02 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Leopard rescued from farm well||A three-year-old male leopard that fell into an open well at Pudukuiyanur village, near Bannari, was rescued by forest department personnel here on Wednesday. Officials received information at 12.30 a.m. that the animal was found in the well located in a farm owned by K. Shanmugam. Forest personnel from the Bhavani Sagar Forest Range in Sathyamangalam Tiger Reserve along with K. Ashokan, wildlife veterinary surgeon at Sathyamangalam Tiger Reserve arrived at the spot and charted out a plan to rescue the animal. The animal was administered tranquilliser dart and the leopard was lifted out of the well in a net. Later, it was transported in a cage to the forest area and released. Officials said that rescue operation was carried out for two hours and ended at 6.30 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/leopard-rescued-from-farm-well/article31232366.ece
02 April 2020||April 02 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore update||As on April 1   Coimbatore   No. of persons in hospitals: 90  Govt. Medical College and ESI Hospital: 60 Govt. Hospital, Mettupalayam: 21 Govt. Hospital, Annur: 9  Fresh positive   cases: 28  Mettupalayam: 21, Pollachi: 6, Podanur: 1 Old positive cases: 6 Total: 34.  Tiruppur  House quarantine cases: 1,346 Persons released after 28 days of house quarantine: 11 Samples lifted: 8 Results declared: 6 Negative: 5 Positive: 1 (Admitted to ESI Hospital, Coimbatore) Results awaited: 2||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-update/article31232384.ece
02 April 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Six Indonesian couples quarantined in Belagavi||The district administration has identified six couples from Indonesia in Belagavi and quarantined them, after it was found that they had attended the Tablighi Jamaat Markaz in New Delhi between March 10 and 13. Six evangelists and their wives had come to Belagavi after attending the Delhi meeting, to preach in villages. They arrived in Belagavi on March 16. They have preached at a mosque near the city and have not moved around, a COVID-19 squad officer said. The men have been quarantined in a mosque and the women have been quarantined in a house in the old city in Belagavi. “We are acting according to the Home Ministry’s advice to identify and quarantine the Markaz attendees,” said the officer. The Union Home Ministry had written to all States and Union Territories to “identify, screen and quarantine” foreign members of the Tablighi Jamaat organisation, and “we are doing that,” the officer said. Abdul Azeez, a mufti of the Jame Masjid in Belagavi, said that none of the attendees of the Markaz, including the Indonesians, had shown any symptoms. The district administration has also traced 62 persons who had attended the Markaz in New Delhi. They have been quarantined. Most of them have completed the quarantine period of 14 days. They have not shown any symptoms during preliminary tests. The throat swabs of 27 persons who have co-morbidity conditions, including diabetes, heart problems, blood pressure and breathing problems, have been sent for further tests.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/six-indonesian-couples-quarantined-in-belagavi/article31232474.ece
02 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||In lockdown effect, Bescom sees 25% less demand||For Bengaluru, summer is usually synonymous with rising temperatures, examinations, vacations, and power cuts. It’s the time when Bescom sees peak demand, thanks to the need for air-conditioning and IP (irrigation pump) sets. This summer though, due to the COVID-19 lockdown, it is seeing underutilisation of power. The Bangalore Electricity Supply Company (Bescom), that accounts for nearly half of the State’s total power needs, is seeing 25% lesser power consumption than normal. The main reason is the lockdown of commercial establishments and industries, that account for roughly 30% of the load. This has left Bescom only with load from domestic connections and IP sets. What the power utility now has is a problem of plenty. According to Bescom officials, the availability of power itself was not a problem since it started tapping into solar energy. Ever since the State supplemented its dependence on thermal and hydel power with solar energy, the government reported surplus power. “Power availability has not been a problem since last year, especially due to the huge solar capacity. This year, there is a surplus power,” said a senior Bescom official. According to figures available for April 1 (4 p.m. data), for example, the State’s total generation was 10,084 MW. But the State load was 9,774 MW only. What is troubling utilities is firstly the wastage of solar power and secondly, the beating revenues will take this year. “We could have generated higher revenue had everything been working. Now, it is literally free power (solar) going waste. We have no storage capacity for it and the sun’’s bounty is not being used,” said the official. Commercial and industrial tariffs are higher than domestic tariffs, while IP set tariffs are subsidised by the government. This means that Bescom, which has been citing revenue gaps in its tariff petitions, is staring at another one. For the financial year that should have begun on Wednesday, Bescom has sought a massive Rs. 1.95/unit hike from the Karnataka Electricity Regulatory Commission (KERC). Bescom had defended the hike sought, citing a revenue deficit of Rs. 5,872.08 for the financial year 2020-21. Last year, the commission had allowed a 33 paise per unit increase across all electricity supply companies (Escoms) against the different hikes that the five Escoms had sought ranging from Rs. 1 to Rs. 1.67 per unit. “This year’s petition has already been filed and the public hearing has also been held. So we cannot do anything. But if this continues, it will reflect in our petition for the next year. We are hoping that things pick up once the COVID-19 uncertainty ends,” said an official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/in-lockdown-effect-bescom-sees-25-less-demand/article31232269.ece
02 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||In despair, farmers destroy crops||Supply-chain distortion of farm produce owing to the lockdown over COVID-19 has hurt both farmers and consumers. There have been reports from across the State of farmers, in despair, destroying their own crop. Yogesh, a farmer who grew muskmelon in Sira, Tumakuru, said that with no labour for harvesting and no transportation facilities to take it to the market, his produce was left to rot in the field. “I gave all my fruits for free to whoever came to my farm. I spent another Rs. 10,000 to clear the land and throw away all the rotten fruits into a tank nearby,” he said. Thimmanna B.G., a farmer who grew tomatoes at Hiriyur in Chitradurga, dumped 15 tonnes of his produce on a dry tank bed as he could not transport it to the market. “I invested Rs. 25 lakh, taking a loan of Rs. 17 lakh, only to throw my produce into a tank,” he said. He demanded that the government provide compensation to farmers. In Belagavi, Azad Desai, a cabbage farmer from M. Mallapur village, let cattle graze on his one-acre cabbage crop that was ready for harvest, while, another farmer in the district ploughed through his cabbage field. At Shanivarasante in Kodagu, a farmer threw a truckload of chillies on to the street, while, over the last one week, several tomato growers dumped their harvest on the streets at the markets after it fetched only a pittance and there were no buyers in Kolar, Mandya and Tumakuru districts. In Shikaripur, represented in the Assembly by Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa, and Sorab taluks of Shivamogga district, muskmelon and watermelon are rotting away in the fields. Prabhu Kumar C.B., a farmer from Shikaripur who has grown muskmelon of the Kohinoor variety on his two-acre plot, said, “Cracks have developed on the fruits owing to excess temperature. They are rotting in the field.” Rangappa, a watermelon farmer from Sorab, said the owners of fruit mandis in Mumbai and Bengaluru had approached him in the second week of March to purchase his produce, but there are no takers now. Labour shortage Yet another problem is the severe labour crunch in villages. “Labourers and drivers are scared and are not coming to work. Moreover, watermelons and muskmelons are harvested by specialised labourers who come from outside; they have also stopped work,” said Srinivas, a farmer from Srinivaspura in Kolar. There is palpable anger against the government and elected representatives over what is being called an “ill-planned lockdown” and the government not coming to the rescue of farmers. In a video clip doing the rounds, a worried farmer from Belagavi, Bhima Nayak, has made an appeal to the government. “We don’t want the government’s free LPG and rice. What I and other farmers like me need is a market for the produce that we have grown on our fields.” Farmers’ leaders said the crisis has put the spotlight on the lack of adequate cold storage infrastructure in the State. “Farmers are dumping their produce because of the absence of cold storage facilities at most APMC yards. There is no security for farm produce in the country,” said the Mysuru-based farm activist Vasanthkumar Mysoremath. Kodihalli Chandrashekhar, president of Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha, came down heavily on both the Union and State governments for “shedding crocodile tears” for farmers. “It is commendable that the governments are ensuring workers are paid despite being given off. But farmers are suffering huge losses for no fault of theirs. The government must ensure minimum support price for all crops, failing which it must provide compensation to farmers,” he said.  (With inputs from Belagavi, Tumakuru, Chitradurga, Mysuru, Kolar and Bengaluru)   I invested a total of Rs. 25 lakh, taking a loan of Rs. 17 lakh, only to throw my produce into a tank Thimmanna B.G., a farmer from Chitradurga||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/in-despair-farmers-destroy-crops/article31232291.ece
02 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||BMTC buses for nearly 9,000 people in essential services||The decision of the Bangalore Metropolitan Transport Corporation (BMTC) to operate 160 buses during the lockdown is helping thousands of people carry out essential services in the city. Every day, close to 9,000 people working in the health sector and in agencies such as BESCOM, BBMP, BWSSB as well as employees of banks, petrol bunks and police personnel use the services to reach their workplace. People visiting hospitals and blood donors are also allowed to use the service. BMTC driver Shivaprasad who operates on Outer Ring Road (ORR) said, “I have been working in the Corporation for more than 15 years and never experienced this kind of situation. I am driving the bus on a long route to and from Banashankari. After reaching Hebbal, we go to Marathahalli, Hebbal and then back to Banashankari. There are many hospitals on this route.” Bus drivers say that roads are empty. On a normal day, it would take Mr. Shivaprasad four hours to complete a trip on ORR. “Now, we cover the distance in two hours even though we drive slowly,” he added. BMTC conductor Somashekar said that only people with valid ID cards are allowed to travel in the bus. BMTC provides hand sanitisers, masks and gloves for the bus crew. “We also maintain social distancing. Only one passenger is allowed to sit in a row. We are happy to serve at this crucial time. We drop off passengers at the bus stop located closest to their workplace,” said Somashekar. As a precautionary measure, only 20 people are allowed to travel in the bus. However, the Corporation operates only from 7 a.m. to 7 p.m., and the timings are not conducive to those working late hours or in night shifts. Sri Jayadeva Institute of Cardiovascular Sciences and Research Director C.N. Manjunath said, “Transportation during lockdown is an issue for people, especially those who don’t have their own cars or two-wheelers. BMTC’s services have helped them. However, as the frequency is less, we are contemplating hiring a few mini buses that can be operated between major bus stands for our staff.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bmtc-buses-for-nearly-9000-people-in-essential-services/article31232272.ece
02 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Free milk will be distributed to the poor while agri markets will remain open: CM||As the 21-day national lockdown entered the second week, the State government on Wednesday announced a slew of measures, including free distribution of unsold milk procured by Karnataka Milk Federation (KMF) to the poor and the opening of all APMC and other agriculture-related markets for the benefit of farmers and consumers of essential items. Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa, who chaired a high-level meeting of Ministers and senior officials, announced that excess milk procured by the KMF would be distributed to the poor and the slum residents in cities and towns through urban local bodies from Thursday. The KMF procures nearly 69 lakh litres of milk daily, and about 42 lakh litres is being sold in markets. Of the remaining 27 lakh litres, the KMF uses nearly 20 lakh to produce byproducts. The excess 7 lakh litres will now be distributed to the poor during the lockdown. The government has paid Rs. 32 crore to the federation for purchasing this milk, at a rate of Rs. 36 a litre. The closure of hotels, reverse migration from cities to villages, and the stoppage in transportation of milk to other States has resulted in the KMF procuring excess milk, a top federation official told The Hindu . The CM also said there was no need to panic, as sufficient stockof iems was available and markets would remain open. He appealed to the public to purchase essential items needed only for 2-3 days at a time, while also practising social distancing. He instructed Horticulture Department officials to open Horticultural Producers’ Cooperative Marketing and Processing Society (HOPCOMS) outlets throughout the day in cities. To enable consumers to buy eggs, the government has directed HOPCOMS to sell them. Market for perishables For providing markets for perishable produce, Mr. Yediyurappa instructed the Deputy Commissioners of all districts to procure vegetables and fruits from farmers and make arrangements to sell them in urban areas. The police have been instructed to ensure the uninterrupted movement of essential goods. All rice, dal mills and agricultural processing units will remain open. The government has directed the opening of cocoons markets in Mysuru region and in other parts of the State. Officials in the Agriculture Department have been instructed to pay special attention while dealing with farm inputs such as fertilizers, pesticides and seeds. With many vegetables and fruits such as tomato, watermelon, muskmelon, and grapes being transported to markets in other States, the Chief Minister directed officials at check-posts to allow the entry of goods vehicles transporting farm produce. Stern action will be taken against officials denying entry to such vehicles. Steps have been taken to transport tomatoes to processing units, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/free-milk-will-be-distributed-to-the-poor-while-agri-markets-will-remain-open-cm/article31232294.ece
02 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Launch e-commerce platforms to link farmers with consumers’||As farmers are struggling to take their produce to markets or directly sell them to consumers amid the lockdown, an agricultural extension expert has suggested measures to tide over the crisis, including launching e-commerce platforms involving farm universities and district-level Krishi Vigyan Kendras (KVKs). K. Narayana Gowda, former Vice-Chancellor of the University of Agricultural Sciences, Bengaluru, said farm universities and district KVKs can launch online initiatives to directly link farmers with consumers. “All the districts have Krishi Vigyan Kendras, which will have agricultural experts. They should be immediately involved by the government in launching such marketing initiatives so that farmers can find a solution within their districts,” he told The Hindu . Furthermore, farmers should also be allowed to directly sell to consumers at the panchayat, hobli, taluk and district levels, he said, calling for dedicating playgrounds and school grounds for this. He said enabling direct sale of produce to consumers may help farmers to get remunerative prices in this time of crisis. Expressing concern about farmers dumping their produce, he said such a scenario was a warning to the State as it was an indication that there could be severe shortage of vegetables and fruits in the coming months. “If such incidents increase, then more farmers will opt out of cultivating vegetables and fruits. This is bound to create a shortage, leading to rise in prices,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/launch-e-commerce-platforms-to-link-farmers-with-consumers/article31232295.ece
02 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||A channel to train healthcare personnel||How must health officials conduct contact tracing when a person has tested positive for COVID-19? What is the correct and safest way to ferry a patient with the virus to the hospital? These are questions all healthcare professionals are grappling with. To help create awareness and to ensure that the correct protocol is followed, the State government launched a YouTube channel — COVID-19 Training Task Force — on March 26. The channel has around 1.46 lakh followers, including doctors, nurses, ASHA workers and gram panchayat members. Over the next two days, the government plans to reach out to 60,000 people who are part of the village-level task force via the channel. Topics that will be addressed include social distancing and rules to follow during quarantine. P.C. Jaffer, who is in charge of capacity building for COVID-19, said that a resource person conducts a live session and those attending the training online can post questions in the comments. “The trainees can also look up the videos online if they want to refer to a particular topic in case of any doubts,” he said. The duration of the videos ranges from three minutes to an hour. Some videos have close to 6,000 views so far. Through specific videos, the channel is set to train 100 teams that include medical professionals handling primary contacts and 1,300 teams handling secondary contacts in Bengaluru. K. Ravikumar, regional director,Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, who conducted sessions for more than 1,200 GPs on Wednesday on the channel, said the advantage of online training is reaching a large number of people. He, however, admitted that during the sessions, the officials are unable to gauge the audience’s response. However, they are trying to get feedback through comments on the live videos. A set of frequently asked questions is being developed in seven languages.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/a-channel-to-train-healthcare-personnel/article31232303.ece
02 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Over 5k vehicles seized for flouting lockdown||The police on Wednesday seized over 5,000 vehicles and booked motorists for allegedly “misusing the leniency shown to them to buy essentials”. This comes in the wake of the government being criticised for not enforcing the lockdown strictly in Bengaluru to curb the spread of the coronavirus. DG&IGP Praveen Sood took to Twitter to reinforce the rule. “This is not an April Fool's prank. Two/four wheelers are banned from use till the 14th of April. We will SEIZE your vehicle if you CEASE to ignore this lockdown regulation,” he said. ‘Faking emergencies’ A senior police officer said, “The city police had warned people to follow the directions and stay at home, but many are moving around in their two-wheelers and cars citing fake emergencies. Our appeals have not worked and so we have decided to seize vehicles.” As of Wednesday evening, the police had seized 5,106 two-wheelers, 181 autorickshaws and 263 four-wheelers. Owners will be able to collect their vehicles only after the lockdown is lifted. Police Commissioner Bhaskar Rao on Monday directed the police to intensify the drive. “It was noticed that people were leaving their houses in their vehicles and giving silly excuses. Citizens should respect the lockdown, and in case of an emergency walk to your grocer,” Mr. Rao said. Many families are upset with the police’s decision. “We’ve been isolating ourselves at home and not buying in bulk. But we are a family of four with two children. I need to buy my weekly groceries. Without the car, I will have to make multiple trips to the market to carry grains, wheat, vegetables and kitchen staples,” said a private school teacher and resident of HSR Layout.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/over-5k-vehicles-seized-for-flouting-lockdown/article31232274.ece
02 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Free ‘tele-consultation’ launched in Karnataka||The Karnataka government launched a free tele-consultation initiative to help citizens obtain information regardingCOVID-19and for any clarifications on the pandemic. Citizens will now be able to directly interact with doctors through telephonic conversation. As a pilot project, it will be implemented in Deputy Chief Minister C.N. Ashwath Narayan’s constituency, Malleswaram. It will then be expected to be rolled out across the State in the near future, a release said. Telemedicine refers to the practice that allows communication among medical doctors as permitted by our legal system. However, there was no provision for interaction between a doctor and the general public. Therefore, the law has now been amended and citizens are allowed to consult doctors via phone calls. The move has been adopted in the light of the COVID-19 pandemic to enable citizens to take advantage of ‘tele-consultations’, the release added. Implementation Citizens can directly contact doctors and specialists on the phone for queries related to symptoms of COVID-19, and related health problems. The service is being provided by Portea Medical and its team of doctors available for public consultation between 8 a.m. and 8 p.m. Contact number: 080-6674 4788. Websites: https://t.co/LqPmTkiEnY; https://t.co/VnCWprlIcD||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/free-tele-consultation-launched-in-karnataka/article31232275.ece
02 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Liquor shops to stay closed||Despite pressure from the liquor lobby to allow liquor shops to remain open during the 21-day lockdown, Chief Minster B.S. Yediyurappa on Wednesday said no liquor shops would be open till April 14. Since the lockdown came into effect, the government has ordered the closure of all bars and restaurants, clubs and other outlets selling liquor. Though the sector brings in nearly Rs. 20,000 crore annually to the State exchequer, the Chief Minister has decided against the sale of liquor during the lockdown. Defending the decision, Revenue Minister R. Ashok said, “We are providing only food, not liquor.” In Kerala, seven people ended their lives, allegedly over the non-availability of liquor, and this forced the Excise Department in that State to issue passes for the supply of alcohol.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/liquor-shops-to-stay-closed/article31232298.ece
02 April 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Help desk for senior citizens||To help senior citizens who are in distress due to COVID-19 pandemic, Elders Helpline 1090 has established a help desk. Senior citizens who are feeling lonely, isolated, emotionally disturbed and are in need of help can call 1090 (toll free) between 9 a.m. and 5 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/help-desk-for-senior-citizens/article31232265.ece
02 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||SET launches teach-from-home||Seshadripuram Educational Trust has launched a teach-from-home initiative called #SETBOARD for its teachers and students to engage in the same classroom no matter where they are. This initiative has been started in view of COVID-19 lockdown.  Staff will conduct online classes in as per the regular timetable. The release said the main objective of this initiative was to connect staff and students in the same classrooms, no matter where they are, and create an alternative teaching and learning methodology through collaboration, co-creation and competition among students and staff. For details, students can visit https://onbimba.com/setboard, or call Mobile No. 8139999903 or 04.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/set-launches-teach-from-home/article31232266.ece
02 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Compensation||Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa has announced a compensation of Rs. 5 lakh to the family of a farmer who ended his life following crop loss during the lockdown. In case of crop loss during the period, the government will issuereimbursement, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/compensation/article31232299.ece
02 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Distribution of two months’ ration through PDS begins||Distribution of ration for two months through the public distribution system (PDS) to over 1.3 crore beneficiary families started on Wednesday. While the distribution started in urban centres and district headquarters on Wednesday, the entire PDS network will be covered over the next two to three days. The distribution will be through 20,141 ration shops in the State. The Anthyodaya cardholders will be given 70 kg of rice for two months while the BPL cardholders will get 5 kg per unit/person in the family and 2 kg of wheat per family. While the State’s quota is expected to be distributed by April 10, the Central supplies will commence later. “The completion of distribution hinges on the offtake that is dependent on local conditions and social distancing, which is to be maintained. If a deadline is kept, it could lead to crowding. We are hoping to start supplies in all shops over the next three days,” Additional Chief Secretary V. Manjula said, adding that due to the COVID-19 crisis, the distribution schedule has been advanced. “In normal times, distribution would commence from 11th of every month. With the past experience, we are expecting distribution to be completed in about a week’s time,” she said. Meanwhile, Food and Civil Supplies Minister K. Gopalaiah said that the stocks are likely to be reaching villages in about two days, and distribution will commence thereafter. “Already, the biometric authentication procedure at ration shops by the beneficiaries has been stopped and there is demand from ration shop owners to stop OTP system too. Directions have been issued making it mandatory to mark boxes in front of every ration shop to maintain social distancing,” he told reporters after visiting ration shops in his constituency Mahalakshmi Layout in Bengaluru.  The completion of distribution hinges on the offtake that is dependent on local conditions and social distancing, which is to be maintained. If a deadline is kept, it could lead to crowding.V. ManjulaAdditional Chief Secretary||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/distribution-of-two-months-ration-through-pds-begins/article31232285.ece
02 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||CM donates Rs. 24.1 lakh to COVID-19 fund||Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Wednesday announced that he would donate a year’s salary to the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund to fight COVID-19. He handed over a cheque for Rs. 24.1 lakh to Chief Secretary T.M. Vijay Bhaskar. In a tweet, he appealed to legislators, Ministers, MPs and officials of the government to donate. He also appealed to citizens to do their bit and contribute in whatever capacity possible. Deputy Chief Minister Govind Karjol donated Rs. 5 lakh while Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai said he would also donate a year’s salary to the CM’s Relief Fund.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cm-donates-rs-241-lakh-to-covid-19-fund/article31232292.ece
02 April 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||BHEL contribution||Bharat Heavy Electricals Ltd. has contributed Rs. 15.72 crore to the PM-CARES fund to fight against the novel coronavirus spread. BHEL, in a release, said that it has made a contribution of Rs. 7 crore through its CSR funds, while the remaining amount has been put together with its employees contributing a day’s salary.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bhel-contribution/article31232300.ece
02 April 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Rs. 100 crore from SBI||The State Bank of India (SBI) has decided to contribute salary for two days of its 2,56,000 employees, amounting to Rs. 100 crore, to the Prime Minister’s National Relief Fund. Rajnish Kumar, chairman of SBI, said in a release, “We at SBI will keep continuing our support to the government in all its endeavours to address the challenges of this pandemic.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rs-100-crore-from-sbi/article31232301.ece
02 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||fake circular snippet||The first day of the month, traditionally observed as April Fool’s Day, saw a circular announcing that government, aided and unaided degree colleges would remain closed till May 20 do the rounds on social media. This created confusion among teachers and students, forcing the Higher Education Department to clarify that holidays had been declared only till April 14. The department has decided that file a complaint with the cybercrime police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/fake-circular-snippet/article31232304.ece
02 April 2020||DHARWAD,KARNATAKA||Now, doorstep delivery through WhatsApp||The district administration has arranged for the supply of essential commodities to people at their doorstep through WhatsApp as part of the plan to see that maximum number of people remain indoors and avoid venturing out. Accordingly, people will be supplied groceries and other essential items from Reliance Fresh, More, Vishal Mart, Fresh Box and other kirana shops too. Already, the process of delivering vegetables and fruits to respective layouts and colonies is in vogue. This new step is expected to help further mitigate the number of customers in the market. A team of officials comprising NWKRTC Divisional Controller Ganesh Rathod, HDMP Commissioner Suresh Itnal and Food & Civil Supplies Joint Director Sadashiv Mirji are managing this system. The people interested in purchasing goods through WhatsApp have to chose the nearest provisions store and save their number on their smartphones. They have to send a WhatsApp message listing all the goods they need and their complete residential address. The demand list will be met at the earliest. However, the list should have items amounting to atleast Rs. 100 for a delivery to be made. These directions were stated in a release issued by the Department of Information and Public Relations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/now-doorstep-delivery-through-whatsapp/article31232490.ece
02 April 2020||DHARWAD,KARNATAKA||15 isolated in Dharwad||The district administration, the Hubballi Dharwad Municipal Corporation, the police and the Health and Family Welfare Department officials have so far traced 15 persons who have returned to the district from the Nizamuddin Markaz in New Delhi and all of them have been subjected to isolation. However, it is learnt that all the 15 from the district who had been to Nizamuddin returned a day before the Tablighi congregation commenced. Deputy Commissioner M. Deepa said that the 15 persons have been kept at the Isolation Ward for COVID-19 patients set up at KIMS in Hubballi. Their test reports are awaited.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/15-isolated-in-dharwad/article31232478.ece
02 April 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Hassan officials provide food, shelter to workers||The Hassan district administration has provided 105 workers, who are natives of different districts, with shelter and food at hostels run by the Social Welfare Department in the district. The hostel staff are preparing food for them. Besides that, the department has been providing food for 143 more workers residing at rented buildings. With construction activities coming to a halt following the lockdown, many had attempted to leave for their native places. While a few succeeded, many were stopped midway. The administration decided to provide them with food and shelter here. Many of the beneficiaries were working in garment units, quarries, coffee estates, and construction sites. Those in rented buildings get food packets supplied by the department.  The workers, though getting food, look depressed with no earnings. Many were in tears when media representatives went to meet them at a hostel in Hassan on Wednesday. They said they would have reached their native places if public transport facility was available. Sridhar, Deputy Director of the Social Welfare Department, said the department had been taking care of the basic needs of the workers in the hostels. “We will take care of them till the lockdown is lifted,” he said.  No positive case So far, samples collected from 36 people have been tested in the district and none are positive. The district has done health check-up of 468 people, including 109 foreigners. As many as 68 are still in quarantine and 279 people have completed the quarantine period, said a communiqué from the district administration.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hassan-officials-provide-food-shelter-to-workers/article31232485.ece
02 April 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Revanna comes down on KMF||Former Minister and Hassan Milk Producers’ Union president H.D. Revanna has come down heavily on the State government and the Karnataka Milk Producers’ Federation for instructing the unions to stop milk procurement once in three days, in the wake of lockdown. At a press conference on Wednesday, Mr. Revanna said he would not accept the instruction from the government. “The federation in profit is penalising the milk producers. It is not fair to close down dairies once in three days. It is the responsibility of KMF to equip the system to make better use of the milk procured,” he said. Of the total 69 lakh litres of milk collected every day, only 40 lakh litres were being utilised. The federation can convert only 22 lakh litres of milk into other products. The remaining seven lakh litres in excess. “But, it is the responsibility of the federation to handle the situation, and declaring a holiday is not acceptable. If the federation does not come to the rescue of the farmers, it is better to close it down,” he said. Regarding the government’s measures taken against COVID-19, Mr. Revanna said except the Health Minister and Medical Education Minister, none had taken the issue seriously. The Kerala government had allocated Rs. 20,000 crore to handle the crisis, and Karnataka too should take a similar measure, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/revanna-comes-down-on-kmf/article31232484.ece
02 April 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Those in home quarantine to be shifted to lodge in Hubballi||As per the direction of the State government and the district administration, a lodge in Hubballi is being converted into a quarantine centre and on Wednesday, the Hubballi taluk administration took into its possession rooms in the lodge. A team of officials from Hubballi taluk administration, Health Department and municipal corporation’s health wing took into their possession 50 rooms at Ayodhya Lodge located near the old KSRTC bus station on Wednesday. Speaking to presspersons after taking over the rooms, Hubballi Urban Taluk Tahsildar Shashidhar Madyal said that the 50 rooms taken over by the administration would be first cleaned up and all the basic amenities required for converting them into quarantine centre would be provided. “Subsequently, all those home quarantined would be shifted to the lodge by the teams comprising officials from the Health and Police departments,” he said. Municipal Corporation’s Health Officer Prabhu Biradar said that the decision had been taken by the district administration to keep in observation those who had been home quarantined. “Shifting them to the lodge will help the administration keep a close watch on their health condition. This will also help in restricting the movement of home quarantined persons who have been found violating the restrictions. A total of 350 persons have completed the home quarantine period in the district so far. Others who are yet to complete the period will be shifted to the lodge,” he said. Dr. Biradar said that a team of qualified doctors and paramedical staff will be monitoring the quarantined persons and after keeping regular check of their health condition, the blood samples and throat swabs of those with symptoms of COVID-19 would be sent for tests. The waste generated at the lodge would be treated as bio-medical waste and would be disposed of as per norms, he said. Subsequently, medical equipment and gadgets required for regular screening were kept ready at the lodge.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/those-in-home-quarantine-to-be-shifted-to-lodge-in-hubballi/article31232479.ece
02 April 2020||Kalaburagi,KARNATAKA||CHC staff in Koppal refuse to treat patient with ‘COVID-19 symptoms’||In a case that shows how fear of COVID-19 is making medical care difficult to access for those with other ailments, the staff nurse and a ‘D’ Group employee at Kukanur Community Health Centre (CHC) in Yalaburga taluk, Koppal district, refused to attend to a patient who was presumed to have symptoms of the viral infection. In the intervening hours between Monday and Tuesday, Rudrayya Basayya Salimath, 20, a resident of Channappanahalli village located about two km from the CHC, developed severe abdomen pain and breathlessness. He was brought to the State-run health facility around 12.30 a.m. His attenders told the staff that the patient “might have been infected with COVID-19” and requested them to quickly attend to him. But the very mention of COVID-19 resulted in the staff quickly moving away from the patient. They then began advising the attenders to immediately take him to the district hospital in their private vehicle. The staff also videographed the entire episode, which has since gone viral. The video shows the two caretakers struggling to handle the patient rolling on the ground in pain, while the nurse is heard advising them from a distance. Taking serious note of the incident, Koppal Deputy Commissioner P. Sunil Kumar said that he would initiate action against the staff. “It was a simple case of stomach pain. But the staff nurse on duty complicated it. It was taken to be a case of COVID-19. I have asked for a detailed report, based on which action would be taken against the nurse,” he said. Manjunath, Taluk Health and Family Welfare Officer, said that the patient was later taken to the district hospital in a government ambulance. “He got better before he reached the hospital. Now he is fine. The staff nurse on duty should have informed the night-duty doctor about the case instead of refusing to treat the patient,” told The Hindu . Mr. Majunath clarified that the CHC had been provided with five Personal Protection Kits to handle the COVID-19 patients.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/chc-staff-in-koppal-refuse-to-treat-patient-with-covid-19-symptoms/article31232287.ece
02 April 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Most of those who attended jamaat traced||The Bidar and Kalaburagi district administrations have traced most of those who had attended the religious congregation organised by Tablighi Jamaat at Alami Markaz Banglewali Masjid in New Delhi’s Nizamuddin area earlier last month, and have kept them in home quarantine. As per information provided by Kalaburagi Deputy Commissioner B. Sharat, of the 26 people who attended the congregation, 14 have returned and all of them have been kept in home quarantine for focussed monitoring. Speaking to The Hindu , Bidar Deputy Commissioner H.R. Mahadev said that all the 27 people who attended the congregation were traced and kept in home quarantine. “None of the participants has developed any symptoms of COVID-19 so far,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/most-of-those-who-attended-jamaat-traced/article31232475.ece
02 April 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Coast losing credit of being cradle of banking industry||With the formal merger of Corporation Bank, one of the oldest banks in the country with Union Bank of India and SyndicateBank with Canara Bank, the distinction of undivided Dakshina Kannada of being the ‘cradle of banking industry’ remains only in the annals of history. The only solace for people of the coastal region would be that SyndicateBank’s merger was with Canara Bank, another bank incubated in Mangaluru. Besides Corporation, Canara and Syndicate banks, the region had given birth to Vijaya Bank that is now merged with Bank of Baroda. Karnataka Bank in the private sector continues to remain headquartered in Mangaluru. While Canara Bank’s head office was shifted to Bengaluru way back, Syndicate Bank's corporate office too came to be shifted to Bengaluru afterwards and its registered office has remained in Manipal. Founded as Canara Banking Corporation (Udipi) Ltd., on March 12, 1906, by a group of visionaries led by philanthropist the late Khan Bahadur Haji Abdullah Haji Kasim Saheb Bahadur, it changed the name to Corporation Bank Ltd., in 1972, and as Corporation Bank in 1980 following bank nationalisation. Its headquarter too was shifted to Mangaluru and had 2,641 branches before the merger. Syndicate Bank was founded by Late T.M.A. Pai, Upendra Pai and Vaman Kudva as Canara Industrial and Banking Syndicate Ltd., in Udupi. Its name was changed to Syndicate Bank in 1964 and headquarters was shifted to Manipal. It was nationalised in 1969 and had over 4,000 branches before the merger.  Strong entities Erstwhile Corporation Bank’s General Manager (Public Relations) Rajesh K. Varma told The Hindu the transition should be smooth and the merged entity would have over 9,600 branches across the country. With the merger of Andhra Bank too, the Union Bank of India would command a 35% market share in undivided Andhra Pradesh, he said. IT integration of the merged banks was almost complete while customers would get more services after the merger. The infrastructure housing Corporation Bank’s head office would be utilised to some of the important departments, including the Circle Office of the Union Bank while maximum number of the existing 650-odd staff would be retained in Mangaluru. So would be the case with staff in branches unless they chose to move elsewhere. Employees who have an emotional attachment with the erstwhile entities, would feel difficult to adjust to the new environment and works culture, said an officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/coast-losing-credit-of-being-cradle-of-banking-industry/article31232492.ece
02 April 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||People breathe easy after complete shutdown is revoked in Mangaluru||A day after the mad rush when three-day shutdown was relaxed on Tuesday, the situation turned to normal with no panic buying after the administration decided to offer relaxation window everyday from Wednesday. Tuesday’s decision to completely shut down retail trade at the Central Market, the district’s wholesale market for vegetables and fruits, by keeping the general public out of bounds too has helped contain crowding. Only retail merchants would be allowed to lift products from wholesalers between 11 p.m. and 4 a.m. from the Central Market. About 250 retail traders functioning from the Central Market complex were asked to shut operations temporarily even as the administration promised to relocate them. There were no queues in front of milk booths, grocery shops and supermarkets when the lockdown was relaxed between 7 a.m. and noon on Wednesday, mainly because people were told that this would be a regular feature henceforth till the lockdown is lifted. On the other hand, there were reports that there was short supply of essential commodities in the wholesale market as consignments were not arriving from other places. Everywhere, traders have been facing shortage of workers to load and unload products. Overpricing Though supplies of vegetables and fruits were as usual, many retail merchants have jacked up prices exploiting the situation. This is in stark contrast to the goings-on elsewhere in the State where farmers were throwing away produces for want of good price and their inability to sell them. Prices of vegetables have almost tripled to what they used to be before the lockdown enforcement, said Phanilaxmi, a housewife from Konchady in the city. Despite assurances from the district administration that traders would not be allowed to jack up prices, rates are being jacked up, she complained. Dakshina Kannada Superintendent of Police B.M. Laxmi Prasad said that the crowding was minimal in the district as people were made aware of the availability of essential commodities between 7 a.m. and noon. It was crowded on Tuesday, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/people-breathe-easy-after-complete-shutdown-is-revoked-in-mangaluru/article31232481.ece
02 April 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Another tests positive in Dakshina Kannada||Dakshina Kannada recorded one more COVID-19 positive case on Wednesday taking the total number of active patients under treatment to nine. A 49-year-old person from Aryapu village, Puttur taluk tested positive on Wednesday, a release said. The person reached Bengaluru from Dubai on March 20 and hired a taxi to Puttur the same day. He admitted himself to the government hospital in Puttur on March 28 following throat pain. Later, his throat swabs had been sent for tests. Of the nine patients under treatment, four are from Dakshina Kannada, one from Uttara Kannada and the remaining four are from Kerala. At present, 5,875 are under home quarantine in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/another-tests-positive-in-dakshina-kannada/article31232482.ece
02 April 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Bitter times for pepper, coffee planters||Amid the lockdown and the departure of the migrant labour force to their hometowns, pepper harvest and post-harvest processing of coffee have taken a hit in Kodagu. Between 90% and 95% of coffee has been harvested subsequent to the lockdown curbs across the district, and the harvest of pepper, an inter-crop in coffee plantations, was to begin this month. Pepper is usually harvested between March and May, and estates in Kodagu largely depend on migrant workers for the task. A majority of workers at these estates are primarily from north Karnataka and from neighbouring districts, including Periyapatna and Hunsur taluks in Mysuru. Local workers are also sourced for the job as the harvest area is large. In view of the COVID-19 outbreak and the subsequent lockdown, many workers have returned to their home districts, barring a few who have been working in the plantations for many years and reside in the estates themselves. Coffee is cultivated on more than 1.05 lakh hectares in Kodagu. The industry has been in a state of crisis for the past two years as floods and landslips damaged crop and estates, besides affecting the overall productivity. The prices crashed, dashing the hopes of growers. The government had announced relief for the sector post-floods, but the woes of planters have not stopped yet. After cases of COVID-19 were first reported in Kerala early this year, the Kodagu district administration issued directives to planters not to source workers from Kerala as a precaution. “The coffee harvest is almost done. Pepper harvest may get delayed following the lockdown and shortage of workers. We are facing a shortage of 50-60% of migrant workers as a large number of them have returned to their native districts. We don’t know what will be the scenario after the lockdown ends, as we have to wait for the restoration of transportation and for the workers to return, as the resident workers cannot handle the large cultivated area,” said C.K. Belliappa, secretary, Coorg Planters’ Association. The lockdown will also delay the post-harvest processing and handling of coffee. “The post-harvest activities used to go on till the month of June, provided the interventions started after the harvest. We are in a wait and watch mode now,” he said. ‘Precautions taken’ According to the CPA, the migrant workers who haven’t returned to their home towns despite the scare are safe in their homes in the estates. “The planters have provided them all the essentials and have taken precautions for their safety. There is no need for them to step out,” he said. The rain fury last year destroyed plantations, and incessant rainfall resulted in extensive berry-dropping in coffee plantations. The district administration had estimated damage to 1,02,034 hectares of coffee estates. The crop loss was pegged at Rs. 51.85 crore. This excludes the loss suffered in the 2018 deluge.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bitter-times-for-pepper-coffee-planters/article31232297.ece
02 April 2020||RAICHUR,KARNATAKA||Price hike: DC warns of criminal action||Deputy Commissioner R. Venkatesh Kumar has warned of criminal action against the owners of essential commodities shops if any complaints arose of them selling materials at higher prices. He was addressing at a meeting in Raichur on Wednesday. Mr. Kumar said, “I have already instructed officials to take criminal action against such traders.” There will be restriction at the border points for the trucks carrying stationery to the district. But, they should maintain the social distance, he added. C.B. Vedamurthy, Superintendent of Police, Durugesh, Additional Deputy Commissioner and others were present. On attending requests by the news paper agents and distributors, Dr. Vedamurthy issued passes for boys who distribute newspapers daily. He advised them to maintain cleanliness and use gloves and face masks while on duty.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/price-hike-dc-warns-of-criminal-action/article31232488.ece
02 April 2020||Shivamogga,KARNATAKA||Lack of timely medical help leads to death||An incident of a person allegedly succumbing to non-availability of medical assistance was reported in Rathnagiri Nagar locality on the outskirts of the city on Wednesday. Manjunath, 62, had gone to Kanakapura for personal work where he developed health complications. The police said he was diagnosed with jaundice. He was brought to his house in an ambulance on Wednesday at 9.30 a.m. The house was locked as his family was in Davangere and could not return in time due to the lockdown. However, Manjunath’s health worsened. In wake of the COVID-19 scare, people in the neighbourhood allegedly hesitated to go near him. The neighbours alerted the Health and Family Welfare and Police Departments. By the time the ambulance arrived, he had passed away.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/lack-of-timely-medical-help-leads-to-death/article31232486.ece
02 April 2020||UDUPI,KARNATAKA||Udupi admn. allows movement of horticultural produce||The Udupi administration has given its nod to lift and transport watermelons, pineapples, papaya and Mattu Gulla after growers in the district complained that their produce will go waste and start rotting due to the lockdown on account of COVID-19. Watermelon is being cultivated in 25 hectares in the district and its production is 1,000 tonnes, while pineapple is cultivated in 150 hectares and its production is estimated at 9,732 tonnes. Papaya is grown in 22 hectares of land and its production is estimated at 1,551 tonnes. Due to the lockdown, it has been difficult for growers to transport their produce to other districts and States. Assistant Director of Horticulture Guruprasad said that the administration has decided to give seven passes for vehicles so that growers and merchants can transport their produce. Accordingly, arrangements have been made to transport six tonnes of Mattu Gulla to different parts of Udupi and Dakshina Kannada districts and 82 tonnes of watermelons to Dakshina Kannada, Uttara Kannada and Dharwad districts. While 13 tonnes of pineapple will be transported to Dakshina Kannada and Shivamogga, 10 tonnes of papaya will go to Uttara Kannada. Deputy Commissioner G. Jagadeesha said that the administration has already held a meeting with wholesale fruit merchants registered with the Agriculture Marketing Produce Committee (APMC). It has directed these merchants to purchase 35 tonnes of pineapples, 55 tonnes of watermelons and 5,000 bunches of bananas from growers and sell them within the district and also send them to other districts. Such transportation has been exempted from prohibitory orders, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/udupi-admn-allows-movement-of-horticultural-produce/article31232483.ece
02 April 2020||Vijayapura,KARNATAKA||Nearly 200 who returned traced, says Sriramulu||Health Minister B. Sriramulu has said that of the total 342 persons who returned to the participating in the religious event in Nizamuddin in New Delhi, nearly 200 have been traced, while the whereabouts of the remaining are being tracked with the help of the Home Department. Addressing presspersons after holding a review meeting here on Wednesday, he said that swab samples of 13 persons had been sent for tests and all of them were found to be negative. Those who have already been traced have been home quarantined, he said. He said that of the 62 persons who arrived from Malaysia and Indonesia, 12 have been traced while work is under way to trace the remaining persons. “The Home Department is helping us in this work. The details would be made public as and when we trace them,” Mr. Sriramulu said. With regard to COVID-19 testing labs, he said that seven labs are working, while work is on to set up more labs. “Elected representatives here have demanded one such lab for Vijayapura. I have directed the Deputy Commissioner to send a proposal. We will try to set up one such lab in the government hospital here,” he said. The Minister said that so far, no coronavirus positive case has been reported in the district. He added that if any such case is reported, then the entire district government hospital would be converted into a COVID-19 hospital after shifting in-patients to private hospitals. Earlier, Deputy Commissioner Y.S. Patil said that 10 persons arrived from Delhi on March 13 after participating in the religious congregation there. He said that though their restricted 14 day quarantine period has ended, they have not shown any symptoms of coronavirus. However, their swab samples have been sent for tests. In Bagalkot, Deputy Commissioner K. Rajendra said that 19 persons are found to have attended the congregation. Of these, only one returned to the district and the others are in other districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/nearly-200-who-returned-traced-says-sriramulu/article31232477.ece
02 April 2020||April 02 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||NRN, family commit Rs. 10 cr.||Former chairman of Infosys N.R. Narayana Murthy and his family have committed Rs. 10 crore to Akshaya Patra Foundation, run by International Society for Krishna Consciousness(ISKCON), towards food relief during the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic. The family has committed the money from their personal funds, said a statement from Akshaya Patra Foundation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/nrn-family-commit-rs-10-cr/article31232270.ece
02 April 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||Tiding over tough COVID through paddy farming||Nothing can stop him from doing what he loves to do most. Like others, Bibin Varghese, 25, of Karichal in Veeyapuram grama panchayat is strictly observing lockdown imposed in view of COVID-19 pandemic, but it has not prevented him from cultivating five rice varieties, including four rare species, in three acres of land near his house. A final-year M.A. Sociology student, he says that working in paddy fields and growing vegetables is a huge stress reliever especially during hard times like these. The inclusion of paddy harvesting, procurement and other related activities in the list of essential services has helped paddy farmers continue farm-related activities during the lockdown.  As a farmer and student at the same time, Bibin says that he gives equal importance to both. “I have been doing paddy farming for the past four years. This year too, I prepared the fields and started rice cultivation even as I was getting ready for the fourth-semester examination. Although the spread of coronavirus disease has put a lid on my routine life, it has not affected farming. The crop will be harvested in three weeks and I am expecting a bountiful crop this time,” he says. Apart from cultivating Jyothi, a common rice variety in this part of the region, in two acres, the young farmer has been growing Kalladiyaran, Valichoori, Mallika and Damarasali varieties in rest of the land. He is following organic farming practices. Bibin says that Damarasali with black leaves is being cultivated on an experimental basis. “Apart from Jyothi, the other four varieties are not common to the region. I collected the seeds of Damarasali from Wayanad at a cost of Rs. 500/ kg. It is easy to digest. The cultivation of the particular variety will be extended next year based on the yield this year,” he says. Besides paddy cultivation, the farmer cultivates a wide variety of veggies including beans, snake gourd, pumpkin, spinach and so on. He also raises cows for milk and dung. For his success in vegetable farming, the Veeyapuram panchayat has bestowed him with the best young farmer award.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tiding-over-tough-covid-through-paddy-farming/article31232606.ece
02 April 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||Can Edamalakkudy fence out COVID-19?||Edamalakkudy, the remotest tribal grama panchayat inside the Munnar forest division, has a different story to tell during the time of COVID-19. Life in the village goes on as usual, though there is awareness about the disease. The community leads a reclusive life and there are many who hardly move out of the settlement in their lifetime. No motorable roads The panchayat is without motorable roads, telephone lines, or even shops other than the one selling essential items. “There is no one among them who has settled abroad or outside the district. An important feature of their life is the physical distance they keep while mingling with those from outside the settlement. It is to be kept in mind that social distancing has been highlighted as a major part of the campaign to prevent the spread of COVID-19,” says an official of the grama panchayat. Though the chances of contracting COVID-19 are remote in Edamalakkudy, as it is far away from human habitations, awareness campaigns have been held there as usual on the need for social distancing and respiratory and hand hygiene. “The speech of the Health Minister has been telecast and masks have been supplied through the Kudumbashree Mission,” he adds. He said the community was aware of the disease and almost all families have radio as the main channel of information. Even prior to the awareness campaign initiated by the grama panchayat, the news on the spread of the virus had reached there. “Essential commodities are ferried from Munnar, nearly 45 km away, by foot and taxis. Since there is strict control of the Forest Department for entry to Edamalakkudy, outside transactions are less,” he said. Edamalakkudy grama panchayat president Govindaraj said students studying at the model residential schools in Munnar and Marayur had reached the settlements. The 24 hamlets in Edamalakkudy are spread over a wide forestland, at a distance of 3 to 10 km. Though some hamlets have over 20 families, there are hamlets such as Keezhpathamkudy that have less than five families. No communication link The total population of Edamalakkudy is around 2,500 and they all reach Societykudy for official needs. Though there is no communication link between the hamlets, local ward members coming to Societykudy know each other. The womenfolk rarely move out of the settlements and are mostly engaged in farming activities there.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/can-edamalakkudy-fence-out-covid-19/article31232575.ece
02 April 2020||KALPETTA,KERALA||Curbs on goods carriers lifted in Wayanad||The Wayanad district administration lifted the restrictions imposed on vehicles transporting essential goods through the check-posts on the Kerala-Karnataka borders on Wednesday. “There is no need of securing passes issued by the authorities concerned for goods vehicles to cross the two check-posts at Bavali and Muthanga from Wednesday,” said District Collector Adeela Abdulla.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/curbs-on-goods-carriers-lifted-in-wayanad/article31232554.ece
02 April 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||61 cases filed for overpricing of masks and sanitisers||The central zone of the Legal Metrology Department has registered 61 cases since March 17 for overpricing of surgical masks, hand sanitisers, and bottled water. The cases were registered under the Packaged Commodities Rules after 752 inspections carried out in Ernakulam, Thrissur, Palakkad, and Idukki till March 31. The Centre had fixed the maximum retail price of sanitiser at Rs. 100 for 200ml till June 30 amid sharp rise in the prices of this product amid the coronavirus oubreak. Similarly, the MRP of a two-ply/three-ply mask was fixed at Rs. 16 till June 30. The government had earlier fixed the rate of three-ply mask at Rs. 10, but later capped it at Rs. 16. R. Ram Mohan, Joint Controller of Legal Metrology Department, said cases were registered against hospitals found charging prices above MRP for masks and sanitisers. Prosecution measures were taken against the offenders, he said. The public can raise their complaints on the mobile: Ernakulam 9447264040 and 9447206463, Thrissur 9447739878, Palakkad 9400578032, and Idukki 9447599782. Metrology Department officials said a section of the retail stores and chemists selling masks seems to have devised a way to escape the surveillance against those jacking up prices to cash in on the demand following the COVID-19 scare. “Certain stores and chemists have now stopped selling masks in packets. It’s now mostly given as a single piece to overcome the rule that Legal Metrology Department can act only on complaints related to packaged commodities,” said a senior official of the department. The department had deployed special squads after it received complaints from the public. A few cases were detected following the searches held at the stores selling surgical and N95 masks in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/61-cases-filed-for-overpricing-of-masks-and-sanitisers/article31232559.ece
02 April 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Bevco is all set for its new assignment||The Kerala State Beverages Corporation (Bevco) is waiting for alcohol passes to be issued by the Excise Department to finalise the plans to supply booze at the doorsteps of alcohol dependants. No such passes were received at the offices of Bevco on Wednesday. On receiving the passes, Bevco will forward it to the warehouse concerned from where alcohol will be delivered at the doorsteps. 23 warehouses There are 23 warehouses in the State and the nearest one will have to be identified. Staff and other facilities have to be mobilised for the exercise at the time of the national lockdown, said a senior Bevco official. The initiative is likely to incur losses for Bevco as it will also have to hire vehicles for the door delivery, he said. Besides the cost of alcohol, a service charge of Rs. 100 will be levied from the applicant. The operational aspects of the unusual assignment will be fully known only when the alcohol passes are received, the official said. The Excise Department did not process the 30 applications it received as it was a dry day on Wednesday. A circular issued by the department asked senior officials to ensure that only applications certified by government doctors displaying signs of alcohol withdrawal symptoms need to be considered. IMA, KGMOA move HC Meanwhile, the Indian Medical Association's de-addition arm, National Mental Health Wing (NMHW), and the Kerala Government Medical Officers Association (KGMOA) moved the Kerala High Court against the government order. In a petition, N. Dinesh, chairperson, IMA, said the decision was unethical. There are scientific ways to treat those with withdrawal symptoms. Giving them liquor is no solution. If proper treatments are given the syndrome can be fully cured. The government cannot abdicate their constitutional obligation to prevent alcohol and drug abuse. It said the order would send a wrong message that alcohol can be used as a medicine for treating the symptom, which is unscientific. KGMOA leader Joseph Chacko said all doctors were together in the protest. It was decided to write the treatment protocol too if anyone came seeking certification for withdrawal symptoms. He said it was against ethics to mention alcohol withdrawal symptoms without proper examination. Such a diagnosis requires a scientific approach and psychiatrists are the qualified medical professionals to give the correct diagnosis, Dr. Chacko said. No compulsion: CM Meanwhile, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said the government had at no stage compelled government doctors to prescribe liquor to those habituated to alcohol. It had merely followed the pattern adopted by governments in other States which prohibited the sale of legal liquor. Mr. Vijayan said bootleggers, illicit brewers and spirit smugglers had stepped into the void caused by the non-availability of alcohol. He has instructed the Excise Department to prevent such elements from getting a foothold in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bevco-is-all-set-for-its-new-assignment/article31232578.ece
02 April 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Get Karnataka to remove blocks, HC tells Centre||A Division Bench of the Kerala High Court on Wednesday directed the Central government to forthwith intervene and ensure that the blockades erected by Karnataka on the National Highway that connects Mangaluru in Karnataka with Kasaragod in Kerala are removed to facilitate free movement of vehicles carrying persons for urgent medical treatment across the border. A Bench comprising Justice A.K. Jayasankaran Nambiar and Justice Shaji P. Chali passed the directive on a public interest litigation filed by the Kerala High Court Advocates Association seeking a directive to remove the blockade put up by the Karnataka government on the roads in the wake of the lockdown. The court observed that arterial roads that connect Mangaluru to Kasaragod in Kerala were part of the National Highway network and it was, therefore, the duty of the Central government to ensure that the these roads were kept free of blockades. Rights infringed “A citizen also has a fundamental right to life and personal liberty guaranteed to him by the State under Article 21 of our Constitution. Both these rights are simultaneously infringed in the case of a resident of the State of Kerala when he/she is denied entry into the State of Karnataka for availing medical treatment, or is deprived of essential articles of food that are being transported into the State through blockades erected by the State of Karnataka,” the court said. The Bench further pointed out that “no doubt, restrictions may be imposed in times of a national emergency such as the present, but when the guidelines issued by the Central government under the Disaster Management Act itself permit travel for urgent medical treatment, then the said guidelines have necessarily to be enforced by the Central government through the removal of the blockades that prevent such travel.” The court also added that India is a signatory to the International Convention on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, Article 12 of which obliges all State parties to the Convention to recognise the right of everyone to the highest attainable standard of physical and mental health, and to take steps for the creation of conditions which would assure to all, medical service and medical attention in the event of sickness.  A citizen has the fundamental right to life and personal liberty guaranteed under Article 21||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/get-karnataka-to-remove-blocks-hc-tells-centre/article31232563.ece
02 April 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||U.K. national discharged from Ernakulam MCH||The 57-year old British national, who was admitted to the Government Medical College Hospital, Ernakulam, on March 15 after he tested positive for COVID-19 and was disembarked from his flight to the UK, was discharged on Wednesday. His wife too was discharged as her body fluid samples tested negative for the disease. They were part of the 19-member UK tourist group of which five had tested positive for the disease. Four are still undergoing treatment at the hospital. The condition of the UK national had become critical in the special COVID-19 intensive care unit set up in the MCH, with progressive reduction in the oxygen level, leading to respiratory failure. He was provided ventilator support and was treated with a combination drug of hydroxychloroquine and Azithromycin. Three days after his treatment began with the anti-viral drugs, his condition started improving but his fever continued. In a week, his fever too subsided and the condition of his lungs improved. He also went through a series of tests for monitoring his health parameters and was provided daily psychological support by a psychiatry team. He was taken off oxygen support five days ago as his lungs have recovered to near-normal condition. A statement issued by the MCH acknowledged the faith of the patient’s wife in the team of treating doctors, even as she continued in the hospital isolation. He was treated by a team headed by Dr. Fathahudeen, Dr. Jacob K. Jacob, Dr. Ganesh Mohan, Dr. Geetha Nair, Dr. Vidhu Kumar, Dr. Vibha Santhosh, and Dr. Renimol under the supervision of Principal Dr. Thomas Mathew.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/uk-national-discharged-from-ernakulam-mch/article31232549.ece
02 April 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Ayurveda sector ailing under COVID-19 stress||Kerala’s Ayurveda and wellness tourism sectors, which contribute about half of the over Rs. 40,000-crore annual revenue from the tourism sector, are neck deep in a crisis owing to almost nil inflow of guests following the COVID-19 situation. There is a steep fall in enquiries for the impending Karkidaka season when demand generally peaks. While popular stakeholders are hopeful that they can make good the slump through innovation and aggressive marketing in 2021, new resorts and clinics are in a catch-22 situation. “The crisis has hit the Ayurveda and wellness sectors like never before, although health professionals are laying emphasis on boosting immunity to overcome viral infections,” says Sajeev Kurup, president, Ayurveda Promotion Society. Package sought The two sectors had sailed past the Nipah outbreak and floods of 2018 and 2019. This time, COVID-19 has struck the markets that they rely on — especially Italy, Germany, France, and other European countries. All bookings till the end of April stand cancelled. It has to be seen whether there will be tourist inflow during the monsoon when different treatments are offered. Both Kerala Tourism and the Ayush Ministry must announce a package to bail out the affected stakeholders, many of whom launched their properties after securing big loans, Mr. Kurup says. “Already, the Ayurveda and wellness sectors are feeling the heat owing to emerging competition from Sri Lanka. The sectors are critical from the forex point of view since guests stay put continuously for between 14 and 21 days, with each one spending between $100 and $400. Going by the trend, I feel that the sectors will remain badly affected till winter begins in Europe and the people begin to travel,” he says. Hit by the standstill, the question mark remains on how employees are going to be paid, since the two sectors are highly labour-intensive. “Thus, it is imperative that the State government temporarily suspend various minimum demand charges which stakeholders have to pay even if there is no patronage for their properties,” Mr. Kurup says. Sources in Kerala Tourism say the key role played by Ayurveda and wellness will be re-emphasised in the agency’s road shows and other marketing initiatives so that Kerala does not lose ground to competitors. “Banks and financial institutions must ideally announce a moratorium on loans availed by tourism stakeholders, since it provides employment to a huge number of people in Kerala,” they add.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ayurveda-sector-ailing-under-covid-19-stress/article31232566.ece
02 April 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Matsyafed keeping all outlets open||The apex fisheries cooperative Matsyafed is keeping all its outlets open as part of a Statewide effort to ensure availability of food items during the lockdown to prevent the spread of COVID-19. A senior official said here on Wednesday that the cooperative operated 41 outlets and five mobile shops and had a sales turnover of around Rs. 25 to Rs. 30 lakh a day on normal days prior to the disease outbreak. However, the sales turnover had fallen steeply to about Rs. 15 lakh a day. He said the drop in sales was due to the sharp fall in the number of customers visiting the counters. Besides, fish availability was a big problem. Only small fishing boats were now venturing out and most of the catch was sold at the locales where the boats reached shore. No auctioning Though no auctioning was allowed to prevent crowding, fishers were paid a previously agreed rate for the Matsyafed purchases. There was also a lack of variety of fish. While a Matsyafed stall during normal times put up 20 to 30 varieties of fish, it had come down to four to five now, the official said. “The outlets are being kept open to ensure that whatever fish stock is available with the cooperative is accessible to the people amid the three-week shutdown.” The cooperative was able to keep the prices in check too with seer fish being sold for Rs. 800 in the State capital on Tuesday, while the price of the delicacy is around Rs. 900 to 1,000 a kg at times. Yellowfin tuna was selling for Rs. 300 a kg while a trevally variety (neduva) was selling for Rs. 450 a kg. Pearlspot was selling for Rs. 550 a kg. In view of the COVID-19 outbreak, the cooperative had decided to drop, for the time being, its plans to launch an online sales platform . If the lockdown continued for a longer period, Matsyafed would look to go online, said the official. The cooperative had planned to launch a mobile app for taking online orders ahead of the Easter-Vishu festive season.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/matsyafed-keeping-all-outlets-open/article31232591.ece
02 April 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Thousands of miles from home, lone woman faces ordeal||The five-year-old daughter of a migrant woman from Assam was the only help for her mother who delivered a baby in her single-room accommodation in Vazhakkulam five days ago. With no help coming from even other migrants who also stayed in the same building, the owner of the building sent the woman and her newborn, whose umbilical cord was not even cut, and the five-year old girl, in an autorickshaw to the Perumbavoor Taluk Hospital. The hospital staff, realising the seriousness of the situation as the woman was bleeding profusely, quickly transported her to the General Hospital, Ernakulam, where she was provided antenatal care. The staff at the General Hospital found communication with the woman difficult as she spoke only Assamese. Fortunately, there was an Assamese bystander in the hospital, who helped the hospital staff with translation. She also did not know the whereabouts of her husband, who, she said, had left the house over a week ago. The newborn presented no health problems but the woman’s haemoglobin level was very low, said Dr. A. Anitha, hospital Superintendent. But with blood transfusion and general care, the woman regained her health, Dr. Anitha said. The little girl could do little but remain a mute spectator all through these events, the General Hospital staff said. The nurses who tried to engage the child in some kind of play realised that she was more concerned about her mother and not inclined to play. The nurses also took care to feed the girl her favourite food, Dr. Cyriac P.J. said. The girl displayed the maturity of a 15-year-old, said Dr. Cyriac, who sent across toys and sweets to the girl through the nurses before the family went home. He had received a call from V.P. Sajeendran, MLA, when the woman and the girl were being taken to the General Hospital. Mr. Sajeendran told The Hindu that the ward member of Vazhakkulam panchayat, Sanitha Rahim, had informed him of the incident and she had now arranged a room for the woman’s accommodation. The room where the woman delivered the baby was taken on rent by her husband who is believed to have abandoned her. The woman used to do odd jobs even two days prior to her delivery to earn her livelihood, it is learnt. Mr. Sajeendran said food for the family had been arranged by the ward member.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/thousands-of-miles-from-home-lone-woman-faces-ordeal/article31232552.ece
02 April 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Banks told to hold back currency for two days||Unable to find suitable disinfectants for currency notes, banks have been asked to hold back the “inward remitted currencies” in packets for 48 hours before recirculating them. The notes shall be separately wrapped in packets with dates marked on them. These notes shall be recycled only after 48 hours, according to an advisory issued by N. Ajit Krishnan, convener of the State Level Bankers' Committee (SLBC), Kerala. The advisory was issued on Wednesday after the SLBC inferred that currency notes could be a probable source for the spread of COVID-19. Health authorities had informed the committee that the virus could survive on notes for a maximum period of 12 hours. Disinfection Incidentally, the State government had announced that currency notes and coins would be disinfected considering the exchange of coins and currency notes contributing to the spread of the disease. “We searched in vain for a suitable method for disinfecting the currency notes. Chemical washing is not advisable as it will damage the notes. Fumigation could be an option. However, no agency has come forward with a viable method or a process to fumigate the notes, which are stored in around 100 cash chests of banks across the State. Throwing open the chests, which are high security areas, for fumigation is also a matter of concern,” Mr. Krishnan told The Hindu . The committee fixed the holdback period as 48 hours as an abundant precaution. The banks would try to issue fresh notes to its customers. The Reserve Bank of India too offered to supply fresh notes, Mr. Krishnan, who is also the general manager of Canara Bank, said. Same with coins Coins should also be thus held back before recirculating them. The SLBC is open to any proposal for disinfecting notes, including fumigation, he said. The SLBC asked the banks to ensure the safety of its staff by asking them to wear masks and gloves, use sanitisers and practise social distancing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/banks-told-to-hold-back-currency-for-two-days/article31232577.ece
02 April 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Three more test positive in district||Three more persons tested positive for COVID-19 in the district on Wednesday when 19 results of body fluid samples sent for testing were received. Two of those who tested positive are close relatives of the person who died of the disease recently. One is a 32-year-old woman and the other is a 17-year-old boy. The 41-year-old healthcare worker who was on duty at the airport screening is the third positive case. All were under home quarantine when they developed symptoms of the disease. They have been moved to the Government Medical College Hospital for treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/three-more-test-positive-in-district/article31232550.ece
02 April 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Illicit liquor racket busted, three arrested||Excise sleuths on Wednesday arrested three persons, including a former excise officer, on the charge of running an illicit liquor racket and seized 500 litres from their possession. The arrested have been identified as Harish John (51), a resident of Kayamkulam, Rahul (27), of Kallumthazham, and Sanjayan (42), of East Kallada. A team led by Kollam excise special squad circle inspector I. Naushad made the arrests. The operation was conducted following a tip-off received by Kollam Assistant Excise Commissioner J. Thajudeenkutty that OPR bottles, originally priced at Rs. 600, are available for Rs. 1,500 near Ayathil. Deputy Excise Commissioner Jacob John instructed the special squad to conduct inspections and Rahul and Sanjay were caught with 28 litres of the illicit liquor. On questioning, it was revealed that the trio had been operating a manufacturing unit at Kareelakulangara in Kayamkulam. Mixing flavours In the raid conducted on a multistoreyed building rented by Harish John, the team found 480 litres of illicit liquor made by mixing different flavours in spirit. They seized 5,320 empty bottles, high-tech sealing machine used for sealing bottles, 50 empty containers used to store spirit and accessories for blending spirit. The unit had fake labels of brands, including OPR, Jawan and Daddy Wilson, along with 7,210 fake holographic stickers of the Kerala State Beverages Corporation. Harish John, who was dismissed from the Excise Department for his connection with the illicit liquor lobby, said he had been running the unit for over a year procuring spirit from a smuggler in Palakkad. The flavours are from Goa and the labels are all printed in Sivakasi, he said. Excise inspector Rajeev, grade assistant excise inspector Santhosh and civil excise officers Sarath, Manu K. Mani, Sreentha, Rajagopal Chettiyar and Vishnu were part of the team that made the arrest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/illicit-liquor-racket-busted-three-arrested/article31232573.ece
02 April 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||14.5 lakh families get free rice||The distribution of free rice announced by the State government as part of the Rs. 20,000-crore special package turned out to be a big relief for 14.5 lakh families in Kerala on the launch day itself. Till 5 p.m. on Wednesday, 21,472 tonnes of rice was distributed across the State through 14,250 ration shops. Though a large number of cardholders reached the shops early in the morning, there were arrangements in place to strictly follow the social distancing guidelines in view of the COVID-19 precautionary measures. Support of Anganwadi workers was sought in almost all shops to manage the crowd. Till noontime, only Anthyodaya Anna Yojana (AAY) and priority ration cardholders were allowed to collect the rice based on card numbers. General and non-priority cardholders were allowed to enter the premises only in the afternoon. Civil Supplies Minister P. Thilothman’s office said the portability facility for beneficiaries to secure their entitled foodgrain under the National Food Security Act from any fair price shop was availed by 2.80 lakh families across the State. If needed, the existing deadline of April 20 to complete the distribution would be extended to April 30, officials said. The Minister’s office said the distribution of additional free quota sanctioned by the Union government would begin through the ration shops on April 20. It would be available only for yellow and pink cardholders. Civil Supplies Department officials said the distribution expenses would be borne by the State government. Complaints Amidst the rush to collect the free ration, complaints related to faulty weighing of foodgrain by some ration shop owners were brought to the attention of the Civil Supplies Department. Apart from the free ration, the distribution of special kits comprising 17 essential items, including sugar and various grains, will begin soon through Kerala State Civil Supplies Corporation’s (Supplyco) super markets. Supplyco officials said the kit, each worth Rs. 1,000, would be prepared using the facilities at 56 Supplyco depots.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/145-lakh-families-get-free-rice/article31232580.ece
02 April 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||One patient discharged||One woman from Kizhakkoth in Kozhikode district was discharged from hospital after she recovered from COVID-19 on Wednesday. According to District Medical Officer V. Jayasree, no SARS-Cov-2 positive cases were reported on the day. Five people from the district and three from other districts are undergoing treatment here now for the infection. Dr. Jayasree said that COVID-19 treatment had been fully shifted to the Government Medical College Hospital. A total of 21,485 people are under observation in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/one-patient-discharged/article31232562.ece
02 April 2020||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||2 new cases in Malappuram, 1 in Palakkad||Three more persons were confirmed to have contracted COVID-19 in Malappuram and Palakkad districts on Wednesday. This has raised the total number of COVID-19 cases in Malappuram to 11 and to six in Palakkad. The two persons who tested positive in Malappuram were from Edappal and Alinchuvadu, near Tirur. Both of them had returned from the UAE. The 51-year-old man from Alinchuvadu had reached Karipur airport at 10 p.m. on March 18 on Air India Express flight IX 346 from Dubai. He went home in a taxi and entered into self-quarantine as advised by the health authorities. When he developed symptoms on March 29, he reached District Hospital at Tirur and gave his blood sample for testing. He was tested positive on Wednesday, and was admitted to Government Medical College Hospital at Manjeri. The 32-year-old man from Edappal had arrived at Karipur at 10 p.m. on March 19 on Air India Express flight IX 354 from Sharjah. He reached home along with a passenger from Panthavur. He was in home quarantine until March 30. He too reached District Hospital, Tirur, in an ambulance on March 30 and gave his blood sample for testing. He was shifted to Government Medical College Hospital, Manjeri, when he was tested positive on Wednesday. District Collector Jafer Malik said that although both the men had not interacted with anyone outside their homes, their families should maintain vigil in the coming days. He aked them to remain in quarantine for a few more days. He said all passengers who travelled on flight IX 346 on March 18 and IX 354 on March 19 should contact the control room and enter into self-quarantine. The control room can be reached on 0483 2737858, 2737857, 2733251, 2733252, 2733253. In Palakkad The person who tested positive in Palakkad district is from Mukkootta, near Chalissery. He arrived from Dubai on March 20 and was confirmed to have contracted the disease. He was in home quarantine and had not interacted with anyone outside. He reached Karipur at 8.50 a.m. on March 20 on Air India Express flight IX 344 (seat number 27D), went home in own car and entered into self-quarantine as advised by the health authorities. He gave his blood sample for test at Taluk Hospital, Ottapalam, on March 30. Health officials said he had travelled in an ambulance. He was admitted to the District Hospital here when he was tested positive on Wednesday. As many as 20,038 people are in quarantine in the district, said District Collector D. Balamurali. He said the health authorities were maintaining strict vigil in view of five confirmed COVID-19 cases in the district. When 19,986 people are in self-quarantine at their homes, 47 are in the District Hospital, two in Taluk Hospital, Ottapalam, and three in Taluk Hospital, Mannarkkad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/2-new-cases-in-malappuram-1-in-palakkad/article31232560.ece
02 April 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Policeman suspended||A civil police officer at Hemambika Nagar police station in the district was suspended on Wednesday for posting malicious messages on the social media. Civil police officer Ravi Das was suspended for his Facebook post blaming Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan for the COVID-19 outbreak.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/policeman-suspended/article31232561.ece
02 April 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||No new case reported in Pathanamthitta||No new COVID-19 case was reported from the district for the seventh consecutive day on Wednesday, District Collector P.B. Noohu has said. A total of 17 persons are in quarantine at the isolation wards set up at three hospitals in the district as on Wednesday evening. Of them, nine are at the Pathanamthitta General Hospital, five at the District Hospital in Kozhencherry, and three persons at the Pushpagiri Medical College in Thiruvalla.  No congregation allowed The police seized 177 vehicles and arrested 210 persons in connection with 211 cases registered in different parts of the district for violating the lockdown norms on Wednesday, according to District Police Chief (DPC) K.G. Simon. In a statement here on Wednesday, Mr. Simon said the police would not allow grouping or congregation of people as it was against the lockdown norms. People are supposed to roll out their vehicles to the road only in an emergency or unavoidable situation and strict action would be initiated against those who failed to comply with the lockdown norm. He said people who visited banks, ration shops, etc., should maintain a safe distance.  The surveillance team headed by Mr. Noohu has identified 17 persons who had attended the Tablighi Jamaat meet at Nizamudeen in Delhi in March. One of them, a retired Chemistry professor from Pathanamthitta, died in Delhi and his funeral was held there itself. Thirteen persons have returned to the district while three others were quarantined in Delhi.  Samples sent The Collector said three of the 13 returned persons had been admitted to the isolation ward at Pathanamthitta General Hospital and the remaining 10 persons were home quarantined. Their throat swabs and blood samples have been sent to a virology laboratory in Alappuzha, he said.  The Janamaitri police attached to the Kodumon police station reached food packets to the migrant workers at their camps at Iykad. The Janamaitri police at Thannithodu and the Thekuthode Pravasi Sanghom distributed food packets and rice and provision kits to the Malampandaram tribespeople residing in the forest areas of Ezhamthala in Thekkuthodu. The Janamaitri police at Aranmula distributed food packets to various camps of migrant workers. The personnel attached to the Aranmula police station collected Rs. 3,000 from among themselves for supplying food and drinking water to 17 migrant workers camping at Arattupuzha.  The DPC led the police team in the town for providing food and water to stray dogs in the municipal limits on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/no-new-case-reported-in-pathanamthitta/article31232599.ece
02 April 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Telehealth service for home-bound patients||Doctors for Social Justice (DSJ), a doctors’ guild that extends its expertise to home-bound patients, has come out with a useful telehealth-care service. DSJ national coordinator and pulmonologist Kurien Oommen told The Hindu that the group — comprising physicians, psychiatrists, paediatricians, critical-care specialists, and pulmonologists — would be available over phone round the clock to address the doubts of patients across the country and instil confidence in them. The service is offered free of cost. Dr. Kurien said he had been receiving not less than 50 calls a day from across the State since Monday.  “The majority of telephone enquiries came from the northern districts of Kannur, Malappuram, and Kozhikode,” he said.  Following are the helpline numbers: Kurien Oommen (pulmonologist) - Thiruvalla: 9847248015, Arun S.V. (State coordinator and family doctor) - Thiruvananthapuram: 9400328438, Siby Kurien (paediatrician) – Thiruvananthapuram: 9995551935, Shiyaz (critical care) – Palakkad: 9846960715, Jayasurya (general medicine) - Kollam: 9447186092, P.S. Shahjahan (pulmonologist) – Alappuzha: 9447208815, Nikhil Sarangdhar (pulmonologist) – Mumbai: 9969030611, Likhin S.P. (psychiatrist) – Chennai: 8921679483, and Jithin T. Joseph (psychiatrist) - Kottayam: 9846292668.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/telehealth-service-for-home-bound-patients/article31232596.ece
02 April 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||KWA to ensure 24-hour drinking water supply||The Kerala Water Authority (KWA) has geared up to face the COVID-19 lockdown challenge and ensure round-the-clock drinking water supply to all households in Pathanamthitta that has been declared one among the 10 hotspots in the country by the Government of India in its effort to control the spread of the disease. M. Madhu, KWA Superintending Engineer, told The Hindu that effective steps had already been taken to ensure 24-hour uninterrupted drinking water supply across the district. All the 18 water treatment plants and 101 rural water supply schemes in the district functioned in full capacity.  Mr. Madhu said steps had also been taken to supply drinking water in jerry cans to all home quarantined people in the district. The KWA had provided 24-hour helpline at its Pathanamthitta (9188127941) and Thiruvalla (9188127942) divisions and at the district headquarters (0468 2222670). Two emergency teams of skilled works and vehicles had been arranged under both the Pathanamthitta and Thiruvalla divisions, in addition to the existing annual maintenance contract. All billing counters were closed and water charges could be paid through the website (epay.kwa.kerala.gov.in) and BBPS (Bharat Bill Payment System). Tanker lorries Mr. Madhu said local self-government institutions have been distributing six lakh litres of drinking water from the KWA water treatment plants in Thiruvalla and Pathanamthitta in tanker lorries on a daily basis.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kwa-to-ensure-24-hour-drinking-water-supply/article31232597.ece
02 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Milk procurement to restart today: Milma||The crisis over milk procurement in north Kerala was addressed to a large extent on Wednesday when Tamil Nadu agreed to allow Milma convert unsold milk into milk powder there. Following government-level discussions, Tamil Nadu agreed to let in two truckloads -- approximately 50,000 litres -- daily for conversion into milk powder. Nearly 70% of the milk procurement would be restored by Thursday, the Malabar Regional Cooperative Milk Producers’ Union said on Wednesday. The union collects approximately six lakh litres of milk daily from six north Kerala districts. Sales, however, had dipped on account of the COVID-19 lockdown and the union had been converting the unsold milk into powder in units in Tamil Nadu. However, on Monday, Tamil Nadu closed the doors on milk vehicles. The union was forced to declare a holiday for milk procurement on Wednesday much to the dismay of dairy farmers. On Wednesday, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said part of the remaining unsold milk would be distributed to migrant labourers stuck in labour camps in the State. He urged the public to help Milma out by purchasing milk and milk-based products. The products would be made available through Consumerfed outlets. Tamil Nadu aside, the union plans to send consignments to Guntur in Andhra Pradesh for milk powder conversion. But this is fraught with problems due to the large distance involved. The union plans to send 20,000 litres to Guntur. Milk poured into drain Staff Reporter writes from Palakkad: Dairy farmers in the district staged a protest on Wednesday by draining out thousands of litres of milk. Their protest was against Milma for its failure in procuring milk from the farmers. About 75,000 litres of milk was drained out across the district. At Chittur alone, where the farmers protested in unison, about 50,000 litres of milk was spilled out into the drains. Farmers said they had no option but to drain out the product they milked as Milma refused to collect the milk.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/milk-procurement-to-restart-today-milma/article31232570.ece
02 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||2 more positive cases in capital||The district continues to remain in a state of high alert with two more persons testing positive for COVID-19 and 185 others placed under surveillance on Wednesday. The two patients, from Pothencode and Manacaud, had returned from the Gulf on March 22. The Pothencode native, who arrived from Sharjah, was listed among the primary contacts of a Malappuram man who was aboard the same aircraft and later tested positive for COVID-19. The 61-year-old Manacaud native, who too arrived on March 22, had not displayed outward symptoms, but was under observation. Meanwhile, nine people who returned after attending the Tablighi Jamaat congregation at Nizamuddin in New Delhi also were tracked down on Wednesday. Samples have been rushed for tests. On the brighter side, 347 people completed the 28-day observation period in the district without displaying COVID-19 symptoms. As on Wednesday, 17,981 persons are home-quarantined in the district. Seventy-seven people are under observation in various hospitals. As many as 111 samples were sent for tests on Wednesday. Vigil at Pothencode Stringent surveillance measures are in place at Pothencode panchayat that went into a three-week total lockdown on Tuesday following the death of a 68-year-old COVID-19 patient, District Collector K. Gopalakrishnan said. Emphasising the need to prevent community spread of the disease at Pothencode and its neighbourhood, Mr. Gopalakrishnan urged residents to remain indoors and cooperate with the measures enforced by the district administration. With people advised not to move out of their homes, the administration is enlisting the services of the Kudumbashree Mission to ensure doorstep delivery of ration materials. The residents can avail themselves of the service by dialling 0471-2730421, 9188527551, 8281573442. The administration has sought the assistance of the Fire and Rescue Services to disinfect public spaces in the panchayat and surrounding regions. Steps are also being taken to perform COVID-19 diagnostic tests on more people, Mr. Gopalakrishnan said, adding that the administration expected the delivery of additional rapid test kits. As part of the clampdown, the police staged a route march in the panchayat. 167 arrested The police said 167 people were arrested in the district on Wednesday for violating lockdown rules. Of this, 46 were arrested in the city limits. Thirty-six vehicles also were seized. In rural Thiruvananthapuram, 121 people were arrested and 85 vehicles were seized.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/2-more-positive-cases-in-capital/article31232603.ece
02 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Campaign to improve mental health||After the ‘Break the Chain’ campaign to slow the spread of COVID-19, the lockdown in place has prompted the State government’s Social Justice and the Women and Child Development departments to launch another initiative aimed at the mental health of those who are home-bound for another two weeks. Confined to their houses, people experience anxiety and stress in the absence of connections with family and friends. They may fear contact and refuse to step out, worry about supply of household commodities and medicines, stress about their jobs, or have financial concerns. Children, used to being active, may chafe at the isolation, causing stress within the family.  Spreading positivity The new campaign ‘Break the Chain Make the World’ aims at improving the mental health of people who are isolated in their homes. Spreading positivity by sharing one’s creativity and talents with the community to create solidarity, thereby benefiting not only oneself but others too, is the message that the campaign gives out. Be it painting, gardening, stitching, exercise, story-telling, poetry, calligraphy, music, dance or anything else that one takes up to keep engaged while spending time at home can be shared with the world as part of the campaign. Story-telling or reading challenge or any other activity through which friends and family can be roped in are part of the campaign. Announced on Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan’s Facebook page, the campaign has as its brand ambassador magician Gopinath Muthukad. There is a ‘Kids Talk’ segment in which children will be able to share their experience of the lockdown and their jokes, stories, and poetry too. Campaign details are available onyoutube.com/user/ KeralaSSMandfacebook.com/govtofkerala/ Creative works and videos can be sent on the WhatsApp numbers +916282731092, +917593802031.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/campaign-to-improve-mental-health/article31232569.ece
02 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Over 1,000 Indians stranded in Malaysia||Over 1,000 Indians, including 300 Keralites, are stranded in Malaysia due to the ban on international flights into the country as part of the restrictions to prevent the spread of COVID-19. Those stranded have been put up at safer locations, hostels, and hotels with the help of NGOs and community organisations. Those who came on business trips, for holidaying, workers and their families, and senior citizens are among the stranded persons. As many as 70 are in a shelter of the Indian High Commission, Shaji Aboobacker, a native of Thrissur, said over the phone on Wednesday. Another 350 persons, mostly from Tamil Nadu, are at the airport in Kuala Lumpur. “We have been knocking at the doors of the Indian Embassy and at the highest level in Kerala and Delhi seeking evacuation or permission to travel on the flights being operated by the Malaysian government from Kuala Lumpur to Indian cities to evacuate their nationals,” says Mr. Aboobacker, who came on a business trip to the Malaysian capital on March 10. Mr. Aboobacker, managing director of the Nedumbassery-based Technoworld, said that he could not get Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on the phone to seek his intervention in the issue. Union Minister of State for External Affairs V. Muraledharan was approached for assistance by his friends and well-wishers. “The Indian High Commission informed us that it cannot give permission for us to travel back. The ball is now in the court of Prime Minister Narendra Modi,” Mr. Aboobacker said.  In far-flung areas Indians stranded are in far-flung areas and communication among them is difficult. Food and medicines are not a problem as the government is taking care of all citizens. But, he says the mounting COVID-19 positive cases and deaths in Malaysia are a concern.  The Indian High Commission informed us that it cannot give permission for us to travel back Shaji Aboobacker||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/over-1000-indians-stranded-in-malaysia/article31232568.ece
02 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||NFF seeks financial aid for fishers||The National Fishworkers Forum (NFF) has sought a monthly allowance of Rs. 10,000 each for fishing households for up to three months, given the COVID-19-related losses in the fishing sector and the impending monsoon season trawling ban. In a letter to Union Minister of State for Fisheries, Animal Husbandry and Dairying Pratap Chandra Sarangi, NFF chairperson Narendra R. Patil and general secretary T. Peter said the condition that Aadhaar-linked bank accounts were a pre-requisite for providing financial assistance to fish workers should be scrapped. In a March 30 letter, the Union Department of Fisheries had requested States and Union Territories to ''ascertain and confirm'' that all affected fishermen, fish farmers, fish workers and vendors had accounts with Aadhaar linkage. “Since most of the fish workers and some of the fish vendors have been issued licences/ fisher ID cards, these can be verified with the respective State/UT authorities in coordination with the trade unions of fish workers as well as other associations,” the NFF leaders said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/nff-seeks-financial-aid-for-fishers/article31232584.ece
02 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Farm dept. opens crisis management||Given the COVID-19 scenario in the State, the Agriculture Department has formed a crisis management cell for monitoring the procurement and availability of agricultural goods. The cell is headed by Agriculture Production Commissioner Devendra Kumar Singh. Agriculture Director K. Vasuki is the convener.  The cell will meet every week and review the availability, price and procurement of agricultural commodities and submit a report to Agriculture Minister V.S. Sunil Kumar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/farm-dept-opens-crisis-management/article31232567.ece
02 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Avoid panic booking of LPG: IOC||The Indian Oil Corporation (IOC) has advised LPG customers in Kerala not to resort to panic booking or visit the showrooms or godowns of LPG distributors for obtaining refill cylinders. IOC’s distributors were well-stocked for the lockdown period and there was no shortage. A press note directed the customers to book refills through SMS/IVRS, Whatsapp (7588888824) or online (IndianOilOne mobile app orhttps://cx.indianoil.in)or through Paytm for delivery of refill cylinders at the doorstep. It also urged customers to make digital payments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/avoid-panic-booking-of-lpg-ioc/article31232571.ece
02 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Full refund for cancelled tickets||Railways will give full refund for all cancelled tickets for the journey period from March 23 to April 14 in view of the cancellation of trains as part of COVID-19 containment measures. For tickets cancelled prior to March 2, ticket deposit receipt (TDR) has to be filed by the passenger with journey details by filling a form to the Chief Commercial Manager (Claims) or Chief Claims Officer of any zonal railways headquarters till June 21, for availing themselves of the balance refund amount. For tickets cancelled after March 27, full refund will be paid. In the case of e-tickets cancelled prior to March 27, the balance refund amount will be credited to the account of the passenger. . In the case of e-tickets cancelled after March 27, full refund will be paid in respect of all such cancellations for which provisions have already been made.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/full-refund-for-cancelled-tickets/article31232576.ece
02 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Opposition attacks move||The UDF on Wednesday crossed swords with the government over the ‘unilateral’ decision of the Cabinet to ‘appropriate a month's salary’ from State employees to augment the Chief Minister's Distress Relief Fund (CMDRF) ‘purportedly’ to tide over the financial crisis brought about by the COVID-19 pandemic. Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala said: “The Chief Minister daily counsels people to be spartan during the lockdown. He wants to confiscate the salary of government staff. However, the Chief Minister has no qualms in sanctioning Rs. 2 crore at this juncture to hire a helicopter for VIP travel.” He said the government should create a separate account in the treasury for depositing contributions from the public. KPCC president Mullapally Ramachandran insisted that the government take the wages of only those employees who had given a letter of consent.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/opposition-attacks-move/article31232581.ece
02 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Patient information to be classified||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Wednesday frowned upon the attempt by a CPI(M) functionary in Kannur to send ‘get well’ messages to people in quarantine for COVID-19 treatment by illegally accessing their personal information, including mobile phone numbers. Mr. Vijayan said the person had no right to obtain the personal information of COVID-19-affected persons and communicate with them at the current juncture. He asked authorities to treat personal data of COVID-19 patients as classified information. Mr. Vijayan said the State wanted the Centre to bring police officers, emergency service providers, health workers, LPG delivery persons and pain and palliative care providers under its COVID-19 insurance scheme. He also demanded embassy assistances for nurses and labourers working in the Gulf. Sannadham initiative Nearly two lakh people have registered on the Sannadham online portal as volunteers to help the State deal the pandemic situation. The government would vet the information they have provided and weed out persons with a criminal background. The government would not allow self-styled volunteers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/patient-information-to-be-classified/article31232582.ece
02 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Karunya Fund extended||The government has issued orders extending the treatment benefits through Karunya Benevolent Fund for another year till March 31, 2021. Last year, after the State integrated all health financing schemes, including the KBF, and started the Karunya Arogya Suraksha Padhati (KASP), orders had been issued that patients would be allowed to avail of the benefits of the KBF till March 3, 2020. This was done to ensure that people who could not be the beneficiaries under the KASP, yet whose annual income were below Rs. 3 lakh, were not denied treatment benefits that they would have got under the KBF. Under the KBF, beneficiaries will get one-time treatment assistance of up to Rs. 2 lakh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/karunya-fund-extended/article31232592.ece
02 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Community kitchens in full swing||The city Corporation on Wednesday provided kits with provisions to 9,553 migrant workers who preferred to cook food on their own. At Beemapally and others areas, community kitchens have been opened specifically for migrant workers to prepare cuisine which they are more used to. The workers themselves are carrying out cooking activities at these places. Camps for migrant workers have been opened at the Government High School at Killipalam, Upper Primary School at Mulavana, Upper Primary School at Kamaleswaram, and at the SMV Higher Secondary School. Through the Corporation’s community kitchens, breakfast was distributed to 21,536 persons, lunch to 22,638 persons, and dinner to 21,644 persons. More contributions Individuals and organisations have been contributing in cash and kind to the community kitchens. A residents’ association from Chacka contributed Rs. 80,000 , while the Indian Dental Association handed over Rs. 25,000. The CITU contributed 350 kg of rice, while two home appliances shops contributed television sets for the camps of the migrant workers. A team from the Corporation carried out sanitation activities at Pothencode, where a person who tested positive for COVID-19 had died on Tuesday. Public areas and buildings were sanitised by power spraying of a bleaching solution.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/community-kitchens-in-full-swing/article31232601.ece
02 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Solutions invited||Joining the efforts to ward off the COVID-19 pandemic, the Kerala Startup Mission (KSUM) is seeking innovative ideas and product solutions from start-ups and innovators under its ‘Break Corona’ initiative. The KSUM is looking for initiatives to support COVID-19 patients, quarantined people, hardware products that can be useful at the time of crises, ideas for effective logistics and distribution of food, medicine and grocery, supporting aged people and infants, creating job opportunities during the lockdown and production of masks, sanitisers and gloves. The idea can be for a process or product, which will prevent the spread of COVID-19. The product solutions submitted should be helpful for different government departments to fight the global epidemic. A team of experts in respective domains will evaluate the ideas. For more details, visit: www.breakcorona.in . The IMA (Indian Medical Association) and the Technopark-based Group of Technology Companies (GTech) are the partners for this initiative.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/solutions-invited/article31232604.ece
02 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Kudumbashree to feed stray dogs||The Kudumbashree district mission has taken up the task of feeding stray dogs in the district. Nearly 1,000 stray dogs are being given food and water by the seven dog sterilisation units functioning under the mission. The funds for the activity are being utilised from the profits made by the groups under the Animal Birth Control (ABC) programme. The district mission’s initiative follows the Chief Minister’s call to the people to feed stray dogs and birds in the wake of the lockdown, Kudumbashree district mission coordinator K.R. Shaiju said.. Those interested in feeding stray dogs can contact the ABC consortium president Ph: 9562387855.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kudumbashree-to-feed-stray-dogs/article31232600.ece
02 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||ATF tax slashed for domestic flights from capital||The government has decided to slash the tax on aviation turbine fuel for aircraft operating domestic services from the Thiruvananthapuram international airport. The tax will be reduced from 5% to 1% for a period of 10 years. The reduced rate will take effect from April 1.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/atf-tax-slashed-for-domestic-flights-from-capital/article31232585.ece
02 April 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||Two more COVID-19 cases in Thrissur||Two more persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Thrissur district on Wednesday. They were the 40-year-old wife and 15-year-old son of a positive man who had returned from abroad. They are under treatment at the Thrissur Medical College Hospital. In all, 18,863 people are under observation in the district. Police for support Meanwhile, with a message that “Police are with the people” the Kerala police have started video chat with people who are under home quarantine. The objective is to boost their morale. Thrissur Range DIG S. Surendran held video chat with people in home quarantine in the district on Wednesday from 10.30 a.m. He inquired about their health and provided them guidelines. He reminded them that the police were just a phone call away for any support including food and medicines. According to statistics, 47,000 people are under quarantine under the Thrissur Range. Many high-ranking officers will join with him for chat in the coming days. The police think that the interaction with higher police officers will improve the confidence of the people under quarantine. “The strict action taken by the police against those who violate lockdown guidelines is for the safety and security of the people. People should not take it as the obduracy of the police,” the DIG said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/two-more-covid-19-cases-in-thrissur/article31232556.ece
02 April 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||Thrissur native dead||A 69-year-old man from Kaipamangalam in Thrissur has died due to COVID-19 in Dubai. Pareeth of Moonnupedika, Kaipamangalam, was undergoing treatment for cancer. He tested positive for COVID-19 and was admitted to hospital in Dubai a few days ago.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/thrissur-native-dead/article31232553.ece
02 April 2020||April 02 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Ensuring fair price||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ensuring-fair-price/article31232558.ece
02 April 2020||April 02 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Unbroken tradition||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/unbroken-tradition/article31232608.ece
02 April 2020||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tipplers fall prey to prank in Karnataka||Tipplers facing a long dry phase in view of the COVID-19 lockdown fell prey to an apparent April Fool’s day prank on social media — that liquor outlets would open for a day on Wednesday — and thronged a shop in Karnataka’s Gadag town, only to be driven away later. People queued up at the shop on Mulagund Road, apparently hoping to purchase some liquor, unaware that it was a prank. The crowd included women, youth and senior citizens. While queuing in a disciplined manner, they failed to observe social distancing and stood in close proximity to each other. Requesting anonymity, a person who saw and shot a video of the incident, said, “The tipplers were speculating that the shop would open on April 1 and a person stood in the queue. Soon, others too started following him. Thus a long queue was formed but to no avail.” He said those in the queue could be heard cursing the authorities for the lockdown. Learning of the incident, Gadag police personnel rushed to the spot and asked the people gathered to disperse. Liquor shops in Karnataka have been shut since Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced a lockdown to prevent the spread of the COVID-19 pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tipplers-fall-prey-to-prank-in-karnataka/article31232190.ece
02 April 2020||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Nearly 1,500 attended from Karnataka’||About 1,500 people from Karnataka may have attended the Tablighi Jamaat event in Nizamuddin West, Delhi, from March 8 to 20. Of these, the State has been able to trace 800 people and 143 of these have been found to be symptomatic. Jawaid Akhtar, Additional Chief Secretary (Health and Family Welfare), said that the Centre had sent the list of 1,500 people to the State. “We cannot say if all these have attended the congregation. Some of them may have attended and some may be the contacts of those who have attended. We have been able to trace 800 from the list and samples of 143 symptomatic persons have been sent for tests,” he said. Stating that the department was working on identifying the number of foreigners who attended the congregation from Karnataka, Mr. Akhtar said: “We had issued a public notification on Tuesday appealing to those who attended the meet to self report to the department. Following this, we have been able to contact and screen 800 across the State.” He said the department is also collecting the travel history of the persons so that it can cross notify the other States. Sources said a study of digital footprints of those who were detected as COVID-19 positive in Andhra Pradesh had been done. Following a similar approach, the Centre sent a list of nearly 1,500 people to Karnataka. The list is based on phone numbers and addresses given to telecom companies while obtaining the phone numbers. The Centre has told the State that the addresses given in the list may or may not be the current place of residence. The list is only indicative that the holder of the number was present in the infection transmission hotspot and may or may not have been infected. “Also, the data indicates the presence of certain mobile numbers within 250 to 500 metres of the religious congregation site which itself has a perimeter of 70 metres. Highest priority may be accorded to the numbers which stayed for more than one day in the area,” stated the Centre’s communication.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/nearly-1500-attended-from-karnataka/article31232175.ece
02 April 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Spike in COVID-19 cases sparks tension in Chittoor||A sudden spurt of five positive cases in Chittoor district on Tuesday sent a wave of panic across the district, with residents too scared to venture out of their homes even during the relaxation period in the morning. All of the five new cases in the district are directly linked to a Tablighi Jamaat meeting in Hazrat Nizamuddin area of New Delhi recently. News reports of the five confirmed cases led to panic in Palamaner police sub-division with three cases, followed by one in Srikalahasti and one in Yerpedu. Srikalahasti had already recorded its first COVID-19 case a few days ago — a young returnee from London. Despite a relaxation in the lockdown from 6 a.m. till 11 a.m., the alarming rise in number of cases forced people to stay indoors at Palamaner and Gangavaram mandals. The impact of the scare was also felt in surrounding mandals upto V. Kota, Punganur and Madanapalle. According to medical officials, by Wednesday morning, it was found that as many as 187 persons from Chittoor district had attended the Jamaat meeting in Delhi. Of these, 79 persons were put under quarantine, while most of them rushed to hospitals voluntarily. Surveillance has been mounted on all those who returned from Delhi. “All the five cases that have surfaced freshly are those who have returned from the Jamaat,” District Medical and Health Officer M. Penchalaiah confirmed. The COVID-19 Task Force officials said that rapid action is underway to create a quarantine facility for around 2,000 cases at Tirupati, Madanapalle, Palamaner and Puttur, for which educational institutions would also be roped in.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/spike-in-covid-19-cases-sparks-tension-in-chittoor/article31232677.ece
02 April 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Coronavirus is beyond grasp of these residents||Even as the COVID-19 scare grips the entire world, the virus is beyond grasp of the residents of about a dozen hamlets at the forested areas and hillocks in Bangarupalem mandal bordering the forests of Tamil Nadu. Though the COVID-19 concern has been largely felt all over Chittoor district for a month, this deadly virus started jolting the people of these remote hamlets only with the Janata Curfew on March 22, immediately followed by 21-day lockdown. The lockdown did not make much difference in their lifestyle. They only found missing of even the bare transportation facilities to reach the Chittoor-Bengaluru NH. A dozen hamlets, including Bandladoddi, Kolavaru, Vepanapalle, Pulimadugu, Veluthuru Chenu, Jayanti and Palar, are virtually cut off from the NH. As the elderly find it almost impossible to understand what COVID -19 is, the youngsters, mostly illiterate and migrant workers, largely think that it’s a skin disease like leprosy that could finally lead to a morbid end. The prime source of their livelihood is working in fields crisscrossing the inter-State borders. Their biggest relief is to watch a movie once in a while. The sudden lockdown continues to confuse the people of these villages. The perplexing doubts in their minds are: What’s the connection between this “skin decease” and stoppage of share-autos and motorbikes from entering the NH? Why should we shut up ourselves in houses, that too day and night? In a gap of one week, some families at Srinivasa Puram and Palar hamlets heard about death among their relatives’ families in TN. Weird practices The elderly give a new entity to the virus. For them it could be a female evil spirit, attacking them in sleep and entering the houses from holes in rooftops, or while moving alone (ironically to discourage the social distancing norm). Many women have already started weird practices like throwing cut lemon pieces smeared with kumkum on four directions of their dwelling, followed by placing neem leaves on thresholds. Rajamma (72) of Bandladoddi hamlet said the virus was nothing but a female spirit from a foreign country (China), in search of the robust unmarried young men of villages. “If we don’t listen to her, she will attack us with deadly fevers and cough. No need of 21-day treatment, but we can deal the spirit with just three days with power-packed lemon pieces,” she said. Anjamma (70) of Vepanapalle hamlet to some extent comes closer to truth. “The Aada dheyyam (female ghost) is afraid of soap. We heard that it will enter our body through hands like electric shock. If we apply soap to hands, it will enter through eyes and nostrils. That’s why we have to cover our faces,” she said. In spite of this, the Rural Organisation for Poverty Eradication Services (ROPES) in association with Chennai-based Children Believe had finished a three-day long awareness campaign in 150 habitations of about 40 panchayats in Bangarupalem mandal, with prime focus on these forested villages. Campaign programme officer P. Sree Latha said: “We tried our best to educate them about the coronavirus. Besides distributing soap boxes and masks to the households, we have also demonstrated the things such as washing hands, social distancing and staying indoors.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/coronavirus-is-beyond-grasp-of-these-residents/article31232698.ece
02 April 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||High alert sounded in Guntur dist.||High alert was sounded in the areas surrounding Macherla as at least four persons, who are part of a group that took part in a congregation at Tablighi Markaz at Nizamuddin , were tested positive for COVID-19. One more positive case was traced at Karempudi village and all the five have been linked to the meeting held at Nizamuddin during March 15-17, 2020. The entire Macherla town has been declared a containment zone and barricades have been erected to prevent people from moving from one place to another. District Collector I. Samuel Ananda Kumar and Superintendent of Police Ch. Vijaya Rao took stock of the situation and a senior officer was placed in charge of containment operations. “We have declared the entire Macherla town and Karempudi villages as red zones and we urge all those with a travel history to Delhi and any foreign country to contact us by dialing 100, 104, 1902. It will help if they come forward so that we can track their contacts and prevent any community spreading,’’ said Mr. Vijaya Rao. Total cases nine The total number of positive cases stood at nine, including four members of a single family in Guntur. Mangaldas Nagar, Anandapet and parts of Sangadigunta have been declared red zones in Guntur. Admitting that the situation could turn serious, the district administration is making arrangements to identity suitable places for setting up quarantine centres. The police with the help of a corporate firm provided 8,000 masks, 4,000 sanitisers, and 8,000 gloves to policemen. Meanwhile, the district administration continues to be on a state of high alert after the State government hinted that more number of positive cases could turn up in the coming days. “We are making preparations to have 5,000 beds at quarantine centres. All private hospitals, health care facilities have been placed at the government’s disposal. If necessary, we will also set up quarantine centres at engineering colleges,’’ said a senior official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/high-alert-in-guntur-district/article31232178.ece
02 April 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police doing laudable job during lockdown: Sajjala||Sajjala Ramakrishna Reddy, Adviser (public affairs) to Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Wednesday lauded the services of the police personnel during this lockdown period. Mr. Reddy was here to give away sanitisers, masks, and water bottles to the police personnel in Guntur Urban Police District limits at a programme organised by the Spoorthi Foundation and the YSR Congress Party. Mr. Sajjala said: “The outbreak of COVID-19 is shaking the world, but a series of measures being taken by Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy ensured the State is able to contain the spread of the virus.”  Pat for Spoorthi Mr. Sajjala also said that it was laudable that the Guntur-based Spoorthi Foundation, headed by party leader Lella Appireddy, has been involved in supporting the policemen, who have been doing a tremendous job in manning the streets. Inspector-General of Police, Guntur, J. Prabhakara Rao said that more than 5,000 policemen were being involved in enforcing the lockdown across the district. The masks, sanitisers, water and food packets would go a long way in keeping the police protected from infections. Former MP Modugula Venugopala Reddy, Guntur West MLA Maddali Giridhar, Mr. Appireddy and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/police-doing-laudable-job-during-lockdown-sajjala/article31232229.ece
02 April 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Collector orders takeover of all facilities in Guntur||District Collector I. Samuel Ananda Kumar has issued orders taking all over hotels, schools, college buildings and function halls till April 14 with immediate effect under the Disaster Management Act 2005. The orders have given authorisation to Sub Divisional Magistrates to take over the establishments. The orders have also conferred powers on executive magistrates (tahsildars) as incident commanders. The orders were given in lieu of the nationwide lockdown by the Central government to deal with the coronavirus outbreak which has claimed 38 lives in India till date.  The government has hinted that Guntur district might need about 5,000 beds in a quarantine facility in case the number of positive cases go up. At present, there are 1,700 beds in 28 isolation centres which include hospitals, universities, and colleges.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/collector-orders-takeover-of-all-facilities-in-guntur/article31232230.ece
02 April 2020||Hyderabad,ANDHRA PRADESH||15 Myanmarese, two Kashmiris shifted to Fever Hospital||In the ongoing attempt to track attendees of Markaz prayers in Delhi between March 13 and 15, the Nalgonda district administration on Wednesday found 15 Myanmar nationals and two Kashmiri preachers and shifted them to the Government Fever Hospital. All of them were traced by police to various mosques in Nalgonda and were first shifted to a function hall on the outskirts. They reportedly reached Nalgonda on March 17. Medical officials said they conducted preliminary diagnosis and then decided to move them to the facility. “All of them are healthy and none of them showed symptoms,” an official said. After the deaths of six of the Delhi returnees, the administration intensified contact tracing. The Medical & Health department has formed 20 new teams to trace their secondary contacts now. A family member of the retired government employee, who had attended the Tablighi Jamaat and tested positive, also tested positive. Six other family members however tested negative and reports of two others are yet to come, according to Nizamabad Collector C. Narayana Reddy. The retired employee is undergoing treatment at Gandhi Hospital. A person at Gajwel tested positive and was reportedly shifted to Gandhi Hospital. According to sources, the 51-year-old reached Gajwel on March 20 after the Delhi meet. Police are trying to find out his primary and secondary contacts. A senior official, confirming the case, informed that the man had met about 14 people at Daultabad and Mirdoddi mandals and all of them were put in home quarantine. Meanwhile, the total number of Delhi returnees in Adilabad rose from 52 to 57 on Wednesday, with five more being identified and stamped for the 14-day quarantine. Only two returnees have not yet been stamped as they are reported to be stuck in UP. In Nirmal, authorities are continuing to identify returnees and expect it to be around 60. The DMHO department in association with IMA Karimnagar chapter conducted door-to-door survey in the ‘red zone’ areas.  (With inputs from our correspondents in Nalgonda, Nizamabad, Sangareddy, Adilabad, Karimnagar.)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/15-myanmarese-2-kashmiris-shifted/article31232507.ece
02 April 2020||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Most of Delhi returnees in Telangana identified||Health Minister Eatala Rajender said on Wednesday that over 1,000 people from Telangana went to New Delhi for Markaz prayers. Barring 160, all of them have been identified, and tests are being conducted. The State government on Monday had stated that six people from Telangana who attended a religious congregation in New Delhi from March 13 to 15 succumbed after they contracted coronavirus. Stating that the State government was the first to announce a lockdown, Mr. Rajender said they were the ones who informed the Centre about the Tablighi Jamaat congregation. He stressed that there was no community transmission in the State. Till Tuesday night, 77 active COVID-19 cases were reported here. Two people were discharged from Government General and Chest Hospital, Erragadda, on Tuesday and two more from Gandhi Hospital would be discharged from Gandhi Hospital on Wednesday. They have to be under home quarantine for another 14 days. Besides, 10 more people with COVID-19 who were isolated at Gandhi Hospital have tested negative for coronavirus. They too would be discharged if they test negative in second consecutive test. Meanwhile, around 10 workers of the Tablighi Jamaat, including some from its Telangana and Andhra Pradesh leadership, were taken to the Government General and Chest Hospital for tests on Wednesday. The move comes after several Jamaat workers who had returned from the Aalami (Global) Markaz in Banglewaali Masjid in Nizamuddin, Delhi tested positive for coronavirus. According to sources, the workers were taken to the hospital as a precautionary measure, given the fact that they were operating from the Tablighi Jamaat Markaz in Jama Masjid Moazzampura in Mallepally, Hyderabad and could have come in contact with those suspected of being infected. A source from the Tablighi Jamaat said that its Telangana and Andhra Pradesh Ameer (chief) Maulana Ikram was also taken to the hospital as a precautionary measure. Speaking to The Hindu , one of those who were taken to the hospital said, “While the masjid committee has closed the masjid, the Jamaat has its office in a room on the first floor. We have been fully cooperating with the police and Health department. Some of us were liaising with the authorities throughout the day. The Hyderabad police, as a precautionary measure told us last night to get tested. We have agreed and come to hospital,” a senior Tablighi Jamaat worker said. He explained that the Jamaat office was closed voluntarily and temporarily. “Since we had to come here, we locked the doors of the office,” he said. Later in the the day, the workers said that their swab samples were taken for tests on Wednesday and the results would be made available to them in a day or two.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/most-of-delhi-returnees-in-ts-identified/article31232280.ece
02 April 2020||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Inmates of Kadapa prison ‘unmask’ their talent||At a time when the entire country is scurrying for a protective gear in the testing times of COVID-19, Kadapa Central Prison has come up with a major intervention in meeting the demand for face masks. The inmates of the prison have so far stitched 25,000 masks, apart from having an order on hand for a whopping 40,000 pieces to be distributed among government hospitals, departments and public sector undertakings alone. Though masks are produced in Nellore, Rajahmundry, and Visakhapatnam central prisons too, Kadapa stands ahead in numbers, thanks to its skill and preparedness. Much before the Janata Curfew was clamped, the jail authorities sensed the likely spurt in demand for masks in the forthcoming days and started acting upon the idea. The jail is already equipped with twelve tailoring units to stitch uniform for police and trainees, while District Collector Ch. Hari Kiran offered 17 more from one of his training wings under the rural development. The inmates are trained in life skills. It was only recently that the current batch completed a course in electrical, plumbing, and tailoring course, which obviously came in handy for them. “What initially started with production of around 1,000 masks per day has improved to touch 2,500 pieces today. Kadapa is among India’s top central prisons manufacturing the highest number of nose masks,” Deputy Inspector-General of Prisons (Kadapa) M. Varaprasad has told The Hindu.  According to the cost sheet, the unit price works out to Rs. 7 a piece, which is cheaper than the ones available in the open market. With Shriya Texport, a Hindupur-based textile plant, offering to donate 2,500 metres of cloth, which is sufficient to make 45,000 reusable masks, the jail authorities have deployed more inmates into service. The quality of the cloth used is in compliance with the rules stipulated by District Medical and Health Department.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/inmates-of-kadapa-prison-unmask-their-talent/article31232690.ece
02 April 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Three of 26 Delhi returnees test positive in East Godavari||East Godavari Collector D. Muralidhar Reddy on Wednesday said three of the 26 persons who attended the Nizamuddin meeting from East Godavari district had tested positive for COVID-19. In a review meeting attended by Deputy Chief Minister P. Subashchandra Bose, Agriculture Minister K. Kannababu and Social Welfare Minister P. Viswaroop, Mr. Muralidhar said the surroundings of the homes of those who tested positive for COVID-19 had been sanitised. Mr. Muralidhar said: “As many as 3,442 persons arrived in the district in the recent days and all of them are under home quarantine and being monitored by special teams.” Mr. Bose has advised the district officials to focus on managing the crowd at the rythu bazaars apart from strict implementation of social distance to tackle the spread of COVID-19. Mr. Kannababu advocated the need for promising timely dialysis services to patients and seeking support from the Indian Medical Association (East Godavari Chapter) in this regard. On Wednesday, Mr. Muralidhar and Special Officer on COVID-19 B. Raja Sekhar inspected the virology laboratory at the Government General Hospital in Kakinada.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/three-of-26-delhi-returnees-test-positive-in-east-godavari/article31232680.ece
02 April 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police render timely help to 25 tribal families||Police on Wednesday distributed essential commodities and rice to 25 families of the Konda Reddi tribe of Buradakota village under Pathakota panchayat on the East Godavari-Visakhapatnam border. This patch of the tribal belt was declared the most affected by Left Wing Extremism (LWE) activities on the Andhra-Odisha border. ASP (Operations) Arif Hafiz told The Hindu that the group of tribal families had been cut off from transportation facility and had been remaining indoors ever sine lockdown was declared to keep COVID-19 at bay. “We have distributed rice (50 kg), vegetables and essential commodities enabling them to manage the lockdown period as part of our year-old Girijan Mitra initiative,” Mr. Arif said. The Gurthedu police promised the villagers necessary support during the lockdown period.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/police-render-timely-help-to-25-tribal-families/article31232679.ece
02 April 2020||Kozhikode,ANDHRA PRADESH||Now, a tonsorial ‘challenge’ to beat the lockdown blues||The snip of scissors is barely audible in the corridors of city’s comfy salons these days during the lockdown. For many, the panic over COVID-19 has literally made their hairs stand on the end. Thus, for men, the seemingly safer option now is to try a head shave without worrying about the hilarious makeover and the fun it will evoke among family and friends. With the closure of salons in the city, served by hundreds of migrant labourers, many are now forced to do a haircut themselves with some finishing touches from the kin or friends. They feel that waiting till the end of the lockdown may transform themselves into unidentifiable figures. “It was the first time in the past 40 years that we tried a head shave together. Like us, it was a surprise for our family members too. We did it as it was the best option available now to overcome this lockdown challenge,” say Biju Yedoothaman and his friend Shibu Mannil. These East Hill residents say many of their friends too are now planning to follow suit. M. Krishnadas, an auto driver from Pavangad, feels that shaven head fad is quickly catching up among youngsters in the city. “The closure of salons is creating an unexpected challenge though it is not being treated seriously. Only that this was an easy option to manage it in a sporty way,” he says. According to him, his shaved head is now a favourite ‘plaything’ for his grandchildren. “In Kozhikode city alone, we have 15 such IT professionals who have joined the Home Quarantine Shave (HQS) challenge . All of them are directors of various IT ventures in Kozhikode,” says Abdul Gafoor, secretary, Calicut Forum for IT (CAFIT). The challenge will be complete only by donating a voluntary contribution to the Chief Minister’s Distress Relief Fund after posting an image of the shaved head in the HQS Facebook page and challenging another friend, he adds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/now-a-tonsorial-challenge-to-beat-the-lockdown-blues/article31232177.ece
02 April 2020||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Masks, sanitisers distributed to police||Police personnel need to work with determination and keep their inspiration intact in the days to come to tackle the COVID-19 as lockdown will be implemented more stringently, according to Kurnool Superintendent of Police Fakkerappa Kaginelli. Distributing gloves, goggles, masks, and sanitisers to the police personnel at Kondareddy Buruju on Wednesday in the presence of Kurnool MP Sanjeev Kumar, the SP, while congratulating the staff on their efforts to contain the movement of people and implement lockdown in true spirit, said that in view of the large number of cases getting reported, the lockdown has to be implemented in strict manner so that people do not fall prey to the dreaded virus. The MP thanked philanthropists for coming forward in a big way and donating several items needed by the personnel. He said that a free food distribution camp was being run every afternoon at Kondareddy Buruju.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/masks-sanitisers-distributed-to-police/article31232682.ece
02 April 2020||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Delhi returnee dies; tests negative for COVID-19||A 60-year-old person, who attended the Tablighi Jamaat religious congregation at Hazrat Nizamuddin in Delhi died at the Government General Hospital(GGH) here on Wednesday. The doctors said he was also tested for COVID-19 on March 27, but it came out to be negative. They said he died due to acute exacerbation of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease(COPD) with hemiplegia and a condition of diabetes and hypertension. District Collector G. Veerapandian has warned people against spreading any misinformation or rumours regarding this death and said that criminal action would be initiated them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/delhi-returnee-dies-tests-negative-for-covid-19/article31232675.ece
02 April 2020||Mangaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man held for spreading rumours||A man was arrested in Mangaluru for allegedly spreading malicious content and rumours on social media against Karnataka government functionaries engaged in the work against COVID-19. He has been identified as Nizam alias Neeza. He was produced before a local court and remanded to judicial custody on Tuesday, Police Commissioner P.S. Harsha said in a tweet. Nizam has been accused of spreading malicious content and rumours about government functionaries involved in the anti-pandemic work using the social media platform “Idhu namma dhwani”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/man-held-for-spreading-rumours/article31232189.ece
02 April 2020||ONGOLE/NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Prakasam records 4 new cases, Nellore 2||With four persons who recently returned from Delhi testing positive for coronavirus in Prakasam district, authorities doubled their efforts to track down hundreds of persons who have also returned from the national capital recently. The four new cases have taken the total number of infected persons in the district to 15. Three of the persons who contracted COVID-19 hail from Islampet in Ongole. The fourth person who tested positive hails from Chimakurthy town and had also attended the religious congregation in Delhi, Prakasam District Health and Medical Officer Dr. S.Appala Naidu said while overseeing implementation of the cluster containment strategy. Taking a dim view of the Tablighi Jamaat meeting in Nizamuddin, which is said to be responsible for a large number of cases across the country, State Energy Minister Balineni Srinivasa Reddy requested all those who attended the congregation to voluntarily undergo screening in the interest of their families and friends. The district administration has so far identified 130 persons who had returned to the district after attending the Tablighi Jamaat meeting, Collector P. Bhaskar said. “There is a possibility of some more persons having visited Delhi without reserved train tickets,” he said. All those who had returned from Delhi and those who came in contact with them had been quarantined. Twenty Rapid Response Teams (RRTs) implemented the cluster containment action plan in the colonies coming under a 3-km radius of Islampet and also in the entire Chimakurthy town. A sanitation drive was undertaken by the civic staff in both the places.  Red alert in Nellore In Nellore, two more persons tested positive for COVID-19, taking the total number of persons who have contracted the disease in the district to three. A red alert was sounded in the 43rd and 47th divisions in Nellore city, from where a large number of persons visited the national capital to attend the Nizamuddin religious congregation. A cluster containment strategy was implemented in Naidupeta and Rebala near Buchireddipalem by health officials. All entry and exit points to the two divisions were sealed to prevent movement of people to and from the containment zones. Meanwhile, lemon growers were in for big trouble due to lack of orders from traders in Delhi, Lucknow, Varanasi and Kolkata. The farmers from upland areas like Gudur and Venkatagiri, who could move only 30 tonnes of the produce per day to Chennai, urged the district administration to come to their rescue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/prakasam-records-4-new-cases-nellore-2/article31232685.ece
02 April 2020||Rajulapudi SrinivasELURU,ANDHRA PRADESH||Curfew-like situation in West Godavari villages||A curfew-like situation was witnessed in many villages in West Godavari district as 13 persons tested positive for COVID-19 on Wednesday. Police restricted movement of people in all towns and villages. Officials collected samples of the people from different places of which 13 tested positive. No case was reported from the district till Tuesday. Police, along with the grama volunteers and Medical and Health department officials visited the houses of people suspected to have contracted the virus and shifted them to quarantine facilities. More than 40 members of Tablighi Jamaat of the district attended Ijtema (annual congregation) at Markaz and attended for prayers at Hazrat Nizamuddin from March 12 to 18. Incubation stage “People from Eluru, Bhimavaram, Akiveedu, Undi, Chintalapudi, Penugonda and other places attended Ijtema. We are trying to find out the details of those who attended the prayers,” said an officer. Eluru Range DIG K.V. Mohan Rao said all those who tested positive were aged below 45 years, and no symptoms of fever and cold were seen, as the disease was in incubation stage in the patients. Locals arranged barricades at the entry points of the streets, where the patients were quarantined in the villages.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/curfew-like-situation-in-west-godavari-villages/article31232692.ece
02 April 2020||Rajulapudi SrinivasMACHILIPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Donors, police reach out to Yanadi families||“We depend on begging. As there is no public movement due to lockdown, we are suffering from hunger. Thanks to the donors and the police who gave us rice, dal and oil,” said a woman, Kathi Nagamani. “Many families in Yanadula Colony are struggling with poverty and finding it difficult to meet both ends. For the last ten days, there has been no proper food. Children, pregnant woman and the elderly in the families are the worst hit,” said another Yanadi woman Bhavani. When the donors visited the colony near here on Wednesday, children and women followed the vehicles expecting some succour from them and queued up in the streets. While senior citizens in Yanadi families were seen peeping through the doors and eagerly waiting for food. “About 250 families are staying in Yanadula Colony, located at Mustakanpeta in the town. On seeing the pathetic situation in their families, police have decided to do some help for them and Additional Superintendent of Police Moka Sathi Babu has adopted the colony,” said Krishna district Superintendent of Police M. Ravindranath Babu. Health problems “Men and children in the families will do rag-picking. Children are seen anaemic and suffering from various health problems due to unhygienic conditions and poverty. They don’t even have proper clothes to wear,” said Mr. Sathi Babu. On Wednesday, the Vijayawada Chamber of Commerce, Automobile Association and the police distributed ration to the Yanadi families in the colony. Additional Director-General of Police Harish Kumar Gupta, Eluru Range DIG K.V. Mohan Rao, Chamber of Commerce secretary Prakash Rao and the SP distributed rice, dal, tamarind and oil to the residents. Mr. Ravindranath Babu said, 10 kg of rice, 1.5 kg of red gram, 250 grams of tamarind, 500 grams of onion and 500 grams of edible oil were distributed among the Yanadi families, Class-IV employees and home guards in the Police Department. Speaking on the occasion, the Additional DGP complimented the SP, ASP and the Chilakalapudi police for their gesture and said that no family should stay with hunger in the colony. Mr. Mohan Rao asked the residents to maintain cleanliness and stay indoors to prevent the spread of coronavirus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/donors-police-reach-out-to-yanadi-families/article31232236.ece
02 April 2020||Staff Reporter VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Legal Metrology officials raid rythu bazaars, ration shops across the State||Officials of the Legal Metrology Department conducted surprise checks in rythu bazaars, malls, milk parlours, and fair price shops across the State on Wednesday. Controller of Legal Metrology and Inspector-General of Police (IGP) M. Kanta Rao checked the scales at the rythu bazaar in Indira Gandhi Municipal Corporation (IGMC) Stadium. Checks and balances The IGP, along with Estate Officer K. Chandra Mohan, and Inspector Ch. Vasudeva Rao verified and checked the equipment and interacted with the public. He directed the rythu bazaar Estate Officer to display price boards and make public announcement repeatedly. Later, Mr. Kanta Rao inspected the malls and asked whether the management was selling goods as per MRP. Raids were also conducted at Machilipatnam, Nellore, East Godavari and other districts. “Cases have been booked against violators for selling goods at excess rates,” the IGP said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/legal-metrology-officials-raid-rythu-bazaars-ration-shops-across-the-state/article31232227.ece
02 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,ANDHRA PRADESH||60 from Jamaat in quarantine in Kerala||Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Wednesday said at least 60 persons who returned to Kerala from the Tablighi Jamaat centre at Nizamuddin in New Delhi early in March had been quarantined. Mr. Vijayan said there was no cause for panic. The State had foreseen their return and ensured their quarantine. The police had helped identify and trace them. The centre had organised meetings before the national lockdown. Scores of people from Kerala had visited the centre as part of their religious beliefs and the situation was the same in places of worship of other faiths in the country. He said COVID-19 recognised no religion or geographical boundaries. The government had found that attempts were being made by some divisive elements to stigmatise people of a particular faith for the pandemic. The State would not tolerate such devious attempts. It would prosecute those who indulge in such malicious propaganda. Mr. Vijayan said the German government had conveyed its appreciation of Kerala’s efforts to trace 232 of its citizens in various locations during the epidemic. The country had informed that these citizens had reached Germany safely.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/60-from-jamaat-in-quarantine-in-kerala/article31232182.ece
02 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kerala Cabinet nod for ‘salary challenge’ for govt. employees||The Cabinet has given the go ahead for the Salary Challenge for State government employees. The Cabinet on Tuesday decided to collect one month’s salary from government employees to meet the financial burden incurred by the spread of COVID-19. The funds would be routed to the Chief Minister's Distress Relief Fund. Ministers would contribute Rs. 1 lakh each to the fund. The final decision on the mode of implementing salary challenge will be made after eliciting the response of the employees, sources said. Earlier, the government had announced a similar challenge to meet the fiscal exigency during floods and about 80% employees responded positively by contributing a month’s salary in instalments. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan later clarified that the government had passed no order making it compulsory for employees to give a month's salary to the CMDRF. He said the government would create a different head of account in the treasury to deposit COVID-19-related contributions to the CMDRF. He said Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala was right in demanding that the government exempt class four employees, casual workers and temporary staff from the Salary Challenge. He debunked Mr Chennithala's allegation that the CMDRF fund collected for flood relief had been diverted unethically for other purposes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kerala-cabinet-nod-for-salary-challenge-for-govt-employees/article31232185.ece
02 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Film crew stuck in Jordanian desert||Filmmaker Blessy has written to the government and the Kerala Film Chamber to take steps to ensure the return of a 58-member Aadujeevitham film crew, including actor Prithviraj, who are currently stranded in Jordan. Responding to the appeal, Culture Minister A.K. Balan has promised to take all necessary actions. The crew had been shooting the second schedule of the film at the Wadi Rum desert in Jordan for the past weeks. According to a Facebook post by Prithviraj, the Jordanian authorities, who had earlier given a go-ahead for the shoot, revoked the same on March 27 as the prevailing restrictions in Jordan had to be further strengthened. “We have now been told that an immediate permission for shoot to resume is unlikely due to the situation and hence our next best option would be to return to India at the first available opportunity. As we had originally planned to stay and shoot in Wadi Rum till the 2nd week of April, our accommodation, food and supplies are taken care of for the immediate future,” wrote Prithviraj. He further wrote: “We completely understand that given the circumstances around the world, our team of 58 might not be the biggest concern of authorities back home now, and rightfully so. But we also felt that it was our duty to let all concerned know about the situation and keep them updated. There are thousands of Indians around the world waiting to get back home and we hope when the appropriate time and opportunity arrives, we are also able to come back to India.” CM intervenes Mr.Balan said Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan had got in touch with Union Minister of State for External Affairs V. Muraleedharan as soon as he came to know about the issue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/film-crew-stuck-in-jordanian-desert/article31232186.ece
02 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Staff may face salary cut||A drastic reduction in non-Plan expenditure, mainly rationalisation of salary bills of the government, is being seriously explored to mitigate the impact of the fiscal shock rendered by COVID-19. The State Planning Board is understood to have discussed a cut in the salary of government employees and has concluded that none should be spared of the onus of sharing the impact of the virus outbreak that has battered the economy. Political weapon Though the Cabinet has approved a Salary Challenge for government employees, it may not elicit a positive response from all sections, mainly the Opposition United Democratic Front which has used it as a political weapon to target the government. Service organisations affiliated to the UDF too may toe a similar line. In this context, it has been proposed to study the models put forward by the Telangana and Maharashtra governments. Though the 11th pay revision commission headed by K. Mohandas has come into being and initiated the preliminary procedures, the commission may take a more realistic approach in the wake of the present crisis and may not make liberal recommendations, sources said. Debt-servicing, payment of salary and pensions and administrative expenses are some of the main components of non-Plan expenditure. Repayment of debts cannot be deferred. Hence, the government would have to drastically cut down on the administrative cost as part of the revenue mopping exercise. This includes a cut in fuel bills, creation of posts, deputation of staff and even conduct of conferences, celebrations and such others. Putting a cap on all activities at one go may not be feasible, but the government would have to take a call on ending all wasteful expenditure to overcome the crisis. Moreover, the virus outbreak has made it imperative for augmenting the infrastructure facilities in the health-care sector and that would again raise the demand for more resources, sources said. Not a tough task Before opting for a salary cut, the government would take the stakeholders into confidence. But given the gravity of the crisis, convincing them of the need for sharing the burden may not be a tough task, sources said.  It has been proposed to study the models put forward by the Telangana and Maharashtra governments||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/staff-may-face-salary-cut/article31232183.ece
02 April 2020||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||Celestial wedding at Vontimitta on April 7||The auspicious Sita Rama Kalyanam will be conducted at the temple of Sri Kodandarama Swamy at Vontimitta in Kadapa district on April 7, said Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams Chairman Y.V. Subba Reddy. The annual Brahmotsavams will be celebrated from April 2 to April 11 without any deviation from the established procedures. The festivities would be carried out in ‘ekantham’ (private) and those interested could witness the proceedings live on TTD’s Sri Venkateswara Bhakti Channel (SVBC), Mr. Subba Reddy said. At the Tirumala temple, the abhishekam as well as the asthanam in connection with the Sri Rama Navami festival would be organised in the sanctum sanctorum on April 2 .Condemning certain social media posts in unequivocal terms, he said video grabs relating to the performance of certain rituals were actually shot at the makeshift temple at Alipiriand clarified that no camera or video is allowed to be taken beyond the dwajasthabham inside the Tirumala temple.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/celestial-wedding-at-vontimitta-on-april-7/article31232564.ece
02 April 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Motorcyclists too will not be allowed to cross borders’||The lockdown will be intensified very soon in such a manner that even two-wheeler riders will be prohibited from crossing the inter-district and inter-State borders. Deputy Chief Minister K. Narayanaswamy and Panchayat Raj Minister Peddireddi Ramachandra Reddy, during a review meeting with the district officials, made an announcement to this effect, which will have a serious impact on Chittoor district, which shares border with Tamil Nadu as well as Karnataka, not to speak of Anantapur, Kadapa and Nellore districts in the State. Plea to Muslims The idea is to keep the number of victims and suspects fixed as such movement could alter the figures and upset the government’s plans. “Samples of the 28 persons in Chittoor district who returned from the Nizamuddin Jamaat congregation have been collected and tested, of which five tested positive,” Mr. Narayanaswamy said, adding that their family members had been sent to quarantine. While 1,610 beds were ready in Tirupati, another 2,000 would be readied in the Chittoor, Kuppam and Madanapalle areas. He appealed to Muslims not to visit mosques understanding the gravity of the situation and hold their prayers at home. Apart from Delhi Jamaat, those who attended similar congregations in Chennai and Bengaluru should also be screened, Mr. Ramachandra Reddy insisted, whose total number is pegged at 112.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/motorcyclists-too-will-not-be-allowed-to-cross-borders/article31232700.ece
02 April 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||MLA reaches out to workers||Srikalahasti MLA Biyyapu Madhusudhan Reddy has reached out to migrant workers from Bihar and Odisha, who are now stranded due to the prevailing lockdown at the Srikalahasti Pipes Factory at Rachagunneri. He bought gunny bags full of wheat flour, rice, potatoes and tomatoes for the migrant families, who number around 1,500 in all.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/mla-reaches-out-to-workers/article31232686.ece
02 April 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Prisoners released||As many as 72 prisoners were released from various sub-jails in Chittoor district, as per the Supreme Court’s orders in the wake of lockdown. The number of prisoners released is 15 in Chittoor, 32 in Tirupati, 22 in Madanapalle, two in Srikalahasti, and 1 in Piler.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/prisoners-released/article31232687.ece
02 April 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘April power bill is the same as March’||Due to the inability of the field workers to make door-to-door visits to distribute the power bills following the lockdown, the Andhra Pradesh Southern Power Distribution Company Limited (APSPDCL) has announced to replicate the March month’s bill for April for all LT consumers. Discom Chairman and Managing Director H. Haranatha Rao has announced that in the interest of the consumers’ health and hygiene, the bills for April 2020 will be despatched in the form of SMS over their mobile number by April 4, and the amount will be the same as charged for March 2020. However, the LT aqua and HT connections will have to pay the actual amount, he added. The amount could be paid before April 18 without any fine, and instructions to this effect have been given to the Superintending Engineers of the five districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/april-power-bill-is-the-same-as-march/article31232701.ece
02 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||About 70 positive cases traced to Nizamuddin, says Jagan||Expressing concern over the spurt in the number of confirmed cases of COVID-19 in the last 48 hours, Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Wednesday said the government was doing its best to trace those who returned from the religious congregation at Nizamuddin and test each one of them and their contacts lest the risk of the spread of coronavirus should increase. Of the 87 individuals tested positive so far, about 70 have contracted the virus at the massive gathering at Nizamuddin, which was attended by 1,085 persons from Andhra Pradesh, he said, pointing out that 585 of them turned out to be COVID negative and the test results of the remaining are awaited.  ‘No need to panic’ “There is nothing stigmatic about COVID, which is like any fever or flu, hence those feeling sick should get themselves diagnosed to know if they are afflicted with the virus and take necessary treatment before the infection passes to healthy individuals,” he said in a televised address to people. While saying that, the CM cautioned the elderly and sick people against taking the their vulnerability to COVID lightly as it posed a greater danger to them than others. But, no person, even if he or she was sick, should panic, he suggested. He sought to infuse courage in the people, saying that the disease was completely curable provided treatment was taken in time and other measures followed. The CM said 81% of the confirmed cases were successfully treated at home and that self-isolation for 14 days was an effective way to confront the disease. Only up to 5 % of the infected persons were under intensive care. The Chief Minister thanked the people’s representatives, government officers and employees etc. for consenting to the deferment of salaries and remunerations, which was necessitated by the drastic fall in revenues on the one hand and the tremendous financial burden imposed by COVID containment efforts on the other.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/about-70-positive-cases-traced-to-nizamuddin-says-jagan/article31232704.ece
02 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||State bites the bullet, defers salary payments||With it’s revenue streams drying up owing to the lockdown imposed to prevent the spread of COVID-19, and it’s containment measures entailing an additional burden on the exchequer, the Andhra Pradesh government has resorted to deferment of salaries, wages, remunerations, honorarium and pensions on a gross basis to salvage the situation. The deferment is in respect of the above payments for March 2020 payable in April 2020 and it will be in force till further orders. According to a G.O. dated March 31, the deferment is 100% in respect of the Chief Minister, Ministers, MLCs and MLAs, chairpersons and members of corporations, elected representatives of all local bodies and people holding equivalent posts. Class IV staff spared It is 60% for All India Service Officers, 50% for all other government employees, including work-charged employees and persons engaged as direct individuals through third parties except Class-IV employees. The deferment is 10% for Class-IV, outsourcing and contract employees and village and ward secretariat employees. Further, the deferment is applicable to serving and retired employees of all PSUs, government-aided institutions, organisations, universities, societies, autonomous and semi autonomous bodies etc. In case of bills already uploaded for payment, the deferment would be centrally affected through the CFMS. While for bills pertaining to March 2020 which were yet to be uploaded in CFMS, the clearance woud be only after the provisions of this G.O. were implemented.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ap-bites-the-bullet-defers-salary-payments/article31232172.ece
02 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Doordarshan likely to telecast lessons for social welfare students||To tide over the lockdown crisis that forced schools to shut down and send children to the safety of their homes, the Andhra Pradesh Social Welfare Residential Educational Institutions Society (APSWREIS) plans to rope in Doordarshan (DD) Kendra, Vijayawada, to telecast classroom lessons to its students in dedicated slots in the morning and evening hours. “We want to reach out to at least our Class 10 students through the State-owned television channel to impart classes and help them prepare well for their examinations,” V. Ramulu, society Secretary, told The Hindu.  Mr. Ramulu says, “Responding favourably to my proposal, the government and the DD have agreed, in principle, and if all goes well, the telecast will start in a couple of days. The society runs 189 schools across the 13 districts of the State with a 1.07 lakh student strength. Of them, over 13,000 students are from Class 10. “We are identifying teachers who have the facility to shoot videos using i-Phones and other electronic gadgets,” says Mr. Ramulu. The videos of the teachers explaining the lessons will be shot at their homes and sent online to Mr. Ramulu, who will edit them before forwarding them to the government television channel for telecast. Interactive mode Each telecast session will last for 45 minutes and will be followed by an interactive session, wherein the students can get their doubts cleared through a phone-in facility. The society, for now, intends to focus on training students in main subjects such as mathematics, science and English. The initial plan of reaching out to the students using WhatsApp platform has to be dropped as 50% of the students do not have access to it. “We have zeroed in on DD as almost 90% of the children even in remote villages have access to television,” Mr. Ramulu says. “This is the only way to connect the students to their teachers in this hour of crisis,” he adds. Students going to the social welfare schools mostly come from rural background, and the new arrangement will enable them to learn their lessons sitting in the confines of their homes.  For now, the society intends to focus on imparting training to the students in important subjects such as mathematics, science and English V. Ramulu Secretary, APSWREIS||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/doordarshan-likely-to-telecast-lessons-for-social-welfare-students/article31232707.ece
02 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||25 lakh poor people to get house sites on April 14||The government on Tuesday issued modified guidelines for the distribution of 25 lakh house sites to the poor in the urban and rural areas under the ‘Navaratnalu - Pedalandariki Illu’ (houses for all the poor) programme as per the directions of the High Court. The government is tying up with HUDCO and other organisations for obtaining loans, apart from getting necessary approvals under the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (PMAY). As per G.O. MS No. 99 issued by Principal Secretary (Revenue) V. Usharani, the house sites will be allotted at a concessional rate of Rs. 1 to the beneficiaries with white ration cards. A sum of Rs. 20 (Rs. 10 towards the cost of stamp paper and Rs. 10 for lamination charges) will be collected from them. Sale prohibited The beneficiaries have to use the sites for no purpose other than constructing houses. Sale of vacant house sites is prohibited. But the beneficiaries, after construction of houses and occupying them for a minimum of five years, can transfer the property in case of any necessity, subject to the conditions imposed by the banks and financial institutions that extend credit for constructing the houses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/25-lakh-poor-people-to-get-house-sites-on-april-14/article31232696.ece
02 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Nearly 80% pensions disbursed, says official||Special Commissioner (disaster management) K. Kanna Babu stated in a press release on Wednesday that almost 80% of the pensions were disbursed with the help of 2.50 lakh ward and village volunteers. Over 59 lakh beneficiaries would be getting relief during the prevailing crisis as a result, he said. The State government decided to call off the biometric authentication at the time of disbursement of the benefits, Mr. Kanna Babu said. He said that the government was using the geo-tracking mobile application to ensure transparency and efficient delivery of pension and other social security benefits to the targeted sections.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/nearly-80-pensions-disbursed-says-official/article31232279.ece
02 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Essentials delivered to 3,000 homes’||Door delivery of groceries and other essentials by local stores enabled by the Vijayawada Municipal Corporation has found many takers in the past five days since its launch. Since March 27, 2,969 orders were placed by 43 stores in various locations of the city, said VMC chief V. Prasanna Venkatesh. To promote door delivery services, Mr. Venkatesh conducted a meeting with the representatives of grocery stores and hypermarkets at Tummalapalli Kalakshetram here on Wednesday. Mr. Venkatesh said that the time has come to further promote door delivery of essentials in order to strictly comply with the social distancing measures. “The State government has launched a mobile application and website called apecs.app through which people can place orders. For orders worth less than Rs. 500, a delivery charge of Rs. 25 can be charged. For orders above Rs. 500, there will be no delivery fee,” Mr. Venkatesh said. He asked traders not to ignore phone calls from the public citing staff shortage.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/essentials-delivered-to-3000-homes/article31232688.ece
02 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Bail out aqua ryots’||BJP State president Kanna Lakshminarayana has appealed to Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy to take steps for mitigating the impact of lockdown on aquaculture farmers and horticulturists. Mr. Lakshminarayana said in a letter to Mr. Jagan that aquaculture farmers in East and West Godavari and Nellore districts were facing shortage of feed and ice and problems in marketing their produce. Horticulturists, particularly those in Rayalaseema, were finding it difficult to market sweet lemons and papaya. In a separate letter, he requested the CM to clear the pending reimbursement of tuition fee to colleges for 2018-19 and 2019-20 in respect of all categories of students.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bail-out-aqua-ryots/article31232705.ece
02 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Postal services continue’||Chief Postmaster General Andhra Pradesh Circle, Ram Bharosa, said since postal services were categorised as essential services, all post offices in the circle were providing services like ATM facilities among other services.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/postal-services-continue/article31232231.ece
02 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Transport Dept. extends validity of vehicle documents||In view of the COVID-19 lockdown, the Transport Department has extended the validity of fitness certificates, permits and driving licences for vehicles till June 30. In a statement released on Wednesday, Deputy Transport Commissioner, Krishna district, S. Venkateswara Rao, said the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways had asked all State authorities to treat the vehicle documents that expired since February 1 as valid till June 30. The move was aimed at ensuring hassle-free transportation of cargo during the 21-day lockdown to curb the spread of the virus. Mr. Rao said the decision was taken to facilitate people facing difficulties in renewing the validity of various documents related to the Motor Vehicles Act and the Central Motor Vehicle Rules due to the lockdown.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/transport-dept-extends-validity-of-vehicle-documents/article31232708.ece
02 April 2020||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||IPS officers donates three days’ salary to CMRF||DGP D. Gautam Sawang and A.P. IPS Officers’ Association secretary Ch. Dwaraka Tirumala Rao handed over a letter donating the three days’ salary of the IPS officers in the State, to Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Wednesday. The amount was contributed to the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund (CMRF) to help the State tackle the situation arising out of COVID-19. “I salute the police families, particularly the parents and spouses of the personnel, for their cooperation. I request the policemen and the officers to take care of their aged parents, spouse and children, and their personal health,” the DGP said. He complimented the association for its gesture.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ips-officers-donates-three-days-salary-to-cmrf/article31232711.ece
02 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||High alert in city, district after Jamaat returnees test positive||With five more people testing positive for COVID -19 in Visakhapatnam in the last two days, taking the count to 11, the authorities have declared several areas as hotspots on Wednesday. The count of positive cases witnessed a rise after many people who returned to the city after attending a religious congregation organised by Tablighi Jamaat at its headquarters Nizamuddin Markaaz in New Delhi between March 13 and 15, showed signs of infection. Around 20 returnees with suspected symptoms and another 42 who had come in contact with them have been isolated in the last two days and five of them have been tested positive. The situation has created a panic like situation and the district administration has sounded a high alert. “We are in the process of straightening the curve. We are on the job of identifying those who had attended the Delhi meet and quarantining them. Basing on the symptoms, we are either putting them on home quarantine or shifting them to quarantine facilities or isolation wards,” said Tourism Minister Mutamsetti Srinivasa Rao. Declared hotspots Even as the lockdown continues, several areas in the city have been declared as hotspots after the Delhi incident and have been cordoned off. An extensive drive to sanitise the areas has begun. Extensive sanitation work is being undertaken at Anakapalle (rural), Anakapalle (town), Gopalapatnam, Narsipatnam, Pedagantyada, Akkayyapaelm and Thatchetlapalem. “Many Tablighi Jamaat returnees are from these areas. We are in the process of identifying their contact list. The lockdown is being implemented very seriously in these areas,” said Police Commissioner Rajeev Kumar Meena. According to Collector V. Vinay Chand, ambulances, along with the required medical and paramedic staff, have been kept on standby. They are being rushed to bring people to isolation wards. It is learnt that around 50 police teams under the supervision of ACP or DSP rank officers have been deputed to the respective areas. Clampdown in Padmanabham Meanwhile, the security forces have barricaded 11 villages in Padmanabham mandal, after four positive cases reported from there. The spree began after a person with a travel history to London was identified and subsequently three others from his family were found to have contracted the infection. A complete lockdown has been clamped in the radius of 3 km, which has been declared as the containment zone. According to Paderu Sub-Collector S. Venkateswar, who is heading the cluster containment committee, after the first positive COVID-19 case was reported from Padmanabham mandal, 26 direct and indirect contacts including the family members, drivers, maids, friends, neighbours have been placed under quarantine. A few indirect contacts have also been told to stay under home quarantine, he said. “As many as 107 teams have conducted a survey to check the health conditions of residents in the cluster containment zone. Spraying activities is on ,” he said .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/high-alert-in-city-district-after-jamaat-returnees-test-positive/article31232722.ece
02 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||2,000 beds readied at isolation wards in city||As many as 2,000 beds were added to isolation wards at several hospitals in the city, in the wake of a fresh wave of COVID-19 cases. The overnight addition of beds was necessitated after the State recorded 43 cases in a single day on Tuesday, with all of the cases directly linked to a Tablighi Jamaat meeting held in Delhi recently. In Visakhapatnam, 62 persons have been kept in isolation in the last two days as most of them had attended the meeting. Five persons among the 62 have already tested positive and officials expect the number to rise as all those who attended the meeting are believed to have been in close contact with each other at the meeting as well as during their journey home. A 46-bed isolation and treatment facility was opened at GIMSR (GITAM) Hospital at Rushikonda on Wednesday, and a 100-bed isolation facility was set up at the NRI Hospital at Seethammadhara. “Hospital officials have been told to discharge the existing patients and not to admit any new cases. In view of the social distancing norms, adequate space is being ensured between the beds,” Dr. P.V. Sudhakar, principal of Andhra Medical College, said on Wednesday. “Isolation facilities have been arranged at Shraddha Hospital, St. Joseph’s Hospital and Apollo Hospitals at Ram Nagar. In all, 2,000 beds have been arranged at various hospitals for COVID-19 cases. The Government Hospital for Chest and Communicable Diseases (GHCCD) has a 100-bed isolation ward. A 50-bed facility will be set up the Government ENT Hospital for use, if required,” said Dr. Sudhakar. “Maternal and child healthcare facilities are being offered at King George Hospital (KGH) and the Victoria Government Hospital (Ghosha Hospital). Children and pregnant women from private hospitals are also coming here as many private hospitals are extending COVID-19 services. A 20-bed ward has been opened at KGH as women and children with symptoms can be shifted there,” Dr. Sudhakar said. Most of the equipment required for the setting up of a COVID-19 testing centre at KGH is ready. Testing centre However, one machine is still en route from Mumbai, with its transportation being delayed due to the lockdown. Once the machine is brought here, the testing centre will be up and running, officials said. Meanwhile, an emergency meeting was held by KGH Superintendent G. Arjuna to review the preparedness of the staff and house surgeons. It was decided to treat the existing and emergency cases with a skeletal staff. The Superintendent deputed 100 house surgeons and 100 staff nurses in addition to doctors to VIMS for COVID-19. “A decision has been taken to train all house surgeons and staff nurses for emergency cases, apart from proper disposable of PPEs after attending to the patients,” said Dr. Arjuna.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/2000-beds-readied-at-isolation-wards-in-city/article31232714.ece
02 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Relief for CGHS beneficiaries||Beneficiaries of the Central Government Health Scheme (CGHS) need not visit wellness centres to buy their prescription medicines, and can buy them from regular medical stores till April 30. The need for a non-availability certificate has been temporarily done away with, with beneficiaries being required to submit bills at wellness centres where their cards are registered for reimbursement, Director Sanjay Jain said. Another order permitted issue of drugs to authorised representatives of beneficiaries aged above 60 years, those undergoing immuno-supressant treatment like organ transplant and chemotherapyor other illness compelling home stay.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/relief-for-cghs-beneficiaries/article31232719.ece
02 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Containment strategy will be completed today: Collector||Collector V. Vinay Chand has said that of the total 11 COVID-19 positive cases reported from the district, one patient has been discharged after the sample was confirmed negative after treatment. “Door-to-door surveys are being conducted in residential areas from where positive cases were reported, and in the containment zones. The objective is to identify people with suspected symptoms in those areas. The containment strategy will be completed by Thursday,” said Mr. Vinay Chand while apprising the details to Chief Secretary Nilam Sawhney through a video conference on Wednesday. Infection count All the 10 positive patients in the district are undergoing treatment, he said. “The number of people with suspected symptoms in the district stands at 195. These suspected cases include 54 foreign returnees, 61who came in contact of foreign returnees; 24 Tablighi Jamaat meeting returnees and 47 people came in contact with them; and nine others,” he said. The 11 positive cases reported from the district include two foreign returnees, four people who who came in contact with foreign returnees and five people who returned after attending the Tablighi Jamaat meeting in Delhi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/containment-strategy-will-be-completed-today-collector/article31232718.ece
02 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ban imposed on functioning at city fishing harbour||A ban has been imposed on harvesting, auction and retail marketing of fish at the fishing harbour in the city till further orders. The decision was taken as part of the measures to control the spread of COVID-19, on the directions of Collector V. Vinay Chand, said Fisheries Joint Director K. Phani Prakash. Social distancing norms “With thousands of auctioneers, retailers and consumers coming in groups to the fishing harbour, it was becoming practically impossible to implement the social distancing norms,” he said here on Wednesday. Officials of the fisheries and police departments held a review meeting and concluded that it would be difficult to control the crowd at the fishing harbour. The officials submitted a report to the Collector, who issued the ban orders. Mr. Phani Prakash said that the ban would be in force till further orders were issued.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ban-imposed-on-functioning-at-city-fishing-harbour/article31232725.ece
02 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||36 cases booked for ‘discrepancies’ in weight||The Legal Metrology Department conducted inspections at rythu bazaars, provision stores and fair-price shops in the city and district, and registered 36 cases of alleged discrepancies in weight. Eight cases were registered against the medical shops, milk booths and packaged drinking water supply companies on charge of violation of MRP norms. The inspections were conducted in various areas of the city and at Anakapalle and Narsipatnam on the directions of the Controller of Legal Metrology M. Kanta Rao. District Controller of Legal Metrology B. Madhusudhana Reddy formed nine teams to conduct the raids.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/36-cases-booked-for-discrepancies-in-weight/article31232716.ece
02 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Land allotted to Accord University cancelled||Collector V. Vinay Chand, through a GO on Wednesday, cancelled the allotment of government land measuring 50 acres at Yendada and 70 acres at Vangali made in favour of Accord University. The land was allotted in 2017 for setting up of a multi-stream university with regard to health sciences, including a multi super-speciality hospital. After examining the deal and “discrepancies” in the survey numbers, it was deemed fit to cancel the allotment, the GO said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/land-allotted-to-accord-university-cancelled/article31232723.ece
02 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Centre plans to extend financial aid to fisherfolk||The Centre has launched an exercise to consider giving monetary assistance to the fisherfolk affected by the ongoing lockdown following COVID-19 pandemic. “We are finding out the financial implications. Direct assistance, if any, will be given by the Government of India in consultation with other Ministries concerned,” Rajeev Ranjan, Secretary, Department of Fisheries, Ministry of Fisheries, Animal Husbandry and Dairy, told The Hindu over phone on Wednesday. When contacted, he said they were compiling the data received on the number of fishers, fish farmers and fish vendors affected by the lockdown from various States and Union Territories.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/centre-plans-to-extend-financial-aid-to-fisherfolk/article31232709.ece
02 April 2020||April 02 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Temporary home||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/temporary-home/article31232694.ece
02 April 2020||April 02 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Business as usual||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/business-as-usual/article31232192.ece
02 April 2020||April 02 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Waiting for buyers||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/waiting-for-buyers/article31232238.ece
02 April 2020||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||Sri Rama Navami to be low-key at Bhadrachalam||Perhaps for the first time in recorded history of the famous Sri Sitaramachandra Swamy temple in Bhadrachalam, the celestial wedding - Sri Sitarama Tiru Kalyanam - will be held in a low-key manner devoid of devotees inside the temple complex on the occasion of Sri Rama Navami festival on Thursday. The historic temple dedicated to Lord Sitarama built by illustrious saint composer Bhakta Ramadasu in the 17th century in Bhadrachalam remained out of bounds for devotees since March 20 this year in the wake of coronavirus threat and subsequent nationwide lockdown.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/sri-rama-navami-to-be-low-key-at-bhadrachalam/article31232536.ece
02 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||SCCL declares lay-off in all its 27 UG mines||The Singareni Collieries Company Limited (SCCL) has announced lay-off in all its underground mines except the mechanised sections in five of them from the second shift of April 1, following the directions from the Director General of Mines Safety (DGMS) and Chief Inspector of Mines. According to a circular issued by Director (Operations) of SCCL S. Chandrasekhar on Wednesday, the DGMS through its circular dated March 30 has instructed stoppage of manual underground face working, manual drilling and other support work as a precautionary measure to contain the spread of coronavirus. Accordingly, all operations in the underground mines and departments have been suspended by declaring lay-off to the employees. The lay-off for the employees of the underground mines would be in force from the second shift of April 1 to third shift of April 14 or until the lockdown is lifted. However, the mechanised sections in ALP, VK-7 Incline, Shanthikhani, GDK-11A Incline and Kondapur undergroud mines as also the opencast mines and projects would be in operation “till further orders”. There are a total of 27 underground mines in Singareni. Further, it is stated that the lay-off being declared as per the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, would be in force for all employees covered under the National Coal Wage Agreement (NCWA), except the essential staff. In spite of the lay-off, all precautionary measures announced earlier to prevent the spread of Covid-19 would continue to be in force. The lay-off wages would be paid as per the provisions of the Industrial Disputes Act. The circular issued by the SCCL also said all safe operating procedures shall be followed by employees working in the mechanised sections of five underground mines as well as 18 opencast mines as also the essential staff in other places.. Several trade unions in SCCL and a few political parties such as CPI and CPI (M) have been demanding closure of underground mines to prevent the spread of coronavirus among the Singareni workers and their families from the day one of the lockdown.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/sccl-declares-lay-off-in-all-its-27-ug-mines/article31232522.ece
02 April 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Chief Minister briefs Governor||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao called on Governor Dr. Tamilisai Soundararajan at Raj Bhavan on Wednesday evening. Accompanied by Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar, DGP M. Mahender Reddy and senior officials, the Chief Minister is said to have briefed her about the steps the State government is taking to control COVID-19. Meanwhile, the Governor on Wednesday interacted with IIT-Hyderabad director Prof. B.S. Murthy via video conference and complimented him and his team of professors who have suggested “Bag valve mask” as an alternative to meet any surge in demand for ventilators to fight COVID-19. Prof. Murthy informed the Governor that IIT-Hyderabad developed the design of the bag valve mask, also known as Ambu bags. He said they are inexpensive, easy to use and portable small devices. “It is easy to use as breathing support in case of an emergency. These bags can be manufactured for less than Rs. 5,000,” he said. However, to start the production, the bags need to be tested and clearance secured from the Union Government. Earlier in the day, Ms. Tamilisai distributed food packets and asked officials to continue their distribution to the poor and needy everyday between 12 noon and 1 p.m. till coronavirus is contained. She also extended her greetings on the occasion of Sri Rama Navami. “All of us together should pray Lord Rama to give us enough strength to combat COVID-19,” the Governor added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/chief-minister-briefs-governor/article31232535.ece
02 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘OPDs not closed but telemedicine preferred’||As people are slowly getting adjusted to life under lockdown to curb the spread of COVID-19, anxiety levels are mounting for some about access to medical care for other ailments. Most people go to the OPDs of corporate hospitals for any health issue rather than the ‘over-crowded’ government hospitals. Now, the government advisory to discourage crowds at OPDs for some time did unnerve families with senior citizens and chronic patients. When this concern was presented to corporate hospitals, their response was clear — OPDs are not closed and people can still walk in though telemedicine facility is available in every major hospital. People themselves have stopped coming to OPDs unless the health condition demands physical examination, they said. Group president of Apollo Hospitals Hari Prasad said that those with health issues that need consultation in person must come to hospital. But, those who can consult a doctor over telephone should make use of Apollo’s telemedicine facility. “Apollo Hospital at Jubilee Hills gets 150 to 200 tele-consults per day. The footfall to OPDs have come down by 40% to 45%,” he said. Director of Yashoda Hospitals Group Abhinav said that OPD now was mainly for patients with chronic ailments. Bhaskar Rao of KIMS said they were practising telemedicine even before crisis.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/opds-not-closed-but-telemedicine-preferred/article31232502.ece
02 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||On safe disposal of victims’ bodies||Giving final bath to the body of a loved one before cremation or burial is a ritual practised across cultures, but the kin of COVID-19 deceased should refrain from it. According to the standard operating procedure specified in the document ‘COVID-19: Guidelines on Dead Body Management’ released by the Director General of Health Services, Union Ministry of Health & Family Welfare, relatives may not be allowed to bathe, kiss or hug the dead body. Further, religious rituals which do not require touching of the body may be allowed. All staff handling dead bodies in the isolation area, mortuary, ambulance and the workers in the crematorium or burial ground should be trained in infection prevention control practices. While moving the body from the isolation area, all tubes, drains and catheters should be removed carefully, and any puncture holes or wounds should be disinfected and dressed with impermeable material. Oral and nasal orifices of the body should be plugged. Family of the patient may be allowed to view the body at the time of removal from the isolation ward with application of standard precautions. The dead body should be placed in leak-proof plastic body-bag, exterior of which should be decontaminated. Thereafter, the body may be handed over to the relatives or taken to mortuary. The body should be stored in cold chambers maintained at 4 degrees centigrade in mortuary, and the mortuary should be disinfected after removal of the body. Embalming should not be allowed. Autopsies should be avoided as lungs could be source of infection. The vehicle used for transportation should be disinfected thereafter. After funeral, the staff of crematorium or burial ground along with family members should thoroughly wash hands and disinfect them. Ash after cremation does not pose any risk and can be collected for last rites. Large gathering should be avoided at the funeral. Used and soiled linen should be put in bio-hazard bag, outer surface of which should be disinfected. Used equipment should be autoclaved or decontaminated. Committee formed The State government on Wednesday issued orders constituting a committee of officers from various departments to monitor disposal of the dead bodies of persons suspected of or confirmed to have died of COVID-19. A high-level meeting chaired by Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar, with DGP Mahender Reddy and officials from Health, Medical and Family Welfare and other departments, has decided to set up the committee to ensure that the bodies are disposed of as per the standard operating procedure (SOP) stipulated by the Central government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/on-safe-disposal-of-victims-bodies/article31232517.ece
02 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Postal department renders phenomenal service||Department of Posts, Telangana Postal Circle, has done a remarkable work since the announcement of lockdown. Its staff ensured delivery of 4,400 bags and 5,525 examination parcels related to SSC and Intermediate Boards. The articles were handed over to respective evaluation centres in coordination with the officials concerned of the Education department. In the initial days of lockdown, only 37 head post offices, including Hyderabad GPO, were kept open. Three mobile vans were pressed into service covering colonies of Padmaraonagar, Golconda Chowrasta, Gandhi Nagar, Jamisthanpur, Chikkadpally, Ashoknagar, Kulsumpura, Karwan Sahu, Toli Chowki, Mehdipatnam, and Golconda, and facilitated transactions like deposits and withdrawals. In all, 23,768 SB transactions with deposits of Rs. 30.04 crore and withdrawals amounting to Rs. 19.15 crore have been undertaken in addition to disbursement of Rs. 48,32,800 through ATMs at the post offices. The department, however, opened from March 31 all the 633 Delivery Post Offices across the State. From Wednesday, 4,967 Branch POs across the State started functioning. Savings Bank operations such as deposits/withdrawals, and balance enquirer, among others will be provided in addition to speed post, registered post, eMO, and parcels, but they may be subject to delay as flights, road transport and rail network, are suspended, the Department sources said. The department is also making all arrangements for the disbursement of Aasara pensions at the Branch Post Offices to over 22 lakh beneficiaries and instructions were issued for maintenance of hygiene, social distancing. Necessary sanitizers, masks and gloves are also being supplied to the Post Offices and staff, according to a department’s release. Even for the distribution of life saving medicines, surgical items, saline bottles, oxygen cylinders to various Primary Health Centres in all the 33 districts, the Department’s Mail Motor Service (MMS) tied up with Telangana State Medical Infrastructure Development Corporation. As many as 20 MMS vehicles are pressed into service during the current situation. The MMS vehicles are also transporting essential supplies to migrant workers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/postal-department-renders-phenomenal-service/article31232503.ece
02 April 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||A helping hand to Nagaland migrants||Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) officials and police reached out to help a batch of migrant workers from Nagaland, who ran out of rations and money, on Wednesday. It began with a tweet by an indigenous people’s activist with a photograph of six persons: “Please help our brothers and sisters they’re from Nagaland.” It had a few names, a phone number and a poignant selfie with all the six in the frame. “We work in a nearby salon. I came to Hyderabad five months ago. One more person joined us last month. With the salon shut, we exhausted our savings as well as rations. We didn’t see any other option,” said Bae Ezang, who lives at Road No. 12, Banjara Hills. As the news of their plight spread, the zonal commissioner of Khairatabad tweeted within two hours: “Complaint attended by our UCD wing and issue resolved.” “We got six kg rice and Rs. 500 each and that should take care of our immediate needs. We received a number of calls and offers of help too,” said Mudoduyi Venuh, who hails from Dimapur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/a-helping-hand-to-nagaland-migrants/article31232505.ece
02 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Rs. 9,000 crore to be raised through market borrowings||With dwindling resources on the financial front, the State government has apparently decided to mobilise funds in the form of auction of securities and market borrowings in the coming days to tide over the crisis. Accordingly, the State government has decided to mobilise around Rs. 9,000 crore in the first quarter of the current financial year. The Reserve Bank of India has announced the indicative calender of market borrowings by State governments and also released the weekly schedule of auctions to be held during the period along with the name of States who have confirmed participation along with the tentative amounts indicated by them. According to the indicative calender, the State government has decided to opt for market borrowings of Rs. 9,000 crore in six instalments. Instalments The first instalment of Rs. 2,000 crore would be raised on April 13 followed by Rs. 1,000 crore on April 28, Rs. 2,000 crore on May 12, Rs. 1,000 crore on May 26, Rs. 2,000 crore on June 9 and Rs. 1,000 crore on June 30. The development assumes significance in the light of Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao’s assertion at a press conference the other day that the State government would convince the Central government and the RBI for availing overdraft if need be to bridge the gap in the resources. The government had raised Rs. 2,573 crore through sale of securities during the auction conducted by the RBI on March 30. Of the total amount, Rs. 1,000 crore was with a tenure of five years with cut off price/yield of 6.88%, Rs. 750 crore with tenure of eight years and cut off price/yield of 7.25% cent and the remaining Rs. 823.97 crore with tenure of 10 years and cut off price/yield of 7.35%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/rs-9000-crore-to-be-raised-through-market-borrowings/article31232527.ece
02 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Apollo calls report on COVID-19 fake||There is no truth in the information being circulated on WhatsApp and other social media that 150 COVID-19 patients have been admitted to Apollo Hospitals, Jubilee Hills, from two areas in the city, said a release from the hospital. Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of Apollo Hospitals Y. Subramanyam, in a statement here, said that the information was false and a clear case of trouble-mongering. “Apollo Hospitals strongly condemns the circulation of this fake news with malafide intentions. We have lodged a complaint with the authorities and hope the culprits will be booked,” the CEO said in his statement. Apollo Hospitals is functioning normally and over 200 non- COVID-19 patients are being treated at the hospital currently. The hospital is committed to the safety of these patients and staff and stringent measures have been instituted to prevent cross infections. People can continue to use its services unhindered, he said. He added that a COVID-19 unit with 50 beds has been set up away from the hospital and suspected or confirmed patients were being treated at this facility. “This ensures complete separation of COVID-19 and non-COVID patients,” he said. In addition, the hospital has set aside isolation facilities with its hotel partners and stable patients needing isolation were housed in these facilities, the statement said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/apollo-calls-report-on-covid-19-fake/article31232501.ece
02 April 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Cong. seeks white paper on State finances||The Telangana Congress has expressed serious concern over the State’s finances, as reflected in the slashing of salaries, and demanded the government to release a white paper on the status, including its spending on the coronavirus treatment. Addressing a press conference here, Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee (TPCC) president N. Uttam Kumar Reddy along with CLP leader Mallu Bhatti Vikarmarka, ex-Deputy CM Damodar Rajanarasimha, ex-PCC president V. Hanumantha Rao and AICC spokesperson Dr. Dasoju Sravan said the pay cuts announced just a week after the lockdown indicate how badly the government has dealt with its finances in the last six years. While unable to pay the salaries, the government has called for tenders of more than Rs. 20,000 crore for Kaleshwaram project, they said, and asked where would the money come from when the government is incapable of paying salaries to the employees in the crucial time. “What was the need to call for those tenders during an health emergency and when the entire focus should be on dealing with the epidemic,” they asked. The TPCC chief said that the party has been pointing out since the beginning that the TRS government had set wrong priorities and that it was spending money for non-productive purposes which pushed the State into deep crisis. He said Telangana had inherited debts of nearly Rs. 69,000 crore at the time of its formation on June 2, 2014. Now, the debts have scaled up to nearly Rs. 3 lakh crore, they alleged. Mr. Vikramarka asked the rationale behind the pay slash when it has not built any hospitals or recruited new staff or bought new equipment to deal with the crisis. He demanded that the government pay the entire amount in two instalments on the lines of other States like Maharashtra.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cong-seeks-white-paper-on-state-finances/article31232529.ece
02 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||More funds pour into CM Relief Fund||Many prominent personalities have pledged their support to the State government in its efforts to prevent the spread of coronavirus.  Aurobindo Pharma donated Rs. 11 crore worth cash, sanitisers, and medicines. A cheque for Rs. 7.5 crore was given to Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao at Pragathi Bhavan on Wednesday by Aurobindo Pharma vice-chairman Nityananda Reddy and director Sharatchandra Reddy. They announced that Rs. 2.5 crore worth sanitisers, Rs. 1 crore worth medicines will be given to the State government. Workers who cook mid-day meals all over the State have announced that they will be contributing Rs. 2.65 crore. A consent letter to this affect was given to Mr. Rao by Midday Meal Scheme Workers Union president Vadla Hanmandlu. Nava Bharath Ventures donated Rs. 2.5 crore. Its chariman D. Ashok, CEO V. Vikram Prasad, ED Nickel handed over the cheque to Mr. Rao. Meanwhile, Grand Pharma donated Rs. 1 crore. A cheque for the amount was given by Grand Pharma MD Srinivas Sadu to Mr. Rao. Asian Institute of Gastroenterology (AIG) gave a donation of Rs. 50 lakh. AIG chairman Dr Nageshwar Reddy, vice-chairman Dr. DVS Raju handed over the cheque to Mr. Rao.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/more-funds-pour-into-cm-relief-fund/article31232526.ece
02 April 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Wanaparthy DSP warns lockdown violators of ‘corona treatment’||There seems to be no let-up in complaints of police high-handedness in the State, with another incident coming to light on Wednesday. In a video, in possession with The Hindu , Wanaparthy DSP Kammaripally Mallikarjuna Kiran Kumar is seen warning villagers that the police will thrash the backs of lockdown violators with rough wooden sticks that are fitted with sharp nails. “The flesh from your backs will fly off, and you will not be able to move for at least two months. I urge the sarpanch and other village heads to spread the message among youth, especially those consuming alcohol, gambling and playing cricket,” he said while addressing villagers over the public address system, in the presence of several police officers. The incident took place on Tuesday afternoon in Kanimetta village of Kothakota mandal in the district even as Mandal Parishad president (MPP) Gunta Mounika was seen standing next to the DSP. Instructions Further, Mr. Kumar said that he had already instructed the circle inspector and sub-inspectors to raid the villages soon after getting information and shift the violators to the district headquarters. According to him, in Wanaparthy, the police have started ‘corona treatment’, a new technique in which rough wooden sticks with sharp protrusions are used to thrash people. “The flesh from your backs will fly off when you're trashed with these sticks, with your pants down. Now, you decide if want to get the treatment or stay safe at home and contain the spread of the virus,” the DSP threatened, adding that the sole purpose of his visit to the village was only to send this message. The officer in question did not return the calls from The Hindu . However, one of his subordinates in the district maintained that Mr. Kumar intends to instil fear among people since they are regularly defying the lockdown. “We received several complaints from that village. His address to the villagers should not be seen in a negative light since several people have been very unruly and have no regard for the law,” he said. Ever since the lockdown was announced, many such incidents of boastful police threats of violence have been reported from different parts of the State, with many threats quickly turning into atrocities. Videos from all parts of the State are commonly seen on social media, where police officers were thrashing and abusing doctors, nurses, journalists and several others who come under essential services. SI attached On Tuesday, Khammam Commissioner of Police Tafseer Iqbal attached Mudigonda SI Satish Kumar to Armed Reserved Headquarters after he was caught on camera thrashing a few gamblers outside their houses, which evoked much criticism. Last week, Khammam ACP Ganesh was attached to the DGP office here for assaulting a young lady doctor, who was on her way to a hospital. The police excess on general public goes in the face of the ‘People Friendly Policing’ initiated and promoted by DGP M. Mahender Reddy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/wanaparthy-dsp-warns-lockdown-violators-of-corona-treatment/article31232533.ece
02 April 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Rural MLAs face bigger challenges than their urban counterparts||Challenges in the rural areas seem to be more for the people’s representatives in this time of crisis while their urban counterparts seem to be relatively at ease as rural areas come with multitude of problems to deal with lesser resources available. The teleconference of Huzurnagar MLA Shanampudi Saidireddy with officials of his constituency revealed the tough time officials and MLAs go through in the rural constituencies. Right from farmers to farm labourers to nuisance creating tipplers to keeping track of the home quarantined and the influx of people at the Registered Medical Practitioners (RMPs) and the shortage of staff to the high expectations of people - its one mad scenario. A highly motivating aspect of the entire episode is the enthusiasm shown by the officials in trying times and the motivation from the MLA. An agriculture officer expressed that farmers were apprehensive of their produce despite Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao categorically committing that every grain would be bought by the government while there was a complaint of tipplers violating the norms trying to get liquor as the wine shops were closed. The MLA asked the agriculture officers to reach out to farmers to inform that procurement will start in a couple of days as gunny bags are expected any time and farmers should have confidence in CM’s assurance. At the same time, he instructed the police officers to ensure that the belt shops are closed at any cost to avoid gatherings. “It’s tough to explain to rural people how dangerous the virus is and most of our energy is consumed for this,” he told The Hindu . Health officials are facing a unique problem in the rural areas as it is the season for chickenpox as well and it comes with fever that people are mistaking for coronavirus symptoms. “We are trying to educate people in all the health centres,” an official explained. However, Mr. Saidireddy asked officials to ensure that RMPs do not treat fever and cold symptoms and immediately alert the Health department. ‘Arrest’ option An official said quarantined people are now being monitored through geo-tagging and several seem to be violating it. “The only way to control them is to arrest and move them to isolation centres,” Mr. Saidireddy said. Seizure of vehicles ferrying farm labourers was another concern but the MLA instructed that they have to travel only in tractors and not in autorickshaws, which would be seized at any cost. One common aspect repeatedly raised by several officials was youngsters gathering in lanes and bylanes due to low presence of police. “This is a common problem even in cities,” the MLA said and revealed that police were already overburdened and the educated youngsters should cooperate with the government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/rural-mlas-face-bigger-challenges-than-their-urban-counterparts/article31232531.ece
02 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Tablighi Jamaat is non-political, peaceful’||The Tablighi Jamaat took shape after its founder Maulana Mohammed Ilyas returned from performing Haj in 1925, as a religious reformatory movement with focus on Meo Muslims of Mewat. It is often described as a loosely based organisation, but has a hierarchy with an ameer (leader or chief) in charge of administrative circles that could be a neighbourhood, district or State. While there are no card carrying members, the organisation, has workers across the globe running into lakhs. Workers include students, professionals and even daily wage earners. It has its global headquarters at the Banglewaali Masjid in Nizamuddin, Delhi. A senior Tablighi Jamaat functionary said that the organisation is ‘non-political’, ‘peaceful’ and inward looking, meaning that it focuses on the Muslim community. One of its primary activities includes constituting jamaats , meaning batches of preachers, who camp in mosques for a duration of usually a day, three days, 10 days, 40 days or four months, and are engaged in largely spiritual activities, and self-finance their travel and food expenses. They also go door-to-door preaching basic tenets of Islam to Muslims with a grassroots level approach, known as gasht meaning perambulation. There are 88 circles in Greater Hyderabad area. These apart, there are 23 circles in Telangana and Andhra Pradesh, with each erstwhile district being a circle. The current chief is Maulana Ikram Ali who was preceded by Maulana Nayeemullah Khan. The Tablighi Jamaat is now divided into two factions. While one is headed by Maulana Saad Kandhalwi, the other is governed by a Shuura, meaning council.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/tablighi-jamaat-is-non-political-peaceful/article31232509.ece
02 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Discom field staff not happy about human contact||At a time when the scare of spread of coronavirus has been making even the newspaper and milk delivery boys runaway from their work, partly due to fear among themselves and partly due to customers refusal to receive the products, some institutions engaged in “essential services” have been continuing their work unmindful of the fear among their employees. Although all the four power utilities in the State have been categorised under the essential services by the State government even during the ongoing lockdown (to slowdown and prevent the spread of coronavirus) to ensure uninterrupted power supply to all categories of consumers, the staff of the two distribution companies (discoms) engaged in revenue collection and other customer services are a worried lot as they need to come in contact with people. “Handling cash being remitted by consumers as part of payment of their energy bills is getting scary, in the wake of coronavirus spread and the news that the virus would spread through the currency notes too as they change hands very often. Besides, maintaining social distance is almost impossible as all those who come to pay bills are not completely aware of the current situation,” a revenue collection employee in Kukatpally, preferring to be anonymous, told The Hindu . According to officials, there are about 80 customer service centres (CSCs) in the State, including 13 integrated CSCs, in the City and four outside offering various power-related customer services, including revenue collection. There are another 63 energy revenue offices where bill payment is accepted from consumers. Of them, 22 are in the City and 41 across the State. The CSCs and ICSCs also offer services such as category change, name change and additional load request of existing consumers as also processing new service connection applications. However, they all require biometric authentication of the consumers. “We are taking care like cleaning the biometric authentication recording device with sanitiser after use by every consumer coming to us, but it all filled with risk. People, particularly from IT sector are coming to the centres for getting the work done since most of them are working from home now,” another discom employee manning an ICSC stated. They want the government to discontinue the services which require close human-to-human contact such as collecting the biometric authentication as has been done by the passport and property registration services, which also involve biometric authentication, to prevent the virus spread. The biometric attendance system even in the corporate and few other main offices of the four power utilities has been discontinued by rolling back to signing of attendance register in the wake of coronavirus scare, but not the customer services involving such system, they pointed out.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/discom-field-staff-not-happy-about-human-contact/article31232520.ece
02 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Free video eye care consultation||MaxiVision Super Speciality eye hospitals has launched free telephonic or video primary eye care consultations for people suffering from eye related problems in view of the lockdown. There are many patients who require regular check-ups, while a few others might be having eye-related ailments but unable to reach out to doctors in the current situation. This is to extend support to government efforts to maintain social distance for a COVID-19 free India. The service is available from April 1 to 14.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/free-video-eye-care-consultation/article31232504.ece
02 April 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||St. Francis College’s online classes||St. Francis College for Women has taken to online classes to its degree students of various streams, who are interacting with their teachers on various online platforms and video conferencing platform Zoom. Online meetings discussed the plan of action.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/st-francis-colleges-online-classes/article31232511.ece
02 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Property tax deadline extended to June 30||The Telangana State government has, on Wednesday, issued orders extending the period for collection of property tax pertaining to the financial year 2019-20, by three months, up to June 30. This decision was taken in view of the COVID-19 lockdown and resultant drop in property tax collection for the year. The orders will be applicable to all the urban local bodies in the State including GHMC, and no penalty will be charged for late payment, the order said. GHMC’s property tax collection of Rs. 1,420 crore up to March 31 has fallen much short of the year’s target of Rs. 1,800 crore, owing to the lockdown.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/property-tax-deadline-extended-to-june-30/article31232512.ece
02 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Screen patients at pvt. hospitals, urge petitioners||Telangana High Court on Tuesday directed the State government to file counter affidavit in a PIL petition seeking direction to government to use private hospitals for quarantining individuals stranded on the borders of Telangana and Andhra Pradesh in the backdrop of complete lockdown. Hyderabad-based lawyers S.S.R. Murthy and Raj Kumar Sistia, who filed the plea, requested the HC to instruct the government to utilise resources of private hospitals for safe return of the stranded persons or others requiring medical assistance. A bench of Justice M.S. Ramachandra Rao and Justice K. Lakshman, after hearing the plea through video-conferencing, instructed the government to explain its stand on the matter. Advocate General B.S. Prasad told the bench that government had set up 343 shelter homes at different points along the border between the two Telugu-speaking States. As part of the measures to check further spread of coronavirus, the government decided not to allow anyone to cross the border. He told the bench that Health Secretary would file the counter affidavit with additional details. The petitioners said that, following the country-wide lockdown announced by the Centre on March 24, thousands of persons hailing from AP and working in Hyderabad started for their homes only to be stopped by AP police at the borders. Persons working in IT sectors and students living in private hostels were among those heading to AP. Despite presenting the No Objection Certificate issued by Telangana police, the AP police did not allow these persons to enter the State, the petitioners said. Eventually, the matter was resolved following an understanding between the two State governments. However, still thousands of people are stranded in Telangana and wish to reach their homes, the petitioners said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/screen-patients-at-pvt-hospitals-urge-petitioners/article31232524.ece
02 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||BDL contributes Rs. 9.02 crore||Bharat Dynamics Ltd (BDL) has contributed Rs. 9.02 crore to the PM-CARES Fund to aid the fight against COVID-19. The aid was raised through contribution of one-day salary by the employees and the company’s CSR (corporate social responsibility) funds, said a release on Wednesday from the Government of India enterprise under the Ministry of Defence.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bdl-contributes-rs-902-crore/article31232525.ece
02 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Niloufer doctors test negative||Telangana Health department officials heaved a sigh of relief as 11 junior doctors, and a few senior doctors, Class-IV employees, from Niloufer Hospital tested negative for coronavirus. The healthcare professionals gave their samples for tests after they got exposed to a three-year-old toddler, whom they have treated, tested positive for coronavirus. The toddler is in Gandhi Hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/niloufer-doctors-test-negative/article31232510.ece
02 April 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Two held for ‘smuggling’ liquor||Kandukur police of Rachakonda on Wednesday arrested two cousins for trying to smuggle liquor to Hyderabad from Marriguda village in Nalgonda. They seized 104 bottles of beer and whisky. Acting on a tip-off, the Kandukur police intercepted an SUV and found a huge quantity of liquor bottles. Ande Mahendar (28) and his cousin Ande Srinivas (35) from Agarmiyaguda village in Kandukur purchased liquor from one Ganesh in Marriguda. They were transporting the liquor to their village to sell at a high price. The duo were arrested and remanded to judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/two-held-for-smuggling-liquor/article31232519.ece
02 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||People in riot-hit areas who applied for ration online yet to get response||The residents of north-east Delhi’s riot-hit Noor-e-ilahi and Ghonda said they had applied for ration on the Delhi government’s website but are yet to her back from the authorities. The government recently launched a website for services listing “food required”, “ration required”, “Rs. 5,000 compensation for construction workers”, “pension amount” and “e-pass for travel during curfew”. At least 120 residents had applied for ration and none of them have either received a call or been visited by any official, it has been learnt. The area is inhabited mostly by unskilled workers, who hail from Uttar Pradesh or Bihar, and are now out of work. One of the residents, identified as Salman, who runs a medical shop, said he had helped families apply for ration on the government’s website, adding that they had also requested for e-passes. “People in the neighbourhood are niether educated nor technologically sound and so they sought help. I applied for ration for 120 families,” he said and mentioned that the application was made four days ago. “Many of those who have applied do not belong to Delhi and do not have ration cards here either. They are out of work due to the restriction of non-essential services and are in need of ration,” he said. A 23-year-old woman, identified as Imrana, a resident of Noor-e-ilahi, who used to work in a diaper-making factory, said that her family has eight members, four of whom, including her, were working. All of them, however, at home, without work and without money. “The employers said that they would not give money and we don’t know when this lockdown will end. My brother is a rickshaw-puller and my father ran a small business which has been shut now. We are left with little money which will not last long. That is why we thought of applying for ration,” she said. “ Socha tha sarkar se thodi madad ho jaegi lekin vo bhi nahin ho rahi [We thought that the government would help us a bit, but that is not happening]”. Gulfam Mustafa, who hails from Bihar and resides in Noor-e-ilahi, used to sew cloth material for a living. He said that he had also applied for ration to be able to feed his family of six in the coming days. “This will go on for months. We are getting help from good samaritans of the area who donate food, but what about a week or two from now?” he said. Mr. Salman said that after there was no response from the government on the requests, he wrote to the Chief Minister on his official email id, sharing the problem and requesting him to look into the matter. The email, he said, was sent on March 30.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/people-in-riot-hit-areas-who-applied-for-ration-online-yet-to-get-response/article31232461.ece
02 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Home Ministry wakes up to Tabligh event||As many as 360 foreigners were deported from Delhi in 2018-19 for reportedly indulging in “missionary activities” while they were here on a tourist visa, a senior Home Ministry official has said. In 2016-17, the number of such violators stood at 120, the official said. Currently, foreigners who participated in a Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Nizamuddin have come under the Home Ministry scanner, which is the nodal agency that gives permission to any foreigner to participate in any international event. Any conference/event application is routed through an Indian mission abroad and without the Home Ministry’s permission, the event cannot happen and participants are not issued visas. According to a Home Ministry statement, some 2,100 foreigners visited India for Tabligh programmes since January 1 this year. “Usually, all the foreign nationals visiting India as a part of Tablighi team come on the strength of tourist visa. MHA had already issued guidelines that they should not indulge in missionary work on tourist visa. State Police would be examining categories of visas of all these foreign TJ [Tablighi Jamaat] workers and take further action in case of violation of visa conditions,” the Ministry said. ‘Visa conditions violated’ On Wednesday, Cabinet Secretray Rajiv Gauba asked Directors- General of Police to initiate “action” against the foreigners and the organisers of the event as the “foreigners who had participated in the Tablighi Jamaat had violated visa conditions” The Ministry is apparently set to blacklist the 824 foreign Tablighi members who came here on a tourist visa and “participated” in religious congregations and meetings. The Jamaat congregation, part of regular Tabligh activity, was attended by people from Nepal, Malaysia, Afghanistan, Myanmar, Algeria, Kyrgystan, Indonesia, Thailand and Sri Lanka. The Tabligh position In a press release issued on Tuesday, the Tablighi Jamaat said. “When Hon’ble Prime Minister announced the “Janta Curfew”, for 22nd March 2020, the ongoing programme in Markaz Nizamuddin was discontinued immediately, however due to sudden cancelation of rail services across the country on March 21, 2020, a large group of visitors who had to depart by way of railways got stuck in the Markaz [centre] premises.” “Before the Janta Curfew could be lifted at 9 p.m. [on March 22], the Hon’ble Chief Minister of Delhi announced lockdown of Delhi beginning at 6 a.m. on March 23, 2020 till March 31, 2020, thereby further diminishing any chances of these visitors availing road transport for their journey back home. Despite this challenging situation, with the help of Markaz [centre] administration, around 1,500 visitors left Markaz [centre] Nizamuddin by availing whatever meagre transport was available,” the release said. “Suddenly on the evening of March 23, a further nationwide lockdown was announced by the Hon’ble Prime Minister with clear message for people to stay-put wherever they are. Under such compelling circumstances there was no option for Markaz Nizamuddin but to accommodate the stranded visitors with prescribed medical precautions till such time that situation becomes conducive for their movement…” the statement said. “During this entire episode, Markaz [centre] Nizamuddin never violated any provision of law, and always tried to act with compassion and reason towards the visitors who came to Delhi from different states. It did not let them violate the medical guidelines by thronging ISBTs or roaming on streets,” the release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/home-ministry-wakes-up-to-tabligh-event/article31232464.ece
02 April 2020||New Delhi,||Anti-smog guns installed at 14 large project sites in the Capital||More than two months after the Supreme Court ordered the installation of anti-smog guns at all large construction sites among other locations to reduce dust pollution, the devices have been installed at 14 of the 47 large projects in Delhi. But most of the government agencies, including the municipal corporations and the Public Works Department, are yet to comply to letters sent by the Delhi Pollution Control Board (DPCC) to instal anti-smog guns, said officials. The anti-smog gun sprays nebulised water droplets into the air through high-pressure propellers, which help dust particles settle down. “The remaining 33 sites have informed us that they will instal the anti-smog guns as soon as they get the supply,” a Delhi government official told The Hindu.  On January 13, the Supreme Court had said that anti-smog guns should be mandatory in projects that require environmental clearance from the State or Centre, and have a built-up area of over 20,000 square metres. The DPCC then made a list of all projects that have taken an environmental clearance and wrote to them on January 22, asking them to come up with a plan in 30 days, and then gave them a deadline of March 18 to instal the devices. “We will analyse the condition and give a fresh deadline to the remaining 33 projects,” the official said. The DPCC wrote to all the five municipal bodies in Delhi, the Public Works Department, National Highways Authority of India (NHAI), National Buildings Construction Corporation (NBCC), Delhi Development Authority (DDA), and Delhi Jal Board (DJB) on January 16, and instructed them to issue directions to contractors who carry out the latter’s works to instal anti-smog guns. “Most of them are yet to respond to us except for NHAI and NBCC. All the municipal corporations said that they are busy with dealing with the COVID-19 outbreak. We will send them reminders,” the official said. An anti-smog gun has been parked at the construction site in India Trade Promotion Organisation (ITPO). But it has been used only at one spot. “For the last few days, it has been at this spot. We need a tractor to pull it as the 500-litre tank makes it heavy for even two people to move it. So, we have been using it only at this part of the site,” a worker told The Hindu . Though the site had rented two such devices, one was not functioning and the other was taken out of operation, according to officials at the site. The device was not able to control dust at the site as it was stationed only spot in the vast area.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/anti-smog-guns-installed-at-14-large-project-sites-in-the-capital/article31232459.ece
02 April 2020||New Delhi,||Nizamuddin event: Centre seeks action against officials responsible||A Central government standing counsel has written a letter to the Delhi High Court seeking to initiate suo motu action against the State government officials responsible for alleged negligence in preventing the religious congregation in Nizamuddin here that led to further spread of COVID-19. Central government Standing Counsel Gaurang Kanth, a resident of Nizamuddin East, also sought action against the organisers and participants of the religious congregation at Alami Markaz Banglewali Masjid in Nizamuddin West for “compromising the safety of people and contributing to the spread of COVID-19”. He also sought immediate action and remedial measures for curtailing and preventing the spread of COVID-19 in Nizamuddin. Mr. Kanth said that being a Central government Standing Counsel, he required requisite permission from the Centre for filing an appropriate writ petition before the High Court on the issue. However, in view of the emergency situation and being an officer of the court, it was his duty to bring this to the attention of the court, he said. Mr. Kanth said the religious gathering was organised in violation of the March 16 order issued by the Health and Family Welfare Department of the Delhi Government in accordance with the Delhi Epidemic Diseases, COVID-19 Regulations, 2020 under the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897. “These gatherings were also in violation of another order issued by the Office of the Commissioner of Police, New Delhi, which was effective from March 18, 2020, wherein assembly of five or more individuals was prohibited,” it said. “However, despite the said orders being in place, the congregation [being conducted] shows carelessness and gross negligence of the State government and other officials, including the District Magistrate [South East] in handling the emergency situation in Nizamuddin. It cannot be denied that officials were not aware of the presence of such a large gathering at the markaz in Nizamuddin West,” he said in the letter. “This clearly constitutes a lapse on the part of the State government machinery and is inexcusable and unpardonable,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/nizamuddin-event-centre-seeks-action-against-officials-responsible/article31232455.ece
02 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Sikh organisation approaches govt. as people seek shelter at gurdwara||The Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC) on Wednesday said it had approached government authorities after a large number of people gathered at the Majnu Ka Tila gurdwara, seeking shelter. DSGMC president Manjinder Singh Sirsa said that 205 people, who had taken shelter at the gurdwara, had been shifted to a school in Nehru Vihar by the authorities. “Migrant workers from Faridabad, Noida and Gurugram had reached the Majnu Ka Tila gurdwara hoping to catch a bus for Punjab. Initially, we had arranged for buses to send people back but due to the lockdown, it could not be continued and hence we had approached both the Punjab and Delhi governments,” said Mr. Sirsa. He added that the DSGMC would provide food to the people who were shifted, as requested by the authorities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/sikh-organisation-approaches-govt-as-people-seek-shelter-at-gurdwara/article31232456.ece
02 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Statements of Hazrat Nizamuddin police station staff recorded||Delhi Police on Wednesday recorded the statements of Hazrat Nizamuddin police station staff and occupants of a centre who were in quarantine. The statements were taken over the phone. “We are preparing a list of people who will be questioned. We are also maintaining social distancing during the investigation,” said a police officer. The police said that the evacuation process ended after 36 hours, at 4 a.m. on Wednesday. All occupants were screened by the Health Department and were either shifted to a hospital or sent to quarantine. The building and the area outside were disinfected by a sanitation department team. The entry to the building is restricted till the time the Health Department surveys it. “We have prepared a list of Indians and foreign nationals who were part of the Tablighi Jamaat and have shared it with other States to track the people and put them in quarantine. We also got details of attendees from the people in quarantine. A team of U.P., Haryana, Rajasthan and Himachal Pradesh police visited the area to get more details about the people who went back after attending an event at the centre,” said an officer. A senior officer said that the staff of the local police station claimed that they visited the centre on March 23 and were informed that around 1,000 people had left and the remaining were from other States and it was impossible for them to leave. A video has been provided by the local police where personnel can be seen instructing people to vacate the centre as the event violated the Delhi government’s order prohibiting the gathering of 50 or more people. “We are also probing the claims of Jamaat officials that they had sought permission from the SDM to vacate the centre and that a list of vehicles were given to seek passes,” the officer added. “A Delhi police team visited Maulana Saad’s hometown in western U.P., but he was not there. He was last seen on March 28,” the officer said. We will interrogate him over an audio recording in which he is purportedly heard asking his followers to flout social distancing guidelines, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/statements-of-hazrat-nizamuddin-police-station-staff-recorded/article31232465.ece
02 April 2020||New Delhi,||L-G reviews enforcement of lockdown, preparedness||Lieutenant-Governor Anil Baijal on Wednesday reviewed the enforcement of the ongoing shutdown of non-essential services and medical preparedness amid the outbreak and spread of COVID-19 epidemic in the Capital. Mr. Baijal convened a videoconference for the purpose with Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia and officials, including the Chief Secretary, Additional Secretary (Home), the Delhi Police Commissioner, Secretary (Health), Director (ILBS)/Chairman, STF on the matter. “At the outset, the L-G stated that the administration has to ensure complete lockdown and adherence to social distancing norms at all times. He also advised that effective monitoring of home quarantine cases and ramping up of medical facilities has to be the focal point of all actions,” the Raj Niwas said in a statement. The LG instructed that fire brigade service may be used for disinfecting vulnerable neighbourhoods, especially hot-spot areas, quarantine centres and public places, the statement added. The disinfection, he stated, should be done under the overall supervision of District Disaster Management Authority. Mr. Baijal, the statement said, also reviewed medical preparedness, action initiated for the procurement of medical essentials personal protective equipment, ventilators, nebulisers, medicines, masks, testing kits, discharge guidelines for patients and quarantined and non-hospital isolation/quarantines. “He directed the Health Department to prepare standard operating procedures for post-hospitalisation and post-quarantine care,” the statement added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/l-g-reviews-enforcement-of-lockdown-preparedness/article31232457.ece
02 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||275 foreign nationals identified, quarantined||In a joint search operation, the Delhi Police Special Branch and the Delhi government identified and shifted 275 foreign nationals into quarantine. The people are associated with the Tablighi Jamaat and were staying at various mosques and other places in Delhi, said a police officer on Wednesday. A senior police officer said that after the Tablighi Jamaat incident came to light, they had written a letter to the Delhi government, seeking action against foreign nationals associated with the organisation staying in the city. In a massive search operation, 275 people, including 172 from Indonesia, 36 from Kyrgyzstan, 21 from Bangladesh, 12 from Malaysia, seven from Algeria, two from Afghanistan, two from the USA and one each from France, Tunisia, Belgium and Italy, were rounded up. The remaining are Indians. As many as 109 people were found living in Central district, followed by 84 in the North East district. “A team of district administration, police and the Health Department visited mosques and shifted foreign nationals into quarantine. They were part of the jamaat held in Nizamuddin... In order to decongest the building they were shifted to various mosques across the city,” said a police officer. Delhi Police said it is looking for more foreign nationals and is coordinating with other States to identify more people who were part of the jamaat.  A team of district administration, police and Health Department visited mosques and shifted foreign nationals into quarantine. They were shifted to various mosques across the city Police officer||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/275-foreign-nationals-identified-quarantined/article31232462.ece
02 April 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||Odisha churches live-stream worship to avoid gatherings||At a time when religious congregations are seen as a source of faster spread of COVID-19, churches in Odisha are using technology to make the faithful participate in Sunday worship from remote locations — a first in local church history. After the State government asked the religious institutions to practice social distancing, Internet-based social media came to the rescue of the church leadership. Bhubaneswar-based Church of Christ (Union Church) and Koraput-based Jeypore Evangelical Lutheran Church (JELC) have been reaching out to people by either beaming the Sunday worship live through social media or making available deferred live recordings. “We have been pre-recording the Sunday prayer, songs, reading of the Bible passage by the Pastors and the sermon. The same is sent through different social media channels at the appointed time of worship. We have been doing this after the government issued an alert,” said Church of Christ (Union Church) secretary Paresh Das. Premises closed “The church premises have been closed... we also have prayer, Bible study, women’s and youth programmes through the week,” he said. “This is, perhaps, the first time we are not congregating in the church,” he said. The 140-year-old JELC authorities said though there was some apprehension among old timers over suspension of Sunday worship, everyone was, however, happy to participate in prayer. Every Sunday, only the pastor goes to church and leads the worship. Technology has been helping the people to tide over this unprecedented crisis, church sources said. “Although people are emotional about worship, they are also aware about the life-threatening potential of COVID-19,” said Asish Pal, Bishop of JELC Church.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/odisha-churches-live-stream-worship-to-avoid-gatherings/article31232451.ece
02 April 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||‘No shortage of goods in Odisha’||The Odisha government on Wednesday assured the people that there will not be shortage of essential goods across the State in the remaining days of the lockdown. A seven-member State-level unit has been monitoring the situation to ensure smooth movement of essential goods, said Surendra Kumar, State Water Resources Secretary, who is heading the monitoring unit. The State government has asked the district and municipal administrations to treat trade licence certificates as valid document for movement of essential items, said Mr. Kumar. Stating that long queues of vehicles were noticed at the inter-State borders affecting supply for two days initially, Mr. Kumar said their movement was smooth after Prime Minister Narendra Modi accepted Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik’s suggestion to do away with differentiation of goods as essential and non-essential. Mr. Kumar said the government has also decided to keep all wholesale markets open 24 hours so that small traders and retailers can buy essential goods without facing any rush. He also urged people to go to market twice a week to avoid chances of contracting coronavirus. On rumours, State government’s chief spokesperson for COVID-19 Subroto Bagchi said that any rumour will be dealt with severely. The government will take strong action against rumour-mongers and action for any fake news shall be taken under the IT Act and Epidemic Act, he said. He informed that 610 samples had been tested till Wednesday noon and the number of positive cases stood at four. As many as seven contacts of the fourth patient had been traced. The fourth patient had reached his home in Bhadrak district on March 18. His asymptomatic sample was collected on March 30 and it tested positive on Tuesday, he said. Meanwhile, the Odisha Administrative Service Association announced that members of the cadre will contribute a day’s salary to the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/no-shortage-of-goods-in-odisha/article31232453.ece
02 April 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||Two tie the knot at a police station in Odisha||With COVID-19 restrictions stifling movements across the country, a young couple found no safer place than a police station in Odisha’s Bargarh district to solemnize their marriage on Tuesday. Both Pabitra Sahoo (28) and Lakshmi Meher (24) of Bargarh district had been in love for more than a year and did not want to delay their marriage further. The local marriage registrar office where they planned to get married was closed and temples were out of bound for commoners due to nationwide lockdown. “Both Pabitra and Lakshmi approached us with a written request that they wanted to get married. Due to restrictions, they were not finding proper place for marriage,” said Sadanand Pujahari, inspector of Bargarh town police station. “We confirmed their ages and they were found to be major. Subsequently, we allowed the marriage to take place at police station. Since the government has been insisting on taking precautions, we gave two biscuit, masks and soap as gifts to them,” said Mr. Pujahari. The groom works as an automobile mechanic. Both of them were apprehensive of going to any temple as police were strictly enforcing the lockdown. Pabitra said it would have been embarrassing, had police taken action on them during marriage.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/two-tie-the-knot-at-a-police-station-in-odisha/article31232446.ece
02 April 2020||CHANDIGARH/FAIDAN,||Rising prices add to the woes of the poor||Standing in a queue to get some cooked food to feed her family of five, 30-year-old Khushi in Faidan area of Chandigarh is praying for the ongoing lockdown to end at the earliest. She fears if the lockdown is extended, she would run out of ration and her meagre savings as her husband, the only breadwinner of the family, is sitting idle since the restrictions were enforced. “I am standing here in the queue to get some cooked food as the ration at my home is fast running out and I don’t have much money left to buy essentials if the lockdown continues,” said Khushi, while waiting for her turn at a local gurdwara. The police personnel present on the premises ensured that “social distancing” was maintained during distribution of food. “The local administration recently distributed some ration in the village, but many people didn’t get it. There are hundreds of families here. More ration is needed for them. My husband worked at a construction site on daily wages, but now he has no work, no money. How will we survive? Prices of wheat flour and pulses have also risen,” she said. Another resident Reshma, who worked as a domestic help in houses, said her family had been purchasing ration on credit from a local shopkeeper. “While rice is easily available, getting wheat flour is a little tough these days. Also, prices of wheat and pulses have increased. Earlier 10 kgs of wheat was available at Rs. 250, now the shopkeepers are charging Rs. 300 for the same. Vegetable prices have also increased in the past few days,” she said. Bharati Devi, a housewife, said that two-three days ago ration packets were distributed in the village, but many residents couldn’t get them because of the rush. “I am aware that some disease [COVID-19] is spreading, but for people like us it’s a fight for survival,” she said.  ‘Less branded products’ In Chandigarh’s Sector-49 market, Rajesh Kumar, a grocery store owner, said while supply of most of the essential commodities is almost normal, availability of branded products has gone down a bit. “Branded wheat is one major product which the dealers/wholesalers are not supplying. Pulses are easily available, but the prices have gone up by 15%-20% as the wholesalers have hiked the prices.” Amid reports of LPG cylinder shortage, the All India LPG Distributors Federation has denied any crisis in Chandigarh and Punjab.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/rising-prices-add-to-the-woes-of-the-poor/article31232448.ece
02 April 2020||Ghaziabad,||Muslims fear more ‘social distancing’||The action against Tablighi Jamaat for allegedly hiding information about COVID-19-infected persons on its premises in Delhi’s Nizamuddin has evinced a mixed response from Muslim intellectuals, clerics and professionals. Some fear it will lead to more social distancing with Muslims, others suggest Tablighi Jamaat would no longer be able to function in isolation. Criticising the organisation’s leader Maulana Saad, Zainus Sajidin Siddiqui, Sheher Qazi, Meerut, said he was no authority on Islam. “When most prominent mosques in the world are shut, when top clerics of Deoband and Nadwa have appealed to Muslims to offer prayers at home, why he didn’t come forward in time? He didn’t understand the spirit of Islam. Science and Islam are not at loggerheads. Not taking medicine or not making an effort to get cured during illness, particularly when it could spread to others, amounts to taking one’s life, which is a sin in Islam.” Mr. Siddiqui, who retired as a professor of Sunni theology from Aligarh Muslim University, said the Delhi police should also have acted in time. He appealed to all the Muslims who had been to the Tablighi Jamaat centre in Nizamuddin to come out on their own and get tested. Talking about its political fallout, Mirza Asmer Beg, professor of political science at AMU, said the way a large section of the media was reporting the incident, it would add “fuel to the fire”. “As an outsider, if you watch television, you will feel that the Jamaat was completely at fault. There is hardly any nuance. An indiscretion is being reported as motivated. It will only further the stereotypes against Muslims and widen the gulf in society,” he said. Beyond the headlines, Prof. Beg said, it looked like a ploy to divert attention from the bad optics that the government faced after it failed to address migrant exodus in time. “Also, in Delhi, the BJP and Aam Aadmi Party are engaging in competitive communalism and Muslims are at the receiving end.” He said the Tablighi Jamaat didn’t represent all Muslims. “Many don’t like the way it maintains distance from political issues. It didn’t take a stand on issues like the Citizenship (Amendment) Act and perhaps that is why governments find them harmless.” Atif Khan, a mass communication professional who attended Tablighi Jamaat meetings for several years before parting ways, echoed Prof. Beg’s views. “The Jamaat makes you self-sufficient in every manner, be it public speaking, personal hygiene, understanding of holy books, following a routine and acceptance of human fallacies. However, over a period of time, I realised those who run the show lack in understanding contemporary challenges. The leadership doesn’t think in line with what is going around, technological advancements and imminent changes.”  Community cooperation He said community cooperation in natural disasters could have given them a more inclusive image in society. “It is something Sikhs have been doing for years,” he said. Supreme Court lawyer Fuzail Ayubbi, who has been engaged by the Tablighi Jamaat centre, agreed ignorance of the law excuses no one but he underlined that in hindsight anybody could be wiser.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/muslims-fear-more-social-distancing/article31232441.ece
02 April 2020||JAIPUR,||14 more cases in Rajasthan||Fourteen more COVID-19 positive cases were detected in Rajasthan on Wednesday, taking the tally of infected persons in the State to 90. Thirteen of the infected persons were found in the Ramganj area of Jaipur'’ cufew-bound Walled City, which has emerged as a major virus hotspot. When counted with the 18 evacuees from Iran staying in the Army's wellness centres in Jodhpur and Jaisalmer, who have tested positive, the total number of cases in the State went up to 108. Medical & Health Minister Raghu Sharma said as many as 19 of the confirmed patients had turned negative and 15 of them had been discharged. The 13 infected persons found in Ramganj were the contacts of the first person in the area who had tested positive recently. They were kept in the isolation facilities at Rajasthan University of Health Sciences and the National Institute of Medical Sciences. All of them were being shifted to the Sawai Man Singh Government Hospital in Jaipur.  No travel history The other case was reported from Jodhpur, where a 65-year-old man with no travel history or contact with any patient, tested positive for the disease. After the sealing of the Walled City of Jaipur, the administration decided to monitor the curfew and carry out surveillance of the area with the help of drones. A flag march will also be conducted to instil confidence among the residents of Walled City. Mr. Sharma said 183 persons had been identified in the State after they attended the Tablighi Jamat event in Delhi. Staying in 13 districts of the State, they would be screened and sent to isolation or qurantine as per the medical advice, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/14-more-cases-in-rajasthan/article31232443.ece
02 April 2020||Kolkata,||For this Indian doctor, classes in China’s Chengdu go on as usual||It was around mid-January that Dr. Anushri Mukhopadhyay, a Goa-based ENT surgeon who had taken up a teaching assignment at a Chinese university only months earlier, returned home on a scheduled break. By then, COVID-19 cases had begun to be reported from China but it was still not thought of as a pandemic. Soon, humankind was to find itself in the grip of an unprecedented health crisis and today, parts of the world, including India, are under a lockdown. But one thing continues as normal: Dr. Mukhopadhyay’s classes in China. She is conducting her classes not in China, of course, but from the confines of her home in Goa — via a host of apps. “The college reopened on February 24 as scheduled and I was on the first lecture at 9 a.m. Beijing Time, which was 6.30 a.m. IST,” Dr. Mukhopadhyay, who teaches at the International Medical School at Chengdu city in the Sichuan province of China, told The Hindu . “After a few days of unhindered lecture on the app Rain Classroom, I was forced to shift to another app called Zoom because traffic (on the former) seemed heavy and my signal in Goa was unstable too at times. But Rain Classroom has features like roll calls and setting MCQ questions which makes the experience worth the effort,” she said. “All the apps are synced with WeChat. The lessons get published automatically on it for future retrieval. Students who cannot attend a class can also access them later — that’s the best part. I am also using an electronic board to write and draw diagrams, which fills the absence of a blackboard quite conveniently,” said Dr. Mukhopadhyay, who teaches regional anatomy, genetics, medical ethics, radio-imaging and biostatistics at the university. She teaches two batches of students, one with 38 students and another with 68. They are drawn from various countries across the world, including India, Pakistan, Afghanistan, Indonesia, Nigeria, Guyana and South Africa. “Overall the situation is making me tech-savvy too. I recently purchased a Nikon Z50 to make video lectures. I miss cadaveric dissection though!” she said. Norm of the future And so, the show goes on — the teacher teaches and the students learn — even as panic grips many pockets in the world. It is quite likely that many universities are doing the same, and who knows going ahead, this may just become the norm, with technology wiping out geographical distances and time zones.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/for-this-indian-doctor-classes-in-chinas-chengdu-go-on-as-usual/article31232450.ece
02 April 2020||April 02 2020 00:00 IST,||Punjab reports five new COVID-19 cases||Punjab on Wednesday reported five fresh positive cases of COVID-19, taking the total number of confirmed cases in the State to 46. Besides, so far four virus related deaths have been reported. State’s health department said three positive cases are from Mohali and one each from Ludhiana and Amritsar.  Mobile testing vans Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh, meanwhile directed the health department to make mobile testing vans operational in all the districts having pandemic hotspots to conduct community testing for SARI (Severe Acute Respiratory Illness). The Chief Minister has also ordered a drive to scale up the isolation beds to 5,000 in the next few days to meet any eventuality. Though there are no confirmed estimates available, the State government is preparing for the worst case scenario, said an official statement. Reviewing the availability of essential medical equipment to handle COVID-19 cases in the State, Captain Amarinder has asked the health department to order the necessary protective gear, ventilators, masks etc on a priority basis. According to Additional Chief Secretary Vini Mahajan, continuous testing of samples prepared indigenously by Punjab companies was being ensured and orders for approved equipment had already been placed. Labour shortage With Punjab staring at labour shortage during the wheat harvesting season that is all set to begin, Congress’ Rajya Sabha MP Partap Singh Bajwa has asked the Chief Minister to pay individual labourers a minimum wage for the next 15 days, to ensure their financial security.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/punjab-reports-five-new-covid-19-cases/article31232445.ece
02 April 2020||Paris,||World could face a food crisis: UN, WTO||The heads of three global agencies warned on Wednesday of the risk of a worldwide “food shortage” if authorities fail to manage the ongoing COVID-19 crisis properly. Many governments around the world have put their populations on lockdown causing severe slow-downs in international trade and food supply chains. Panic buying by people going into confinement has already demonstrated the fragility of supply chains as supermarket shelves emptied in many countries. “Uncertainty about food availability can spark a wave of export restrictions, creating a shortage on the global market,” said the joint text signed by Qu Dongyu, head of the UN’s Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, director-general of the World Health Organization (WHO) and Roberto Azevedo, director of the World Trade Organization (WTO). “In the midst of the COVID-19 lockdowns, every effort must be made to ensure that trade flows as freely as possible, specially to avoid food shortage(s)” from developing, they said in their statement. “When acting to protect the health and well-being of their citizens, countries should ensure that any trade-related measures do not disrupt the food supply chain,” they added. U.K.’s highest daily toll Meanwhile, Britain reported 563 deaths on Wednesday, the first time the national toll has exceeded 500, bringing the total fatalities to 2,352, according to official figures. The U.K. government came under renewed pressure to ramp up mass testing of frontline medical staff and the wider community. In the U.S., President Donald Trump warned of a “very painful” two weeks. “This is going to be a very painful, a very, very painful two weeks,” Mr. Trump told a press conference at the White House. “I want every American to be prepared for the hard days that lie ahead,” he said. Deborah Birx, COVID_19 response coordinator at the White House, displayed a chart projecting a range of 100,000 to 240,000 deaths in the U.S., when current efforts at mitigation are taken into account.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/world-could-face-a-food-crisis-un-wto/article31232111.ece
02 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||India welcomes Ghani’s talk team||Welcoming Afghanistan President Ashraf Ghani’s decision to form a team for intra-Afghan negotiations that will include the Taliban, the government said this is a “positive step” for the process of reconciliation in the country. “We view the formation of the team as a positive step which would lead to a peaceful and stable future for Afghanistan free from the scourge of externally sponsored terrorism,” said a statement issued by the Ministry of External Affairs. The statement followed a conversation between External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar and U.S. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo to discuss cooperation on the COVID-19 pandemic. MEA sources said there had also been a “discussion on the situation in Afghanistan”. They said Mr. Pompeo had condoled with Mr. Jaishankar on the death of an Indian national in the March 25 Kabul gurdwara attack, and both leaders resolved to keep exchanging notes on the developing situation. India’s statement also follows similar statements by the UN’s mission in Afghanistan UNAMA, other countries and even Mr. Ghani’s arch political rival former Chief Executive Abdullah Abdullah, that have all hailed his announcement on March 27 of a 21-member negotiating team that included five women, to talk to the Taliban. Although the Taliban rejected the announcement initially, claiming that it was not “inclusive enough”, the group sent a delegation to the Bagram Base outside Kabul on Tuesday to talk about the release of prisoners that had been decided in the U.S.-Taliban agreement in February. Technical measures "They (the Taliban delegation) will pursue the issue of release of the prisoners and will conduct the necessary technical measures,” Taliban spokesman Zabihullah Mujahid, tweeted. The issue of the prisoners release, including 5,000 held by the government and 1,000 by the Taliban, has been a sticking point in the deal, and has meant that intra-Afghan talks planned for March 12 had to be put off. India sent its envoy to witness the signing of the U.S.-Taliban deal but has been cautious in welcoming its content and sceptical of dealing with the Taliban.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/india-welcomes-ghanis-talk-team/article31232088.ece
02 April 2020||COLOMBO,||Sri Lanka needs to scale up testing, say govt. doctors||A powerful trade union of government doctors in Sri Lanka has urged authorities to scale up testing to contain the spread of COVID-19 cases within the country. The number of positive cases reported in Sri Lanka so far is 146. According to the Government Medical Officer’s Association (GMOA), around 80% of the patients infected by SARS_CoV-2 show mild symptoms. “Hence, there is the possibility that they will remain unidentified as carriers of the new coronavirus... those who are in close contact with them too will go undetected unless they start showing symptoms. If tests are carried out, they can be identified early,” the GMOA said in a statement published in the Daily FT . Sri Lanka’s state-run Medical Research Institute and eight other designated centres are currently conducting COVID-19 tests, according to health officials. So far, nearly 2,500 tests have been conducted in all. “We are still largely testing only those with suspected symptoms,” Dr. Nalinda Herath of the GMOA, which is also known to be politically influential. “We have conveyed this to the government and hope they will scale up the tests soon,” he told The Hindu.  ‘Don’t lift curfew’ The GMOA has also suggested that the government should not lift the curfew — which it has been doing in select districts — pointing to the higher risk of transmission on days when people gather in public places. Sri Lanka has been on a nationwide curfew for over 10 days now, with the government partially lifting it in select districts for a few hours. On Tuesday, health authorities reported 21 cases, the highest number detected since the coronavirus outbreak in Sri Lanka. According to a situation report released by the Epidemiology Unit of the Ministry of Health, Colombo district has recorded the highest number of COVID-19 cases in the country — a total of 32 of the total 146. Direct-General of Health Services Anil Jasinghe said health authorities were planning to carry out sample testing among those in “high risk groups”. “So far, we have confined testing to those who are in quarantine centres, but we want to get an assessment of the spread of the virus in the community. For this, we plan to start sample testing shortly,” Dr. Jasinghe said, according to media reports.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/sri-lanka-needs-to-scale-up-testing-say-govt-doctors/article31232093.ece
02 April 2020||Washington,||Trump says ready to help end Saudi-Russian oil price war||U.S. President Donald Trump said on Tuesday he was ready to help resolve an escalating oil price war between Russia and Saudi Arabia that has helped push crude benchmarks to 17-year lows. The threat of a global recession triggered by the COVID-19 pandemic had already hammered prices when Riyadh said last month it would raise exports after a production-cut agreement among top producers flopped in early March. On Monday, Saudi Arabia said it would increase exports further to a record 10.6 million barrels per day from May, deepening a global supply glut as crude recorded its biggest monthly and quarterly price plunges in history. Mr. Trump said he had spoken with his Russian counterpart Vladimir Putin and Saudi Crown Prince Mohammed Bin Salman by phone with the aim of halting the slide. “The two countries are discussing it. And I am joining at the appropriate time, if need be,” Trump said. Saudi Arabia had been exporting around 7.0 million barrels per day under an output reduction agreement among 24-member producer alliance known as OPEC+, which included Russia. OPEC+ failed to reach a deal on further production cuts to shore up sagging prices. Analysts say Riyadh is engaged in a deliberate long-term strategy to capture greater market share by pressuring its high-cost rivals. “Saudi policy will not just drive more expensive forms of oil production out of the market; it will also make it harder for renewable energy to compete with fossil fuels,” said Bernard Haykel, a Saudi expert at Princeton University.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/trump-says-ready-to-help-end-saudi-russian-oil-price-war/article31232109.ece
02 April 2020||SEOUL,||North Korea claims no virus case, says it took early drastic steps||Shin Dong Yun, a scientist from the North Korean Institute of Virology, rushed to the northwestern border with China in early February. There, he conducted 300 tests, skipping meals to assess a stream of people so that “the country is protected from the invasion of the novel coronavirus”. Stories like this, carried in the state-run newspaper Rodong Sinmun , focus attention on one of the stranger oddities surrounding the COVID-19 pandemic: How could North Korea claim to not have a single coronavirus case while countries around the world stagger under the exploding epidemic? North Korea has taken some of the most drastic actions against the virus and did so sooner than most other nations. It sealed its borders in late January, shutting off business with neighbouring China, which accounts for nine-tenths of its external trade. It clamped down on the smugglers who keep its thriving unofficial markets functioning. It quarantined all diplomats in Pyongyang for a month. The totalitarian state’s singular ability to control the movement of people also bolsters its disease-control efforts. But decades of isolation and international sanctions have ravaged North Korea’s public health system. “You can see immediately what’s going to happen if you get a surge of COVID-19 patients streaming in,” said Dr. Kee B. Park, a lecturer at Harvard Medical School who has worked alongside North Korean doctors to help improve the country’s health system. “It will overwhelm the system very quickly.” Lack of testing Many observers of North Korea doubt its claims of not having any coronavirus cases. But a lack of testing equipment may mean it literally has not detected a single case, said Mr. Park. Some accuse North Korea of hiding an outbreak to preserve order. “It’s a blatant lie when they say they have no cases,” said Seo Jae-pyoung, secretary-general of the Seoul-based Association of North Korean Defectors, who said he heard from his North Korean contact that a family of three and an elderly couple died of the virus in the east coast city of Chongjin in mid-March. The North’s leader, Kim Jong-un, is clearly aware of the threat the virus poses to his country’s decrepit health system. Around when Washington announced February 13 that it would allow coronavirus-related humanitarian shipments, North Korea made a rare request for urgent help from relief groups, including diagnostic kits, according to people familiar with the matter.NY Times||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/north-korea-claims-no-virus-case-says-it-took-early-drastic-steps/article31232104.ece
02 April 2020||Tehran,||Iran warns U.S. after it deploys ‘Patriot’ to Iraq||Iran warned the U.S. on Wednesday that it was leading West Asia to disaster in the midst of the COVID-19 pandemic after it deployed Patriot air defence missiles to Iraq. Washington had been in talks with Baghdad about the proposed deployment since January but it was not immediately clear whether it had secured its approval or not. Iran, which wields huge influence in its western neighbour, said that it had not. The U.S. deployment runs “counter to the official position of the Iraqi government, Parliament and people,” a Foreign Ministry statement said. It called for a halt to “warmongering during the coronavirus outbreak” and warned that U.S. military activities in the region could lead it to “instability and disaster”. U.S. forces should “respect the wishes of the Iraqi people and government and leave the country,” the Iranian Foreign Ministry added. The deployment of the missile system comes after a spate of rocket attacks on bases and other facilities used by US personnel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/iran-warns-us-after-it-deploys-patriot-to-iraq/article31232102.ece
02 April 2020||April 02 2020 00:00 IST,||Putin working remotely after doctor tests positive||Russian leader Vladimir Putin has decided to handle his duties remotely, the Kremlin said on Wednesday, after the head of the country’s main COVID-19-focused hospital tested positive following a meeting with the President. Denis Protsenko met Mr. Putin last week as the Russian leader visited the Kommunarka hospital in Moscow. “The President prefers these days to work remotely,” Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov told journalists, shortly before Mr. Putin was due to hold a Cabinet meeting by videoconference. “We are taking all precautionary measures,” he said, adding that Mr. Putin was at the presidential residence in Novo-Ogaryovo.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/putin-working-remotely-after-doctor-tests-positive/article31232105.ece
02 April 2020||Madrid,||Spain toll hits 9,053 as virus cases pass 1,00,000||The COVID-19 death toll in Spain surged over 9,000 on Wednesday after a record 864 deaths in 24 hours, with the number of confirmed cases passing the 1,00,000 mark, the government said. Spain has the world’s second-highest death toll after Italy, with the virus so far claiming 9,053 lives and the number of confirmed cases reaching 1,02,136. But on a day-to-day basis, the rate of new infections continued its downward trend, showing an increase of just over 8.0%, compared with nearly 11% on Tuesday, Health Ministry figures showed. And the death rate has also slowed, from 27% a week ago to 10.5% on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/spain-toll-hits-9053-as-virus-cases-pass-100000/article31232106.ece
02 April 2020||Jakarta,||11-year-old Indonesian girl dies||An 11-year-old girl has become Indonesia’s youngest person to die after contracting COVID-19, officials said on Wednesday. The girl, who was also suffering from dengue fever, was admitted to hospital on Madura Island off the coast of Java on March 19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/11-year-old-indonesian-girl-dies/article31232094.ece
02 April 2020||Islamabad,||Number of cases in Pak. crosses 2,000||The number of COVID-19 cases in Pakistan surpassed 2,000 on Wednesday, indicating an upward trend. The government said that 105 new patients tested positive for the virus in the last 24 hours, taking the number of cases to 2,039.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/number-of-cases-in-pak-crosses-2000/article31232110.ece
02 April 2020||Tehran,||Tehran, April 1, 2020 (AFP) -||Flooding in Iran caused by heavy rainfall has left 21 people dead and one missing, an emergency services spokesman said on Wednesday. Mojtaba Khaledi said that 22 people had also been injured, with most of the casualties in southern or central provinces. He said 11 people had died in Fars province alone.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/tehran-april-1-2020-afp/article31232101.ece
02 April 2020||Frankfurt,||Frankfurt am Main, April 1, 2020 (AFP) -||German sportsgear maker Adidas on Wednesday said it had made “a mistake” when it decided not to pay rent on its shuttered shops in April, after the move sparked a widespread outcry. “We made a mistake. We would like to apologise. We have paid our rent,” the firm said.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/frankfurt-am-main-april-1-2020-afp/article31232100.ece
02 April 2020||April 02 2020 00:00 IST,||The return of the expert||The expert is back in public discourse. Dismissed until recently as an enemy, a self-indulgent blabber, an arrogant armchair intellectual, he returns now as a valuable adviser and ally, someone we cannot do without. The flamboyant display of ignorance has been suspended. Populist leaders who had openly berated experts, and spoke of their tyranny, are now singing their praise. Though forced by the coronavirus, this is an extremely welcome change. Why? Are experts blameless or exempt from criticism? Is the criticism of experts never justified? What is expertise anyway? What is an expert Humans realised quite early that an individual cannot lead his life doing everything by himself. He must rely on others who occupy different social roles. But mere division of labour does not yield a society of experts. To have the competence or technique of doing something is not the same as having expertise in it. One may be able to ride a bicycle or play cricket but not do either of these well. Expertise comes with doing something extremely well, which in turn relies on developing more than technical skills. It comes when skills are nurtured patiently and constantly honed. Their acquisition is impossible without continuous, time-consuming practice and their growth depends on making mistakes and learning from them, and on listening to constructive criticism by others. Thus, to become an expert, one must imbibe the broader culture surrounding good work. This brings me to a preliminary specification of an expert: she is not just a role-occupant or bearer of mere technique but, by investing time on developing special skills, by understanding the standards of excellence in her field, trying to measure up to them and hoping to raise the bar, she becomes a role model for others, an authority, someone who can teach others. A person may occupy the position of a gardener but becomes an expert only with experience, incessant learning, imaginative self-improvement and with the ability to pass on her skills to others. In short, experts are people with special skills and virtues, with legitimate authority in their own field and the stature to advise and teach their skills. This distinguishes them from non-experts, from competent fellow-workers and novices. Skills may be primarily learnt informally or formally. Those trained informally, working predominantly with their bodies, particularly their hands, include farmers, gardeners, cooks, carpenters, potters, mistris , vaidyas and healers, traditional musicians and dancers. However, the enormous complexity of contemporary social and economic life necessitates that everyone be literate and have a bare minimum of formal schooling. This would have been sufficient in the past to make experts out of them but today this is merely one enabling condition of expertise. To become experts in some domains now, long years of formal training and education are required. The feature that distinguishes modern professionals — medical doctors, engineers, architects, lawyers, micro-biologists, physicists, historians, economists, sociologists — from their informally trained counterparts is their prolonged formal education. In such domains today, experience is necessary but not sufficient. Denigrating experts If it is good to have experts in society, why have they been devalued recently in public discourse? Two long-standing reasons come to mind. First, not long ago, expertise in our society was firmly believed to be inherited. But while shastric knowledge was overvalued, the practical knowledge of the informally trained was denigrated. They were not recognised as experts. However, a contemporary scientist does not genetically transfer science to his child. Why then is shastric knowledge a birth-related privilege of a few brahmins? And how many of us acknowledge the expertise of the mali who tends a beautiful garden? Why is he less of an expert in his field than a doctor is in his? Though some change in this mindset has occurred, it is not enough. (For instance, vaidyas , nats and nartakis were once considered lowly and socially stigmatised. Today’s medical doctors, actors and dancers are not.) In one sense then, an understandable disaffection with the expert is part of a continuing democratic revolt against the very idea of inherited shastric expertise. This revolt will not cease if inherited expertise is merely replaced by epistemic arrogance, a sense of superiority stemming from delusional infallibility. Indeed, unless experts cultivate the virtues of humility and corrigibility in an atmosphere of equality and solidarity, their relevance will remain under a cloud. A second reason is the easy translation and transfer of authority from one field to another, enabling experts in a few fields to wield power and authority over others. The traditional Brahmin may have been a shastric expert but how come this narrow expertise yielded a general social authority over others? Besides, experts jealously guarded their knowledge as a secret and refused transparency or accountability. A challenge to such translation and transfer of authority from one specific field to others is justified. So, part of the blame for the gradual fall of the expert lies with the historically transmitted culture surrounding him. Expertise must be disentangled and rescued from this hierarchical culture. Education and expertise However, the real roots of today’s specific problems lie elsewhere, in the current mindset of the populace at large. The main trouble comes paradoxically from the very condition of general literacy and education in our society. All of us are encouraged by our generalised education to conflate expertise with competence and to believe that knowledge comes easy. In this age of fast speed, the very idea of patient learning is severely threatened. For quick fixers, skill acquisition is a waste of time. If everything can be swiftly self-taught, why bother with experts who slog. Just consider the recent trend to self-medicate. The situation is worse in the social sciences and humanities. I am astounded by the gumption of super-confident, self-styled ‘historians’ or pop statisticians who, without an iota of doubt, claim to know the past or the respective percentage of minorities in the overall Indian population. This is independence and equality gone berserk. This problem is exacerbated by Wikipedia, Google and WhatsApp. The Internet allows us to treat every information and opinion as equally true. People simply view evidence selectively and with prejudice, confirming whatever it is this they already believe in, disregarding all evidence or argument against it. Abused easily, the Internet turns truth into falsehood and opinion into dogma. This is mobocracy in the world of the intellect. Everyone has a licence to kill objective or inter-subjectively validated knowledge This climate is hardly conducive to the survival of experts who seek validation for their claims. Moreover, it helps the political and economic exploitation of their difference from non-experts. With the expert’s scrutiny out of the way, the avaricious capitalist can easily sell his well-advertised goods, the wily politician, his false promises. The arrival of COVID-19 has changed something, at least on television. Both the Prime Minister and the Health Minister were recently seen imploring us to shun ‘ andh-vishwas ’ (blind faith, superstition), disregard rumours and continually fact-check. A good beginning! Doctors from the best medical colleges are seen providing scientific answers to questions by laypersons. The word ‘evidence’ is heard frequently. Statistical data is cited from Johns Hopkins University, and Imperial College London. People seem passionately interested in research on vaccines by the best Indian institutes. Fake news is officially having a bad time! One Hindi channel even has a Truth index — what it calls ‘ sacchai ka sensex’. This ‘ sacchai ’, the source of facts and evidence, comes from, guess who? Experts! One unintended benefit then of the current pandemic — if one looks for a silver lining in our gloomy world — is the return of facts, truth and experts. One can only hope that the restoration of respect for expertise will not be confined to medical doctors and researchers but extend to expert historians, social scientists and socially grounded intellectuals — all badly needed to check the mayhem that has followed the announcement of the lockdown and its dreadful impact on migrant workers. Rajeev Bhargava is Professor, Centre for the Study of Developing Societies, Delhi||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-return-of-the-expert/article31232067.ece
02 April 2020||April 02 2020 00:00 IST,||Thinking national, acting local||The attack by the SARS-CoV-2 virus has highlighted, once again, both the bad shape of the Indian economy and the precariousness in the lives of millions of people. Citizens have been ordered to stay in their homes to prevent the pandemic. But many have no homes. They are being urged to wash their hands frequently, when many do not have access to enough clean water to drink. The public health system is woefully inadequate. GDP growth rates may have been good for sometime. But many systems in the country are fragile. National planning, by whatever name it is called (Planning Commission or NITI Aayog), has failed to produce all-round development of India’s economy so far. An all-round plan for recovery from the pandemic is required. As Einstein said, “you cannot solve intractable problems with the same thinking that produced the problems”. Therefore, it is time to consider the weakness in India’s national planning. Any planning institution in a federal and democratic system faces two basic challenges when it comes to performing a long-term role — a constitutional challenge, and the challenge of competence. The constitutional question The fundamental issues a national plan must address, such as the condition of the environment, the shape of the economy, and pace of human development, need consistent action over decades. Therefore, policies must continue beyond the terms of governments that change in shorter spans in electoral democracies. Moreover, if the planning body does not have constitutional status independent from that of the government, it will be forced to bend to the will of the latter. Planning in China does not face this disruption. Short-termism in policymaking is a weakness of electoral democracies everywhere, as citizens of California have realised. California is suffering from great environmental stress. Its vaunted public education system has been underfunded for years. A group of concerned citizens in California, convened by the Berggruen Institute, formed a Think Long Committee. They studied the systems of governance in many countries and examined how long-term planning fits in them. China, whose remarkable economic progress can provide some lessons for planners everywhere, received special attention. With their insights, they have proposed a few changes to constitutional structures in California. Debates have begun amongst economists about the inefficacy of long-term planning in India and the performance of NITI Aayog. They say that planning is weak when planners do not have the powers to allocate money for national priorities, which NITI Aayog does not have. They forget that the Planning Commission had such powers and yet was considered ineffective in bringing about all-round progress. Moreover, they glide over constitutional issues in granting powers to institutions that allocate public money in democracies. A fundamental principle of democratic governance is that the power to allocate public money must be supervised by elected representatives. Therefore, a planning body that allocates money must be backed by a constitutional charter, and also accountable to Parliament. India’s national planning process must address the constitutional relationship between the Centre and the States. In India’s constitutional structure, elected governments in the States are accountable to the people. They are expected to improve human development, create infrastructure, and make it easy to do business in the State. They must manage their financial resources efficiently and balance their budgets. Constitutionally established Finance Commissions determine the sharing of Centrally raised resources with the States. What then is the role of a national planning commission? Indeed, this was the question that several State Chief Ministers had raised during the UPA-II period. States who were becoming self-sufficient in their resources questioned the value they were getting from their interactions with the Planning Commission. They said the Commission was out of touch with their ground realities and had little experience of how to get things done to produce outcomes. Moreover, it was becoming apparent that the model based on which the Commission seemed to been forming its advice was inadequate.  Need for competence Whether a planning institution allocates money, or advises others how to, it must have the necessary competence. A national planning institution must guide all-round progress. It must assist in achieving not just faster GDP growth, but also more socially inclusive, and more environmentally sustainable growth. For this, it needs a good model in which societal and environmental forces are within the model. Economists who have been advising policymakers do not have comprehensive models of socio-environmental systems. Their models are inadequate even to explain economic growth, because they have not incorporated the implications of economic growth on inequality, for example, which has become a contentious issue. An economy is a complex system, which sits within an even larger and more complex system of human society and the natural environment. The globalisation agenda has been driven by an economic agenda, with policies promoting global trade and finance to maximise global economic output. It has paid too little attention to the impact of the ‘GDP agenda’ on the well-being of communities where employment declines when production moves to lower cost sources elsewhere. Or to the total environmental impact of global supply chains. Now the system is reacting and stalling globalisation. A feature of complex systems, in which all the parts are connected, is that the system cannot be healthy if any part becomes very sick — even if the others are in robust health. Even if all other organs in a human body are functioning, if one fails, the whole body dies. Therefore, a healthy global system must help its weaker members to become stronger. Another feature of complex systems with many interacting forces is that the forces combine in unique ways in different parts of the system. For example, the conditions of livelihoods, the natural environment, and infrastructure, combine in different ways in different localities and States. Therefore, systems solutions must be local too. These insights into systems structures, as well as considerations of democratic governance in which governance should be devolved to national governments, and, within them, to State governments, and even to the third tier of city and district governance, have implications for the role and competencies of a national planning institution for India. It must be a systems reformer, not fund allocator. And a force for persuasion, not control centre. Because its role must be to promote local systems solutions to national problems. Arun Maira is a former member of the Planning Commission||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/thinking-national-acting-local/article31232082.ece
02 April 2020||April 02 2020 00:00 IST,||Still no bullseye, in volume and value||The emergence of evidence of a rise in Indian defence exports, also accompanied by a decline in imports, is a welcome development though the reasons for both are not identical. Based on the latest estimates released by the Stockholm International Peace Research Institute (SIPRI) in the period between 2009-13 and 2014-18, Indian defence imports fell even as exports increased. Broadly, two factors appear to be driving this shift. The first is the ‘Make in India’ initiative, as part of which a number of components from Indian private and public sector enterprises have been prioritised by the government. The second set of factors is extraneous to India in the form of delays in supplying equipment by vendors and the outright cancellation of contracts by the Indian government or at least a diminution of existing contracts. Under the Narendra Modi government’s ‘Make in India’ initiative, the Defence Procurement Procedure (DPP) lays out the terms, regulations and requirements for defence acquisitions as well as the measures necessary for building India’s defence industry. It created a new procurement category in the revised DPP of 2016 dubbed ‘Buy Indian Indigenously Designed, Developed and Manufactured’ (IDDM). The ‘Make’ procedure has undergone simplification “earmarking projects not exceeding ten crores” that are government funded and Rs. 3 crore for Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) that are industry funded. In addition, the government has also introduced provisions in the DPP that make private industry production agencies and partners for technology transfers. Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs) until 2016 accounted for a 17.5% share of the Indian defence market. According to government of India data for the financial year 2018-19, the three armed services for their combined capital and revenue expenditures sourced 54% of their defence equipment from Indian industry. Public sector driven Among arms producers, India has four companies among the top 100 biggest arms producers of the world. It is estimated, according to SIPRI, their combined sales were $7.5 billion in 2017, representing a 6.1% jump from 2016. The largest Indian arms producers are the Indian ordnance factories and the Hindustan Aeronautics Limited (HAL), which are placed 37th and 38th, respectively, followed by Bharat Electronics Limited (BEL) and Bharat Dynamics Limited (BDL). All four of these companies are public sector enterprises and account for the bulk of the domestic armament demand. Explaining falling imports To be sure, not all this growing indigenisation and reduction in imports can be attributed to ‘Make in India’. Indian defence acquisitions have also fallen due to the cancellation of big-ticket items. Take for instance the India-Russia joint venture for the development of the advanced Su-57 stealth Fifth Generation Fighter Aircraft (FGFA). India cancelled involvement in 2018 due to rising dissatisfaction in delays with the project as well as the absence of capabilities that would befit a fifth generation fighter jet. In 2015, the Modi government also reduced the size of the original acquisition of 126 Rafale Medium Multi-Role Combat Aircraft (MMRCA) from Dassault to 36 aircraft, which is also responsible for significantly driving down the import bill. That apart, the delays in the supplies of T-90 battle tanks, and Su-30 combat aircraft from Russia and submarines from France, in 2009-13 and 2014-18, also depressed imports. Further, India’s defence model faces challenges despite the positive trends generated by ‘Make in India’. SMEs still face stunted growth because India’s defence industrial model is at odds with global trends in that it tends to create disincentives for the private sector. Governments, including the incumbent, have tended to privilege Defence Public Sector Units (DPSUs) over the private sector, despite ‘Make in India’. This model is highly skewed, undermining the growth of private players and diminishes the strength of research and development. Export trends Nevertheless, on the exports front, trends do look promising. Indeed, the period between 2012 and 2019 saw Indian defence exports experiencing a considerable jump sourced from Indian public and private sector enterprises. In the last two fiscal years, 2017-18 and 2018-19, exports have witnessed a surge from Rs. 7,500 crore to Rs. 11,000 crore, representing a 40% increase in exports. While this initial increase started during the previous United Progressive Alliance (UPA) government, the sharpest rise in defence export products can be attributed to the measures introduced by the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government under Mr. Modi, which in 2014, delisted or removed several products that were restricted from exports. It dispensed with the erstwhile No Objection Certificate (NOC) under the DPP restricting exports of aerospace products, several dual-use items and did away with two-thirds of all products under these heads. According to the Ministry of Commerce and the Industry, Export-Import Data Bank export of defence items in the aerospace category has witnessed an increase in value. Small naval crafts account for the bulk of India’s major defence exports. However, export of ammunition and arms remain low. As a percentage of total Indian trade, defence-related exports for the fiscal years 2017-18 and 2018-19 were 0.8 and 0.73%, respectively. Thus, from a volume and value standpoint, Indian defence exports, while showing a promising upward trend, still remain uncompetitive globally. It is likely that Indian defence exports will take several years before they are considered attractive by external buyers. But green shoots are emerging in a sector that has long been devoid of any dynamism and Indian policymakers should make the most of the opportunities this represents. Harsh V. Pant is Director, Studies at the Observer Research Foundation, New Delhi and Professor of International Relations at King’s College London. Kartik Bommakanti is an Associate Fellow at the Observer Research Foundation, New Delhi||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/still-no-bullseye-in-volume-and-value/article31232071.ece
02 April 2020||April 02 2020 00:00 IST,||The battle to set oil prices||The global economy, grappling with the COVID-19 pandemic, is now facing an energy war, with crude oil prices crashing in the international market. Crude oil prices tanked, as the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) and its alliance partners failed to reach any consensus on cutting back production to levels that would enable prices to remain stable. The U.S., as the largest oil producer today, has stayed away from the OPEC-plus arrangement, hoping that production cuts by OPEC-plus countries will help it increase its market share. Russia refused any production cuts, unleashing an energy war with Saudi Arabia. There has been a spectacular fall of around 30% in crude oil prices. The International Energy Agency (IEA) has scaled down global demand for oil, a move not taken by the energy watchdog since 2009. Demand for oil had already weakened owing to the global economic slowdown, and this weakening has become more pronounced due to the COVID-19 pandemic, which has hit China’s economy and reduced consumption by the world’s largest importer. Russia’s decision to reject any production cuts is driven directly by its strategy of denying market share to American shale oil producers. The latter rely on higher prices in the range of $50-$60 to remain profitable because of higher production costs. At $31 per barrel, not more than five American shale oil producers can remain profitable. Sanctions on Rosneft Russia also remains resentful of sanctions imposed on Rosneft, which is building the gas pipeline project Nord Stream 2 across the Baltic Sea, carrying Siberian gas to Germany, a major consumer. This pipeline was delayed due to opposition from Denmark’s environmental activists and could not be completed before the U.S. sanctions kicked in. Moscow has accused Washington of using geopolitical tools for commercial reasons. Russia had promised to retaliate at a time of its own choosing. The energy war over prices is Russia’s revenge, to cripple the American shale oil industry. President Donald Trump has scrambled to put together a rescue package for the shale oil companies. Russia is also signaling to Saudi Arabia that its American patrons can do little to protect its oil interests and it would be prudent for Saudi Arabia to reach some understanding with Russia. Both Saudi Arabia and Russia depend heavily on oil revenues — upwards of 80% of export revenues accrue from crude oil. Both are also fighting to retain market share. It has been reported that Saudi Arabia has agreed to supply crude oil at lower rates to refiners in India and China, two primary customers, but refused to supply to other refiners in Asia. This will impact on India’s oil procurement from the U.S.. Benefit to importing countries Lower crude oil prices are not necessarily bad news for oil importing countries like India, which is the world’s third-largest importer of crude oil and the fourth largest importer of LNG. There are, however, collateral adverse consequences like the battering of the stock markets worldwide. The global economy, already impacted by President Donald Trump’s trade war with China and other countries, including India, and the COVID-19 pandemic, may find lower energy costs helpful in overall growth. From a high of $147 per barrel in 2008, crude oil prices have fallen to around $24 per barrel and may even go further southwards. India, with 80% of its energy requirements met by imports from the international market, stands to save Rs. 10,700 crores for every $1 drop in prices. While this may help manage the current account deficit, fiscal deficit and inflation, there are non-oil related collateral factors that can cause countervailing adverse economic impact. There is no doubt that India will benefit from lower oil prices, if the cost of fuel at the pump is passed on to consumers. It will reduce transportation costs and boost demand. The consumer, however, may not benefit much since the government may choose to use this financial windfall for other purposes, like bailing out banks which have been hollowed out by NPAs to leading Indian companies. Can Russia and Saudi Arabia sustain the energy war for long? Unlikely. Saudi Arabia’s production cost is the cheapest in the world and it can ramp up production to around 12 million barrels a day. By offering discounts, it can undercut other producers, including Russia. Domestic considerations also matter. Meanwhile, oil importing countries, like India, can enjoy a breather and cushion the adverse impact of COVID-19 and other factors. The author is a former Ambassador and Secretary in the Ministry of External Affairs. Views are personal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-battle-to-set-oil-prices/article31232084.ece
02 April 2020||April 02 2020 00:00 IST,||Lessons from Hubei||Success in conquering SARS-CoV-2 is best defined in terms of ensuring that there is no community spread. The nature and scale of the effort calls for fresh thinking, as it reverses established approaches. The messaging from the Central and State governments must bring this out, and not leave it to the local bureaucracy and police to interpret as a curfew. The Prime Minister has taken a bold political decision. However, India faces an unprecedented implementation challenge and must combine the lockdown with community involvement, and technology-based interventions. Wuhan provides lessons, but not a template. The United States, European countries and even Singapore have not instituted a complete lockdown. Their focus is on those who need hospitalisation. Earlier, China relied extensively on technological tools to enforce the lockdown. India’s comparative advantage lies in the fact that the District Magistrate has the legitimacy and authority to mobilise the local population. Changing public behaviour, from one defined by panic and anxiety to one characterised by acceptance will not be easy without community involvement. Catching them early The key takeaway from the experience of Wuhan is quite obvious but the devil, as always, is in the detail. Dr. Zhong Nanshan, a leading epidemiologist, emphasised a few “earlys” — early protection, early detection, early diagnosis, and early isolation. The goal of the lockdown should not just be to keep the people indoors but to ensure that patients with symptoms are hospitalised and not just placed under home isolation, to make sure that the virus does not spread to the members of the infected individual’s family. Second, we need all the support we can mobilise from the healthcare workers. In Hubei, some 42,600 healthcare workers from all over China were deputed. Among them, 19,000 were from the critical care department, which was 10% of the country’s ICU doctors. The spread of the virus also provides important lessons, in view of the migration patterns in the country. Around five million people left Hubei to other parts of China to celebrate the New Year just prior to the lockdown of Wuhan on January 23. Thereafter, the number of confirmed cases doubled every three days and the numbers reached 30,000 cases in a fortnight, by February 9. The spread peaked at 70,000 cases on February 16. The experience of Wuhan, a city of 11 million, is relevant for our hotspots. The city was shut down on January 23. Residential complexes were sealed-off on February 8, and transport was put off the roads. With intensive testing, next week, Wuhan registered over 15,000 positive cases in a single day. In response, more than 20,000 health workers were deputed from outside, providing free testing and putting the infected people in quarantine. Doorstep delivery of essential supplies was ensured, with residential complexes monitoring body temperatures. A telephone-based app reported the vitals. Four weeks after the lockdown, the number of new cases drastically dropped. This is an optimum strategy for our hotspots. The media, especially local media, should be encouraged to highlight successful and replicable community action to build public confidence. District Control Room numbers for each local area to communicate all concerns must be widely announced, including by the health workers and NGOs. Infectious disease is in the Concurrent List and the Government of India has invoked the National Disaster Management Act, devolving the national duty onto District Magistrates. While the Army and the police forces are ‘deployed’, the District Magistrate has to identify, bring together the needed resources and ‘improvise’. They would require real-time sharing of emerging good practices by the Central Government, and even hand-holding, to avoid a demonetisation like outcome. Mukul Sanwal is a retired diplomat and was recently in Wuhan on an official invite||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/lessons-from-hubei/article31232085.ece
02 April 2020||April 02 2020 00:00 IST,||Beyond the blame game||Nizamuddin in Delhi has turned into a large cluster of novel coronavirus (SARS-CoV-2) cases after a big religious congregation was held in mid-March by the Tablighi Jamaat at the Alami Markaz Banglewali Masjid. More than 400 people showing symptoms have been hospitalised in Delhi alone and nearly 240 have tested positive; at least 10 have died. The spectre of large-scale community spread by a few hundred attendees from different States cannot be ruled out. That the three-day event began on a day when the Health Ministry said that it did not consider the novel coronavirus as a health emergency despite 81 cases being reported cannot be an excuse. After all, WHO had called COVID-19 a pandemic on March 11. The organisers should have been very much aware that a similar congregation organised by them in Malaysia in end-February led to a spike in cases there and the attendees had carried the virus to other countries. But the Delhi government is equally culpable as nothing was done to stop such a meeting except issuing an order on March 13 prohibiting the assembly of more than 200 people. What prevented the State government from following the Centre’s March 6 advice to States to avoid or postpone mass gatherings till the pandemic was contained? There have been several such large gatherings, religious and non-religious, in the country after India reported its first case, beginning with the Namaste Trump rally in Ahmedabad, to migrants gathering in a few cities including Delhi a few days ago. Until the lockdown began, many places of worship were open and political events held. Each such event could have potentially seeded the virus into the population and should have therefore been cancelled or prevented. But India failed despite being aware how global congregations — some linked to religion — had led to an alarming spread of the virus, examples being the large outbreaks in South Korea, Singapore, southern Italy and Spain. States that already have cases with a link to the Nizamuddin event should now use the lockdown period to actively engage in finding everyone who has attended the event, trace their contacts, quarantine, test and treat them without losing time. Both South Korea and Singapore have demonstrated how meticulous tracing of contacts of a church event, isolation and aggressive testing helped prevent the highly infectious virus from spreading widely in the community. Ideally, the remaining period of the shutdown should be used to expand the testing to at least limited community level to find every suspected case linked to the attendee. The last thing that India can afford in the war against the virus is the disease acquiring a religious or class colour. Community leaders have been irresponsible, but those in the government have been lax too.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/beyond-the-blame-game/article31232063.ece
02 April 2020||April 02 2020 00:00 IST,||Uncritical endorsement||There are two aspects to the Supreme Court’s limited intervention in response to the humanitarian crisis set off by the exodus of migrant workers, following the announcement of a country-wide lockdown. In a brief order, the highlight of which is its full endorsement of the Centre’s response to the pandemic, the Court has, first, underscored the need for kindness by the police and the authorities in the way they treat the workers and their families. Second, it has uncritically accepted the official narrative that “fake news” about the duration of the lockdown being “three months” caused a panic reaction from migrant workers across States. In the light of this finding — if it can be described thus — the Court has chosen to “direct the media to refer to and publish the official version about the developments”, with a disclaimer that it does not intend to interfere with the free discussion about the pandemic. It has noted an offer from the Solicitor-General to bring out a daily bulletin to clear people’s doubts. It recorded its expectation that the media, including social media, would “maintain a strong sense of responsibility and ensure that unverified news capable of causing panic is not disseminated”. Significantly, the order flags the penal provisions in the law for punishing those who disseminate information amounting to false alarm or disobedience to a public servant’s instructions. It would be an exaggeration if anyone sees in this direction or appeal to the media for responsible journalism any attempt at censorship, but it is disappointing that the Court finds credible the government’s claim about “fake news” being the main factor behind the exodus. It was quite obvious that the short notice of just four hours for the lockdown to take effect, the lack of planning and coordination with the States, the fears of the people about being left without cash and running out of food, and worries about their families back home were the principal reasons. A welcome feature of the Court’s approach is that it did not concede the government’s ill-advised request for a direction to restrain the media from reporting or publishing “anything” without ascertaining the factual position from the government. Implicit in this prayer was an attempt to control information, the very antithesis of the current need for the government to ensure proactive disclosure and dissemination of accurate data. To an extent, the Court’s restraint is understandable; as, dealing with a pandemic, be it in the form of framing a strategy for prevention and treatment, or limiting its devastating economic fallout, is primarily the duty of the executive. However, as it has chosen to examine the humanitarian dimension to the crisis, it would be in the fitness of things if it asked more searching questions of the government and ensured greater accountability in these distressing times.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/uncritical-endorsement/article31232062.ece
02 April 2020||April 02 2020 00:00 IST,||Unnecessary visit by foreign expert||A U.S. engineer, Mr. J.D. Edmonds of Western Knapp Engineering Company, the U.S. consultants of the Rs. 90-crore public sector project, Hindustan Copper in Khetri, Rajasthan, was summoned by the project authorities to carry out an emergency job recently. But when he arrived in India, he discovered that his visit was unnecessary since the job had been accomplished already by Indian engineers. The project authorities, it is learnt, had failed to inform him that he need not come even after the Union Ministry of Petroleum and Chemicals, Mines and Metals had disapproved of their decision to summon the U.S. engineer, and assigned the job to Indians. The result was that Mr. Edmonds found there was nothing for him to do, but to return to the United States. What is even more surprising is that the other consultants of Hindustan Copper, Vendt Plc of France, who were also asked to depute their experts, had a better understanding of the nature of the emergency job than the project authorities. This has caused considerable embarrassment to the Department of Mines and Minerals. This is cited as one of the many instances of public sector undertakings to summon foreign experts without taking the trouble to find out whether it is necessary.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/unnecessary-visit-by-foreign-expert/article31232073.ece
02 April 2020||Mumbai,||RBI relaxes export rules, allows States and UTs to borrow more||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has announced more measures to fight economic disruptions caused by COVID-19, including extension of the realisation period of export proceeds and allowing States to borrow more. “Presently, the value of the goods or software exports made by exporters is required to be realised fully and repatriated to the country within nine months from the date of exports. “In view of the disruption caused by the pandemic, the time period for realisation and repatriation of export proceeds for exports made up to or on July 31, 2020, has been extended to 15 months from the date of export,” the RBI said. The measure will enable exporters to realise their receipts, especially from COVID-19 affected countries, within the extended period, and also provide greater flexibility to exporters to negotiate future export contracts with buyers abroad. The central bank has also formed an advisory committee to review the ways and means limit for State governments and union territories. Till the panel submits its report, the central bank has increased the ways and means advances limit by 30% for States and union territories. “Pending submission of the final recommendations by the Committee, it has been decided to increase the WMA limit by 30% from the existing limit for all States/UTs to enable State governments to tide over the situation arising from the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic. The revised limits will come into force with effect from April 1, 2020 and will be valid till September 30, 2020, the RBI said. The ‘Ways and Means Advances’ is a scheme that helps meet mismatches in receipts and payments of the government. Under this scheme, a government can avail itself of immediate cash from the RBI. The central bank has also deferred the implementation of counter cyclical capital buffer (CCyB) for banks. “Based on the review and empirical analysis of CCyB indicators, it has been decided that it is not necessary to activate CCyB for a period of one year or earlier, as may be necessary,” the RBI said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/rbi-relaxes-export-rules-allows-states-and-uts-to-borrow-more/article31232047.ece
02 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Maruti, Hyundai sales skid||Already reeling under a prolonged slowdown and the transition to BS-VI fuel norms, auto sector saw its woes being compounded by the 21-day nationwide lockdown. Manufacturers witnessed a decline in sales in the range of 44%-90% in their domestic wholesales in March 2020. The country’s largest carmaker Maruti Suzuki posted a 47.4% decline in passenger vehicles (PVs) in the domestic market to 76,240 units, compared with the more than 1.45 lakh units sold in March 2019. The company, however, said that sales during March 2020 were not comparable with that in March 2019 “due to the suspension of operations with effect from March 22, 2020, in line with national policy.” Exports during the month also fell 55% to 4,712 units as against 10,463 units in March 2019. For the full year (2019-20), the company’s domestic vehicles sales fell 18.1% to 14.36 lakh units from the previous year. Hyundai Motor India too saw a 40.6% decline in sales to 26,300 units in March in the domestic market. Tata Motors’ domestic passenger vehicle sales fell 68% to 5,676 units. For the full year, PV sales declined 38% to over 1.31 lakh units. Similarly, Mahindra and Mahindra sold 3,384 PVs in March 2020 in the domestic market, a decline of 88% from 27,646 units in the year-ago month. For fiscal year 2019-20, domestic PV sales fell 27% to 1.86 lakh. Veejay Ram Nakra, CEO, Automotive Division, M&M Ltd. said, “Our performance in March has been muted on account of the impact of the current lockdown related to Covid-19 and the disruption in our BS-VI ramp-up plan. The latter was planned between February and March but was affected due to the challenges of parts supply from global and local suppliers. We have been able to clear our BS-IV inventory, but for fewer than 100 vehicles. However, there are many vehicles that are sold, but not yet registered because of the closure of RTOs.” Relatively new entrant Kia Motors sold 8,583 units in the retail market in March 2020.  Naveen Soni, Senior VP, Sales and Service, Toyota Kirloskar Motor (TKM), said, “... last month has been very challenging for us, both in sales as well as production,” adding the pandemic has financially impacted all its dealerships across India. TKM reported a 55% decline in sales to 7023 vehicles in March in the domestic market. It added that March was the last month of production for the Etios series as well as the Corolla Altis.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/maruti-hyundai-sales-skid/article31232055.ece
02 April 2020||COIMBATORE,||Sugar movement resumes||Movement of sugar, which was disrupted initially when the countrywide lockdown was implemented as a precaution against COVID-19, has resumed. Dispatches have picked up in the last four or five days, according to the Indian Sugar Mills’ Association (ISMA). The “ISMA has assured the government that there is enough sugar with the sugar mills, and therefore, there will not be any problem of availability of this essential food item for consumers,” the association said in a press statement on Wednesday. As of March 31, 2020, 457 sugar mills, which started crushing this season — from October 2019 to September 2020 — have so far produced 232.74 lakh tonnes of sugar. This is nearly 64 lakh tonnes less than what was produced during the same period last year. As many as 186 mills continued production, mainly in north India. The mills are taking efforts to ensure that wherever there is availability of sugarcane, it is procured and crushed so that farmers do not incur losses. During the first few days of the lockdown, there were also concerns about availability of inputs such as lime and sulphur. The lime quarries and kilns in Rajasthan were closed down. This was taken up with the Rajasthan government and there is smooth availability of all inputs now, the ISMA said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/sugar-movement-resumes/article31232053.ece
02 April 2020||Mumbai,||SBI, HDFC Bank, ICICI Bank activate moratorium||State Bank of India, the country’s largest lender and private sector lenders ICICI Bank and HDFC Bank have started activating the loan repayment moratorium option for customers. The moratorium was announced by the Reserve Bank of India last week in view of the financial stress faced by borrowers following the lockdown declared on account of the COVID-19 pandemic. SBI customers who want to avail themselves of the moratorium, are required to send an email to avail the option. “No action is required. They may continue to pay in usual course,” SBI said of customers who do not wish to avail the moratorium option. SBI has also clarified that if a customer has already paid the EMI for March, then the amount will be reversed if the customer sends in a request. “Interest shall continue to accrue on the outstanding portion of the term loan during the moratorium period,” SBI said. Commenting on impact in case of home loans if the EMI is deferred, SBI said that for a loan of Rs. 30 lakh with a remaining maturity of 15 years, the net additional interest would be about Rs. 2.34 lakh, which is equal to eight EMIs. “For a loan of Rs. 6 lakh with a remaining maturity of 54 months, the additional interest payable would be Rs. 19,000 approximately. equal to additional 1.5 EMIs,” SBI said on the impact in the case of auto loans. Both ICICI Bank and HDFC Bank have also activated the options in their websites to avail moratorium. Customers have to fill in a simple form giving loan account numbers and other details to avail themselves of the moratorium.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/sbi-hdfc-bank-icici-bank-activate-moratorium/article31232049.ece
02 April 2020||Mumbai,||SBI eases settlement deadline by 3 months||State Bank of India (SBI) has decided to extend the timeline for payment of settlement amount by three months due to the 21-day lockdown. “SBI has come forward to extend the timeline for payment of settlement amount by three months. Now, customers, on-boarded under settlement scheme SBI OTS 2019 / Rin Samadhan 19-20/General compromise can meet payment obligation by June 30, 2020,” SBI said. Under the One Time Settlement (OTS) 2019 scheme, the extension will be available only to those customers where the first two instalments of 5% / 15% and 20% / 25% have been received within the stipulated 30 and 60 days, respectively. The balance OTS amount can be paid by June 30, it said, while adding it would not charge any interest on the amount for this extended period. Under the Rin Samadhan scheme, the timeline for receipt of acceptance of OTS proposal along with upfront payment from borrowers has been extended up to June 30, from the current March 31 and up to September 30 for recovery of the entire OTS amount.  Also, payment obligations for borrowers with outstanding as on March 01, 2020 under ‘General Compromise’ category has been extended by three months, without charging any interest for the additional period. On working capital loans, C.S. Setty, MD, SBI, said because firms have to pay interest on such loans at the end of the moratorium period, banks are evaluating the option of requesting the RBI for some relief in terms of asset classification.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/sbi-eases-settlement-deadline-by-3-months/article31232050.ece
02 April 2020||MUMBAI,||GSKCH, HUL merger process completed||The merger of GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Limited (GSKCH) with Hindustan Unilever Limited (HUL), which was announced in December 2018, has been successfully completed after obtaining all the necessary approvals. In addition, the board of directors of HUL has approved the acquisition of the Horlicks brand for India from GSK for Rs. 3,045 crore by exercising the option available in the original agreement made between Unilever and GSK. The other brands, which were under the ownership of GSKCH, like Boost, Maltova and Viva have also come under HUL’s brand portfolio by virtue of the merger, stated a release by HUL. Incidentally, the acquisition of the Horlicks brand by the India unit of Unilever would result in savings for the Indian arm by avoiding expenses like royalty and brand royalty, said HUL chief financial officer Srinivas Phathak, in a media conference call. He further added that owning a brand brings tax benefits as well including the option of claiming depreciation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/gskch-hul-merger-process-completed/article31232057.ece
02 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||March GST revenue drops below Rs. 1 lakh cr.||Goods and Services Tax (GST) collections for March 2020 stood at Rs. 97,597 crore, dropping below the Rs. 1 lakh-crore mark after four months. Gross GST revenue for the month was 8% lower than that of March 2019, according to Finance Ministry data released on Wednesday. For the full financial year 2019-20, gross GST collections grew 4% in comparison to the previous year. As the March revenue collections are based on the business conducted in February, these figures do not take into account the full impact of COVID-19 and the consequent shutdown of many business sectors in India. Analysts warn that next month’s revenues are likely to dip much further. Although GST revenue from domestic transactions dropped 4% in comparison with March 2019, there was a 23% fall in the tax collected on import of goods. “Global trade was affected by COVID-19 in February itself, so we could be seeing the result of that,” said Sachin Menon, national head, indrect taxes, KPMG in India. There has also been a sharp 7% decline in the filing of February GSTR-3B returns, with only 76.5 lakh returns being filed till March 31 in comparison with the more than 83 lakh filed in the previous two months. “It seems that many businesses may not have been able to pay GST because of the liquidity issues being faced after the lockdown,” said Pratik Jain, partner and indirect tax leader at PwC India. The situation is likely to worsen. “With most businesses being non-operational for a considerable period in March and the relaxation of delayed payments allowed, collections in the coming quarter would see quite a fall,” said Abhishek Jain, tax partner at Ernst and Young. Small businesses have been allowed a three-month deferment of GST payments due to the COVID-19 situation, and there is a wider industry demand for a moratorium on payments and reduction in rates. “At this stage, it is necessary for businesses to conserve cash in order to enable resumption of operations once the lockdown ends. Any deferral of the GST payment timelines by a few months would significantly assist them in this process,” said M.S. Mani, partner, Deloitte India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/march-gst-revenue-drops-below-rs-1-lakh-cr/article31232058.ece
02 April 2020||new delhi/CHENNAI,||Commercial vehicle sales fall off a cliff on COVID-19||Commercial truck manufacturer Ashok Leyland has reported a 90% drop in its total international sales volume for the month of March 2020, following suspension of operations across its factories in the wake of COVID-19. The flagship company of the Hinduja Group sold 2,179 vehicles in the domestic and international markets during March 2020, against 21,535 units sold in the year-earlier period. In the case of medium and heavy commercial vehicles, the company’s sales dipped by 93% to 918 units and in buses by 62% to 913 units. Light commercial vehicle sales declined by 94% to 348 units.  Tata Motors’ domestic commercial vehicle (CV) sales tumbled 90% to 5,336 units in March. For the full year, CV sales were down 34% to more than 3.1 lakh units. Girish Wagh, president, commercial vehicles business unit, Tata Motors Ltd. said, “Domestic sales in March 2020 [were]… deeply impacted by the COVID-19 lockdown as well as the planned transition to BS VI. Retail sales was significantly ahead of wholesales. Almost all BS IV vehicles in the ecosystem have been retailed; however, some await registration which was halted due to the lockdown.” M&M’s domestic sales of CVs fell 90% to 2,325 units in March 2020. For the full year 2019-20, domestic CV sales fell 20% to about 1.99 lakh units. VE Commercial Vehicles — a joint venture between the Volvo Group and Eicher Motors — recorded sales of 1,499 units in March 2020 compared with 8,676 units in March 2019, a decline of 82.7%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/commercial-vehicle-sales-fall-off-a-cliff-on-covid-19/article31232059.ece
02 April 2020||MUMBAI,||Virus fears roil markets as indices plummet||Tracking a weak trend in the Asian markets, Indian benchmarks lost heavy ground on Wednesday even as a drastic fall in domestic auto sales numbers led to heightened concerns over potential economic impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. The 30-share Sensex lost 1,203.18 points, or 4.08%, to close at 28,265.31. The broader Nifty ended the day at 8,253.80, down 343.95 points, or 4%. The India VIX index, however, dropped a little over 6% on Wednesday, a day after shedding over 10%. Elsewhere in Asia, Nikkei was down by about 4.5% while Hang Seng lost over 2%. Kospi also closed almost 4% lower as the global toll of COVID-19 neared the 45,000-mark. Incidentally, auto sales more than halved for most auto majors in March with sector leader Maruti Suzuki reporting an almost 48% drop in sales.  The overall market breadth, however, was balanced with about 1,100 stocks on the advance and decline list. Foreign portfolio investors (FPIs) were net sellers at a little over Rs. 1,100 crore on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/virus-fears-roil-markets-as-indices-plummet/article31232060.ece
02 April 2020||Bengaluru,||KIOCL’s FY20 production at 2.375 MT||KIOCL Ltd., an iron ore mining central public sector unit (PSU) that manufactures iron oxide pellets for domestic and exports markets, has produced 2.375 million tonnes (MT) of pellets in the fiscal ended 2019-20 as against 2.238 MT in the previous year. It dispatched 2.356 MT of pellets in the fiscal ended March 31 compared to 2.206 MT in the previous year. KIOCL CMD M.V. Subba Rao said the export markets had boosted the company’s performance in the fiscal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/kiocls-fy20-production-at-2375-mt/article31232044.ece
02 April 2020||MUMBAI,||Petro prices hiked as BS-VI fuel kicks in||Even as prices of international crude have dropped to the lowest in the last 18 years since 2002, state-owned oil marketing companies (OMCs) have increased the price of sensitive petroleum products like petrol and diesel in most Indian cities. The price of petrol has been increased in Mumbai and Chennai, while the price of diesel has been increased in Mumbai, Kolkata and Chennai. Delhi is the only Indian metro where the prices of petrol and diesel have been reduced, while Kolkata witnessed a reduction in petrol prices. While Mumbai witnessed a Rs. 4-per-litre increase in petrol prices, Chennai saw a Rs. 3.42 per litre increase in diesel prices. The price of petrol in Mumbai has been increased from Rs. 72.28 a litre to Rs. 76.31 a litre and the price of diesel in Mumbai has been increased from Rs. 65.71 a litre to Rs. 66.21 a litre, making it the highest among the four metros. Similarly, in Chennai, the price of petrol has been increased from Rs. 69.59 a litre to Rs. 72.28 a litre, while diesel price has been increased from Rs. 62.29 a litre to Rs. 65.71 a litre. In Kolkata, the price of petrol has been reduced from Rs. 75.30 a litre to Rs. 73.30 a litre, while diesel prices have been increased from Rs. 65.21 a litre to Rs. 65.62 a litre. In Delhi, the price of petrol has been reduced from Rs. 72.29 to Rs. 69.59 a litre and diesel prices from Rs. 64.62 a litre to Rs. 62.29 a litre, making it cheapest among the four metros. OMCs have reduced the prices of LPG or cooking gas by an average of Rs. 63 per 14 kg cylinder.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/petro-prices-hiked-as-bs-vi-fuel-kicks-in/article31232051.ece
02 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||No additional spectrum required: telcos||Telecom operators on Wednesday said they had seen flattening of demand on their networks due to various measures and did not require additional spectrum to maintain quality of networks amid the 21-day nationwide lockdown. “Over the past few days, the industry, in concert with actions coordinated with the DoT, has seen a flattening of traffic demand on networks,” Cellular Operators Association of India (COAI) Director General Rajan S. Mathews said. Mr. Mathews added that some of these actions pertained to streaming services reducing their content from HD to SD, local municipalities working with operators to bring sealed towers back on line, and some redistribution of traffic on the network, among other things.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/no-additional-spectrum-required-telcos/article31232054.ece
02 April 2020||Mumbai,||ICICI Bank cuts savings interest rate by 25 bps||Private sector ICICI Bank has reduced its savings account interest rate by 25 basis points (bps). For savings account balance below Rs. 50 lakh, the new rate will be 3.25% and for above Rs. 50 lakh it will be 3.75%. The new rate comes into effect from April 9. ICICI Bank also reduced retail term deposit rates by 50 bps for deposits of less than Rs. 2 crore. The new rate will be effective April 3.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/icici-bank-cuts-savings-interest-rate-by-25-bps/article31232045.ece
02 April 2020||Bengaluru,||Capgemini’s Altran buy may close by Apr. 8||The French financial market authority, Autorité des marchés financiers (AMF), announced on Wednesday that 110,571,163 Altran shares have been tendered in connection with the final reopening of the friendly tender offer of Capgemini for Altran Technologies. Upon settlement and delivery of this reopening, scheduled for April 8, Capgemini will hold 98.15% of Altran’s share capital and at least 98.03% of Altran’s voting rights, as per a statement from Capgemini.  Post acquisition, Capgemini will have combined employee strength of 2.7 lakh globally. Altran has 70,000 employees of whom 15,000 are in India.  Altran’s financial results will be consolidated in Capgemini Group’s financial statements from April 1, 2020.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/capgeminis-altran-buy-may-close-by-apr-8/article31232056.ece
02 April 2020||KOLKATA,||Collective willpower should prevail: Yogeshwar||Olympic bronze medal-winning wrestler Yogeshwar Dutt has a simple solution to the problem of staying confined at home in the time of a nationwide lockdown. Sharing how his determination helped him stay isolated for six months in South Africa while recovering from a knee surgery, Yogeshwar said the country’s collective willpower would beat the deadly COVID-19 virus. Failure at the 2008 Beijing Olympics had made Yogeshwar hungrier for success. He travelled to South Africa in 2009 for a surgery to fix his injured knee. Testing times The time required for recovery and rehabilitation tested Yogeshwar, who has bagged several medals in top level competitions, including the 2012 London Olympics. “I spent six months in recovery and rehab. I was almost alone. In those days, it was not easy to speak to one’s family over phone. I used to watch whatever Indian films came on television and listened to music to pass my time. “My only aim was to recover from the injury and become fully fit. I focused on that to overcome my loneliness. “Right now, we should aim at beating coronavirus. This will make our stay at home easier. “These days we have got so many facilities, including social media, to stay engaged. Spending time with family is another good option,” Yogeshwar told The Hindu . For Yogeshwar, who joined politics during the Haryana elections last year, social commitments have increased. But he is monitoring all this from home. “In our Gohana village, we are feeding about 2000 to 3000 people every day. We are also trying to extend help to all the needy people in our locality. We have a 12-member team, which is looking into all this. “Amidst all this, we are following the rules of social distancing. The biggest challenge at this moment is helping poor families with food and other basic needs,” said Yogeshwar, who has shut down his wrestling academy to protect the trainees from the virus. Confident Welcoming the postponement of the Olympics, Yogeshwar expressed confidence that the Indian wrestlers would be unaffected by the one-year delay. “All of them have been performing well for the last two-three years. “They need to protect themselves from the virus, maintain focus and use the additional time to get back to top form again. “They know how to do it, they just need to stay fit,” said Yogeshwar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/collective-willpower-should-prevail-yogeshwar/article31232242.ece
02 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||It’s a ‘welcome break’ for tired Prannoy||For H.S. Prannoy, the COVID-19-enforced break has been a blessing in disguise. The 27-year-old former World No. 8 Prannoy said he was using the layoff to rest his tired body and rediscover his lost mojo. “The month-long break is the biggest I have got in my professional career. I have never stayed at home for more than a week in the last seven years and I am enjoying every minute of it. “In a way, it is a welcome break and good for me to recharge my batteries and come back fresh for the new season,” he said. Prannoy, who skipped the All England Open badminton championships, said it was the right decision in the prevailing circumstances. He, however, said was worried about the slump in his ranking due to the snapping of the international schedule. [The BWF has since frozen the rankings as of March 17, a decision Prannoy has welcomed]. “The tournament was taking place at a time when the disease was spreading rapidly in England and I thought it was risky,” he said. Inconsistent Prannoy, whose form has taken a dip in the last one and a half years (he has now slipped to 28th in the rankins), said he was using the break to reflect on what went wrong with his game. “I must confess that I am not anywhere as consistent now as I was two years ago. A lot of things have contributed to it. I was not happy with the way I was training, as I struggled with the methods of the new coach at the academy. I wasn’t getting any match practice and there wasn’t any time to reflect on my game as I was playing non-stop.” Prannoy is following the workout plan prescribed by his trainer at Gopi Chand Academy. “Every other day, there is a video conference with the trainer and I follow the schedule given to me.”  There wasn’t any time to reflect on my game as I was playing non-stop. Now that I have got a break, I can rework my game||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/its-a-welcome-break-for-tired-prannoy/article31232246.ece
02 April 2020||April 02 2020 00:00 IST,||Online classes ensure training is not impacted||When the warning signals began to emerge from China about a few weeks ago, Sushrutha Reddy felt he should be prepared. It didn’t matter he was living in Bengaluru, far away from the epicentre of the coronavirus outbreak. A chess coach, he knew that he would have to explore more ways of reaching out to his trainees online. More than anticipated But the demand to learn the game through the internet was more than he anticipated once the lockdown in India began. That has been the case around the globe. However, there has been no compromise in the quality of training. Unlike popular sports like football or cricket, chess can be taught flawlessly within the confines of your room, provided you have internet access. Conducting chess classes online is nothing new. India’s best-known trainer R.B. Ramesh has been doing it for the last 15 years. But what is new is that more coaches and wards have opted for it because of the lockdown in several countries. “Normally I get new students during the school vacation, but more than 50 – including a few from overseas – have joined over the last couple of weeks,” said Sushrutha. “I now conduct lessons online to some 85 students right through the day.” Parents’ belief Chennai-based T.J. Suresh Kumar said the spurt in numbers is largely due to parents’ belief that chess will keep their children occupied when schools are closed. “Coaches like me don’t have any other option but to go online,” he said. Pravin Thipsay pointed out that online coaching had its own advantages. “In a city like Mumbai, where I am living, travelling can be such a huge problem,” said the veteran Grandmaster. “Now you can train someone even till 10 p.m. Of late, I have been having more students online than offline.” But for Ramesh, much of his time used to be spent at his academy, Chess Gurukul, before the lockdown. He trains some of India’s brightest prospects like R. Praggnanandhaa and Aravindh Chithambaram. “Now I teach all of them online,” he said. Multiple platforms There are multiple platforms to reach out to the students. Skype appears to be preferred the choice since it is free. But Sushrutha has found out that Zoom works better when you have to teach a group. “I had also tried Cisco Webex, which too was useful,” he said. “Zoom may not be free, but when you have a reasonable number of students, you can easily cover the cost.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/online-classes-ensure-training-is-not-impacted/article31232541.ece
02 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||All days are practically Sundays, says Tejaswin||On March 14, Tejaswin Shankar was in Albuquerque for the NCAA Division-1 Indoor Tack and Field Championships. The event was cancelled because of COVID-19 and Tejaswin, along with his Kansas State University teammates, moved back. That was the last time the 21-year-old stepped out of the city he’s called home for the past three years. The national high jump record-holder and Business Administration student has since been trying to keep himself fit and sane even as the pandemic took a serious turn in the United States. ‘Not too bad’ “It’s actually not too bad. The important thing is just trying to stay sane and preserve some semblance of normalcy,” Tejaswin told The Hindu from Kansas. “For most sportspersons, life revolves around a routine of training and working out, that’s how we even keep track of the schedules and days. Now, all days are practically Sundays!” He admitted he was better off than many others. “Here, because it is a lot of farmland, things are easier. There have been no cases here so far. There are restrictions but I can move out. The training facilities at the university are closed but the high school grounds with tracks are accessible,” he explained. That might change soon, though. “I am expecting stricter restrictions from this week but physical training has been included in essential activities so going out for a run hopefully won’t be a problem,” he said. Frustrating He has been trying to improvise his workouts — using rock-filled sacks as barbells and running up and down stairs — but admitted the uncertainty was frustrating. “Olympics dates have been announced for next year but what if this goes on till September or beyond? No one knows how things will be when it does get over. There is a serious lack of motivation to keep fit.” Tejaswin, though, knows better than worrying about things he has no control over. “People forever crib about wanting a break from routine but now that they have, most do not know what to do about it. Now it’s all about mental strength. The best thing is school, classes have moved online. If it was only sports, I would have maybe gone mad.”  Olympics dates have been announced for next year but what if this goes on till September or beyond? No one knows how things will be when it does get over||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/all-days-are-practically-sundays-says-tejaswin/article31232240.ece
02 April 2020||HYDERABAD,||Staying on top of things, the Gopi way||P. Gopi Chand, India’s chief National coach, has worked hard to contribute to the badminton world. Even as most of the athletes are struggling to find ways to stay fit during the current lockdown, Gopi is on top of his game, using the Zoom App to ensure that the majority of trainees of the Gopi Academy are linked to and participate in the live, video fitness sessions. “We have to think of ways to stay fit, which is a pre-requisite to being back on the badminton court. So, I thought the best way is to ensure that most of trainees have some physical conditioning to be game-fit once the lockdown is lifted,” Gopi said in an exclusive chat with The Hindu on Wednesday. “These sessions are conducted twice a day via the Zoom app, which facilitates [fitness expert] Dinaz Vervatwala to demonstrate and monitor how the players are doing the exercises. “It is a mix of traditional and scientific methods — the exercises include breathing, meditation, 15 minutes of skipping, [variations of the] Surya Namaskar, and alternate toe-touches. Besides this, I am also keen to see them stay in touch with the sport by opting for shadow and wall practice,” he said. Virtual sessions These innovative ‘circuit work-out’ sessions online are not just confined to those in and around Hyderabad, but also to those who have left the Academy to be at their respective homes in Delhi, Mumbai and Kolkata. While Vervatwala regularly appeals to the players to be honest to themselves in doing the exercises, Gopi focuses on the shadow practice of smashes or returns — of five sets each for 40 seconds each, followed by 20-30 seconds of rest, and a second set with emphasis on parallel strokes. Will there be a critical review? “I will definitely check the fitness levels of most of them once they are back in the Academy and take remedial measures, if necessary,” said Gopi. Many like B. Sai Praneeth welcome this. “It is wonderful to have these sessions, as something is always better than doing nothing,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/staying-on-top-of-things-the-gopi-way/article31232244.ece
02 April 2020||Bengaluru,||Real Kashmir coach Robertson yearning to return home||David Robertson has faced his fair share of challenges in his three years as head coach of Real Kashmir Football Club, but the latest predicament may be the toughest one yet. Having endured through the security lockdown and communications blackout imposed in Jammu and Kashmir last year, Robertson is now stranded in a Srinagar hotel on account of the ongoing lockdown to tackle the coronavirus pandemic threat. With commercial international flights suspended, Robertson, son Mason (who plays for Real Kashmir FC) and wife Kim are waiting on the United Kingdom government to employ evacuation measures to take them back home to Scotland. Give support The Robertson family is particularly worried about David’s mother, who was recently diagnosed with cancer. “My mother, who lives in Aberdeen, just finished her second chemotherapy session. If anything were to happen, it would be just horrible. I want to be close to her — to support her at this tough time. My dad is caring for her, but he is not in the best of health either. My siblings drop off groceries outside their home. It’s a tough situation, all over the world,” Robertson told The Hindu from a Srinagar hotel run by Real Kashmir co-owner Sandeep Chattoo. “We’ve contacted the British High Commission in New Delhi to help us return home. It could be a few days, few weeks — it is a case of sitting and waiting. We also have (English winger) Kallum Higginbotham, four players from Africa and a few U.K. coaching staff with us here in Srinagar. All foreigners are facing a similar situation,” Robertson, a former Rangers FC and Leeds United player, said. Tougher to handle Robertson stated that the latest restrictions have been tougher to handle than the security lockdown and communications blackout. “It is never easy in Jammu and Kashmir. That’s why I keep coming back — there are so many challenges to tackle. Last season was tough (due to the security lockdown and communications blackout), as we did not have internet and could not call home. But at least the team was together, and we could play football,” Robertson said. Grateful to owner The 51-year-old is grateful to Chattoo for his support. “Chattoo is staying here with us in the hotel. He is away from his family as well. There are around 20 hotel staff with us here; no one is allowed in and out. We’re all helping each other. There is a lot of responsibility placed on Chattoo. He’s doing everything possible to keep all of us comfortable,” Robertson said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/real-kashmir-coach-robertson-yearning-to-return-home/article31232205.ece
02 April 2020||Chennai,||Nine years on, Dhoni at the crossroads||The stands were a blaze of light. In the middle, though, M.S. Dhoni shone the brightest. His bat speed and dextrous wrists had combined wonderfully as he sent a full ball from Nuwan Kulasekara for the maximum over long-on in the maximum city. You can freeze the frame. The stunning shot brought an entire nation to life. India had, on April 2, won the 2011 World Cup at Mumbai’s iconic Wankhede Stadium. Bold move Dhoni was captain courageous in a big game — the summit clash — promoting himself ahead of the in-form Yuvraj Singh when the contest was delicately balanced at 114 for three; India was chasing a challenging 275 against the gallant Sri Lankans. And along with a resilient Gautam Gambhir (97), he first ran like a panther between the wickets and then cut loose in what was a brutal onslaught. Dhoni’s 79-ball unbeaten 91 had guided India to a raucous six-wicket triumph. And the spectators swung to the rhythmic beating of the drums as if there was no tomorrow. Outside, there were traffic jams. The skipper was the toast, made all the right moves. That was then; Dhoni at the height of his powers. Now, the scenario is different. Time waits for no one and Dhoni is pushing 39. Deep down Dhoni realises that his best days are behind. But then, he still has the eye of the tiger. Had not Martin Guptill scored a sensational direct hit in the 2019 WC semifinal, he and India might have had a different story to tell. Dhoni, on 50, was lining himself for the big hits. India was in doldrums at 92 for six, when he rallied with an inspired Ravindra Jadeja to keep the Men in Blue in the hunt. Under the circumstances, the criticism that Dhoni came under was harsh and without reason. In the IPL, he has whipped up spectacular moments in the last two seasons, making the impossible possible. And he still possesses the fastest hands behind the stumps. Yet, the odds are loaded against a Dhoni comeback for the World Twenty20 with the Coronavirus pandemic putting a huge question mark over the IPL and a stage for the CSK skipper to conjure blitzkriegs and put himself in India contention. The luminous star of 2011 now finds his career at the crossroads. Will there be one final Dhoni hurrah for India?||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/nine-years-on-dhoni-at-the-crossroads/article31232207.ece
02 April 2020||Paris,||UEFA postpones all internationals in June||UEFA has made a move towards clearing the decks for the return of club football by announcing on Wednesday that all international matches that had been pushed back to June have now been postponed until further notice. “This includes the play-off matches for UEFA EURO 2020 and qualifying matches for UEFA Women’s EURO 2021,” said European football’s governing body. “All other UEFA competition matches, including the centralised international friendlies, remain postponed until further notice.” The decision followed a videoconference with Europe’s 55 member federations as part of discussions on how to adapt the fixture calendar in the face of the ongoing coronavirus crisis. The play-off semifinals and finals that are supposed to decide the last four qualifying berths for the next European Championship were initially postponed at the end of March and pencilled in provisionally for June. That was “subject to a review of the situation” amid uncertainty over how the pandemic will develop and whether many European countries currently in lockdown will be able to return to some kind of normalcy. UEFA has also stated a determination to finish all domestic and club competitions by June 30.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/uefa-postpones-all-internationals-in-june/article31232247.ece
02 April 2020||Chennai,||I am confident of the car: Daruvala||India’s Jehan Daruvala took a decisive step in his career progression to Formula One after signing as a Red Bull junior driver ahead of his F2 debut this year. Red Bull, which has two teams in F1 — Red Bull Racing and Alpha Tauri — has one of the best junior programmes in F1 with the likes of Sebastian Vettel, Daniel Ricciardo and Max Verstappen coming through it. Ahead of the season, Daruvala drove the F2 car in the pre-season testing held at Bahrain early in March, and topped the timesheets in two of the six sessions — the only driver to do so multiple times. Family time However, with the season in limbo, the Indian is back home in Mumbai, spending some quality time with his family; something he doesn’t get to do often, as he has been based out of the UK since his karting days. Speaking to The Hindu about his impressive testing performance, Daruvala said, “It was my first time in the F2 car and I felt good. I was coming back from knee surgery, and so the first day was about trying to get back into the groove. “I adapted well to the car and felt quite comfortable rightaway. “While it is difficult to know where we stand based on just one-lap pace, we were quite fast on the long runs. I am quietly confident that we have a good car,” added Daruvala.  Despite the break, he is leaving no stone unturned to be in shape and is ready if and when the season starts. “I am just going to train as I usually do. I also have a new simulator that I have set up at home, though there are some connectivity issues. I hope I can fix them once the lockdown ends.” New simulator The simulator is a very important tool for drivers to be fully prepared before going into a race weekend. With the current situation not expected to ease until June or July in the continent, F2 faces a tough road ahead. When asked if there are concerns that the season could be massively curtailed or even cancelled, he said, “It is unfortunate not to be racing and we have no idea what is going to happen. “So, I just hope to be as prepared as possible when it starts.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/i-am-confident-of-the-car-daruvala/article31232250.ece
02 April 2020||April 02 2020 00:00 IST,||Free from partiality||Parikshit is impressed by the Lord’s leelas in His various incarnations. But at times he begins to wonder if the Lord, who is free from partiality, is also overtly favourable to the devas. He raises this doubt to Suka after listening to the Vritrasura episode, said Sri B. Sundarkumar in a discourse. Vritra is a ferocious asura but is also a devotee of the Lord. Then why did the Lord not protect him against Indra who defeated him? Suka points out that the Lord transcends all gunas and is free from all passions and partialities commonly found in jivatmas. But He assumes the power of Yogamaya by which He is manifest as the two opposing forces. He is reflected in the attributes of Prakriti like the sun reflected in water and fire in fuel. But He is the master of the gunas. By His Sankalpa He can create into existence everything through the instruments of Prakriti and Purusha. He also gives them His manifestation called Time. When Time favours satva, He allies with the satva dominated devas and destroys their enemies, the asuras. Then Suka recalls the strange incident of Sisupala’s salvation that everyone present at the Rajasuya Yaga conducted by Yudhishtira witnessed with wonder and amazement. Was not this Sisupala a sworn enemy of Krishna? To understand the rationale of this, one has to go back to their previous lives, their actions, behaviour, etc. Jaya and Vijaya who were in the exclusive and exalted service of the Lord at Vaikunta as gatekeepers had to be born on earth as asuras for three births before they could attain the Lord. Each individual is repeatedly born in many spheres being driven by the force of karma and in this way involvement in samsara continues as a chain reaction. He has to face the consequences of karma in every birth until salvation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/free-from-partiality/article31232193.ece
02 April 2020||Bengaluru,||Kothari gives Rs. 5 lakh||Former Karnataka cricketer and State under-19 selector Tejpal Kothari has contributed Rs.5 lakh to the Chief Minister Relief Fund, Karnataka State Cricket Association (KSCA) announced here on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/kothari-gives-rs-5-lakh/article31232248.ece
02 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||KCA to give Rs. 50 lakh to CM’s fund||The Kerala Cricket Association (KCA) will donate Rs. 50 lakhs to the Kerala Chief Minister’s distress relief fund for its fight against COVID-19. The decision was taken after a meeting convened by KCA officials, district cricket association secretaries and BCCI joint-secretary Jayesh George here on Wednesday. Each district association will contribute Rs. 1 lakh towards the fund. The KCA will also seek contributions from current and past cricketers, officials, clubs and others organisations associated with the game in the State. The KCA and its district associations will join forces with the State machinery, said the KCA president Sajan K. Varghese.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/kca-to-give-rs-50-lakh-to-cms-fund/article31232539.ece
02 April 2020||CHENNAI,||ITTF’s assurance to players||International Table Tennis Federation (ITTF) on Wednesday assured players that the ranking points that relate to events that were held in March 2020 will be taken into consideration, and that the world ranking list would be released in the middle of April. “The ranking points corresponding to events that took place in March 2020 will be taken into consideration and added to the ITTF Rankings before the April 2020 edition is released, expected to be no later than April 15. Once released, the ITTF Rankings will be frozen again until activities eventually resume,” ITTF said in a statement. A. Sharath Kamal told The Hindu : “I am looking forward to the April rankings where I hope to equal my career-best ranking (30th) which I [last] reached in January 2019.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ittfs-assurance-to-players/article31232251.ece
02 April 2020||April 02 2020 07:42 IST,||Sudoku - April 2, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-april-2-2020/article31232994.ece
02 April 2020||April 02 2020 00:00 IST,||In lockdown land||After half-an-hour of it-is-making-me-nervous flying, the Mi-17 slowly descends. Most of the flight has been over densely forested mountain ranges, interspersed with the continuous white curl of the Dihing River winding its way across the landscape like a giant snake. Our luggage is piled in the centre of the chopper; benches along both sides have passengers strapped to their seats. Most of them are soldiers from the Assam Rifles, India’s oldest paramilitary force, returning to their post. Peering out of the window, the wind whipping my hair into a bird nest, I find specks of green turning into soldiers standing with their backs towards the helipad, the wind from the chopper’s blades making their trousers flap like fans unfurling from their socks. On a raised hillock sit crouched men, women and children — also with their backs to the helipad, shielding themselves from the wind blast. A cluster of small huts stands bravely in the desolate landscape. Villagers crowd around the chopper, some waiting to be ferried back, others just curious to see who has come. I have been told to carry packets of salt as gifts for the old soldiers, but the obvious joy with which they accept it tells me how precious it is. A quiet place Surrounded by Myanmar on three sides, Vijaynagar is the remote end of Changlang district in Arunachal Pradesh. An impregnable protected forest called the Namdapha National Park, inhabited by wild animals, surrounds it. The story goes that in the early 1960s, India received alarming reports of Chinese ingression into Arunachal. It was decided that soldiers from the Assam Rifles should be encouraged to settle down here to discourage foreign ingression. Two expeditions were taken. Soldiers from the second one, led by Major General AS Guraiya, Inspector-General, Assam Rifles, ferried material and constructed an airfield there at a height of nearly 5,000 feet. The airstrip was named Vijaynagar after Guraiya’s son, Vijay. Soon after, a Kalinga aircraft landed there, bringing 100 Assam Rifles soldiers who established a company post and started border-guarding duties. Slowly, old retired soldiers and families started joining them with the number rising to 240. Smiling old Savitri Damai tells me that she was just 27 when her husband Rifleman Sanman Damai accepted the Government’s offer in 1971. The couple, along with their three children, got on the plane from Mohanbari airfield. It was the first time she was getting into a “ hawai jahaj ” and she was very scared, she says. She carried in her arms her youngest son who was just two months old and firmly held by the hand her six-year-old daughter. Her husband held their second son while also balancing a carton with holes cut into it that held the family’s most precious possession — a fat and confused hen, clucking in annoyance. When the aircraft landed in Vijaynagar, Savitri’s heart sank. The airfield was in the middle of a dense forest. But her husband and the other soldiers pulled out their khukris and set about clearing the forest to make huts. She soon discovered that while the land was fertile and could grow the best of tomatoes, lai patta (a kind of mustard), rice and corn, there was no one there to sell them salt, sugar, spices or oil. It was only when her husband went on leave that he would get these commodities, that she would carefully ration, trying her best to make them last as long as she could. Forgotten past Savitri’s son Rifleman Sunil Damai was born in Vijaynagar in a home delivery assisted by older women. “There would hardly be any studies at our school, since teachers wouldn’t come to Vijaynagar. Mostly, we managed on our own and helped with farming. Sometimes we would light a lantern, but since kerosene was precious, my mother would cook on a log fire. We would eat in its light and go to sleep when it got dark. We would see the helicopter coming every week and that was entertainment,” says Sunil, adding, “I had never seen a car or cinema hall or even light bulbs till I walked 150 kilometres to Miao, to give my Class X exams. It was a seven-day walk. We returned with our backpacks stuffed with grocery.” I meet Naik Zachhinga Ralte, an 80-year-old retired soldier of 1 Assam Rifles, who was flown to Vijaynagar in March 1969. Old and bent, he is still remarkably fit. “I was posted in Aizawl, when at our daily roll call, an announcement was made that the Government was looking for volunteers to settle down in Vijaynagar. Those who volunteered would get all facilities and a piece of land. Six of us volunteered and a Dakota brought us here,” Ralte remembers. I also meet Dr Gumlat Miao, 32, a Government doctor who was posted to Vijaynagar in June 2017. The place hadn’t had a doctor for 10 years. “I was shocked to see that the place had no roads or electricity, or medicines in the hospital,” he says. Rifleman Jagan Singh Thapa also came to Vijaynagar in 1969. “I was 30 then,” he says, “Here, I met 18-year-old Lakshmi, whose father was a retired soldier. We married, have three sons, two of whom are serving in the Assam Rifles.” There is a twinkle in his old faded eyes. I would have liked to talk to him more, but the chackk-chak-chak of the chopper tells me it is time to leave. A few shops have opened in Vijaynagar over the years, but the prices of goods are exorbitant since grocery has to be carried as head load from Miao. Salt sells at Rs. 150 a kilogram and sugar at Rs. 250 a kilogram. Other than the weekly visits from the Mi-17s, aircraft no longer land in Vijaynagar. The airfield where Savitri and her family had landed broke down long back. For a short while, a mud track existed from Miao to Vijaynagar. However, soon the jungle swallowed that too. In February 2013, the foundation of a 157-kilometre road, that was to connect Miao to Vijaynagar under the Prime Minister’s Gram Sadak Yojana, was laid. Just 15 kilometres of the road was constructed and then that too fell into disrepair. Vijaynagar continues to be a land locked down in time forever.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/in-lockdown-land/article31232035.ece
02 April 2020||April 02 2020 00:00 IST,||Who let the civets out?||A civet cat that slunk along a silent street in Meppayur in Kozhikode district a few days ago created a stir on social media. The video of the animal moving languorously through an otherwise crowded street junction was shared multiple times with a message that urban wildlife has started venturing out during the lockdown. Some even called it the “critically endangered Malabar civet”, a species whose existence is still in question. As the video trends on social media, wildlife experts point out that the description accompanying the clip is incorrect. “First, the animal in the video is the Small Indian Civet, not the Malabar Civet. Also, the lockdown or the virus outbreak have nothing to do with the sick animal having strayed out into the open,” says Sandeep Das, research scholar at the Kerala Forest Research Institute and a research fellow at the Zoological Society of London. The Small Indian Civet, which is commonly found in rural areas, is a nocturnal and shy animal that does not venture out in broad daylight. “The animal which was roaming the streets during the day was in distress and died soon after officials from the Forest Department rescued it,” he says. Social media and misinformation are not strange bedfellows, but the COVID-19 crisis has just led to a profusion of such fanciful ideas, says Nameer PO, professor of wildlife, Kerala Agricultural University. The National Geographic described fake news about wild animals taking over human territory “as contagious as the virus itself”. News of wild elephants parading through Wayanad town, dolphins by the Mumbai sea shore and peacocks strutting about through backyards, spreading their glorious feathers are all being attributed to the COVID-19 lockdown. It may be true that since fishing activity has stopped totally, dolphins do come closer to the shore. Peacocks usually exist in hot, dry areas and now that people spend their whole days and nights indoors, they are free to roam. Another image of deer lazing on a road side went viral, and it was being circulated as a view of the Coimbatore-Ooty Road. Wildlife experts clarify that deer in the picture is the Wild Sika deer, found in Japan, which look very much like our spotted deer. “The lockdown would definitely have impacted the urban wildlife. All of a sudden, noise pollution has reduced, air quality has improved and traffic has practically come to a standstill. This change would certainly have impacted them in a positive way. However, it is too early to arrive at conclusions without having studied animal behaviour in detail,” says Sandeep. Urban wildlife is a broad term that includes animals such as the Small Indian Civet, mongoose, jackal, jungle cat, toddy cat, (Asian Palm Civet), squirrel in addition to a number of amphibians, reptiles and birds, who have learned to coexist with humans. “In all likelihood, it is just that people didn’t have time to observe all these creatures that co-existed with us before,” says Nameer. “Now that people find themselves with a lot of time on hand, they are looking at these creatures with new found interest.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/who-let-the-civets-out/article31232030.ece
02 April 2020||April 02 2020 00:00 IST,||Globetrotting, with a mouse in hand||I have been travelling across the world all day, despite the lockdown. It’s a muggy day at the Gateway of India in Mumbai. In order to cool off, I hop onto the Splash Mountain Ride at Disneyland, California. Then, inspired by Dumbledore and Harry Potter, I head to the Cliffs of Moher in Ireland for a breathtaking view of the grey sea below and the dramatically jagged crags around. Currently, I am in Machu Picchu looking at three alpacas. Oh, wait! There is one more behind me. It is a glorious day at Huayna Picchu — the highest viewing point — where fluffy silver clouds snugly drape themselves around the heads of the mountains. Usually, to trek up to this point, one needs to be among the first 400 visitors in line on any given day. Yet, here I am, eating chips in my ragged pyjamas, all set to head to the next destination: the Louvre Museum, Paris. And I shall reach in five seconds or less, depending on my Internet connectivity. As real as it gets Thanks to the concept of virtual tours, destinations that hitherto seemed difficult to get to are available at one’s fingertips. While some were already available on Google (or via their respective websites), the recent lockdown triggered by COVID-19 has made many more landmarks, museums, galleries and shows navigable, or accessible, online. The Louvre, for example, lets you manoeuvre through its halls and corridors via a website called youvisit.com, which takes you through sections including Grande Gallery, Napoleon’s ornate apartment and Roman Antiquities. Delhi’s National Gallery of Modern Art, Amsterdam’s Van Gogh Museum, London’s British Museum, Florence’s Uffizi Gallery among others offer similar facilities. Given that the lockdown in cities has shuttered attractions, Anabeth Guthrie, chief of communications, National Gallery of Art, Washington, says, “We’ve seen an incredible response to our social media gallery tours (that began following the closure on March 14) with thousands of new followers across our channels following along.” In addition to this, more than 42,000 works from the Gallery’s collection are also viewable on the Google Arts & Culture platform. “Each day, our social media channels (@ngadc on Twitter/Instagram and @NationalGalleryofArt on Facebook) feature one gallery and take a deep dive into the works of art it includes: featuring commentaries by curators, closelook at details, and links to resources where followers can learn more,” she adds. The social media tours will cover all parts of the East and West Buildings as well as the Sculpture Garden. So, which are the most popular works on display? “We opened ‘Degas at the Opera’ before the temporary closure. It was quite popular in just a few short weeks. From the permanent collection, our most popular works of art include ‘Multiverse’ by Leo Villareal and ‘Ginevra de’Benci’ by Leonardo da Vinci (the only painting by da Vinci in the Americas),” says Guthrie. For something more quirky, check out Las Vegas’ The Neon Museum, which features cheerfully gaudy signs rescued from old motels and casinos, as well as narrates their stories via its free app. It also has a section called ‘Lost Vegas: Tim Burton’ that gives a glimpse into art created by the iconic filmmaker. Think bubble-like helmet-sporting aliens from Mars Attacks! and other phantasmagorical creatures inspired from Burton’smovies. Being one with Nature To bring the outdoors to those confined within the walls of their homes, a number of national parks have also hopped onto the virtual bandwagon. Sure, strap on your Fitbits if you like. Kenai Fjords in Alaska, Carlsbad Caverns, New Mexico, Bryce Canyon, Utah, Dry Tortugas, Florida, are all available via Google Arts & Culture. And if you opt for the Hawai‘i Volcanoes tour, I suggest you hold on tight to your armchair because it involves taking a flight over the seething mass of fire, and you get to witness the Nahuku Lava Tube. If that makes you nervous, you can always seek refuge in upbeat videos from zoos and aquariums currently offering live footage of their properties. Meet polar bear cubs Akiak and Sura on explore.org. These twins can keep you entertained non-stop as they laze, roll, and go about their day along with their mother Freedom and grandmother Huggies at Ouwehands Zoo in Rhenen, The Netherlands. You can also see polar bears from Canada and Denmark. “Polar Bears International was one of the first cameras we installed and live-streamed from Churchill, Canada,” says Emily Berlin of Explore. The organisation was started in 2004 by Charles Annenberg Weingarten with the idea of connecting people to the natural world in the purest way possible: by being an observer as life unfolds. “Anyone around the world can log on to the website, watch the live cams, comment on the chat boards and take snapshots,” she adds. Explore currently has 173 cameras set up at diverse locations relaying the lives of animals and birds. Gawk at cuddly pandas from Wolong Valley in China, or watch orcas gracefully make their way through Canada’s Blackney Pass. In Katmai, Alaska, the brown bear cameras are among the most popular. “They are placed in a remote location with incredible views of Brooks Falls where brown bears gather every summer as they come out from hibernation looking for salmon. Viewers can watch several bears fishing in the river at a given time, mothers with cubs playing down river and salmon trying to jump upstream to spawn. There’s really nothing like it, and it provides viewers with the increasingly rare opportunity to witness a robust, healthy ecosystem,” says Berlin. Coming soon, she adds, is a wolf sanctuary in northern Minnesota. Nature is a powerful medicine and our viewers have used the streams to unwind and connect to something bigger than themselves, states Berlin, adding, “We have seen a 40% increase in viewership in the past week and are excited to continue to connect people around the world to Nature during these uncertain times.”  FOR CONNOISSEURS OF THE PERFORMING ARTS  The Metropolitan Opera in New York has been streaming a free series of encore Live in HD presentations on their website. The upcoming line-up has Verdi’s Don Carlo and Macbeth , Bizet’s Les Pêcheurs de Perles and Bellini’s Norma.   Berlin Philharmonic’s Digital Concert Hall is free for all. Catch the orchestra play pieces by composers such as Luciano Berio and Béla Bartók.  London West End shows and those from Broadway as well are available online on platforms such as Marquee TV and BroadwayHD. Choose from The Wind in the Willows , The Merchant of Venice, Cats , The King and I, The Sound of Music ...||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/globetrotting-with-a-mouse-in-hand/article31232039.ece
02 April 2020||April 02 2020 00:00 IST,||A song for the brave||When you think of Anand Bhaskar Collective, you think of Carnatic blending with rock; of a classically trained voice showing off its abilities to violin notes and electric guitar riffs. What you do not expect is a pop rock-esque experience with an accompanying choir for the final chorus, telling the tales of unsung real-life heroes, which is what the band’s recently released music video, ‘Main Hoon Zameen’, delivers. Though finalised and released this Tuesday, the song itself had taken shape three years ago, with the melody by Bhaskar and lyrics by his erstwhile boss, Anand Karir of A Glass Of Whisky Productions. “The melody came first. I thought it is quite evocative; it creates this urge to reach new heights and new horizons. And that is what prompted the lyric,” says Bhaskar. With the passionate lyric came the idea of telling the tales of people who live up to it, “The brief is simple: give us the ability to choose. For example, if today someone wants to be zameen (land), and tomorrow he chooses to be asmaan (sky) — two polar opposites — it’s his or her choice to make. That thought led us to people who actually do this in real life; people who don’t wait for their ambitions to be facilitated by external factors. They just go out and do it.” After some research and going through a string of recommendations, the team zeroed in on three living examples of this attitude: Prayas Foundation co-founder Ramesh Raut, animal rescuer Reshma Shelatkar, and environmentalist and Turning Tide Foundation creator, George Remedios. Raut’s Prayas Foundation has been providing free tuition classes to hundreds of underprivileged school children for nearly 12 years now, in addition to providing them with daily meals. Remedios’ Turning Tide Foundation diverts biodegradable waste to the creation of urban food forests amid the bustling metropolis. Shelatkar has been feeding and caring for hundreds of stray animals for the past 15 years, from her own income as a tutor. Or so, found the team — Anand Bhaskar Collective and A Glass Of Whisky Production House — after some exhaustive research. “We discussed a number of case studies, and these three were shortlisted. Some others weren’t available. We also had in mind an LGBTQ activist who is doing a tremendous amount of good work for the community, but the change that she is bringing about is not something we could show in the video. We wanted to shoot people doing what they do.” For instance, shots like those of Remedios digging soil and watering saplings; a young boy’s face lighting up as he slowly understands what Raut is trying to teach; a cat scrambling down a wall and across the street towards Shelatkar as she passes by. All these visuals are the result of the crew following these changemakers and shooting their everyday activities for weeks —“They were not enacted for the video,” clarifies Bhaskar. The scenes are interspersed with performance visuals of the band, for which “the crew had travelled with us to three different shows: Calicut, Hyderabad and Pune.” The entire process, he says, took 18 months. ‘Main Hoon Zameen’, says Bhaskar, also marks a shift in the band’s musical style. “It’s part of an EP called Ufaq , which means ‘horizon’ in Urdu. “Sonically, we are usually very heavy rock. With this EP, we are moving in the direction of pop rock. We are ditching the heavy feel for a while; maybe we will do it again in the future.” The four-song EP also features a folk-rock song called ‘Dholaa’. “This is the first time we have ventured into the folk space. It also features our very first collaboration with another artiste,” says Bhaskar. That artiste is the famous Mame Khan, a playback and folk singer from Rajasthan. Clearly, this is an EP of many exciting firsts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/a-song-for-the-brave/article31231990.ece
02 April 2020||April 02 2020 00:00 IST,||I do. But first, mask please||As Sweatha and Aswin tied the knot along with over 20 of their closest friends and family in Chennai, nearly as many phones and recording devices were propped in front of their faces. They were live streaming the wedding to the other 200 guests who could not make it, because of the all-India lockdown to combat the COVID-19 pandemic. “It was surreal. Every girl dreams of her wedding, but this was nothing I had ever imagined. All empty chairs, and 15 smartphones in front of us, like we’re some celebrities,” laughs Sweatha, who married Aswin on March 26, the day after India went under lockdown. They cancelled every other ceremony —mehendito reception, except for the rites. As we battle the novel Coronavirus crisis, couples all over the world have been stripping down their big fat weddings to the bare essentials: a commitment to stay together through thick and thin. No grand decorations, just declarations of love. A dream destination wedding in Las Vegas was what Autumn Conner had in mind. After all, the Phoenix (Arizona, USA) resident had waited over six months for her now husband Santosh Roychowdhury to fly in from India. “His visa took that long to clear. My side of the family was supposed to fly in from all over the country,” says Autumn, over a VoIP call from her hometown. But then on March 14, two days prior to her wedding, Autumn had to call off her plans as the US started to bear the brunt of COVID-19. With social distancing and lockdown protocols kicking in across the country, the couple opted to play it safe, and decided to get married in a private ceremony that was attended by a little over 10 people. “It was strange. Funny too. We just smiled looking at each other,” says Autumn, as she shares pictures of the couple wearing masks and exchanging their wedding kiss. “We wore masks to remind people that it is important to take this pandemic seriously, in the US and around the world,” says Santosh, adding, “but love can overcome anything... even a pandemic.” Similar reports have been coming in from Lithuania, Indonesia, Spain, Argentina, Italy and others. In a video that went viral on Twitter, a couple got married on the streets of New York, as their friend who performed the ceremony from a balcony, read out an excerpt from the very aptLove in the Time of Cholera, by Gabriel Garcia Marquez. Difficult choices Behind the cutesy pictures of masked kisses however, is a rolling stone of shifting plans, guests dropping out, vendors bargaining, and the accompanying stress. “Forget social distancing, Aswin and I distanced ourselves from each other two days before the wedding,” says Sweatha, adding that their texts would only be “Good Morning”, “Good Night”, and “Did you eat?” “Both of us were tense and we wanted to avoid arguments about the planning. When the situation is out of our control, it is better to be silent and calm,” she says. Weddings were one of the exemptions to the lockdown, under certain conditions. According to a Tamil Nadu Government Order, “marriages already fixed on or before March 16, in marriage halls alone can be conducted, subject to a maximum number of 30 guests.” And so, a detailed police permission has to be sought by the marriage hall, and by the couples getting married, citing the guests in attendance. Photographer Pranesh Padmanabhan, of Studio 31, who covered Sweatha and Aswin’s wedding, explains how they were picked up from their homes and dropped at the venue. “Our car was stopped six times for checking permissions,” he says. “After our photographers came back home, they self-quarantined for a week and took temperatures every few hours.” “Fortunately, the caterer for our wedding agreed to serve to a smaller guest list. Only, instead of cooking at the venue, he brought food from his kitchen to the hall,” says Sweatha. In another wedding that Studio 31 covered in mid-March, the couple had to arrange for food parcels for the 30 guests in attendance, from the nearest Saravana Bhavan after the caterer cancelled. “The coming three months are known as the wedding season in India. We normally would have about 140 bookings during this period, but 90 % of them dropped out. Now we have about 20, and even they are unsure,” he says. Pranesh has made an effort to document these surreal times through his photographs: Corporation workers hosing down the venue with disinfectants, guests dining a metre apart from each other. The silver lining The Government has instructed marriage halls to “return the advance paid by the public for all cancelled bookings.” However, some like Pushpa Sridhar claim they are still in the dark about refunds: instead, they are being asked by vendors to set another date. “It is very disappointing for both families. Airlines have asked our guests to switch the booking to a later date within the next six months. Which means our relatives are asking us if we have set a date yet, but we can’t do that until there is some sense of normalcy!” says Pushpa, mother of the groom. On the other hand, Arjun (name changed on request) used the lockdown as the opportunity to have the intimate eco-friendly wedding he and his wife had always pictured. “My wife’s family had wanted a grander wedding, and we debated postponing it. But we went ahead with an intimate affair, because in the end, that is what she and I had wanted.” Arjun proudly recalls how his was one of those few weddings where everybody present was involved in what was happening, rather than having personal conversations. He too had live streamed the ceremony for around 300-400 people, much like Sweatha and Aswin. Thankful for the relaxed affair, Aswin says, “If you think about the ones closest to you, that you want around you, they wouldn’t be more than 30, anyway.” With inputs fromPradeep Kumar||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/i-do-but-first-mask-please/article31232023.ece
02 April 2020||April 02 2020 00:00 IST,||Quilters in Chennai are making simple cotton masks for hospitals, patients and others in their community||The inchworms have swung into action. Members of The Square Inch (India’s first quilting studio, where they meet to exchange quilting designs and techniques and organise and execute community serving projects) are a community of 150 quilters in Chennai, explains Varsha Sundararajan who is part of the team. Now, in response to COVID-19, instead of quilts, they are making masks. “We have a Facebook group of quilters of Indian origin across the world. One member is Jaya Parker, an ER surgeon in the US. Tina Katwal, the founder of The Square Inch, asked her what she thought of the idea of making masks in these times, and she said it was a good idea. Another quilter Elvira, from Guwahati, shared pictures of the masks she had already started making. We spoke to more doctors in the city and they were encouraging too,” says Varsha, who is particular to point out that these are not COVID-19-specific masks. “Masks are needed for other patients too. Those visiting hospitals for dialysis, pregnant women and others who are vulnerable to any infection.” She says that Madras Medical Mission (MMM) approached them and the nephrologists suggested modifications, such as making a provision to insert a filter that would keep patients safe. The inchworms supplied them with 250 masks in three days. Dr Rajeevalochana P of MMM is happy with them but reiterates that the masks are not for those affected by COVID-19 or for health workers. “These are for patients vulnerable to infections, especially those who come twice or thrice a week for their dialysis. They have to wear masks when they are here. We will sterilise these masks and distribute it to them. They can be washed and reused,” she says. The quilters have also supplied masks to a maternity hospital. Apart from hospitals, the team is also focussing on making and distributing masks in their respective localities, gated communities and apartments. “There are so many senior citizens and their caregivers where I live. I made masks for them too. And for the milkman, the paper delivery person and the sanitation workers who turn up every day to clean the streets,” says Varsha. Once the needs of each quilter’s community is met, surplus masks are collected at five or six points in the city to be distributed elsewhere. One of the quilters made a mask for her watchman; a policeman who saw him asked where he got the mask from. She gave him one too! Each mask they give out is accompanied with instructions on how it is to be used. The instructions come in Tamil, English and Hindi. Tailoring the mask is simple, assures Varsha. “There are just a few points we have to keep in mind and we are good to go.” The masks are made of 100% cotton fabric. Where is all the fabric coming from? Varsha laughs. “All quilters worth their quilts squirrel away fabric. We call it our stash. I never thought I would run out of my stash ever, but I am!” The quilters have shared what they do on social media and with friends and family. “We may not be able to cater to demands for masks from elsewhere. But we will be more than happy to share how the masks are made,” says Varsha. She says she has had enquiries from as far as Nepal and, closer home, from Coimbatore. “I ask them to identify two or three tailors with sewing machines and we can tell them how to make the masks over Skype or WhatsApp.” Varsha adds that the quilters have also taught the teachers of V-Excel Educational Trust, and they, in turn, will be teaching others through video. Admittedly, the inchworms and their masks have come in for considerable flak from “a legion of naysayers.” “But we have stood our ground. Doctors have approved it, hospitals are using it and our sanitation workers and those who are providing essential services are grateful for them. Fabric masks do have their uses. It is a barrier of sorts and the first line of defence. They are easy to make, are not patented and we are happy to show you how to make them.” To know more, write tothe.square.inch@gmail.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/quilters-in-chennai-are-making-simple-cotton-masks-for-hospitals-patients-and-others-in-their-community/article31232013.ece
02 April 2020||April 02 2020 00:00 IST,||Framed within four walls||Be it a golden stream of sunlight that passes through the cracks in a door, rendered in monochrome, or a rolled-up stack of old newspapers that is oddly satisfying to look at — there are latent frames that often go unnoticed in our own homes. The Chennai Photowalk, a city-based community of photography enthusiasts, seem to be missing its Sunday photowalks now more than ever. So, for the past two weeks, members have been getting together virtually. And one such Sunday event was to discover the hidden frames within the four walls of their homes, which gave birth to some of the ones described above. It was on March 22 that the group decided to go digital with its events: “The participants were asked to click pictures and post them on our Facebook and Instagram handles, that pertain to each theme, within two hours,” says Naveen Kumar, one of the organisers. The first topic was ‘patterns at home’ followed by ‘fun with family’, ‘creativity in kitchen’ and ‘storytelling’. Yesterday, in its second run, The Chennai Photowalk, announced a virtual bus ride for its participants. And for this, it had chosen route number 1, that travels from Thiruvanmiyur to Ennore. The virtual bus stopped at specific locations every hour: this was also when the participants were expected to post images of that specific area, which were clicked in the past. Naveen confirms that they plan to do such activities every Sunday.  Check out its Facebook page and Instagram handle: @thechennaiphotowalk.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/framed-within-four-walls/article31232008.ece
02 April 2020||April 02 2020 00:00 IST,||Make your own music||When Josh Vivian started Namma Ooru Boy Band in 2014, he relied heavily on support from fellow indie musicians — a network he had created from years of singing covers. “These guys helped me out by playing in my song for a low charge, or sometimes, for free.” But not everyone has this kind of network, he acknowledges. Josh and Mervin T Thomas, founder of TASE (The Audiophile's School of Sound Engineering), have come up with an initiative for aspiring musicians to record their debut tracks with them. The duo is inviting musicians to send in their tracks for the next couple of weeks, and will feature the good ones on TASE’s social media pages. The best entry will be developed into a professionally recorded music track, along with a video that Josh will feature in. “Mervin is a sound engineer himself, and also runs a studio, apart from the school. We have been associated together for a long time, and he knows how difficult funding for indie musicians is. So he came up with the idea to encourage upcoming artistes, and provide them the support that they need for mixing and mastering of tracks,” says Josh. While Josh will help with the vocals and arranging music — “We will take your raw track and add music with the help of our network of artistes” — Mervin will handle post-production: recording, mixing and mastering. Any genre of music is invited. Josh adds that a complete mastered song normally costs around Rs. 60,000 or Rs. 70,000, but they are willing to work with whatever musicians can afford. The shooting of the video, however, will be done only after the lockdown ends. “This 21-day period is the perfect time for musicians to get creative and write songs,” he believes, “They might have written songs already but because this is like a contest, they can start making changes to perfect their song, and come up with their best version.” Follow TASE on Instagram (@tase.india) and send your entries to info@tase.org.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/make-your-own-music/article31232028.ece
02 April 2020||April 02 2020 00:00 IST,||Globetrotting, with a mouse in hand||I have been travelling across the world all day, despite the lockdown. It’s a muggy day at the Gateway of India in Mumbai. In order to cool off, I hop onto the Splash Mountain Ride at Disneyland, California. Then, inspired by Dumbledore and Harry Potter, I head to the Cliffs of Moher in Ireland for a breathtaking view of the grey sea below and the dramatically jagged crags around. Currently, I am in Machu Picchu looking at three alpacas. Oh, wait! There is one more behind me. It is a glorious day at Huayna Picchu — the highest viewing point — where fluffy silver clouds snugly drape themselves around the heads of the mountains. Usually, to trek up to this point, one needs to be among the first 400 visitors in line on any given day. Yet, here I am, eating chips in my ragged pyjamas, all set to head to the next destination: the Louvre Museum, Paris. And I shall reach in five seconds or less, depending on my Internet connectivity. As real as it gets Thanks to the concept of virtual tours, destinations that hitherto seemed difficult to get to are available at one’s fingertips. While some were already available on Google (or via their respective websites), the recent lockdown triggered by COVID-19 has made many more landmarks, museums, galleries and shows navigable, or accessible, online. The Louvre, for example, lets you manoeuvre through its halls and corridors via a website called youvisit.com, which takes you through sections including Grande Gallery, Napoleon’s ornate apartment and Roman Antiquities. Delhi’s National Gallery of Modern Art, Amsterdam’s Van Gogh Museum, London’s British Museum, Florence’s Uffizi Gallery among others offer similar facilities. Given that the lockdown in cities has shuttered attractions, Anabeth Guthrie, chief of communications, National Gallery of Art, Washington, says, “We’ve seen an incredible response to our social media gallery tours (that began following the closure on March 14) with thousands of new followers across our channels following along.” In addition to this, more than 42,000 works from the Gallery’s collection are also viewable on the Google Arts & Culture platform. “Each day, our social media channels (@ngadc on Twitter/Instagram and @NationalGalleryofArt on Facebook) feature one gallery and take a deep dive into the works of art it includes: featuring commentaries by curators, closelook at details, and links to resources where followers can learn more,” she adds. The social media tours will cover all parts of the East and West Buildings as well as the Sculpture Garden. So, which are the most popular works on display? “We opened ‘Degas at the Opera’ before the temporary closure. It was quite popular in just a few short weeks. From the permanent collection, our most popular works of art include ‘Multiverse’ by Leo Villareal and ‘Ginevra de’Benci’ by Leonardo da Vinci (the only painting by da Vinci in the Americas),” says Guthrie. For something more quirky, check out Las Vegas’ The Neon Museum, which features cheerfully gaudy signs rescued from old motels and casinos, as well as narrates their stories via its free app. It also has a section called ‘Lost Vegas: Tim Burton’ that gives a glimpse into art created by the iconic filmmaker. Think bubble-like helmet-sporting aliens from Mars Attacks! and other phantasmagorical creatures inspired from Burton’smovies. Being one with Nature To bring the outdoors to those confined within the walls of their homes, a number of national parks have also hopped onto the virtual bandwagon. Sure, strap on your Fitbits if you like. Kenai Fjords in Alaska, Carlsbad Caverns, New Mexico, Bryce Canyon, Utah, Dry Tortugas, Florida, are all available via Google Arts & Culture. And if you opt for the Hawai‘i Volcanoes tour, I suggest you hold on tight to your armchair because it involves taking a flight over the seething mass of fire, and you get to witness the Nahuku Lava Tube. If that makes you nervous, you can always seek refuge in upbeat videos from zoos and aquariums currently offering live footage of their properties. Meet polar bear cubs Akiak and Sura on explore.org. These twins can keep you entertained non-stop as they laze, roll, and go about their day along with their mother Freedom and grandmother Huggies at Ouwehands Zoo in Rhenen, The Netherlands. You can also see polar bears from Canada and Denmark. “Polar Bears International was one of the first cameras we installed and live-streamed from Churchill, Canada,” says Emily Berlin of Explore. The organisation was started in 2004 by Charles Annenberg Weingarten with the idea of connecting people to the natural world in the purest way possible: by being an observer as life unfolds. “Anyone around the world can log on to the website, watch the live cams, comment on the chat boards and take snapshots,” she adds. Explore currently has 173 cameras set up at diverse locations relaying the lives of animals and birds. Gawk at cuddly pandas from Wolong Valley in China, or watch orcas gracefully make their way through Canada’s Blackney Pass. In Katmai, Alaska, the brown bear cameras are among the most popular. “They are placed in a remote location with incredible views of Brooks Falls where brown bears gather every summer as they come out from hibernation looking for salmon. Viewers can watch several bears fishing in the river at a given time, mothers with cubs playing down river and salmon trying to jump upstream to spawn. There’s really nothing like it, and it provides viewers with the increasingly rare opportunity to witness a robust, healthy ecosystem,” says Berlin. Coming soon, she adds, is a wolf sanctuary in northern Minnesota. Nature is a powerful medicine and our viewers have used the streams to unwind and connect to something bigger than themselves, states Berlin, adding, “We have seen a 40% increase in viewership in the past week and are excited to continue to connect people around the world to Nature during these uncertain times.”  FOR CONNOISSEURS OF THE PERFORMING ARTS  The Metropolitan Opera in New York has been streaming a free series of encore Live in HD presentations on their website. The upcoming line-up has Verdi’s Don Carlo and Macbeth , Bizet’s Les Pêcheurs de Perles and Bellini’s Norma.   Berlin Philharmonic’s Digital Concert Hall is free for all. Catch the orchestra play pieces by composers such as Luciano Berio and Béla Bartók.  London West End shows and those from Broadway as well are available online on platforms such as Marquee TV and BroadwayHD. Choose from The Wind in the Willows , The Merchant of Venice, Cats , The King and I, The Sound of Music ...||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/globetrotting-with-a-mouse-in-hand/article31232430.ece
02 April 2020||April 02 2020 00:00 IST,||A song for the brave||When you think of Anand Bhaskar Collective, you think of Carnatic blending with rock; of a classically trained voice showing off its abilities to violin notes and electric guitar riffs. What you do not expect is a pop rock-esque experience with an accompanying choir for the final chorus, telling the tales of unsung real-life heroes, which is what the band’s recently released music video, ‘ Main Hoon Zameen ’, delivers. Though finalised and released this Tuesday, the song itself had taken shape three years ago, with the melody by Bhaskar and lyrics by his erstwhile boss, Anand Karir of A Glass Of Whisky Productions. “The melody came first. I thought it is quite evocative; it creates this urge to reach new heights and new horizons. And that is what prompted the lyric,” says Bhaskar. With the passionate lyric came the idea of telling the tales of people who live up to it, “The brief is simple: give us the ability to choose. For example, if today someone wants to be zameen (land), and tomorrow he chooses to be asmaan (sky) — two polar opposites — it’s his or her choice to make. That thought led us to people who actually do this in real life; people who don’t wait for their ambitions to be facilitated by external factors. They just go out and do it.” After some research and going through a string of recommendations, the team zeroed in on three living examples of this attitude: Prayas Foundation co-founder Ramesh Raut, animal rescuer Reshma Shelatkar, and environmentalist and Turning Tide Foundation creator, George Remedios. Raut’s Prayas Foundation has been providing free tuition classes to hundreds of underprivileged school children for nearly 12 years now, in addition to providing them with daily meals. Remedios’ Turning Tide Foundation diverts biodegradable waste to the creation of urban food forests amid the bustling metropolis. Shelatkar has been feeding and caring for hundreds of stray animals for the past 15 years, from her own income as a tutor. Or so, found the team — Anand Bhaskar Collective and A Glass Of Whisky Production House — after some exhaustive research. “We discussed a number of case studies, and these three were shortlisted. Some others weren’t available. We also had in mind an LGBTQ activist who is doing a tremendous amount of good work for the community, but the change that she is bringing about is not something we could show in the video. We wanted to shoot people doing what they do.” For instance, shots like those of Remedios digging soil and watering saplings; a young boy’s face lighting up as he slowly understands what Raut is trying to teach; a cat scrambling down a wall and across the street towards Shelatkar as she passes by. All these visuals are the result of the crew following these changemakers and shooting their everyday activities for weeks —“They were not enacted for the video,” clarifies Bhaskar. The scenes are interspersed with performance visuals of the band, for which “the crew had travelled with us to three different shows: Calicut, Hyderabad and Pune.” The entire process, he says, took 18 months. ‘Main Hoon Zameen’ , says Bhaskar, also marks a shift in the band’s musical style. “It’s part of an EP called Ufaq , which translates to ‘horizon’ in Urdu. “Sonically, we are usually very heavy rock. With this EP, we are moving in the direction of pop rock. We are ditching the heavy feel for a while; maybe we will do it again in the future,” says Bhaskar. The four-song EP also features a folk-rock song called ‘Dholaa’. “This is the first time we have ventured into the folk space. It also features our very first collaboration with another artiste,” says Bhaskar. That artiste is the famous Mame Khan, a playback and folk singer from Rajasthan. Clearly, this is an EP of many exciting firsts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/a-song-for-the-brave/article31232642.ece
02 April 2020||April 02 2020 00:00 IST,||Returning to Shiva’s||For an artist, being in solitude can be a boon. Sangeeta Gupta, who was Chief Commissioner of Income Tax (Delhi), until she retired in May 2018, has made the best possible use of the coronavirus lockdown. She is working on a series of 85 paintings titled Aadiyogi Shiv: a Journey in Cosmic Indigo, each done on khadi . They will eventually be stitched together to form a continuous 200 metres. She hopes to send this as an entry to the Guinness Book of World Records. Painting isn’t new to her though: she had her first show in Kolkata in 1995. Inaugurated by Mother Teresa, the proceeds went to Child Rights and You, a not-for-profit working for the benefit of children. So far, she has participated in over 150 group art shows and 35 solo painting exhibitions across the country and overseas, exhibiting work in oil and acrylic on canvas.. Sangeeta conceptualised this project last December. She made the sketches and purchased  khaddar, natural indigo, and dyes in Sanganer, near Jaipur, in Rajasthan. Shiva’s symbols like the damru, trishul , his third eye come alive on the coarsekhadifabric. “I started painting in February, with dabu ,” she says. Dabu is mud-resist printing, where mud is painted or printed on fabric in a design (Sangeeta used her paint brush), covered with saw dust, and then sun-dried. After that the cloth is soaked in drums of indigo dye, washed and dried again. “We needed to cut the cloth as the 200 metres could not fit into the drums.” Excerpts from an interview:  Has the coronavirus lockdown given you more time to wrap up your work?  When artists work, they are in solitude; they are preoccupied with their creativity. This pandemic brought all social life to a halt and in a way I was drawn to Mahamrityunjaya Mantra (a chant from the Rig Veda). I painted the text with brush in natural indigo. I died the khaddar first in light shades of indigo, dried it, and then painted on the cloth again with dark shades of indigo. I completed 185 meters in nine days in Sanganer, and returned to Delhi on March 4 because COVID-19 had started spreading near Jaipur. The rest of the 15 meters I completed painting in my gallery Prithvi Fine Art and Cultural Centre, in Safdarjung Enclave, Delhi. In fact, March 30 was the last day of work.   Why did you choose Shiva?  I have always been a spiritually inclined person, but with maturity my interest in the eternal cosmic entity Shiv became deeper. He is omnipresent, both inside and outside of us. My love for him started in my childhood. Kashmir reiterated my faith in the universal principle of Shivohum (a set of mantras written by Adi Shankacharya), as the state is known for Shaivism. Staying there for two years, I was greatly influenced by it. How did you work with the medium of cloth? Subject and medium merge when the artist is at peace with herself. If you are experiencing love, compassion and bliss, the medium doesn't bother you. I just had to train my hands a bit to use dabu as a medium on fabric. Why did you choose khadi? We have to return to the basics if we want to survive in peace. Handmade fabric is environment friendly and natural colours and dyes are handmade too, and free of artificial chemicals. The intent behind my work is to encourage the revival of indigo cultivation, and to make this cash crop a mass movement. Only then can we make indigo a commercially viable venture for farmers, dyers, and craftspeople. We need to encourage print makers to merge contemporary art with traditional crafts of block printing with natural dabu and organic indigo.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/returning-to-shivas/article31232416.ece
02 April 2020||April 02 2020 00:00 IST,||Happy times from a balcony||In these distressing times of leaving the house only for the bare essentials, what does a naturalist like me do to pass time and be happy? Do some backyard birdwatching! No human presence on the road and the pleasant spring season has given birds the peace they had always hoped for. A pleasant melancholy of calls and songs of urban garden birds echoing everywhere is often complimented by my sacred early morning cup of coffee in my balcony. This season is perhaps the best time to observe resident birds in our backyard, as it is a time of joy in their lives as they pair up and raise their young ones. One such fascinating account from my diary entry dated 23rd April, 2017, was of a pair of Common Myna trying to raise two chicks in my noisy neighbourhood. I had always read in books that the parents feed the juvenile who screams louder and the most, in comparison to its siblings. I had read this in several places, and while I couldn’t disregard it, I was also slightly skeptical. It is only when I started observing the Common Mynas nesting site close to home that I realised it was all true. I also noticed that the parents alternated in feeding the young ones and they always made sure to keep the nest cavity in the tree clean by ridding it of excreta and other unwanted things. Given the commonness of the bird, we generally tend to ignore its presence and little details. The overall plumage of the species is dark brown with a glossy yellow bill. A passing look suggests it has dark eyes, but only when you spend time observing it – and we all have a great deal of time of our hands today — you’d notice that the eye colour is reddish-brown with white specks. The Common Myna likes a wide array of habitats like open country, cultivated land, and urban spaces, and thrives in almost every habitat, except for in dense forests. In cities, they breed almost exclusively in nooks and eaves of houses, under roofs, and in holes in walls, considering that they are cavity nesters. Being quite gregarious in nature, the clan generally roosts in large numbers in a particular tree and keeps up a noisy chattering concert (sometimes musical and sometimes harsh) of praikh praikh (when perched) and twee twee (in flight) all morning and evening. Soon after sunrise, the birds disperse to their foraging grounds, leaving a few behind on guard duty to look out for crows and other troublemakers, making them quite territorial in nature. They will even mob birds of other species. They are generally omnivores feeding on almost anything, but their diet mostly consists of insects. In concrete jungles and townships, these birds often venture into verandahs to feed on any fragments of cooked or uncooked food that people usually put out for birds. Near farmlands and grazing land though, they feed off the insects on cattle, and pick up grasshoppers and other insects that are disturbed by their feet. In fact, the genus they belong to, Acridotheres, in their scientific name — Acridotheres tristis — translates to ‘the locust hunter’, where Acridotheres is derived from the Greek word akris meaning locust and theras meaning hunter. These birds were introduced to Mauritius from India, to contain the grasshopper population there and successfully adapted to the conditions there. For birdwatchers like me, behaviour is key. Nodding their heads at each step and hopping occasionally is a common trait among mynas. They have a strong, direct, and somewhat quick flight — you’ll see white in the underwings as they fly. These birds were once commonly caged and domesticated, often following their masters around the house like dogs. They are good imitators and soon pick up words and sentences, much like parakeets. The writer is the founder of NINOX - Owl About Nature, a nature-awareness initiative. He is the Delhi-NCR reviewer for Ebird, a Cornell University initiative, monitoring rare sightings of birds. He formerly led a programme of WWF India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/happy-times-from-a-balcony/article31232419.ece
02 April 2020||April 02 2020 00:00 IST,||In lockdown land||After half-an-hour of it-is-making-me-nervous flying, the Mi-17 slowly descends. Most of the flight has been over densely forested mountain ranges, interspersed with the continuous white curl of the Dihing River winding its way across the landscape like a giant snake. Our luggage is piled in the centre of the chopper; benches along both sides have passengers strapped to their seats. Most of them are soldiers from the Assam Rifles, India’s oldest paramilitary force, returning to their post. Peering out of the window, the wind whipping my hair into a bird nest, I find specks of green turning into soldiers standing with their backs towards the helipad, the wind from the chopper’s blades making their trousers flap like fans unfurling from their socks. On a raised hillock sit crouched men, women and children — also with their backs to the helipad, shielding themselves from the wind blast. A cluster of small huts stands bravely in the desolate landscape. Villagers crowd around the chopper, some waiting to be ferried back, others just curious to see who has come. I have been told to carry packets of salt as gifts for the old soldiers, but the obvious joy with which they accept it tells me how precious it is. A quiet place Surrounded by Myanmar on three sides, Vijaynagar is the remote end of Changlang district in Arunachal Pradesh. An impregnable protected forest called the Namdapha National Park, inhabited by wild animals, surrounds it. The story goes that in the early 1960s, India received alarming reports of Chinese ingression into Arunachal. It was decided that soldiers from the Assam Rifles should be encouraged to settle down here to discourage foreign ingression. Two expeditions were taken. Soldiers from the second one, led by Maj Gen A. S. Guraiya, Inspector-General, Assam Rifles, ferried material and constructed an airfield there at a height of nearly 5,000 feet. The airstrip was named Vijaynagar after Guraiya’s son, Vijay. Soon after, a Kalinga aircraft landed there, bringing 100 Assam Rifles soldiers who established a company post and started border-guarding duties. Slowly, old retired soldiers and families started joining them with the number rising to 240. Smiling old Savitri Damai tells me that she was just 27 when her husband Rifleman Sanman Damai accepted the Government’s offer in 1971. The couple, along with their three children, got on the plane from Mohanbari airfield. It was the first time she was getting into a “ hawai jahaj ” and she was very scared, she says. She carried in her arms her youngest son who was just two months old and firmly held by the hand her six-year-old daughter. Her husband held their second son while also balancing a carton with holes cut into it that held the family’s most precious possession — a fat and confused hen, clucking in annoyance. When the aircraft landed in Vijaynagar, Savitri’s heart sank. The airfield was in the middle of a dense forest. But her husband and the other soldiers pulled out their khukris and set about clearing the forest to make huts. She soon discovered that while the land was fertile and could grow the best of tomatoes, lai patta (a kind of mustard), rice and corn, there was no one there to sell them salt, sugar, spices or oil. It was only when her husband went on leave that he would get these commodities that she would carefully ration, trying her best to make them last as long as she could. Forgotten past Savitri’s son Rifleman Sunil Damai was born in Vijaynagar in a home delivery assisted by older women. “There would hardly be any studies at our school, since teachers wouldn’t come to Vijaynagar. Mostly, we managed on our own and helped with farming. Sometimes we would light a lantern, but since kerosene was precious, my mother would cook on a log fire. We would eat in its light and go to sleep when it got dark. We would see the helicopter coming every week and that was entertainment,” says Sunil. He adds that he’d never seen a car or cinema hall or even light bulbs until he walked seven days and 150 kilometres to Miao, for his Class X exams. Other than the weekly visits from the Mi-17s, aircraft no longer land in Vijaynagar. The airfield where Savitri and her family had landed, broke down. For a short while, a mud track existed from Miao to Vijaynagar, but soon the jungle swallowed that too. In February 2013, the foundation of a 157-kilometre road, that was to connect Miao to Vijaynagar under the Prime Minister’s Gram Sadak Yojana, was laid. Just 15 kilometres of the road was constructed and then that too fell into disrepair. Vijaynagar continues to be a land locked down in time forever. Rachna Bisht Rawat||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/in-lockdown-land/article31232412.ece
02 April 2020||April 02 2020 00:00 IST,||Lesser-known gems from Pandit Ravi Shankar||At a press conference in Mumbai around two decades ago, a journalist asked sitar maestro Pandit Ravi Shankar what it felt being the “godfather of world music”. Poker-faced, he replied, “Do I anywhere look remotely as handsome as Marlon Brando?”       Birth centenary  Besides being one of India’s leading classical music exponents, Shankar has been behind some outstanding projects fusing Indian and international musical styles. To mark Shankar's birth centenary various events had been planned, including one in London featuring Anoushka Shankar and Norah Jones. Sadly, they all stand cancelled because of the outbreak of COVID-19 pandemic. As we approach his birth centenary on April 7, it’s an opportune time to listen to some of his experimental albums. Most fans would have heard his albums, West Meets East with violinist Yehudi Menuhin, Passages with American composer Philip Glass, his two sitar concertos with conductors Andre Previn and Zubin Mehta, and his synthesiser-fuelled Tana Mana . Shankar’scollaborations with George Harrison, cellist Msitslav Rostropovich and flautist Jean-Pierre Rampal are well known.       Global fusion  Here are five albums that are evidence of Shankar’s innovation, global approach and musical broad-mindedness. All of them are available on the Internet. The first, is the album Symphony , released seven months before Shankar passed away on December 11, 2012. Set in a four-movement symphony format and based on Indian melodies, it features the London Philharmonic Orchestra conducted by David Murphy, with daughter Anoushka Shankar on sitar. The third movement ‘Scherzo’ leaves me with goosebumps. Besides the symphony, Shankar had also worked on an opera titled Sukanya . It is based on a tale from the Mahabharata, and was performed by Murphy with the LPO, with an ensemble cast. It was released as a double CD in 2017, and features both operatic singing styles and Indian instruments. Check out the tracks ‘Tarana’ and finale ‘New Life’. Third on our list is Transmigration Macabre , containing music from the 1967 avant garde horror film Viola . Not a widely known work, Shankar never mentioned it when asked about his international projects. But it’s unique in its own way, and chilling in parts. A more popular album is Jazzmine , Shankar's attempt at drawing the link between Indian classical and folk music with jazz. Though this connection is less apparent in the first half, it comes across beautifully in the finale ‘Misharank’, The live ‘preview’ performance at the 1980 Jazz Yatra in Mumbai featured alto saxophonist John Handy, tenor saxophonist George Adams and keyboardist Louiz Banks. Finally, we have the 1996 release Towards The Rising Sun , where Shankar and tabla maestro Ustad Allarakha team up with Japanese musicians Susumu Miyashita on koto, a stringed instrument, and Hozan Yamamoto on shakuhachi, a type of flute. The piece titled ‘ Improvisation On The Theme of Rokudan’ is absolutely extraordinary.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/lesser-known-gems-from-pandit-ravi-shankar/article31232645.ece
02 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Supply is erratic, say grocers||A week into the nationwide lockdown, several grocers across the city, said that supply of essential items, including dairy products were in shortage. However, they added that there was no need to panic as distributors had promised to replenish stocks at the earliest but were rationing a few products. Biplab Banerjee, who runs a grocery store in CP Park markets said, “Items like milk powder, cheese and even tea are not being supplied regularly. Most of what we have now is what we stocked just when the lockdown was announced. Foodgrain is the only item with a regular supply as of now.” Speaking about if distributors had assured them stock, Mr. Banerjee added, “All company deliveries which are done are not happening currently. For other items, we are approaching local distributors and collecting whatever we get. We are not really sure of what the scenario will be like in the next few days.” Subir Pramanik, another grocer in the market said, “Supply for most products, apart from bread, milk and foodgrain, is very erratic these days. Products like biscuits and other junk items are mostly the stock we had procured before the lockdown.” Imported goods At a store that stocks several imported goods in Defence Colony, the owner said, “Those who are finicky about a particular brand may find it hard to find a product but there is no cause for concern. Customers understand that not all products will be available and some of them have left their phone number with me to call them when stocks arrive. However, when it comes to imported goods, supply has stopped.” Ramesh, who works in a shop in another south Delhi neighbourhood market added, “Supply of most items is less than half of what we are ordering. Because of the low supply, the stock is also getting over really quickly.”  Supply of most items is less than half of what we are ordering. Because of the low supply, the stock is also finishing really quickly  Ramesh Grocery store worker||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/supply-is-erratic-say-grocers/article31232407.ece
02 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Kejriwal announces Rs. 1 crore for kin of staff who die fighting virus||After an emergency Cabinet meeting on Wednesday, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal announced that if anybody loses their life while serving any COVID-19 patient, be it sanitation workers, doctors, nurses or any other staff temporary or permanent from government or private sector, their family will be given Rs. 1 crore as a mark of respect for their service. Mr. Kejriwal announced the honorary compensation while interacting with Delhi government’s medical staff on COVID-19 duty over videoconferencing. The scheme, he said, had existed for the families of soldiers belonging to the national capital if they are martyred and that it has now been extended to medical staff fighting the virus who have been on the frontline and were putting their life at risk to save others.  ‘No less than a soldier’ “Your contribution is no less than a soldier’s... if any healthcare personnel, including government or private doctor, nurse and sanitation workers, die while serving COVID-19 patients, the government will give Rs. 1 crore to their families,” he said. The Chief Minister thanked medical staff on the behalf of the people of Delhi and people from across India for the service they were providing in helping to fight the virus. Mr. Kejriwal said, “Doctors, nurses, paramedic staff and cleaning staff, and all those involved in the treatment of COVID-19 patients, I want to thank all of you for serving the people in these times of distress. I do not think a disease, a pandemic of this stature has ever hit mankind. The most developed nations of the world, like the U.S., the U.K., Italy, Spain, and Germany, have been struggling with COVID-19. Despite having the most developed health nations, these nations are not able to cope up with the pandemic.” Assures help Mr. Kejriwal told medical staff during the meeting that if there was anything they required to help them do their job better, the government would do its best to provide it for them. “I want to assure the doctors that the government is with you. We will provide all the required monetary assistance and resources to you,” Mr. Kejriwal said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/kejriwal-announces-rs-1-crore-for-kin-of-staff-who-die-fighting-virus/article31232404.ece
02 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Ration shop owner held for misappropriation||Owner of a fair price shop was arrested for allegedly misappropriating foodgrains in west Delhi’s Raghubir Nagar, the police said on Wednesday. The accused was identified as Ravinder Kumar (64) who was arrested by the team of Additional Commissioner of Police (West) Sameer Sharma. The police said that an information was received about misappropriation of foodgrains by an owner of a fair shop owner at Raghubir Nagar’s M Block after which the shop was identified. Register checked “The shops were cordoned off. Area Food and Civil Supply officer was informed,” said a senior police officer, adding that the shop owner was then called and asked to open the shop where the sale and stock register was checked. “There was a board outside the shop which carried a general notice that there is no ration and therefore, ration will not be disbursed today. Subsequently, the local general store where the stuff was suspected to have been transferred was also checked where 21 jute bags of rice which were meant for disbursement at the fair price shop were found,” the officer said. The police said that the accused who was supposed to sell 6 kg wheat and 1.5 kg rice free of cost to ration cardholders saw this is an opportunity to sell at higher price.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/ration-shop-owner-held-for-misappropriation/article31232398.ece
02 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Over 30% of ration shops found closed, says food rights group||According to a report published by the Delhi Rozi Roti Adhikar Abhiyaan (DRRAA), 32% of the ration shops visited by the organisation were found closed. Of the 37 ration shops inspected by the DRRAA across the city including, Narela, Murika, Mayur Vihar, Hauz Rani, Dakshinpuri, Nangloi and others, 12 were found to be closed, the report said. No fresh stock “Two shops in Narela were found to be closed on three consecutive days. Upon further inquiry, the DRRAA was told that one of the shops has been shut for a long time and the shopkeeper distributes ration in another location. In four shops which were found to be shut, we were informed that the stock had finished and the shop will open when new stock reaches,” the report read. Noting the Delhi government’s announcement on the ration for two months to be delivered to shops by March 29, the report said, “There is no way to ascertain whether all the beneficiaries have indeed been able to get their rations, as neither the proof of distribution is available in the public domain nor are the contact details of ration cardholders available for verification by phone.” The report added that all the shops that were open, distributed ration free of cost, as per the government directive. It also said that in 10 of the 37 shops, no civil defence volunteer, representative of the MLA or police personnel could be located. “Delhi has a network of 2,011 ration shops. Proper functioning of these shops is crucial, especially during the time of the COVID-19 crisis when lakhs of people are running out of food and are on the brink of starvation,” the report said.  Delhi has a network of 2,011 ration shops. Proper functioning of these shops is crucial, especially during the time of the COVID-19 crisis Delhi Rozi Roti Adhikar Abhiyaan report||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/over-30-of-ration-shops-found-closed-says-food-rights-group/article31232406.ece
02 April 2020||New Delhi,||City reports 32 fresh cases; total now 152||Thirty-two new COVID-19 cases were reported in Delhi on Wednesday, taking the total number of cases to 152, according to the Delhi government. This is the biggest single-day jump in the number of cases in the city so far. Twenty-nine of the 32 positive cases are people from a centre-run by Tablighi Jamaat in Nizamuddin which has been evacuated by the authorities. A total of 53 people from the centre have tested positive for COVID-19 so far, just in Delhi alone. Monday, Sunday and Saturday had recorded the biggest single-day jumps till then with 25, 23, and nine new cases, respectively. The daily number of cases is expected to spike further as the results of majority of the people evacuated from the centre are yet to be out, according to officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/city-reports-32-fresh-cases-total-now-152/article31232397.ece
02 April 2020||April 02 2020 00:00 IST,||The wait continues||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/the-wait-continues/article31232401.ece
02 April 2020||new delhi,||FIR over DTC buses ferrying workers||A case has been registered in connection with the use of DTC and cluster buses to ferry migrant workers leaving the city to Anand Vihar ISBT amid the lockdown due to COVID-19 outbreak, the police said on Wednesday. The case was registered at Shakarpur police station in east Delhi based on the complaint of a policeman. “We have registered the case under various sections of IPC and the Disaster Management Act, 2005,” said a senior police officer. “This act on the part of bus drivers/conductors and operations head of DIMTS C.K. Goyal and other government servants who are responsible for it, have committed an offence under sections of the Act,” reads the FIR.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/fir-over-dtc-buses-ferrying-workers/article31232409.ece
02 April 2020||New Delhi,||Delhi Police flags off 40 motorcycles for patrolling and spreading awareness about coronavirus||The Delhi Police on Wednesday flagged off 40 motorcycles which would be used for patrolling in south Delhi to ensure proper implementation of the lockdown as well as spread awareness about COVID-19 through announcements.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/delhi-police-flags-off-40-motorcycles-for-patrolling-and-spreading-awareness-about-coronavirus/article31232411.ece
02 April 2020||April 02 2020 00:00 IST,||Virtual book club||During this lockdown, publishing house Roli Books is providing live content through their social media platforms Twitter and Instagram. This will feature a virtual reading club, live cooking sessions, storytelling hour, and live readings. Some of the authors will engage in live conversation with readers too. Also, every day at noon, the editors of the book house will appear live and take readers’ questions and recommend books to read.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/virtual-book-club/article31232421.ece
02 April 2020||April 02 2020 00:00 IST,||Online yoga sessions||Jindal Naturecure Institute is conducting 14 days of free online yoga learning. The sessions have been introduced to motivate people towards a healthy lifestyle and to keep at bay fear and anxiety while they are at home . The experts will do yoga and answer the queries of viewers. Open to all, these sessions can be accessed at 7 a.m. and will go on for half an hour. Visit Facebook.com/JindalNatureCure for further information.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/online-yoga-sessions/article31232423.ece
02 April 2020||April 02 2020 00:00 IST,||E-learning||Scholastic India offers free e-learning courses for students upto 9th grade, supported by a community of educators. Their Scholastic Learn at Home course will provide grade-wise learning resources and activities, while Scholastic Classroom Magazine is a hub to help kids learn about the coronavirus. Book Flix presents an online literacy resource. It is free and available for all students until 31st May. Access it at http://bit.ly/38Y4DSR||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/e-learning/article31232425.ece
02 April 2020||April 02 2020 00:00 IST,||Online lit fest||Vani Prakashan Group has organised literary activities in the online space for books lovers. There will be live talks of authors and interesting books read every day between 12 noon and 3 p.m.. As a part of the festival, new writers will interact through the social media handle Facebook.com/vaniprakashanbooks, with their books and their ideas. The festival is organised to maintain the bridge between readers and writers to exchange thoughts and ideas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/online-lit-fest/article31232427.ece
02 April 2020||April 02 2020 00:00 IST,||Online storytelling||Penguin and online parenting community Momspesso have jointly launched an web-only initiative called #OnceUponABookWithPenguin. On till 14th April, the programme will witness a children’s book author go live on video on the Momspresso Facebook every evening at 6:30 p.m. They will tell kids an interesting story from their book. The intent is to make playtime fun for kids even if they are indoors and the focus will be on animated storytelling and reading.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/online-storytelling/article31232429.ece
