09 April 2020||New Delhi,||It will not be possible to lift the lockdown in one go, says Modi||At a videoconference on Wednesday with parties’ floor leaders in Parliament, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said it won’t be possible to lift the 21-day nationwide lockdown in one go as scheduled for April 14. He, however, noted that he would consult the Chief Ministers before deciding the exit strategy. Speaking at the end of a nearly three-and-a-half-hour meeting, Mr. Modi said the country was going through a “social emergency”. Many countries are using lockdown and physical distancing to contain the spread of the novel coronavirus. “In the coming days, as you have suggested that the lockdown should not be lifted all of a sudden, it should be staggered. Till now, the suggestions I have been getting are that it won’t be so simple to lift the lockdown. We will have to take some strong measures to ensure social distancing,” he said. Mr. Modi thanked the parties for their support. “Today, the situation in the country is akin to a social emergency; it has necessitated tough decisions and we must continue to remain vigilant,” he said and sought their continued support. “ Kareeb, Kareeb yeh mood ban raha hai ki ek dum se lockdown uthana sambhav nahi hoga (The general mood is that it won’t be possible to lift the lockdown at one go).” Leaders from 18 political parties attended the interaction. Top Central officials gave presentations on the steps being taken to meet the emerging challenges, including the status of distribution of benefits under the PM Garib Kalyan Yojana. The Congress supported an extension to the lockdown. Leader of the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha Ghulam Nabi Azad said, “There is no question of supporting it or opposing it. It is a decision to be taken by the government. If they consult everyone before taking the decision, we shall welcome it.” The majority of the parties felt that there should be a calibrated exit from the lockdown, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/it-will-not-be-possible-to-lift-the-lockdown-in-one-go-says-modi/article31294299.ece
09 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Focus shifts to contact tracing, infrastructure||With 32 deaths reported in the past 24 hours, the Union Health Ministry on Wednesday said building hospital infrastructure, aggressive contact tracing and total enforcement of the lockdown with the help of people were the main focus now in the fight against COVID-19. The country has 5,194 cases and 149 deaths, with 402 patients recovered. The Indian Council of Medical Research said 1,27,919 tests had so far been done and 13,143 samples were reported on Wednesday. Reports from the State Health Departments put the number of confirmed cases at 5,598, with 4,932 active ones. The death toll in the country stood at 182, while 404 people have recovered. The most number of cases have been reported from Maharashtra (1,135), followed by Tamil Nadu (738) and Delhi (576). ‘Early identification key’ At a press conference here, Lav Agrawal, Joint Secretary, Health Ministry, said: “We are speeding up infrastructure-building and grading up our response as the number of cases...has shown a rise over the past few days.” He added that the country was facing an unprecedented challenge, in which “we are getting cases of both symptomatic and asymptomatic patients acting as carriers. The need of the hour is to break the transmission, and for that, the lockdown is the key, and we seek the cooperation of people.” “When we are dealing with an infectious disease, it is an everyday battle, and even a single slip-up will cost us [dear]. Early identification is the key to managing the cases,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/focus-shifts-to-contact-tracing-infrastructure/article31294284.ece
09 April 2020||CHENNAI,||48 more test positive for virus; T.N. tally touches 738||Forty-eight persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Tamil Nadu on Wednesday, taking the State’s tally to 738. This, even as a 74-year-old woman was discharged from the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital. She is among the 21 discharged so far in the State. T.N. has so far reported eight deaths, the last being a 45-year-old man who was undergoing treatment at the Christian Medical College, Vellore, on Tuesday. Health Secretary Beela Rajesh said he did not have a history of travel but did have a contact history. “He was already in hospital. The first test was inconclusive. The second turned out positive. The report came after his death. His condition deteriorated suddenly,” she said. Of the 48 fresh cases, 42 were connected to the “single source event” (Delhi conference). Of the 42, eight had travelled to Delhi together, 33 were their contacts and one was a Malaysian national. In a slight shift in treatment protocol, Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar said: “Even if patients are asymptomatic, they cannot be left untreated, though they may seem stable. Many of them tell us that they are fine and have no symptoms. Our expert committee comprising doctors from the government and private sectors discussed the treatment protocol and the need to look at the lung signs of these patients. We will have an effective monitoring of the lung signs.” The Minister explained that the isolation facilities had X-ray, CT scan and pulse oximeters. “We will keep track of the oxygen saturation levels of patients. We will do an arterial blood gas assessment if necessary,” he said, citing the risk of patients collapsing at any time due to hypoxia.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/48-more-test-positive-for-virus-tn-tally-touches-738/article31294390.ece
09 April 2020||Bhopal,||Muslim men carry Hindu woman’s bier||When the sons of Draupadi Bai Verma’s sister refused to tend to her as she suffered from high fever, suspecting she had contracted COVID-19, there was no one left to take her to hospital. The next morning she died. Even then, her relatives refused to touch the body. That’s when 10 Muslim neighbours got together to buy things for her last rites, put together a bier, and carried her body to the cremation ground on their shoulders. “This is the purpose of humanity, to serve each other,” said Abdul Rehman Sheikh, one of the neighbours in South Toda of Indore, who carried the bier. Ailing with paralysis for three months, Draupadi Bai lived with the family of her son, a daily wage labourer, who doesn’t even own a bicycle. The other son lives in another locality 6 km away, and couldn’t reach South Toda because of barricading. When she was suffering from high fever on Sunday night, the neighbours guided the children of the son to tend to her, apply wet towels on her forehead to bring down the temperature. “She had no one to help her. Even the son was helpless. We had tears in our eyes,” said Mr. Sheikh, 30, a businessman. That’s when they called her sister’s sons, who live just 100 metres away. “The sister and her sons refused to step inside the house. If she was taken to a hospital the same day, she probably wouldn’t have died,” he said.  Funeral procession The next day, the neighbours woke up to the news of Draupadi Bai’s death. “We asked the son about the material we could buy for the last rites. And put together her bier,” said Mr. Sheikh. Around 11 a.m. on Tuesday, the 10 men, along with the her two sons and their children, took out the procession to the cremation ground around a kilometre away.  The number of COVID-19 cases are spiralling in Indore, with health workers yet to locate a source, as most patients have had no contact or travel history. South Toda falls in the containment area of the outbreak, which has Jhanda Chowk, 350 metres away, as its epicentre. As most patients are testing positive for the virus after death, owing to the limited testing protocol, local residents are wary of approaching anyone ailing with cough, cold or fever, common symptoms of the infection. So far, 16 persons have succumbed to the disease in the city, which has recorded 213 cases. The act of the neighbours earned praise from former Chief Minister Kamal Nath. “The example of humanity and brotherhood they have presented is commendable,” he wrote on Twitter. “This is our Ganga-Jamuna sanskriti . Such visuals represent the harmony and our brotherhood,” he said, while sharing a photograph of the men carrying the bier.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/muslim-men-carry-hindu-womans-bier/article31294523.ece
09 April 2020||HYDERABAD,||49 new COVID cases in State||The number of COVID-19 cases in Telangana increased to 453 as 49 new cases were reported on Wednesday. Of the total, 397 are active cases, 45 discharged and 11 people have died due to the virus. Some among the existing 397 active cases will complete 14 days isolation at government hospitals. They would be discharged if they test negative twice. Telangana Health Minister Eatala Rajender said that none of them were on ventilator support or in ICU. Hyderabad tops Of all districts in the State, the highest number of cases and people who were discharged were from Hyderabad. While 161 cases were detected in the city, 21 were discharged. It was followed by 39 cases from Nizamabad, but no one from the district has been discharged. According to Mr Rajender, the number of new positive cases in the State may come down in the coming days and said the Health department has completed tests on large number of samples in the past five days, and 535 samples are with them. “Tests of the 535 samples may be completed by Thursday,” Mr Rajender said at a press conference on Wednesday evening. Only a few samples are expected thereafter. From here on, all positive cases will be admitted to only at Gandhi Hospital. Currently, a few COVID-19 patients are undergoing treatment at Government General and Chest Hospital, and District Hospital located at King Koti. The Health Minister said that no more positive patients will be admitted to the Chest Hospital and District Hospital after the existing patients are discharged. Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) had earlier suggested use of Rapid antibody based blood test for COVID-19 in clusters (with containment zones), and large migration gatherings. Ministrry of Health and Family Welfare has stated that there are clusters in many States including Telangana. When asked Mr Rajender said the Rapid test is not required. “There is no community transmission in the State. All positive cases had some kind of contact,” he added .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/49-new-covid-cases-in-state/article31294584.ece
09 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||17,000 seafarers will return only after policy is finalised||Indian seafarers around the world would be allowed to return to the country after the ban on flights goes and the Government of India finalises a policy on repatriation of Indians, according to a senior official of the Shipping Ministry. As per government estimates, there were “16,000-17,000” seafarers who need to be brought back to the country. “How they are brought back will depend on the Government of India’s policy on allowing people to come from outside. Whatever policy is finalised, the same will be followed in the case of the seafarers. We will wait for the policy to be firmed up. We are in touch with the shipping companies and they are willing to follow that policy,” the official said. Various shipping companies were also finalising different modalities for sending back their staff to their countries and until then “seafarers are safe on cruise ships,” the official said. “These sailors have been accommodated in separate passenger cabins on board different cruise ships. They are being monitored, paid salaries and provided all amenities.” It was the responsibility of the shipping companies to repatriate their staff. “They realise that. They are only waiting for the right opportunity,” the top source said. On whether the government is likely to make special allowance to facilitate mariners to return before the ban on flights is lifted on April 15, or in case it is extended, the official said, “There is hardly a week left for the lockdown to be lifted; there is no point in rushing into it. It is also safer for the seafarers...”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/17000-seafarers-will-return-only-after-policy-is-finalised/article31294286.ece
09 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||State records fifth COVID-19 death, second from Anantapur||A 70-year-old man from Kalyandurg in Anantapur district became the fifth victim of COVID-19 in Andhra Pradesh, taking the toll in the district to two. This apart, the State reported 34 new cases from seven districts in the last 24 hours, taking the tally to 348. On the positive side, three patients who recovered were discharged from hospital in Visakhapatnam. Two among them are a 49-year-old woman and a 51-year-old man who contracted the virus from their close contacts who returned from abroad. Guntur, Nellore and Krishna districts, which already have several positive cases, reported eight, six and six new cases respectively. Anantapur reported seven new cases, according to the 7 p.m. bulletin issued by the Health Department on Wednesday. Similarly, Chittoor and Prakasam districts reported three cases each while West Godavari one case. The department said 48% patients are in the 21-40 age group and 36% in the 41-60 age group, while 8% each are those above 60 years and below 20 years. With 75 cases were registered so far, Kurnool continues to be in the top position. It is followed by Nellore (49), Guntur (49), Krishna (35), Kadapa (28), Prakasam (27), West Godavari (22), Visakhapatnam (20), Chittoor (20), Anantapur (13) and East Godavari (11). Vizianagaram and Srikakulam districts reported zero cases. So far, nine persons were discharged as they recovered and four persons died. Targeted testing The State has tested close to 5,000 samples till date and is preparing for targeted testing of symptomatic persons, health care personnel, sanitation workers, besides people in the containment zones from where positive cases have been reported. Meanwhile, the government has taken over 58 private hospitals to cope with the eventuality of further spread of the disease. A total of 19,114 beds are available in them. In another development, the Chief Minister launched the rapid testing kits manufactured at the Visakhapatnam-based A.P. Medtech Zone Limited.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-records-fifth-covid-19-death-second-from-anantapur/article31294295.ece
09 April 2020||Patna,||Escaping quarantine centres at night, returning by day||Many of Bihar’s migrant workers who have been quarantined in village schools and panchayat buildings after returning from elsewhere in the country are found missing from these centres at night, with most of them likely heading home to join their families before coming back to the quarantine facilities in the morning, according to local village heads. Ever since the countrywide lockdown was imposed last month to contain the COVID-19 pandemic, Bihar’s government set up quarantine centres at 3,115 government schools and panchayat buildings in rural parts of the State. The government said more than 1.7 lakh people had returned to the State in the wake of the lockdown and as many as 27,300 of them had been lodged in these quarantine centres opened in different districts. However, several of those staying in these centres, usually for two weeks, told The Hindu over phone that though they were being provided with free food the shelters lacked even basic infrastructure like electricity, toilets and beds. “What to talk about sanitisers or masks,” they complained. Village mukhias (heads), who have been asked to monitor the movement of those quarantined, often feel helpless under local pressure. In my village school building 14 migrants have been quarantined for the last three days but the building has no window, toilet, door or the bed,” admitted a village head of Saraiya block in Muzaffarpur district, who spoke on the condition of anonymity. “Only food is being served to them three times a day… so many of them come to their family at night and return to the quarantine centre in the daytime for free food,” he added. Similar reports have also come from several village heads in Madhubani, Munger, Samastipur, Siwan, Sitamarhi, Araria and Katihar districts. The migrants placed in quarantine centres quietly slip away at night to join their families while coming back to the centre in the daytime. “Yes, free food is the only attraction for them, otherwise they would have not come to the centre even in the daytime,” asserted several village heads, who all declined to be identified. The infrastructure at several village schools and panchayat buildings in Bihar is barely adequate with no toilets or washrooms. Many schools are windowless, have no doors separating rooms and are without running water or electricity supply.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/escaping-quarantine-centres-at-night-returning-by-day/article31294282.ece
09 April 2020||Bengaluru,||Fifth COVID-19 fatality in State after 65-year-old Kalaburagi resident dies||A 65-year-old resident of Kalaburagi succumbed to COVID-19 on Wednesday morning, taking the toll in Karnataka to five. The district administration is yet to trace how he contracted the virus. According to a statement by the Deputy Commissioner of Kalaburagi, a joint team of the police and the doctors are trying to find the source of his infection. The man, who was a fruit vendor, had a stall in front of the Kalaburagi city bus stand and had a severe acute respiratory infection. Meanwhile, a notice has been served to Bahmani Hospital, where he was first admitted on April 4, as the hospital referred the case to the government hospital only two days later. A case has been booked against the management for criminal negligence. The medical team of the hospital has been quarantined. The DC, in his report, said that the man’s condition deteriorated within hours of admission into the government facility. Briefing presspersons on Wednesday, Primary and Secondary Education Minister S. Suresh Kumar said that the body had been buried as per protocol. A total of 20 of his primary contacts have been traced and shifted to quarantine centres. Samples of his close primary contacts are being taken. The district administration are also trying to trace the secondary contacts. On Wednesday, the State saw five more positive cases of COVID-19, taking the total to 181. The five cases include one each from Uttara Karnataka, Kalaburagi, Mandya, Chickballapur, and Bengaluru. While one of these patients was in contact with a person who had travelled to Dubai, two others were contacts of positive patients. The department has said that the two other patients who tested positive had travelled to New Delhi.  Fact sheet  The man, who was a fruit vendor, had a stall in front of the Kalaburagi city bus stand and had a severe acute respiratory infection  On Wednesday, five more positive cases were reported, taking the total to 181||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/fifth-covid-19-fatality-in-state-after-65-year-old-kalaburagi-resident-dies/article31294341.ece
09 April 2020||Bengaluru,||Task force for continuing curbs in hotspot areas||The task force set up by the State government to review the COVID-19 lockdown has submitted its report recommending extension of restrictions in hotspot districts in the State where high number of positive cases have been reported. The task force, led by Dr. Devi Shetty, however, is for minimising restrictions in districts where there are no cases or a few cases. The report has said that all schools and colleges should be closed till May-end and thrust should be on online classes. The task force is of the view that inter-State borders should remain closed and no buses, trains, flights or metro trains should be allowed till April 30, while autorickshaws should be allowed to ply. The report said that the government can consider allowing odd and even number registration vehicles to operate on alternate days. The other recommendations of the task force include encouraging online health services, allowing opening of shops without air conditioning, letting IT/BT companies and essential services, government offices, factories to function with only 50% staff. Local shops should be opened for longer duration to avoid crowd, said the report. The report said that these recommendations should be in force between April 15 to April 30 and can later be reviewed. Social distancing for six months However, the task force has underlined that social distancing should be maintained for the next six months.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/task-force-for-continuing-curbs-in-hotspot-areas/article31294342.ece
09 April 2020||KALABURAGI,||Bahmani Hospital sealed||Following a complaint lodged by the District Health and Family Welfare Officer (DHFO), Brahmpur Police in Kalaburagi on Wednesday filed a case against Bahmani City Multispecialty Hospital under various sections of IPC and Disaster Management Act 2005. The DHFO has, in his complaint, accused the hospital of not providing information of patients being treated between April 4 and April 6. A 65-year-old COVID-19 patient who died at ESIC Hospital in Kalaburagi on Tuesday was earlier treated at Bahmani City Multispecialty Hospital. The hospital allegedly did not provide the information of the patient to the district administration. Soon after the death of the patient, the hospital was sealed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bahmani-hospital-sealed/article31294558.ece
09 April 2020||April 09 2020 00:00 IST,||Tax refunds to be released||The Centre has decided to immediately release tax refunds to the tune of Rs. 18,000 crore, in a bid to provide relief to individual taxpayers as well as businesses. All pending income tax refunds up to Rs. 5 lakh would be released immediately by the Income Tax Department. Similarly, all pending refunds for Goods and Services Tax and Customs will also be issued.Page 13||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tax-refunds-to-be-released/article31294288.ece
09 April 2020||April 09 2020 00:00 IST,||Restrictions on spending||With the Centre expecting an extreme cash crunch due to the COVID-19 crisis, most Central government departments have been asked to cut their first quarter expenditure to 15-20% of the year’s budget estimates. Departments considered crucial to dealing with the pandemic and the resultant lockdown will not be affected by these restrictions.page 13||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/restrictions-on-spending/article31294287.ece
09 April 2020||April 09 2020 00:00 IST,||SC bats for free testing||Tests relating to COVID-19, whether done in approved government or private laboratories, shall be free of cost, the Supreme Court ordered on Wednesday. A Bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan and S. Ravindra Bhat held that tests must be carried out only in NABL accredited laboratories or any agencies approved by the WHO or the ICMR.page 9||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sc-bats-for-free-testing/article31294289.ece
09 April 2020||April 09 2020 00:00 IST,||Space management||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/space-management/article31294291.ece
09 April 2020||GUNTUR,||10 foreigners arrested at Sattenapalli||Ten foreign nationals belonging to Kyrgyz Republic and Kazakhstan, who were residing at a mosque in Sattenapalli, have been arrested by the Guntur Rural Police. They were allegedly staying there since March 18, after coming to India on tourist visa on February 25, Rural SP Ch. Vijaya Rao said. Based on a complaint by the VRO, the police took them into custody. They were identified as Manat, Oibek, Kubanychbek, Sovetsek and Normukhammad of Kyrgyz Republic; and Sabre, Kuat, Kaldybek, Baurzham and Tursyhzhan of Kazakhstan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/10-foreigners-arrested-at-sattenapalli/article31294294.ece
09 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||States told to curb black marketing||Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla on Wednesday wrote to all State Chief Secretaries to ensure the availability of essential goods by invoking the Essential Commodities Act, 1955. Offences under the Act may result in imprisonment of seven years or fine or both. The States and the Union Territories may also consider detention of offenders under the Prevention of Black marketing and Maintenance of Supplies of Essential Commodities Act, 1980, the Ministry of Home Affairs said. “I would urge you to take steps to ensure availability of these commodities at fair prices for public at large,” Mr. Bhalla said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/states-told-to-curb-black-marketing/article31294300.ece
09 April 2020||New Delhi,||Delhi seals 20 areas to contain COVID-19 spread||Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia on Wednesday said the Delhi government has sealed 20 areas in the city and people will not be allowed to enter or exit them to control the spread of COVID-19 in the city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/delhi-seals-20-areas-to-contain-covid-19-spread/article31294518.ece
09 April 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||Masks must for stepping out of homes in Odisha||The Odisha government has ordered that people coming out of their homes across the State should wear masks from Thursday. The public has been directed to cover their mouth and nose with any kind of mask. A handkerchief or any piece of cloth in at least two layers can also be used for the purpose.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/masks-must-for-stepping-out-of-homes-in-odisha/article31294520.ece
09 April 2020||GURUGRAM,||U.S.-based firm sacks staff at Gurugram unit||At least a hundred employees have been terminated by Fareportal, a New York-based tech travel firm, in Gurugram amid the COVID-19 outbreak, without assigning any reason. The company laid off employees at its Pune firm as well. Many of those laid off had been working with the company for five to 10 years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/us-based-firm-sacks-staff-at-gurugram-unit/article31294519.ece
09 April 2020||MADURAI,||43 coaches becoming isolation wards||Madurai Railway Division is fast converting 43 passenger coaches into isolation wards in Madurai and Tirunelveli railway yards. The work is likely to be completed in the next couple of days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/43-coaches-becoming-isolation-wards/article31294724.ece
09 April 2020||COIMBATORE,||Coimbatore hospital opts for combo therapy||Five persons, including a 10-month-old, who recovered from COVID-19, were given a triple drug combination of hydroxychloroquine, oseltamivir and azithromycin, according to authorities of the Government Medical College and ESI Hospital, Coimbatore, where they were being treated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/coimbatore-hospital-opts-for-combo-therapy/article31294444.ece
09 April 2020||Chennai,||Vegetables set to be delivered at doorsteps||Chennai residents can now order and receive vegetables and fruits, being sold at the Koyambedu market, at their doorsteps, through delivery service apps such as Swiggy, Zomato and Dunzo.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/vegetables-set-to-be-delivered-at-doorsteps/article31294393.ece
09 April 2020||Chennai,||‘Secondary contacts to undergo antibody tests’||With Tamil Nadu placing an order for one lakh rapid test kits, Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar said the antibody tests would be carried out among secondary contacts of persons who have tested positive for COVID-19 in containment zones, and this would indicate if there is community transmission.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/secondary-contacts-to-undergo-antibody-tests/article31294392.ece
09 April 2020||Chennai,||Madras HC frowns upon quantum of aid to T.N.||The Madras HC expressed concern over the Centre having allocated a relatively lesser amount of Rs. 510 crore from the State Disaster Risk Management Fund for Tamil Nadu. The court suo motu included the Union Home Ministry as a respondent to a PIL plea and directed it to reply in two weeks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/madras-hc-frowns-upon-quantum-of-aid-to-tn/article31294394.ece
09 April 2020||UDUPI,||Six with COVID-19 symptoms in Udupi||As many as six persons with symptoms of COVID-19 were admitted to hospitals in Udupi district on Wednesday. According to a press release issued by the Department of Health and Family Welfare, of the six patients admitted to hospitals, four were suffering from Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI). Of the six persons, three were male and three female.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/six-with-covid-19-symptoms-in-udupi/article31294560.ece
09 April 2020||Bengaluru,||Cut likely in salaries of legislators, Ministers||Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa has called a meeting of the State Cabinet at 11 a.m. on Thursday and it is expected to take a decision on slashing monthly salaries and allowances of MLAs, MLCs, and Ministers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cut-likely-in-salaries-of-legislators-ministers/article31294344.ece
09 April 2020||Bengaluru,||Cancer patients worried||Many people who have conditions that need frequent and regular medical support, like dialysis, and cancer patients are struggling to cope in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic and the subsequent lockdown.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cancer-patients-worried/article31294345.ece
09 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Centre rolls out steps for women’s safety||The government and its machinery are working for women who seek protection — Union Women and Child Development Minister Smriti Irani sought to send out this message through a video-conference on Wednesday with institutes associated with her Ministry. The appeal comes at a time gender rights activists and the U.N. have called for the need to boost helplines, psycho-social support and online counselling as well as demanded that these be declared essential services so that women in distress can continue to access help. The National Commission of Women has recorded a more than two-fold rise in domestic violence and sexual assaults and a three-fold increase in cases of police apathy in the first week of lockdown since March 24. Ms. Irani instructed officials of her Ministry to ensure that One Stop Centres, which provide legal and psycho-social help to survivors of gender-based violence, are linked with local medical teams, police and the National Legal Services Authority (NALSA) so that their services are not impacted due to restrictions on movement. Nearly 1,000 people joined the video conference live, including the staff members of One Stop Centres, as well as shelter homes for women in distress (Swadhar Greh, Ujjwala homes) and Working Women Hostels. Counselling help “One Stop Centre teams must also be linked with NIMHANS,” Ms Irani suggested to equip counsellors across the country to deal with the unique problems faced by women. “Under lockdown, we must use digital governance to ensure safety of women which must be replicated at the State-level and with NGOs so that there is no deficit of either information or help,” Ms Irani said, ordering a senior official to hold a discussion with a State every second day. She also urged NGOs to try to ensure that every individual calls at least 10 women every day so that “women know that they are not alone”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/centre-rolls-out-steps-for-womens-safety/article31294255.ece
09 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Personnel from Herat, Jalalabad return||India brought back 56 staff members and Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) personnel from Afghanistan on an Indian Air Force (IAF) aircraft on Tuesday night, effectively winding down the operations at its consulates in Herat and Jalalabad, in view of the novel coronavirus spread and growing security threats, government sources confirmed to The Hindu . “A C-130 Super Hercules aircraft brought back 56 people from Herat, which reached Delhi on Tuesday evening,” an official source said. All 56 — 10 officials of the Ministry of External Affairs and 46 ITBP personnel who were stationed at the Consulate in Herat — were sent to the ITBP’s quarantine facilities at Chhawla, where 30 personnel from the Jalalabad consulate who returned last week are also being kept. As The Hindu had reported earlier, a high-level security group decided at the end of March to bring back all personnel in the two consulates, close to Afghanistan’s borders with Iran and Pakistan respectively, given heightened security threats in the wake of the U.S.-Taliban agreement, increased activity by Pakistan-based groups like the Islamic State in Khorasan Province (ISKP), as well as the return of Afghan refugees from Iran and Pakistan who could be carriers of the novel coronavirus. Official sources said the government had received a series of cables with inputs from different intelligence agencies on the probability of attacks on “international targets” in Afghanistan, including Indian missions. In Herat, the lack of medical facilities was a particular worry, but specific security threats to the Jalalabad consulate after the ISKP’s attack on a gurdwara in Kabul, which left 25 dead, hastened the decision, the officials said. Security officials also believe that the Indian mission in Kabul may have been the intended original target for the ISKP attackers, who included an Indian national from Kerala. ISI connection The arrest and interrogation of ISKP leader Abdullah Orakzai, a Pakistani national, by the National Directorate of Security on April 4 has confirmed the apprehensions that the ISKP is linked to “regional intelligence agencies”, namely Pakistan’s ISI, Afghan officials indicated. Pakistan’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs has denied the charge. Sources said the operation to bring the personnel back from Herat was conducted in complete secrecy by the IAF, given the threat from the ground, and refuelling constraints. The C-130 took off from the Hindon airbase on April 6 and flew to Herat overnight after a halt at Jamnagar. It returned on the evening of April 7 carrying the personnel, after taking “full precautions” against COVID-19, for which the IAF personnel undertaking the operation were specially prepared, the sources added. It has been learnt that contingency plans are in place to bring back staff from Kabul too, if such a situation arises. India also has consulates in Mazar-e-Sharif and Kandahar, which continue to function as of now.  ( With inputs from   Vijaita Singh )||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/personnel-from-herat-jalalabad-return/article31294244.ece
09 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||End prejudice: Health Ministry||The Union Health Ministry on Wednesday issued an advisory asking people not to discriminate against COVID-19 patients, healthcare workers, sanitary workers and the police who are at the forefront in the fight against the pandemic. Stating that outbreak of communicable diseases might cause fear and anxiety leading to prejudices, the Ministry said such behaviour could lead to increased hostility, chaos and unnecessary social disruptions. “Cases have been reported of people affected with COVID-19, as well as healthcare workers, sanitary workers and police, who are in the frontline for management of the outbreak, facing discrimination on account of heightened fear and misinformation about infection,” it said, adding that even the recovered patients were being ill-treated. ‘False reports all around’ “Further, certain communities and areas are being labelled purely based on false reports floating in social media and elsewhere,” said the Ministry, stating that there was an urgent need to counter such prejudices. The Ministry said people needed to understand that although COVID-19 was a highly contagious disease, they could protect themselves through social distancing, washing their hands and following sneezing/coughing etiquette. “Despite all precautions, if anybody catches the infection, it is not their fault. In situation of distress, the patient and the family need support and cooperation. It must be noted that the condition is curable,” it said. The Ministry said the healthcare workers, including doctors and nursing staff, were tirelessly rendering their services in this crisis. “Sanitary workers and police are also doing selfless service and playing critical roles ... they all deserve our support, praise and appreciation,” said the statement. Targeting essential services providers and their families will weaken our fight against COVID-19 and can prove grievously detrimental for the entire nation, said the Ministry. The Ministry also released a list of dos and don’ts. People should share only authentic information. They have also been advised against spreading names or identity of those affected or under quarantine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/end-prejudice-health-ministry/article31294222.ece
09 April 2020||LUCKNOW,||U.P. to seal virus hotspots in 15 districts||The Uttar Pradesh government on Wednesday decided to completely seal COVID-19 hotspots within 15 districts till the end of the lockdown on April 14. The announcement, first made orally by a senior official, triggered panic buying among anxious public who stepped out to the markets in big numbers as confusion prevailed over which areas would come under the purview of the total lockdown. Several hours after the government decision, officials were yet to declare the names of the hotspots in many districts.  The government listed 100 such hotspots spread across 15 districts, including Lucknow, Noida, Ghaziabad, Agra, Varanasi and Meerut. The actual names were still trickling in till late on Wednesday evening. The district-wise hotspots to be sealed stood as — Agra (22 hotspots), Ghaziabad (13), Noida (12), Kanpur (12), Shamli (3), Meerut (7) including some rural areas, Varanasi (4), Bareilly (1), Bulandshahr (3), Basti (3), Firozabad (3), Saharanpur (4), Maharajganj (4), Lucknow (12) including 8 major ones, and Sitapur (1). The “affected areas” in these 15 districts, which have reported six or more positive cases, should be “completely sealed” to make the lockdown secure, the State’s top official Rajendra Kumar Tiwari said in instructions to District Police and administrative heads.  Mr. Tiwari instructed officials to review the movement passes issued in these districts and cancel those that were “unnecessary”. Officials were asked to ensure 100% home delivery in affected areas. Shops and vegetable mandi s would also not be allowed to open, so there is strict implementation of lockdown and social distancing, the Chief Secretary said. The complete lockdown system was first implemented in some areas of Agra and it produced “good results”, said Awanish Awasthi, Additional Chief Secretary-Home Department, explaining the rationale behind the decision.  Confusion among the public started after Mr. Tiwari told media that affected areas in 15 districts would be sealed to prevent community spread but did not elaborate which areas would be included. Many television channels initially reported that the entire 15 districts, and not just the hotspots identified, would be completely sealed. Mr. Awasthi, then in the official government briefing, clarified that the total lockdown would be enforced in only the hotspots. However, by the time his statement arrived, people had already started queuing up outside shops, ration stores and medical stores to purchase essential items. Panic buying was reported even from areas which did not feature among the list of hotspots as the government did not announce the names. Many people who stepped out to buy grocery and other items, expressed concerns over the uncertainty of how things would shape up on Thursday. Some wondered how the government would execute doorstep delivery of food and medicine in dense localities. “How do we know they will allow us to purchase even food items or medicines from tomorrow,” asked a local in Latouche Road, parts of which comes under the eight hotspots in the U.P. capital. Mujahid, a baker, said he found it hard to handle the sudden rush of customers. He wondered how the supply chain would operate in the areas sealed by police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/up-to-seal-virus-hotspots-in-15-districts/article31294231.ece
09 April 2020||April 09 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Battle should be at a human level’||Rajasthan Deputy Chief Minister and State Congress president Sachin Pilot has said State governments should follow a staggered approach in lifting the lockdown as the healthcare system may not be able to handle the kind of pressure one has seen in Western countries if more positive cases come in. Edited excerpts:  Two weeks of lockdown are over and another week to go. There are reports that it may be extended, as some States like Telangana have asked for an extension. What’s your view? There is still a week to take a final call, but my personal view is that it is too early to think of a complete lifting of the lockdown. We have to follow a staggered approach and must not overzealously go back to earlier ways. Yes, I know there is a massive economic cost but we can’t risk the health of our citizens. Frankly, if the rate of infections in India reach anywhere near what western Europe or the U.S. has seen, our health infrastructure and hospitals will not be able to handle and collapse under its weight. This disease doesn’t differentiate between any region, religion, race or ideology. Therefore, the battle against Corona [COVID-19] has to be at a human level with all hands on the deck. Okay, but former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi, in a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, has talked of factoring in India’s complexities. What are your thoughts on that? Look, no two countries have acted exactly the same way. It’s not just a question of adopting an either/or model but work out something that takes into local factors. Let me give you an example. In Rajasthan, we have already got the spraying of sodium hypochlorite done in 38,000 of the total of 46,000 villages. We have sanctioned Rs. 50,000 for masks and sanitisers in each of the 11,000 panchayats, changed the system of marking attendance for workers under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA) and so on. Now, these MGNREGA workers would be marking their attendance in isolated spots, following protocols issued by World Health Organization (WHO), [and we have] cleared their wage backlog. We have also started giving soap bars with the MGNREGA kits and asked the workers to wash their hands four times a day. We have activated the village sanitisation committee, which is headed by the Sarpanch, and have asked them to go door to door to create awareness. It takes a lot of convincing to get behavioural change to come about, especially in rural areas. One is also hearing of a Bhilwara model, one of the earliest hotspots, in controlling the spread of COVID-19. Can you tell us what is the situation now and what did you do? The situation is now well under control and just yesterday [April 7] we released a few patients. Once patient zero — who was a medical doctor — was identified, contract tracing, screening and aggressive testing was done. We had imposed a “super curfew,” where even media, NGOs and other voluntary organisations were not given curfew passes and the administration took upon itself to deliver essential commodities at doorstep. People with influenza-like illness were aggressively tested and borders were sealed. We ensured zero movement of people and vehicles in the city. Every household was screened multiple times and those showing symptoms were quarantined and isolated. Doctors and paramedical staff were rotated, but most importantly, the people of Bhilwara whole-heartedly co-operated. That’s how we were able to contain the spread. But it’s important that we don’t take our eyes off the ball. Now, such protocols are being followed across the State. For example, in neighbouring Tonk, from where I am an MLA, when 18 cases were reported, we imposed a curfew. We know that a curfew or lockdown cannot be successful if people don’t participate. So, we need to explain to the people the logic but it shouldn’t be the case where people use their connections/influence and are allowed to move about. The sanctity of the curfew needs to be maintained. What about funding from the Centre? We saw the Rajasthan government suggesting that the Centre should prepare a Rs. 1 lakh crore package. You see the package — the Rs. 1.73 lakh crore economic package that the Union government announced — is a very generic package. I think the Centre should work on a State-specific package, where a State gets funding proportionate to the challenge they face in dealing with COVID-19 patients. I think the package should be made by identifying the hotspots in a particular State and the needs of the State government. So far, what are the biggest challenges that you have faced as a government and, going forward, what other challenges do you foresee? We have earmarked 1 lakh beds in Rajasthan to take on the COVID-19 pandemic. There are around 40 places in the State that are under curfew right now. The doctors and paramedics are working round the clock. We will, however, need ventilators, additional PPE [Personal Protective Equipment] kits, etc., as we move ahead. The challenge is to make sure the poorest amongst us are able to get food and essential commodities. So far, we have managed with our resources and with a lot of people, NGOs and business houses coming forward. But I fear fatigue might set in and then we will need additional resources to manage these requirements. There have been some suggestions that this is a truly unprecedented crisis and the Central government should formally involve experience and expertise available with the Opposition. What’s your take? Yes, this is one of biggest challenges of our times and [one that is] beyond any party or ideology. We are one as a nation and should fight as one people. It does not matter in what capacity, but everyone who can contribute should just contribute. Of course, it should be a two-way street.  This disease doesn’t differentiate between any region, religion, race or ideology||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/battle-should-be-at-a-human-level/article31294240.ece
09 April 2020||MYSURU/NEW DELHI,||Poaching, not virus, is the bigger threat, says tiger expert||Wildlife scientist Ullas Karanth, an expert on tiger conservation, has cautioned that a spurt in poaching during the lockdown period poses a greater threat to wildlife than the coronavirus. The warning came after the advisory issued by the National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA) and the Wildlife Division of the Ministry of Environment, Forests and Climate Change for immediate preventive measures to stop the spread of the virus from humans to animals and vice versa in national parks, sanctuaries and tiger reserves. The advisory came after a tiger at the Bronx zoo in the U.S. tested positive for the novel coronavirus. Dr. Karanth worked for three decades with the organisation that runs the zoo, the Wildlife Conservation Society. Writing on the Centre for Wildlife Studies portal, he said that the issue was being blown out of proportion because of the media focus, although this could be attributed to genuine concern. This specific virus was known to affect domestic cats and it came as no surprise that tigers could get it too. Dr. Karanth pointed out that wild tiger populations had high birth rates and high annual mortality rates and the coronavirus-related threats were highly unlikely to cause population declines. On the contrary, he said, the real threat to tigers was posed by a surge in local poaching of prey species during the lockdown. He cited incidents in Kodagu and Shivamogga, reported in recent days [involving sale of deer meat.] The police were busy otherwise, and forest officials faced movement constraints, emboldening a new wave of poachers, he said. Responding to the issue, Karnataka Forest Department officials said they had taken precautionary measures while handling captive animals, without relaxing anti-poaching activities. N.S. Murali, Inspector-General of Forests, NTCA (South Zone) said the advisory referred to wild animals straying into human habitation and needed tranquilisation and translocation. Personnel handling tiger operations should ensure that they were coronavirus negative. The same held good for post mortem. On the reported spurt in poaching due to lockdown, Conservator of Forests T. Balachandra who is also the Director of Bandipur Tiger Reserve said there was no known case of poaching in protected areas where fire guards supplemented the field staff. The one reported from Bandipur took place in an adjoining reserve forest. This being fire season, there were 400 fire watchers in Bandipur besides field staff and another 400 watchers in Nagarahole, two famous tiger reserves, and the added staff would deter poachers. But a senior official said Kodagu, Shivamogga, Chikkamagalur and villages near MM Hills and Cauvery Wildlife Sanctuaries had a history of poaching. The ban on domestic meat sale early in the lockdown may have added to poaching. But the meat sale ban had been lifted and protection stepped up. No reports: NTCA “We have not got any reports on increase in poaching,” said Anup Kumar Nayak, Director-General, NTCA. “However forest staff have additional responsibilities now to provide masks to field staff and assist State administration in COVID-19 relief work.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/poaching-not-virus-is-the-bigger-threat-says-tiger-expert/article31294242.ece
09 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Wildlife board holds virtual meet||The Standing Committee of the National Board for Wildlife (NBWL) had its first-ever video-conferencing meet on Monday where infrastructure projects in 11 States were cleared, Environment Minister Prakash Javadekar tweeted. “I chaired the meeting of standing committee of NBWL through videoconference and approved wildlife clearance for a number of developmental projects by 11 States,” it read. Two were infrastructure proposals related to setting up power transmission lines and constructing a highway in Goa, which would “boost tourism.” Other projects included the Nagpur-Mumbai superhighway, a small-scale stone mining project in Kota, Rajasthan; an underground pumped storage facility for generating hydroelectricity; an Indian railways project to build a railway bridge in Madhya Pradesh and Telangana, irrigation projects in Uttarakhand and Telangana and defence projects in Uttarakhand, according to his tweets. Projects that encroach into forests or protected reserves require NBWL nod as part of the government’s environmental clearance process. Projects are appraised at the State level and then subsequently presented to a large committee of wildlife experts, the Chief Wildlife Wardens of States, top officials in the Union Environment Ministry and Forest Ministry and, the Environment Minister. Plans to hold a videoconference were announced on March 11, a note from the Environment Ministry’s Wildlife Division says. ‘Scrutiny of maps tough’ An expert who was privy to the process said most of the projects were given “in-principal approval” though only the formal minutes of the meeting would reveal the conditions which projects would have to adhere to. “In a virtual conference, it’s difficult to scrutinise maps that show the location of the proposed projects. There was also no occasion to ask questions of officials for clarifications,” he told The Hindu on condition of anonymity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/wildlife-board-holds-virtual-meet/article31294208.ece
09 April 2020||April 09 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Importance of soft power is increasing globally’||Indian Council for Cultural Relations (ICCR) president and BJP MP Vinay Sahasrabuddhe speaks about ICCR’s future programmes, how it is handling the lockdown and its legacy as it marks its foundation day on Thursday.  April 9 will mark the 70th anniversary of the ICCR’s foundation. Looking back, what do you think has been its legacy and how, if at all, do you see it changing in your tenure? What are the reforms that you have undertaken with regard to ICCR? ICCR has a great history and many stalwarts had shouldered this responsibility. What I myself and our team is doing is to take the legacy ahead and also further add value in tune with the changing times. ICCR was established when there was neither the concept of soft power nor was the term in use. Naturally then, the activities were limited in terms of their number and their diverse character as well. Majorly, it was about scholarships to foreign students, cultural exchanges involving artistes and youths as also establishing some Chairs in some universities etc. Now, we are in a world where every nation wants to influence and occupy the mind space of the global community and thereby add to its prowess. In a way the limitations of military might are now more obvious and hence the importance of soft power is increasing. On reforms, we are trying to fine-tune certain systems and galvanise the entire functioning in keeping with the modern times. India enjoys a groundswell of goodwill, but the challenge is to translate this goodwill into understanding of India. To that end we plan to start academic programmes like an Understanding India course, cultural exchange between future leaders, mainstreaming of our traditional artisans through exchange with similar artisans abroad and converting Chairs into full-fledged India Study Centres abroad. This time the foundation day happens to be during the lockdown imposed to curb COVID-19, so how will it be celebrated in India and around the world? And, what are the initiatives being rolled out by ICCR during the lockdown? Three things could be shared. Firstly we are utilising this time for preparing to make a new beginning in some areas of academic courses through a more structured system of knowledge dissemination and evaluation as well as certification. Secondly, with the ‘Show Must Go On’ spirit, we have successfully started conducting e-tutorials and classes on a wide range of subjects including classical dances, Hindi, Sanskrit and even Yoga. Thirdly, in the wake of all pervading gloom and tensions as a result of pandemic, we have announced a global painting competition and also an essay competition for NRIs and alumni of Indian institutions. We always believe that centrality of cultural relations will eventually promote our diplomatic, strategic as well as economic relationships. Among the activities of the ICCR is promotion of Hindi. Are there any plans on expanding these activities, for example the number of scholarships for foreign students here and Chairs set up in foreign universities? Well, not just Hindi, but promotion of all languages from India is something we want to work for. In Israel, there are many Marathi- speaking Jews. Now if they demand a Marathi class, we may accept even that. Same is true with Tamil, Bengali, Sanskrit or Gujarati. We have started using Amar Chitra Katha type comics to conduct language training. But this is also to some extent demand-driven. About scholarships, we desire to increase them but getting eligible students also becomes an issue.  We have successfully started e-tutorials on a wide range of subjects, including classical dances||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/importance-of-soft-power-is-increasing-globally/article31294212.ece
09 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||ChildLine fielding calls against abuse||One in every three calls made to the emergency helpline for children, ChildLine 1098, days before and during the nation-wide lockdown sought protection from abuse and sexual violence, according to a presentation made on Tuesday in the presence of Women and Child Development Minister Smriti Irani. The Minister has been holding frequent video-conferences. On Wednesday, she held one on safety of women. She has already chaired virtual sessions on protection of children, with anganwadi workers as well as with field workers in her constituency, Amethi. Between March 20 and March 31, the helpline recorded a total of 4.3 lakh calls — 50% more than the average. Nearly 30% reported instances of abuse and violence, either experienced first hand or on behalf of a child survivor, as lockdown leaves children confined to their homes, rendering them vulnerable to physical and sexual violence, a majority of which take place within homes and families. Significantly, many who called the helpline also sought information related to availability of food and shelter. These calls were made for missing and runaway children, children stranded due to the lockdown as well as children of unemployed and migrant labourers who found themselves displaced. Safety measures The video-conference headed by Ms. Irani on Tuesday was to sensitise Child Welfare Committees, Child Care Institutions and District Child Protection Units, which primarily deal with orphaned, abandoned and missing children. Senior officials of the Ministry were also present during the virtual session held on Zoom as well as streamed live on YouTube. UNICEF’s child rights specialist Tanishtha Datta, psychiatrist from NIMHANS Shekhar Sheshadri and ChildLine India Foundation's Deputy Director Harleen Walia fielded questions on safety measures for children residing in shelters and measures for new entrants to these homes and those who may want to return to their families. Appeal to NGOs Ms. Irani urged all NGOs to share information about adolescent girls in temporary shelters provided for migrant labourers with District Collectors and Superintendents of Police to ensure safety and health measures, such as provision of sanitary napkins. She said her Ministry would work with the Ministry of Home Affairs to ensure district authorities were sensitised to the needs of adolescent girls who have been displaced due to the lockdown.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/childline-fielding-calls-against-abuse/article31294260.ece
09 April 2020||Kolkata,||108 foreigners under quarantine in Bengal||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday said 177 people, including 108 foreigners from various countries, who had taken part in the Tablighi Jamaat in Delhi had been put under quarantine in the State. “Within six hours of receiving the information, we quietly began to work. Around 10-12 days ago, we put 108 foreigners who had participated in the programme in a quarantine centre. They are being monitored by the State administration and the Health Department,” Ms. Banerjee said at a press conference here. The remarks came after the Opposition political parties particularly the BJP had raised questions on the number of participants from the State in the event. The Chief Minister on April 1 said 54 persons including 40 foreigners were put in quarantine. Giving details of the persons who attended the religious gathering Ms. Banerjee also targeted the Centre. “A lot of people had gathered at Nizamuddin, because they were allowed to gather there… I do not want to get into a political argument over this issue. But what I want to say is that when we got the information that many people from Bengal had also gone there, our administration quietly took the necessary steps,” the Chief Minister said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/108-foreigners-under-quarantine-in-bengal/article31294233.ece
09 April 2020||Kolkata,||West Bengal begins live lectures on TV||West Bengal’s school education department has tied up with television channel ABP Ananda to hold live lectures for the students of Classes 10 and 12 to compensate for the classes they are missing due to the COVID-19 lockdown. The lectures will be telecast daily from 3 p.m to 4 p.m. — with half an hour being devoted to students of Class 10 and the remaining to those belonging to Class 12 — and will continue till April 13. The televised classes began on Tuesday and the subject was English. The programme is aimed at students following the State board syllabus and, therefore, covers all schools run or aided by the State government. “It is an excellent initiative by the State government and is a good way of keeping the students pepped up. How effective this is going to be will be seen in the coming days, but it is certainly better than doing nothing,” said Krishnakoli Ray, headmistress of Jaynagar Institution for Girls, a State government-aided school on the outskirts of Kolkata. “But many State government-run and State government-aided schools happen to be in interior areas where there’s no dish antenna or cable, so students living in those areas may be missing out on the [televised classes], but this is a good start. Going forward, when villages are better connected, this could become the norm,” Ms. Ray said. WhatsApp groups In the event of the lockdown being extended, she said, schools are likely to form WhatsApp groups of Class 10 students to circulate worksheets so that they do not lag behind in preparing for their board exams. The televised classes could be extended if the lockdown continues. They are being conducted by a panel of experienced teachers, who will also take questions from students on phone — there is a dedicated WhatsApp number — and on email. They will also assign tasks to students, who will submit the completed assignments to their respective teachers once the schools reopen. The live classes were originally supposed to be telecast on Doordarshan, but according to sources, the arrangement did not work out.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/west-bengal-begins-live-lectures-on-tv/article31294253.ece
09 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||States told to curb black marketing||Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla on Wednesday wrote to all State Chief Secretaries to ensure the availability of essential goods by invoking the Essential Commodities Act, 1955. Offences under the Act may result in imprisonment of seven years or fine or both. The States and the Union Territories may also consider detention of offenders under the Prevention of Black-marketing and Maintenance of Supplies of Essential Commodities Act, 1980, the Ministry of Home Affairs said. “I would urge you to take steps to ensure availability of these commodities at fair prices for public at large,” Mr. Bhalla said. These measures include fixing the stock limits, capping the prices, enhancing production, inspecting the accounts of dealers and other such actions, a statement by the MHA said.  Ensure fair prices “There have been reports of loss of production due to various factors, especially reduction in labour supply. In this situation, there is a possibility of inventory building/hoarding and black marketing, profiteering, and speculative trading, resulting in price rise of essential goods. The States have been asked to take urgent steps to ensure availability of these commodities at fair prices for public at large,” the MHA said. Earlier, in an order issued under the Disaster Management Act, 2005, the MHA had allowed the manufacture, transport and other related supply-chain activities in respect of essential goods such as foodstuff, medicines and medical equipment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/states-told-to-curb-black-marketing/article31294525.ece
09 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Australia to ensure welfare of Indians||Australia has assured India of the welfare of Indian students stranded there due to travel restrictions over the novel coronavirus pandemic, External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar said after a conversation with Australian Foreign Minister Marise Payne on Wednesday. “A very good conversation with FM Marise Payne on our respective responses to COVID-19. She assured that there is no change in the status of Indian students studying in Australia,” Mr. Jaishankar wrote in a tweet. “We discussed the importance of Australia’s Indian community in responding to the crisis & supporting Australians in India affected by internal & travel restrictions,” Ms. Payne added on Twitter. The conversation followed a call between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his Australian counterpart, Scott Morisson, on Monday, with the latter saying Indian students would continue to be “valued”. Thousands of Indian students in Australia have been worried by Mr. Morisson’s comments last week that those who are not able to support themselves should “return to their home countries”. The Australian High Commission in India is planning to charter flights to take Australian citizens from India back home. However, unlike other countries, India is not at present allowing citizens abroad to return. “India will fully facilitate arrangements for Australians wishing to return home,” Mr. Jaishankar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/australia-to-ensure-welfare-of-indians/article31294238.ece
09 April 2020||Srinagar,||DNA samples of 5 militants collected||The J&K police have collected DNA samples of five militants killed in Kupwara’s Keran Sector on April 4-5. It is suspected that three of them could be the youth missing from south Kashmir since a few years. A top police official told The Hindu that the encounter, which started on April 1 and ended on April 5, saw the five infiltrators “withstanding heavy snowfall for four days and having enough training to take on the elite PARA troopers of the Army despite the inclement weather” near the Line of Control (LoC) in Keran Sector. Five PARA troopers died in “a very close range gunfight”. Two left for PoK Three families from south Kashmir’s Shopian and Kulgam have claimed the slain militants were their kin. The two militants identified by the families were Sartaj Ahmad Dar, a resident of Kulgam’s Hangir Yaripora who was missing since December 20, 2017; and Sajad Ahmad Hurrah, a resident of Shopian’s Daramdora-Keegam area, who was missing since April 10, 2018. “Both of them exfiltrated from India to Pakistan and later went to Pakistan-occupied Kashmir on valid passports. There are fears that the handlers in Pakistan are upgrading the training of locals after a major dent was inflicted on local militants’ striking capabilities in the last three years,” the police officer said. The police had buried the five militants in a forest area of Zurhama in the Shalbatoo-Jumgund range. According to the Kupwara police, DNA samples have been collected and will be matched to establish their identity. One family, the police said, identified one of the slain militants from photos uploaded online. Lashkar links One user of social media, believed to be close to the militants, claimed the slain militants belonged to the recently floated the Resistance Front. The front is believed to be working in tandem with the Lashkar-e-Taiba and has set up bases in north Kashmir. Hurrah’s uncle Sheeraz Ahmad Hurrah said: “We appeal to the authorities to return the body for the final rites.” The third militant, according to a family, could be Umar Nazir. Not much is known about him, the police said. C||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/dna-samples-of-5-militants-collected/article31294223.ece
09 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Citizens must act responsibly with medical teams, says SC||Citizens have to act in a responsible manner with doctors, medical workers and other officials working to contain the COVID-19 infection, the Supreme Court said on Wednesday. The court ordered the police to take action against persons who obstruct and commit any offence against doctors, medical staff and other officials in the course of performing their duty. In a 15-page order, a Bench led by Justice Ashok Bhushan directed the police and authorities to provide protection to medical teams when they visit screening sites or at all places where patients diagnosed positive or who have been quarantined are housed. Calling COVID-19 a “national calamity”, the court said “in wake of calamity of such nature, all citizens of the country have to act in a responsible manner to extend a helping hand to the government and medical staff to perform their duties to contain and combat COVID-19”. The court referred to how doctors, who had gone to screen residents in Indore on April 2, were pelted with stones. The order mentioned another such incident in Ghaziabad and in other parts of the country too. Terming doctors and health workers as “corona warriors”, a Bench led by justice Ashok Bhushan said such attacks “instil a sense of insecurity in doctors and medical staff from whom it is expected by society that they are looking to the call of their duties will protect the citizenry from disease of COVID-19”. The court directed the government to explore alternatives, including enabling and augmenting domestic production of protective clothing and gear for medical professional. This include alternative modes of production of such clothing (masks, suits, caps, gloves, etc.) and permitting movement of raw material. The government may also restrict export of such materials to augment inventory and domestic stock. The court made it clear that the onus is on the Centre and the States to ensure availability of appropriate Personal Protective Equipment, including sterile medical/Nitrile gloves.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/citizens-must-act-responsibly-with-medical-teams-says-sc/article31294225.ece
09 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Virus hits both genders equally, except in 2 nations||In a striking contrast with many countries, men in India more than women appear disproportionately likely to test positive for COVID- 19, an analysis of global data shows. This anomaly, experts told The Hindu , could be a statistical reflection of relatively low testing for the disease in India. On April 6, the Health Ministry said 76% of the confirmed cases in India were men. That day, the total number of confirmed cases stood at 4,506. Many countries — including the United Kingdom and the United States — while publicising data on cases and death rates don’t have sex-segregated national data. However, data from 40 countries, which do share such data and compiled by GlobalHealth5050, an independent research initiative that tracks gender and health, suggest that the gender-split in all countries is roughly 50-50, barring two exceptions: India and Pakistan. 72% of our neighbour’s 4,004 cases have been confirmed in men. Greece, for instance, with 17,551 cases is 55% male; Italy assailed with 124,547 cases is 53% male. China too, even though data has not been updated since February 28, showed that its 55,924 cases then were almost evenly split 51:49 among men and women. Another unusual exception was South Korea — the country that has conducted the maximum number of tests as a proportion of population — in that more women tested positive than man. 60% of its 10,000 cases, as on Wednesday, were women. Germany, another country that has tested significantly, notes an even split, 50: 50 in its case load of 99,255. However, men in all countries were significantly more likely — almost twice — to die than women, though this data point is available for only 18 countries. India hasn’t yet shared national figures on COVID-19 mortality rates in men and women. Experts told The Hindu that India’s wide disparity was more likely due to sociological factors and when testing increased and more infections detected the male-female gap would likely narrow. Giridhar Babu, an epidemiologist associated with the Public Health Foundation of India, said it was likely that in most countries international travellers — the key source of the initial tranche of infections in most countries — were equally likely to be men or women. “It’s possibly more reflective of employment trends in India. Women are less likely to be travelling for work internationally from India.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/virus-hits-both-genders-equally-except-in-2-nations/article31294228.ece
09 April 2020||Chandigarh,||Haryana set for staggered wheat procurement, starting April 20||As Haryana is all set to start staggered wheat procurement for the ongoing Rabi season from April 20, the State government is still awaiting the Centre’s response to its request for financial incentives to encourage farmers to stagger the arrival of the produce. “We have sent a proposal to the Centre according to which, from April 20 till May 4, we will buy wheat on the already announced Minimum Support Price (MSP) of Rs. 1,925 per quintal. From May 5 till May 31, we have proposed to pay an incentive of Rs. 50 per quintal, and for the purchase in the month of June, the proposal is to pay Rs. 125 per quintal. By end of June, the procurement operations are proposed to be terminated,” Additional Chief Secretary-Food and Civil Supplies P.K. Das told The Hindu . “We are following it up. So far, the Centre has not taken any decision on our request,” he said. The State government had on March 26 written to the Ministry of Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution urging it to announce financial incentives for farmers in Haryana on account of staggered procurement of wheat. Purchase centres In the wake of the government’s decision to purchase the farmers’ produce in a staggered way, the number of mandi s and purchase centres for the procurement of wheat have been increased from 477 to 2,000 this year. Bharatiya Kisan Union (Haryana) spokesperson Rakesh Bains said that the amount proposed as an incentive was very low and the government should increase it. “Besides, the State government should not wait for the Centre to decide on it but should instead make an announcement at its level to mitigate farmers’ miseries,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/haryana-set-for-staggered-wheat-procurement-starting-april-20/article31294247.ece
09 April 2020||GURUGRAM,||Violence over PM’s lights-out call||Eight members of a Scheduled Caste family, including two women, were injured in an attack allegedly by upper caste men in Palwal’s Pingore village following an altercation over switching off the lights on Sunday in response to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s call. Thirty-one people have been named in the FIR. Three persons were detained on Wednesday evening. Dhanpal, the complainant, said the call for lights-out on Sunday was only for nine minutes starting at 9 p.m. and they had switched off their lights. He said around 9.30 p.m. around 35 people belonging to the Gujjar community barged into his house casting casteist slurs and ordered them to keep their lights switched off the whole night. He said the accused, armed with sticks, iron rods and bricks, beat them up and vandalised the house. They also threatened them with dire consequences if the matter was reported to the police. Besides Dhanpal, his son and daughter, five more members of his family suffered injuries in the attack. Station House Officer, Sadar, Jitender Kumar said the children of the two families had fallen out over switching off the lights in response to the PM’s call and the matter then escalated. The two parties pelted each other with stones and a vehicle parked in a house was also damaged. The police officer said the remaining accused were on the run. “The matter is being investigated by a Deputy Superintendent of Police-level officer,” said Mr. Kumar. A case of causing hurt and criminal intimidation, among others, has been registered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/violence-over-pms-lights-out-call/article31294226.ece
09 April 2020||CHENNAI,||Centre concerned over polarisation on religious lines||The Centre has expressed serious concern over the “polarising of public opinion on religious lines” against the backdrop of a particular community being targeted as being responsible for the spread of COVID-19 in the country. In a note issued to all States on Tuesday, the Union government said a sizeable number of non-Muslims was getting a perception that a particular community was not taking the pandemic very seriously and not complying with the lockdown conditions and prohibitory orders. This situation was further aggravated by various media projections and social media posts appealing public to refrain from purchasing fruits/vegetables/grocery items from sellers belonging to the said community. This had also triggered a strong resentment against them in northeastern States. Such targeting of a particular community and its religious organisations would lead to communal polarisation. Strict action should be taken against any person posting fake/provocative posts in the social media, it said. Local community leaders should be called upon to motivate the people for better compliance of the lockdown norms and also to strengthen congenial feelings between the communities. Referring to recent instances of clashes between the police and coronavirus-infected persons in Tamil Nadu and Bihar and also “ill-treatment” or “non-cooperation” meted out by a particular community to doctors, nurses and other health workers, the Centre called for adequate safety and security of the healthcare professionals. States were told to coordinate with community leaders and persuade Tablighi Jamaat conference returnees to voluntarily come forward for quarantining which “will help clear the shroud of distrust and allegations to a large extent.” “Following this advisory, we have issued an alert to all concerned to take effective steps to prevent the posting of hate messages that could trigger friction between two groups of people. The Tamil Nadu police have already put in place a model where Tablighi Jamaat has appointed volunteers in all districts to facilitate in identifying and quarantining Delhi returnees along with their family members, close associates etc,” a senior police officer told The Hindu on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/centre-concerned-over-polarisation-on-religious-lines/article31294234.ece
09 April 2020||JAIPUR,||Rajasthan mandis to open in phased manner||Mandis, functioning as agricultural marketing hubs, will open in a phased manner in Rajasthan from April 15 for procurement of agricultural commodities from farmers at minimum support prices. The authorities will ensure adherence to social distancing norms and control the crowds at the mandis. Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot gave instructions here on Wednesday for management of services at the mandis and maintenance of all protocols to take care of health of farmers, traders, labourers and those connected with the procurement process. He reviewed the arrangements at a video conferencing with seven Ministers and senior officers. Mr. Gehlot said the farmers’ interest was of paramount importance for the State government and the decision to procure the farm produce would help out the peasants during the last stage of harvesting of rabi crops in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rajasthan-markets-to-open-in-phased-manner/article31294248.ece
09 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||NGOs can buy FCI grains to provide cooked food||In order to facilitate cooked food distribution at privately-run relief camps during the lockdown due to the COVID-19 outbreak, the Food Ministry has allowed NGOs and charitable organisations to directly buy wheat and rice from the Food Corporation of India at Open Market Sale Scheme rates without going through the e-auction process. So far, only State governments and registered bulk users like roller flour mills were allowed to do so. Now, philanthropic organisations can purchase 1 to 10 metric tonnes at a time at the predetermined reserve prices and lift the grains from FCI’s 2,000-odd godowns across the country, according to a Food Ministry statement. District administrations will be kept informed of the details of lifting of foodgrains by NGOs to ensure that it is used for the intended purpose of providing cooked food to the poor and needy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ngos-can-buy-fci-grains-to-provide-cooked-food/article31294258.ece
09 April 2020||GUWAHATI,||Armyworm attack adds to Assam farmers’ woes||A pest attack, albeit confined to a district, has added to the COVID-19-related woes of Assam’s farmers. Officials of the Directorate of Agriculture said farmers in northeastern Dhemaji district reported armyworm attack on the standing crops. “Fortunately, the summer paddy crop had been more or less harvested across the State when the lockdown started on March 25. The armyworm attack has been on patches where harvesting was not completed,” said Mowsam Hazarika, Deputy Director of Agriculture (Planning and Evaluation). The armyworm caterpillar, the larval stage of several species of moths, has a voracious appetite. Entomologists say it feeds on more than 80 species of plants. Agriculture officials said they were trying to find out if more districts, particularly Lakhimpur which adjoins Dhemaji, have been affected. They did not rule out the possibility of the pest attacking other crops as many farmers have been unable to harvest due to the lockdown despite the Centre’s notification to ease restrictions on the farm sector. The weather has been a factor, too. The pre-monsoon rains have eluded Assam so far. “The temperature is quite high now, and the armyworm can cause more damage if there is no rain,” Mr. Hazarika told The Hindu . A major issue agriculture officials have been facing is reaching out to farmers. Fear of contracting the virus has made villagers block access roads and all other gaps, not letting outsiders — even buyers of their produce — to come in and residents to go out. Lack of workers This has led to landed farmers getting few or no farmhands at all. “How can we be sure the buyers are not infected? So the Anti-Virus Committee we formed has decided to rather use the excess paddy and vegetables among ourselves rather than sell and risk being infected, which can cost us more than we could have earned by selling our produce,” said Padmeswar Deka of Kumarbori village in central Assam’s Morigaon district that recorded three of the first six COVID-19 positive cases reported in the State. While the disconnect is a cause for concern, officials fear the winter crop cycle could be affected if the lockdown continues beyond April 14.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/armyworm-attack-adds-to-assam-farmers-woes/article31294257.ece
09 April 2020||April 09 2020 00:00 IST,||U.P. to seal virus hotspots in 15 districts||Mr. Awasthi, then in the official government briefing, clarified that the total lockdown would be enforced in only the hotspots. However, by the time his statement arrived, people had already started queuing up outside shops, ration stores and medical stores to purchase essential items. Panic buying was reported even from areas which did not feature among the list of hotspots as the government did not announce the names. Many people who stepped out to buy grocery and other items, expressed concerns over the uncertainty of how things would shape up on Thursday. Some wondered how the government would execute doorstep delivery of food and medicine in dense localities. “How do we know they will allow us to purchase even food items or medicines from tomorrow,” asked a local in Latouche Road, parts of which comes under the eight hotspots in the U.P. capital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/up-to-seal-virus-hotspots-in-15-districts/article31294524.ece
09 April 2020||April 09 2020 00:00 IST,||Escaping quarantine at night, returning by day||“Yes, it is difficult to stay at these stinking quarantine centres even for 24 hours,” rued a mukhia in Siwan district. “The government should have first developed infrastructure in government schools and panchayat bhawans before converting them as quarantine centres,” he added. “If the government really wanted to quarantine the migrants why didn’t they put them up at Patna’s newly constructed convention centres with capacity for thousands of people... given the facilities inside those places no migrants would have slipped away from there.” Another village head from Saharsa district remarked, “The government has asked us to monitor the quarantined migrants’ movements but we feel helpless in checking their movement some times under local pressure.” “Moreover, how can we ask them to stay put in such hellish conditions at government schools, where swarms of mosquitoes start hovering overhead at dusk,” he added. However, at some other places in the State the village heads are getting support from the villagers themselves to restrict the movement of those quarantined. “Along with the villagers, I keep strict vigil on their movement and ensure that they do not come out of the centres,” said Ram Kumar Yadav, village head of Sirpur panchayat in Madhubani district. And at Mabbi village, in Samastipur district, 18 quarantined migrants have found their own family members not only repeatedly rejecting their requests to be allowed to return home but also keeping a strict vigil on their movement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/escaping-quarantine-at-night-returning-by-day/article31294209.ece
09 April 2020||April 09 2020 00:00 IST,||Focus shifts to contact tracing, infrastructure||The Health Ministry said there was no shortage of drugs. “The whole situation [of hydroxycholoroquine] is being monitored at the highest level; it is being ensured that there will be no shortage... Currently, this is being used for a very small section of the population,” he said. Punya Srivastav, Joint Secretary, Home Ministry, said community leaders were being drafted for spreading awareness. “To prevent hoarding, the States have been asked to take action under Essential Commodities Act. A component in the Rs. 1.70 lakh-crore relief package was for construction workers, and we have 3.5 crore such workers registered. The State and Union Territory governments had been asked to use the welfare fund for them; it has a corpus of Rs. 31,000 crore...,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/focus-shifts-to-contact-tracing-infrastructure/article31294210.ece
09 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Shringla dials Biegun to discuss COVID-19 fallout||Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla took up bilateral collaboration to deal with COVID-19 during a telephone discussion with U.S. Deputy Secretary of State Stephen E. Biegun on Wednesday. The discussion is being viewed as being part of official consultations after India changed its export policy for a major consignment of the anti-malarial drug hydroxychloroquine that the U.S. had ordered for dealing with the pandemic. More cooperation “Both sides discussed ways to further enhance their cooperation to counter and control the pandemic, including through the development of novel therapies and prophylactics against COVID-19 and ensuring availability of essential medicines, diagnostic and medical equipment and sharing of the best practices/information,” said a source familiar with the exchange. India on Tuesday made changes to an export policy to ensure that hydroxychloroquine is shared with countries that have been badly affected by the pandemic. The statement sent a clear message that despite India’s policy, the consignment of the drug will be sent to the U.S., which has emerged as an epicentre of COVID-19. After India’s decision, President Donald Trump described Prime Minister Narendra Modi as “great”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/shringla-dials-biegun-to-discuss-covid-19-fallout/article31294217.ece
09 April 2020||April 09 2020 00:00 IST,||Not possible to lift the lockdown in one go: PM||Among those who supported an extension of the lockdown were the Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS), the Samajwadi Party (SP) and the Lok Janshakti Party (LJP). TRS president and Telangana Chief Minister K. Chandrashekar Rao has earlier advised Mr. Modi to extend the lockdown. SP Rajya Sabha member Ramgopal Yadav said the lockdown should continue till the last patient affected by the novel coronavirus is cured. LJP president Chirag Paswan recommended that while the lockdown should continue in urban areas, it should be eased in villages where farmers are in the process of harvesting the rabi crops. Many parties flagged that the economic package announced by Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on March 26 is insufficient. Mr. Azad said the Congress recommended that the MGNREGA (Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act) be extended to harvesting activities. Tablighi Jamaat event NCP president Sharad Pawar raised the issue of ‘communalisation’ of the battle against COVID-19. He said that while the Delhi Tablighi Jamaat congregration at the time of the pandemic was wrong, the fact that it was being played out on television and social media and “being used to divide the country” was not right. DMK’s T.R. Baalu said, “Communal colour should not be given to this pandemic.” The CPI(M) was represented by Rajya Sabha member Elamaram Kareem who, among other things, demanded that the Centre immediately release all pending dues to the State governments. Almost all the parties criticised the government’s decision to suspend MPLAD funds for the next two years. A. Navaneethakrishnan, secretary of the AIADMK’s legal wing and a member of the Rajya Sabha, represented the party.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/not-possible-to-lift-the-lockdown-in-one-go-pm/article31294216.ece
09 April 2020||April 09 2020 00:00 IST,||States told to curb black marketing||These measures include fixing the stock limits, capping the prices, enhancing production, inspecting the accounts of dealers and other such actions, a statement by the MHA said. “There have been reports of loss of production due to various factors, especially reduction in labour supply. In this situation, there is a possibility of inventory building/hoarding and black marketing, profiteering, and speculative trading, resulting in price rise of essential goods. The States have been asked to take urgent steps to ensure availability of these commodities at fair prices for public at large,” the MHA said. Earlier, in an order issued under the Disaster Management Act, 2005, the MHA had allowed the manufacture, transport and other related supply-chain activities in respect of essential goods such as foodstuff, medicines and medical equipment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/states-told-to-curb-black-marketing/article31294218.ece
09 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||COVID-19 tests must be done for free: SC||Tests relating to COVID-19, whether done in approved government or private laboratories, shall be free of cost, the Supreme Court ordered on Wednesday. Issue the necessary directions immediately, the court told the government. A Bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan and S. Ravindra Bhat held that tests relating to COVID-19 must be carried out only in National Accreditation Board for Testing and Calibration Laboratories accredited labs or any agencies approved by the World Health Organisation or the Indian Council of Medical Research. The order was passed on a petition by advocate Shashank Deo Sudhi to implement free testing by private labs. On April 3, the court issued notice to the government on the plea, which challenged the legality of a March 17 advisory capping the price for testing at Rs. 4,500 in private labs and hospitals. “We find prima facie substance in the submission of petitioner that at this time of national calamity permitting private labs to charge Rs. 4,500 for screening and confirmation test of COVID-19 may not be within means of a large part of population of this country and no person be deprived to undergo the test due to non-payment of capped amount of Rs. 4500,” the court observed in its order. It said government laboratories were testing free of cost.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/covid-19-tests-must-be-done-for-free-sc/article31294224.ece
09 April 2020||Mumbai,||Dharavi reports one death, six new cases||Dharavi reported six new COVID-19 cases on Wednesday, including one death. So far, Asia’s largest slum has reported 13 COVID-19 cases including two deaths. The patient who died, a resident of Social Nagar, was reported positive on Wednesday. Of the five other cases, one of them is the 25-year-old son of a positive patient, and was already under quarantine at the Rajiv Gandhi sports complex. Another new case was that of a 35 year-old man from Dhanwada chawl. His immediate family members do not live in Dharavi A resident of Muslim Nagar, a 50-year-old cleaning staff from KEM Hospital, has tested positive and her five immediate contacts quarantined. More than 3,200 people from Dharavi are under quarantine. Meanwhile, Mahim, which falls under the same administrative ward, also reported its first two cases on Wednesday — a 43-year-old mutton shop owner in Worli, and a nurse.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/dharavi-reports-one-death-six-new-cases/article31294236.ece
09 April 2020||April 09 2020 00:00 IST,||Nishkamya karma||In Srimad Bhagavatam, King Nimi asks Avirhotra, a yogisvara, to explain nishkamya karma, said P.T. Seshadri in a discourse. Avirhotra replies that the Sastras divided karmas into three categories. One is karma — this includes duties prescribed by the Sastras, which one must necessarily perform. The second category detailed by Avirhotra is akarma, that is failure to perform what one should. The third division is vikarma, that is doing that which is forbidden by the Sastras. Even scholarly persons get confused about these three divisions and do not know which action falls into which category, says Avirhotra. This is because the Vedas do not tell you anything directly. You have to infer the correct meaning. The Vedas are like a sugar-coated pill, which is sweet on the outside, but inside is the medicine. The sweetness of the coating makes us swallow the medicine. So, the Vedas lead us to the right path in an indirect manner. They prescribe duties to eventually release us from karma. Doing deeds and not bothering about the results is nishkamya karma. Nimi asks how this can be, when the Sastras themselves say that the performance of certain duties will fetch certain results. Avirhotra replies that this is to motivate people to do what is enjoined on them. But only a man who has no expectation about the results of his actions will attain moksha. Those who want to get rid of ajnana must worship according to Vedic and Agamic rules. One must identify an archa murthi and get deeply involved in worship of this murthi. He must sit before that murthi, and do pranayama and bhuta suddhi. He must recite mantras. He must offer water for washing the deity’s feet, for washing His mouth and for His bath. He must offer garments and flowers, and food.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nishkamya-karma/article31294245.ece
09 April 2020||New Delhi,||EPFO settles 1.27 lakh claims||The Employees’ Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO) has processed around 1.27 lakh claims, disbursing Rs. 238.48 crore in total, under the special withdrawal scheme introduced in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic, EPFO officials said on Wednesday. With the country in a three-week lockdown to curb the spread of the novel coronavirus, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman had announced a special withdrawal scheme for employees on March 26. EPF subscribers can withdraw up to 75% of the amount in their PF balance or three months of their basic pay and dearness allowance, whichever is less. The scheme was notified on March 27 and rolled out on March 29, with the EPFO developing new software within 24 hours to process applications quickly, EPFO officials said. As of Wednesday, the EPFO had processed around 1.27 lakh claims that amount to Rs. 238.48 crore in total and remittances of the money had already started, its CEO, Sunil Barthwal, said. He added that there was “no pendency” for the applications that were completely KYC compliant. While those applications that were KYC compliant were being processed in under 72 hours in an “auto mode”, those that had deficiencies were being processed manually, on priority, he said. The Labour Ministry had on Sunday announced that EPFO would accept the date of birth recorded in the Aadhaar card of a subscriber as a valid proof for rectification of the date of birth.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/epfo-settles-127-lakh-claims/article31294237.ece
09 April 2020||April 09 2020 00:00 IST,||CITU flags wage cuts, job loss in IT field||The Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU) on Wednesday wrote to the Union Labour and Employment Ministry highlighting cases of wage cuts and job terminations in the IT sector, in violation of the Ministry’s directive to companies during the lockdown. In the letter to the Secretary, CITU general secretary Tapan Sen said this was its fifth such communication to it regarding the violations of the March 20 advisory to employers. After highlighting violations in banks, jute mills and tea gardens in West Bengal and road and hydel projects in J&K, the CITU said this time it was raising concerns in the IT sector in Karnataka, Tamil Nadu and Bengal. It asked the Ministry to intervene in the matter as well.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/citu-flags-wage-cuts-job-loss-in-it-field/article31294206.ece
09 April 2020||GUWAHATI,||Assam leader in soup over interview||The Kokrajhar police have filed an FIR against the president of a regional political party in western Assam’s Bodoland Territorial Council (BTC) for “spreading false information” on the COVID-19 pandemic. Suleman Narzary, a resident of Kokrajhar town, filed a complaint on Tuesday alleging that the chief of the United People’s Party Liberal, Promod Boro, during an interview to a television channel on April 5, said more than 30,000 people had got infected with coronavirus in India when the government data on April 6 put the figure at a little more than 4,200. Mr. Boro toldThe Hinduthat his remark “was a slip of the tongue”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/assam-leader-in-soup-over-interview/article31294214.ece
09 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Surrender, SC tells Navlakha & Teltumbde||The Supreme Court on Wednesday directed activists Gautam Navlakha and Anand Teltumbde to surrender within a week in the Bhima-Koregaon violence case. A Bench led by Justice Arun Mishra said the time to surrender would not be extended and this was the “last opportunity”. The court said it had expected them to surrender, considering that the courts in Maharashtra were still open. The activists, who were directed by the top court on March 16 to surrender within three weeks, had sought extension saying that going to jail during the COVID-19 pandemic is “virtually a death sentence”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/surrender-sc-tells-navlakha-teltumbde/article31294213.ece
09 April 2020||April 09 2020 00:00 IST,||PMO miffed at leaked clip||The Prime Minister’s Office, in a statement, expressed concern after a two-minute video clip of the PM’s concluding address to the 18 political parties found its way to the media. “Selectively leaking the content of such consultations, as seen today, runs counter to their spirit and objectives and is avoidable,” the PMO said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pmo-miffed-at-leaked-clip/article31294215.ece
09 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Ambedkar birthday will be a holiday||The Department of Personnel and Training (DoPT) on Wednesday declared April 14, 2020, birthday of Dr. B.R. Ambedkar, a “closed holiday” for all Central government offices, including industrial establishments, throughout India. The Appointments Committee of the Cabinet on Tuesday extended the tenures of officials working at the level of deputy secretary, director and joint secretary, appointed under the Central Staffing Scheme or through the Civil Services Board procedure. The extension has been given till June 30 or until further orders. The decision is learnt to have been taken to ensure smooth implementation of anti-COVID-19 measures.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ambedkar-birthday-will-be-a-holiday/article31294220.ece
09 April 2020||JAIPUR,||Rajasthan returns drug to market||The Rajasthan government has returned the entire stock of hydroxychloroquine 300 mg tablets and 25% of hydroxychloroquine 200/400 mg tablets to the private firms from which it had acquired the medicine for managing COVID-19 infected patients. After the State acquired the medicines from the distributors, wholesalers and retailers in March, a shortage in the market had caused inconvenience to patients of rheumatoid arthritis and other diseases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rajasthan-returns-drug-to-market/article31294229.ece
09 April 2020||Mumbai,||Masks made mandatory in Mumbai||In Mumbai, it’s now mandatory for everyone, including officers on COVID-19 duty, to wear masks in public places. Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) Commissioner Praveen Pardeshi issued the orders on Wednesday. The BMC has cited studies that show that wearing masks could reduce the spread of COVID-19 substantially. Any person moving around in a public place for whatever reason must wear a 3-ply mask or a cloth mask compulsorily. This applies to all essential services, traffic police and officials who are outdoors for work purposes as well. No officer should attend any meeting or gathering without wearing a mask. Anyone violating this order would be punishable under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code (48 of 1860), says the order.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/masks-made-mandatory-in-mumbai/article31294235.ece
09 April 2020||Srinagar,||Jaish militant killed in Sopore||A Jaish-e-Mohammad (JeM) ‘commander’ was killed in an ongoing operation in Baramulla’s Sopore on Wednesday. The police identified the slain militant as Sajad Nawab Dar, a resident of Saidpora, Sopore. “During a search operation launched jointly by the police, the Army and the CRPF in Gulabad, Arampora area of Sopore, the hiding terrorist fired on the search party. The fire was retaliated,” the police said. “Dar was wanted for his complicity in terror crimes, including attacks on security establishments.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/jaish-militant-killed-in-sopore/article31294219.ece
09 April 2020||Bodi,TAMIL NADU||Police harass us, say tribals||Tribals living in remote corners complained that the police personnel harassed their kith and kin so that they were living in constant fear. A group of villagers from Kurangani, Mundal, Siraikadu and Kottakudi in Melaparavu Panchayat told reporters on Wednesday that a few officials visited their hamlets two weeks ago and asked them to stay indoors due to the pandemic. With no movement of mini-buses, share autorickshaws or jeeps, the villagers had to rely on two-wheelers to come down for purchase of essential commodities. But the police detained youths, who went to the town for purchase of essential goods, under the guise of checking and containing movement of people, they said. On Tuesday, the police detained some vehicles for nearly four hours. “We understand that officials are doing their duty but we do not have money or job. There are about 300 persons living in four streets in group houses. Even drinking water is not available. We have to trek for three km to reach the ration shop,” they said. Under these circumstances, it is unfortunate that the police detained youths when they visited Bodi stating that they were booked for violating the curfew. If we are given food, we would not come to Bodi. We are ready to cooperate with the police. They can give a pass, which will be of use for mobility when curfew is lifted from 6.30 a.m. to 1 p.m.,’ a villager said. When contacted, the police said that they had warned and released them but maintained that action would be taken if they came on flimsy reasons. Even as the district administration have made elaborate arrangements regarding movement of essentials to the people, the number of COVID-19 positive case rose to 39 with 16 fresh cases reported on Wednesday, which included 12 women and four men. Officials said that they, directly or indirectly had contact with persons who had attended the Delhi conference. An official in the revenue wing said that essential commodities were being distributed to the people through the ration shops. In a bid to ensure that there was no crowd, staff had advised consumers to come in batches, he noted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-harass-us-say-tribals/article31294725.ece
09 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||SHRC favours colour coding, testing vulnerable sections||The State Human Rights Commission (SHRC) has called for testing of vulnerable sections of the population for COVID-19. In a letter addressed to State Chief Secretary K. Shanmugam, the SHRC called for testing, “especially among the underprivileged population, including transgender whose awareness may not be very much, and who may not know the importance of testing.” In their communication, the SHRC acting chairperson D. Jayachandran and member A. Chittaranjan Mohandoss sought a status report on action taken on its recommendations by departments concerned within 10 days. Lauding two districts where three different colour cards are being distributed to the residents to ensure there is no crowding in shops and markets, the Commission said this could be emulated across Tamil Nadu. “That way the numbers at any one point of time can be controlled. This can be implemented in all districts,” it added. The Commission recommended an increase in the water supply to areas where the density of the population was more and where identified COVID-19 cases have been recorded. “In many of the areas, water is being supplied on alternate days, the frequency may be increased, and the health workers should be advised to educate the people in their allotted areas on the importance of personal hygiene,” it said. The SHRC also underlined that soaps should be included in the list of things being distributed by the fair price shops. Though most of the police personnel resorted mostly to humane methods of enforcing the law, some instances of police vandalising vehicles of those attempting to go out have also been reported, the Commission noted. “It should be reiterated that the restraint showed by most police personnel should continue and those who resort to violence are properly reprimanded,” it added. The SHRC’s other recommendations were: including people without ration cards in the list of beneficiaries to receive relief material, using schools and hostels for accommodating people to ensure physical distancing and providing facilities for bathing for health workers and police personnel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/shrc-favours-colour-coding-testing-vulnerable-sections/article31294421.ece
09 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||At 48 fresh cases, Wednesday’s tally is lowest since April 1||On Wednesday, the State recorded 48 fresh cases, the lowest since April 1. Of these, 42 were connected to a ‘single source event’ (Delhi conference), according to Health Secretary Beela Rajesh. Of the remaining six who tested positive, two had travel/contact history and were already under the Health Department’s quarantine. “Four others, from Chennai, had ‘unidentified’ source of infection. We are in the process of tracking contacts of the four persons,” Dr. Rajesh said. In total, the number of persons who have tested positive and are connected to the ‘single source event’ is 679 — seven foreign nationals and 14 of their contacts, 553 attendees and 105 of their contacts — she said. “Other than this, we have 59 patients. Of these, 26 had travel history and 33 were contacts of those with travel history,” she added. Till date, a total of 1,480 persons who attended the event have been traced and isolated. Woman discharged The 74-year-old woman who was discharged on Wednesday was admitted to Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital with severe respiratory distress on March 26. A resident of Pozhichalur, she tested positive for COVID-19 and underwent treatment. She also had uncontrolled diabetes and hypertension, a press release issued by RGGGH said. Sixteen persons — 12 women and four men — from Theni; seven persons — three women and four men — from Chennai; six men from Tiruchi; five persons — four women and one man — from Namakkal; four persons — three women and one man — from Tirunelveli; four persons — two men and two women — from Villupuram; two men from Tiruppur; and one each from Dindigul, Salem, Tiruvallur and Vellore tested positive on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/at-48-fresh-cases-wednesdays-tally-is-lowest-since-april-1/article31294440.ece
09 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Urban local bodies take on role of providing essentials||Urban local bodies in the State are seeking to don new roles that include providing vegetables and facilitating supply of groceries to people reeling under the impact of COVID-19. The Chennai Corporation is even planning to offer a mobile service of Amma Unavagam. “We have procured three vehicles and will be rolling out soon,” said G. Prakash, Corporation Commissioner. Conscious of the fact that biosafety protocols have to be observed, he expressed hope that once the service was launched, it would be “a big hit.” Urban local bodies have also started operating mobile vegetable shops, thanks to their arrangement with local traders. One vehicle has been arranged for every ward. The service has been on for the last four to five days. A pack of vegetables, cost of which ranges from Rs. 100 to Rs. 150 depending upon the purchasing power of people in the localities, is being offered, said a senior official of the Commissionerate of Municipal Administration (CMA), adding that in places such as Tambaram and Pallavaram, where there are 100 or 200 flats on one campus, there are takers for this kit. Besides, these local bodies have started linking up people with grocery shops by furnishing phone numbers of the shops to the former. The arrangement is that customers can place orders with the shops over the phone and the provisions are delivered at the doorstep of the people, the official pointed out. Recently, the State government sanctioned around Rs. 31.4 crore for the urban local bodies to ensure smooth functioning of Amma Unavagams as part of its COVID-19 relief measures. The Chennai Corporation has been given Rs. 19.5 crore and other municipal corporations and municipalities Rs. 11.9 crore. Totally, there are 654 Amma Unavagams in the State, of which Chennai has 407. In the city alone, around 4.5 lakh persons take food every day. As in the case of Chennai, other municipal corporations and municipalities have been instructed by Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami to provide three meals a day at Amma Unavagams. Till now, two meals a day are being served. For the benefit of people in Chennai, the Department of Horticulture and Plantation Crop, which is running mobile vegetable shops in different parts of the State in a modest way, also announced on Tuesday, the creation of an online portal — www.ethottam.com — for buying fruits and vegetables. Once orders are placed, the commodities will be delivered to the address of customers either through the department or Tamil Nadu Horticulture Development Agency (TAHODA). The day after the announcement came, there were reports of the stock having run out. When pointed out, an official of the Horticulture Department replied that this has been reported in respect of vegetables being bought on a piecemeal basis. Customers can buy packs of vegetables and fruits, each costing Rs. 300 and Rs. 500 respectively. This will facilitate quicker delivery.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/urban-local-bodies-take-on-role-of-providing-essentials/article31294400.ece
09 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Mango sales take a hit||Summer is often synonymous with mangoes for many. However, this year, the countrywide lockdown has dampened the arrival of mangoes to the city this season. The Koyambedu wholesale market is receiving only 5-6 varieties of mangoes instead of the usual 10-12 varieties available during this time. Wholesale traders noted that the market was getting stock from Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu and not from Kerala. Only half of the usual daily quantity of 100 tonnes is being received now due to restrictions in transportation. S. Srinivasan, president, Chennai fruits commission agents association said that fewer arrivals have not led to much demand and prices have slashed by 10% in the wholesale market. Some of the varieties available are Banganapalli, Peethar, Senthoora and Imanpasand. Banganapalli mangoes are sold for up to Rs. 100 a kg in the wholesale market. “We are making only 30% of the usual sales due to less customers. Several other fruits are also priced lesser than usual. For instance, watermelons cost Rs. 6/kg instead of the usual Rs. 15. As most juice shops are closed in the city, the demand for fruits, including musk melons, have dropped,” he said. Traders said that the timing of retail shops must be extended by an hour to reduce crowding in the wholesale market. R. Narasimhan, a 60-year-old from Anna Nagar, is one of the residents eagerly waiting to buy mangoes. “It is one fruit that every family member loves. I haven't been able to spot mangoes in the stores yet. I hope this lockdown doesn't have an impact on it," he said. While some retail shops have been selling mangoes, there are some who haven't begun as yet. The price of Alphonso and Banganapalli is around Rs. 300/kg and Rs. 180/kg respectively. A manager of a popular fruits and vegetable retail chain in Arumbakkam said, “We found that some mangoes were either too sour or tasteless. We will wait for sometime, till mid or late April for bulk purchase.” . Retailers expect usual sale of mangoes this year too.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mango-sales-take-a-hit/article31294396.ece
09 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||TNERC extends validity of old tariff orders for green projects||The Tamil Nadu Electricity Regulatory Commission (TNERC) has extended the validity of its previous tariff orders for renewable energy projects. On April 13, 2018, it had issued an order on wind power and the tariff was fixed at Rs. 2.86 per unit without accelerated depreciation and Rs. 2.80 per unit with accelerated depreciation. “The validity of the order expires on March 31. Commission had initiated the process for issue of a new order on ‘Procurement of wind power and related issues’ by issue of a consultative paper in February. Until a new order is issued, Commission extends the validity of the order dated April 13, 2018,” the TNERC said. For solar projects, it had issued an order on March 29, 2019, in which tariff was determined at Rs. 3.04 per unit without accelerated depreciation and Rs. 2.80 per unit with accelerated depreciation. The validity of the solar tariff order expired on March 31 and the TNERC said it had initiated the process for a new order. It extended the validity of the previous order until a new one is issued. Similarly, the regulator has extended validity of its orders of March 28, 2018 for biomass-based power plants and bagasse-based power plants, until new orders are issued. The Ministry of New and Renewable Energy has said that any delay in renewable energy projects due to disruption in supply on account of COVID-19 will be considered as a force majeure event. The developers will not have to pay penalty for missing deadlines, if they can prove supply disruption.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tnerc-extends-validity-of-old-tariff-orders-for-green-projects/article31294409.ece
09 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||More rapid test kits to check for community transmission||With Tamil Nadu placing an order for one lakh rapid test kits, Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar said that antibody tests would be carried out among secondary contacts of persons who have tested positive for COVID-19, in containment zones, and this would indicate if there was community transmission. “We will be scaling up the number of rapid test kits. As of now, we have had primary contacts of patients testing positive for COVID-19. We are seeing that there has been no transmission beyond the families of patients, and so, our containment activities have helped. Now the rapid tests will indicate if anyone in the zone has been exposed to the virus recently, or even exposed previously,” he said. For them, testing of samples using the RT-PCR will be done if necessary, he added. A month after the State reported its first COVID-19 case on March 7, the State will now focus on doing antibody-based testing on a full-fledged basis. “It will indicate if there has been community transmission of COVID-19,” he said.  With the State reporting eight deaths so far, he said that the mortality rate was about 1%, and a majority of the deceased were aged above 50. Except for one or two patients, the others had co-morbid conditions, the Minister added. A total of 34 districts have reported COVID-19 cases, Health Secretary Beela Rajesh said. Chennai continues to have the most number of COVID-19 cases. With seven more testing positive on Wednesday, the total number of cases in the city has increased to 156. A booth for drawing samples from persons for COVID-19 testing was set up at the Government Stanley Medical College Hospital. In this, a healthcare provider would stay inside the booth and draw samples from persons.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/more-rapid-test-kits-to-check-for-community-transmission/article31294435.ece
09 April 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||After break-ins, Tasmac beefs up security||In the wake of reports of liquor shops and bars being broken into, the Tamil Nadu State Marketing Corporation Limited (Tasmac) is shifting the stock at most of its outlets to nearby depots, where security has been strengthened. As many as 22 cases of break-ins have been reported at Tasmac shops across the State and liquor worth Rs. 14 lakh has been stolen since the COVID-19 lockdown came into effect. “We are not moving all the consignments into depots. We carried out an assessment of areas deemed sensitive along with district collectors and the police, based on which we are shifting the stock,” a government official said. “We have beefed up security at the depots. We have hired security guards for a few shops as well,” he added. A Tasmac source said tipplers from both rural and urban pockets were becoming increasingly aggressive due to the lack of access to liquor and were targeting the shops, breaking down their doors. “Tasmac has now installed iron rods near the shutters in certain shops. So even if the lock is broken, the shutters can't be lifted,” he added. Black market Thefts apart, liquor is reportedly being sold in the black market at exorbitant prices in several pockets of the State. In some places, liquor bottles are being sold at prices that are Rs. 150-Rs. 250 over the MRP. It is learnt that some shops had secretly stocked liquor in nearby premises a day before the lockdown began, and are now selling it to regular customers. “We are looking into this and the police are also aggressively taking up these issues as and when complaints come in,” a government official said. Two shop managers told The Hindu that a proper assessment could be carried out only after the shops reopen. “A comparison has to be made with the closing stock on the day before the lockdown,” they said. The managers said they had received instructions from the head office, and showed an SMS which read: “Whenever shop personnel indulge in illegal sale/theft of stock, they must be suspended immediately.” Another SMS said that if there is any discrepancy in stock, the shop’s staff will be held responsible, and the difference amount will have to be paid immediately. Tasmac, a cash cow for the Tamil Nadu government, sells liquor worth Rs. 78 crore to Rs. 80 crore a day, on an average.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/after-break-ins-tasmac-beefs-up-security/article31294438.ece
09 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Garland of notes, groceries greet worker||Susheela, a sanitary worker with the Chennai Corporation, was pleasantly surprised when she went to Kambar Street in Palavakkam on Wednesday morning to begin work. She was greeted with a garland of Rs. 10 notes by D. Viswanathan and his wife Vanitha who are residents there. “Ever since concerns about the spread of COVID-19 increased, sanitary workers with Chennai corporation have been working round-the-clock to keep our area clean. This is our way of honouring Ms. Susheela who has been working in our street and thanking her for her service,” said Mr. Viswanathan, a former councillor. She was also given a bag of rice, vegetables and other groceries. Mr. Viswanathan said that he hoped more residents would be aware of the work that the corporation staff do and help them out or reward them in any small way possible. “As residents, it is our duty to ensure that we keep our surroundings clean as well as stay indoors as much as possible. This is the least we can do to ensure that all the hardwork put in by workers on the ground don’t go waste,” he said. While he has recognised the worker who helps keep his street clean, Mr. Viswanathan said that once the lockdown is lifted and things are back to normal, he would plan a feast for the sanitary workers who were involved in keeping his area clean and disinfected.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/garland-of-notes-groceries-greet-worker/article31294398.ece
09 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Veggies through delivery apps||Chennai residents can now order and receive vegetables and fruits, being sold at the Koyambedu market, at their doorstep through delivery service apps such as Swiggy, Zomato and Dunzo. Aimed at serving individual buyers, the apps will have an option for the Koyambedu market. A combo pack, having 14 to 16 vegetables and 5 fruits, can be ordered. The rates for the vegetables and fruits will be as per the decision of the Koyambedu Market Management Committee. In other words, the people will be able to buy the commodities at wholesale rates, pointed out an official of the Housing and Urban Development (HUD) Department, adding that the daily rates will be hosted on the Chennai Metropolitan Development Agency’s (CMDA) website — http://www.cmdachennai.gov.in. The idea is to offer a total of 18 vegetables and 8 fruits to the city residents, who are finding it difficult to get the commodities due to lockdown. In the case of bulk purchasers, residents’ welfare associations covering 25 families or more, they can place orders through the CMDA’s website or by dialling 730 5050 541, 730 5050 542, 730 5050 543, 730 5050 544, 902 5653 376 or 044-24791133. The CMDA will operate 50 vehicles initially, said an official release. Depending upon the response, the number of vehicles will be increased. Also, it has been planned to run vehicles for people living in tenements of the Tamil Nadu Slum Clearance Board or areas where economically weaker sections of society and the middle class are living. The door-delivery service has become possible thanks to an arrangement worked out by the CMDA, which supervises the working of the Koyambedu wholesale market complex. “What is disturbing us is that a large number of people continue to visit the Koyambedu market regularly for buying vegetables. We want to discourage this trend. This is why we have come up with this arrangement,” said the official of HUD department, under which comes CMDA.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/veggies-through-delivery-apps/article31294402.ece
09 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||OMCs sell 13 lakh more LPG refills than in March 2019||Oil marketing companies sold nearly 13 lakh additional cylinders in the State last month when compared to March 2019. Indian Oil Corporation Ltd., which holds the biggest share in the market, sold eight lakh more cylinders than last March’s 60 lakh. Hindustan Peteoleum Corporation Ltd., and Bharat Petroleum Corporation Ltd., which have the remaining market share sold an additional five lakh cylinders. The oil companies usually supply around 1.05 crore refills in the State every month. “We managed this despite shortage of staff during the Covid-19 lockdown thanks to a large number of contract labourers, delivery staff and gas agency employees who agreed to work. This would be close to 80,000 persons,” said an oil industry source.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/omcs-sell-13-lakh-more-lpg-refills-than-in-march-2019/article31294419.ece
09 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Search for cancer care appliances ends on a sweet note||A cancer survivor’s desperate search for urostomy bags and other critical appliances in the midst of the lockdown has ended on a positive note. For the past six years, these appliances have been on the monthly shopping list of Nilakanta Siva, a resident of Thanjavur and a survivor of bladder cancer, and other patients in the region. Urostomy bags are needed for the collection of the body waste of patients after surgery. “These appliances are not available locally, and have to be purchased from Chennai, which serves as a hub. The lockdown had left us in a fix, as logistics was proving to be a challenge. I tried different avenues like mailing various government officials and approaching parcel service providers. But nothing worked,” said Mr. Siva, who has authored the book ‘When Thoughts Invade the Cancer Conqueror’ with his wife. Finally, a social media post brought him much-needed support. Aided by the goodwill of a few individuals and the intervention of IAS officers in Chennai, the consignment reached Thanjavur in 12 hours, earlier this month. S. Marimuthu, president of the Indian Medical Association, Thanjavur branch, had already sent a letter to the authorities concerned, underscoring the importance of the medical appliances. The issue gained momentum when T. Prabhushankar, an IAS officer in Chennai, took it up. Much-needed respite “Realising the gravity of the situation, he connected us to the authorities in the Greater Chennai Corporation who issue vehicle passes for essential service providers. The consignment took supplies to 12 patients in various places, including Dindigul, Tiruchi and Kumbakonam,” Mr. Siva said. It was picked up by a volunteer, K. Gopinath of Virugambakkam, and transported to Thanjavur, he added. The consignment brought in essential supplies for two months. “I just chanced upon the [social media] post, checked its authenticity and connected them (the patients) to the Regional Deputy Commissioner (South), Greater Chennai Corporation. Most of us ignore forwards on social media platforms. But this case is an example of a genuine call for help,” Mr. Prabhushankar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/search-for-cancer-care-appliances-ends-on-a-sweet-note/article31294430.ece
09 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Report sought on Dharmapuri incident||The SHRC has sought a report from the Director-General of Police over police personnel allegedly vandalising the vehicle of a person who defied the lockdown in Dharmapuri district. Taking suo motu cognisance of a media report in this regard, the SHRC acting chairperson D. Jayachandran has called for a report from the DGP and the SP in two weeks. According to the media report, police personnel vadalised vehicles found to be violating the prohibitory orders on Netaji Bypass in Dharmapuri last week.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/report-sought-on-dharmapuri-incident/article31294420.ece
09 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Korean inmates at Tiruchi special camp approach High Court||Two Korean inmates of a special camp in Tiruchi have approached the Madras High Court alleging that norms for physical distancing were not being followed at the camp though some of the 80 inmates were suffering from symptoms such as cold and fever. Justice S. Vaidyanathan heard the writ petitions filed by Choi Yong Suk, 46, and Choe Jae Won, 41, on Tuesday through videoconferencing and directed State Government Pleader V. Jayaprakash Narayanan to obtain detailed instructions from the authorities concerned by Thursday. The petitioners’ counsel C. Arun Kumar told the judge that his clients were the Managing Director and General Manager respectively of Chowel India Private Limited, a company operating from Sriperumbudur Taluk and engaged in manufacture of cowl bars, bumpers and seat frames for motor vehicles. Last year, the company was accused of not remitting Goods and Services Tax (GST) collected from its customers since 2017 and the total liability was assessed to be more than Rs. 40 crore. Hence, the authorities concerned initiated prosecution against the company and arrested its top brass. Though an Additional Chief Metropolitan Magistrate in Egmore had granted bail to the petitioners on November 19 last year, the Superintendent of GST and Central Excise chose to detain them at the camp and such detention was challenged by way of habeas corpus petitions. The HCPs were slated to be heard on March 26 but could not be taken up due to the nationwide lock down to fight COVID-19, the petitioners said in their affidavits and alleged that there was every chance of the pandemic spreading in the camp due to lack of preventive measures. The camp lacked medical facilities and that no disinfectant was sprayed till date. “The inmates of the camp are made to sleep in small mosquito sheds which are placed very closely,” their identical affidavits read.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/korean-inmates-at-tiruchi-special-camp-approach-high-court/article31294771.ece
09 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Govt. asks corporates to donate to CMPRF||In the light of the Centre’s clarification that funds contributed by private companies to the Chief Minister’s Public Relief Fund (CMPRF) can be considered as CSR funds, the Tamil Nadu government has called upon corporates to donate generously to CMPRF. An official release issued on Wednesday evening referred to the notification issued by the Union Ministry of Corporate Affairs, in this regard, on March 23. It also referred to the order of the National Disaster Management Authority on March 24, which stated that funds received by CMPRF, between March 24 and June 30, could be used for COVID-19-related expenses. “Major corporates and other companies could contribute generously towards the CMPRF,” it added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/govt-asks-corporates-to-donate-to-cmprf/article31294429.ece
09 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||With increased workload, women a stressed lot||The lockdown has had many effects on people from various walks of life. For a section of women at home, it added to the workload. It was no different with stress levels, with more women feeling stressed during the lockdown than men. Those who were single and staying alone were more stressed, an online survey by Schizophrenia Research Foundation (SCARF) has found. The survey had 502 participants — 196 men and 306 women — and was aimed at determining if there was increased task sharing in the families during the lockdown. Of the participants, nearly 65% were in the age group of 35-55. Eighty eight per cent were married, while eight per cent were single. “We keep hearing women say that their work has increased as all family members were at home due to the shutdown. We wanted to know the real impact on people,” R. Thara, vice chairperson, SCARF, said. Women participants expressed that their domestic responsibilities had increased by nearly 16% than usual (60% before lockdown), while for men, it increased by 13% than normal (36%). In fact, while the elders in the family were helping as usual with the domestic responsibilities, children were found to be helping more — an increase by 10% — during the lockdown, the survey found. A total of 36% of the participants were working from home, 33% were at home but were not doing any professional work from home, 16% were going for work as usual and 15% were homemakers. Lakshmi Venkatraman, consultant psychiatrist, SCARF, said, “Working women continued to do work at home along with their professional work, so it was an added load. We wanted to look at how much sharing of labour happens between different family members. It is not surprising that the workload has increased, as before the lockdown, they would have had domestic help or a cook at home,” she said. A total of 39% of the participants stated that they were stressed during the lockdown. Women accounted for a higher percentage — 66 % of women were stressed as compared to 34% men. Persons, who were single and staying alone, were more stressed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/with-increased-workload-women-a-stressed-lot/article31294404.ece
09 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||TVS group companies give Rs. 3 crore||Lucas-TVS Ltd., a TVS group company and its sister companies Delphi-TVS Technologies Ltd., lndia Nippon Electrical Ltd., and Lucas lndian Service Ltd., have made a contribution of Rs. 2 crore to the Tamil Nadu Chief Minister’s Public Relief Fund and Rs. 1 crore to the PM-CARES. The companies have been distributing free food to the needy, including migrants, in the vicinity of their factories all over India and assisting the government in the fight against the COVID-19, according to a statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tvs-group-companies-give-rs-3-crore/article31294408.ece
09 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Why a mere Rs. 510 crore for State, asks HC||The Madras High Court on Wednesday expressed concern over the Centre having allocated a relatively low amount of Rs. 510 crore from the State Disaster Risk Management Fund (SDRMF) for Tamil Nadu, despite it having recorded the second highest number of patients who have tested positive for COVID-19, in the entire country. Justices N. Kirubakaran and R. Hemalatha suo motu included the Union Home Ministry as a respondent to a public interest litigation petition and directed it to reply in two weeks. The petition had actually sought for a direction to the State government to subject those who had been exempted from the lockdown to COVID-19 tests, before lifting the restrictions. “The Central government may positively consider increasing the amount (to Tamil Nadu),” the judges observed in their order. The court granted a fortnight’s time for the State to respond to the petition.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/why-a-mere-rs-510-crore-for-state-asks-hc/article31294431.ece
09 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Additional rice for T.N. for three months||Tamil Nadu has been allotted an additional 1.78 lakh tonnes of rice a month for the next three months, under the Centre’s Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana (PMGKY). Of this additional allocation, around 36,000 tonnes have been earmarked for beneficiaries with Antyodaya Anna Yojana (AAY) ration cards and 1.42 lakh tonnes for those covered under priority household (PHH) cards, officials said. Though the officials are awaiting details regarding the supply of pulses from the Union government, they expect to receive 20,000 tonnes a month, the cost of which will be Rs. 60 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/additional-rice-for-tn-for-three-months/article31294436.ece
09 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Judge donates Rs. 2.5 lakh for junior lawyers||Justice S.M. Subramaniam of the Madras High Court on Wednesday donated Rs. 2.5 lakh to a fund created by Bar Council of Tamil Nadu and Puducherry to help indigent junior lawyers who had lost their earnings due to the nationwide lockdown. After handing over the cheque to the BCTNP, the judge made an appeal to senior lawyers to make generous contributions towards the fund so that the bar council would be able to provide financial relief to all needy junior lawyers. “What we are facing is a disaster of epic proportions. This is the time to come out and share our wealth with those in need. There’s no point in talking about social equality if we do not open our hearts and wallets even at this crucial hour,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/judge-donates-rs-25-lakh-for-junior-lawyers/article31294403.ece
09 April 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Prevent price rise of essentials, Stalin urges govt.||DMK president M.K. Stalin on Wednesday urged the State government to take steps to prevent spiralling in the price of essential commodities, provisions and vegetables. In a statement, he said everyone had realised the importance of lockdown and remaining at home, and there was a need to ensure that there was no shortage of food.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/prevent-price-rise-of-essentials-stalin-urges-govt/article31294422.ece
09 April 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Assistance for senior citizens||Bharati Seva Sangam has started a volunteer initiative to help the elderly during the ongoing lockdown. Ram Kumar, a trustee with the Bharti Seva Sangam, said that they had identified volunteers in over 100 areas in the city, who will know their areas well.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/assistance-for-senior-citizens/article31294424.ece
09 April 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||CM to chair review meeting today||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami will chair a meeting at the Secretariat on Thursday to review the implementation of the COVID-19 lockdown in the State. Members of the 12 teams that are coordinating various aspects of the lockdown will attend the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-to-chair-review-meeting-today/article31294428.ece
09 April 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Extend lockdown by three more weeks: Anbumani||PMK youth wing leader Anbumani Ramadoss on Wednesday urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to extend the 21-day lockdown by three more weeks from April 15, to contain the spread of COVID-19. “PPEs should be provided to all doctors immediately,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/extend-lockdown-by-three-more-weeks-anbumani/article31294427.ece
09 April 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||How biomedical waste from COVID-19 wards is disposed of scientifically||Disposal of biomedical waste generated from hospitals treating COVID-19 patients also demands extreme care as they can be potential carriers of the virus – SARS CoV2. Coimbatore-based common treatment facility Tekno Therm is collecting bio-medical waste from hospitals treating COVID-19 patients in Coimbatore and Tiruppur districts. A person associated with the company said that it was using a separate vehicle for the collection of biomedical waste from COVID-19 wards of such hospitals. This vehicle is not used for transporting other biomedical waste. The crew of the vehicle and employees who handle the biomedical waste at the treatment plant are given personal protective gear. The waste is incinerated immediately on arrival at the facility. It is incinerated first in a primary burner of 1,000 °C and then in a secondary burner at 1,200 °C. Biomedical waste from COVID-19 wards is handed over to the collection agents with a separate tag, after packing and sealing it in a three-layered cover. Hospitals that are involved in COVID-19 management are not supposed to mix them with other biomedical waste. Tekno Therm is collecting biomedical waste from COVID-19 wards at Government Medical College and ESI Hospital, Coimbatore Medical College Hospital, and the Government Hospitals at Mettupalayam, Pollachi, Annur and Tiruppur. The firm also collects general biomedical waste generated by larger hospitals in Coimbatore and Tiruppur (8,000 beds in total). Another Coimbatore-based common treatment facility named Kovai Bio Waste Management Private Limited was to collect biomedical waste from Government Hospital, Udhagamandalam, said its managing director S. Bhuvaneswari. Though four persons from the Nilgiris tested positive for COVID-19, they were shifted to ESI Hospital in Coimbatore. As the firm largely handles biomedical waste generated by small hospitals, nursing homes, clinics and laboratories, it will be handling biomedical waste generated by laboratories that offer COVID-19 testing. As of now, one private laboratory in Coimbatore is permitted to conduct the test. Risk to workers Meanwhile, Tekno Therm has also approached Coimbatore Corporation with regard to the disposal of waste such as mask and gloves used by people who are in home isolation and those residing in containment zones. These are now collected by sanitary workers of the civic body along with the general garbage, posing the risk of infection to them. Civic bodies in some cities including Nagpur have made arrangements to collect such waste separately and dispose them scientifically.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/how-biomedical-waste-from-covid-19-wards-is-disposed-of-scientifically/article31294462.ece
09 April 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore hospital opts for combo therapy||Five persons, including a 10-month-old, who recovered from COVID-19, were given a triple drug combination of hydroxychloroquine, oseltamivir and azithromycin, according to authorities of the Government Medical College and ESI Hospital, Coimbatore, where they were being treated. The hospital, according to its dean A. Nirmala, is also giving the combination to COVID-19 patients still under its care. She said that the hospital followed a seven-day course of the drug combination for the five persons who recovered from COVID-19 — a woman doctor, her 10-month-old son, her house help, a businessman from Tiruppur and a Coimbatore woman who returned from Spain. One drug in the combination was omitted for the baby. They were discharged from the hospital on Monday and will remain under home quarantine for 28 days. According to Dr. Nirmala, the hospital was giving the same drug combination to 86 COVID-19 patients from Coimbatore and neighbouring districts like the Nilgiris and Tiruppur, who were under treatment as on Wednesday. “We are following the drug combination only for those who tested positive for COVID-19. Those having symptoms with test results awaited are not being given the drugs,” she said. While hydroxychloroquine is an antimalarial drug, oseltamivir is used for the treatment of H1N1. Azithromycin is an antibiotic used to treat various bacterial infections. Results being reviewed Director of Public Health K. Kolandasamy said that a technical committee for the management of COVID-19 cases in the State was reviewing the results of the use of these recommended drugs, on a daily basis. The 20-member committee has medical experts from government and private sectors, including retired doctors. The committee was reviewing two to three cases a day. He said that hospitals that are into COVID-19 management were also focusing on treating co-morbid conditions of patients, if they had any.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-hospital-opts-for-combo-therapy/article31294426.ece
09 April 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Man gives up money for niece’s wedding to help the needy||To serve the needy during the COVID-19 lockdown, a man from Saibaba Colony said that he sold the jewellery saved for his niece’s wedding to finance food preparations for the needy. J. Mohamed Rafi told The Hindu that he had been serving food for migrant workers, homeless and Corporation workers since March 25, when the nationwide lockdown came into force. “We had about 50 sovereigns of jewellery worth Rs. 12.5 lakh for the wedding of my elder brother’s daughter,” he said. He decided to sell on the night of March 23 all the jewellery after the State government announced the imposition of prohibitory orders under Section 144 CrPC. No family members objected to this decision, Mr. Rafi said. With the help of his brothers and Saibaba Colony police, Mr. Rafi covers nearly four km. from Saibaba Colony to Edayarpalayam serving food packets prepared in his house for migrant workers, homeless people, Corporation workers and others in need. “I used to serve around 1,200 people in a day,” he said. As more volunteers from other organisations have come forward for this initiative, Mr. Rafi said that the police have asked him to reduce the quantity of food packets, following which he has reduced it to about 600 packets. Apart from food packets, Mr. Rafi said that they supply groceries to hundreds of migrant workers at Venkittapuram, comprising 10 kg of wheat flour, five kg of rice and vegetables. J. Jamirul Asan, Mr. Rafi’s elder brother, said that the wedding of his second daughter was initially scheduled to be held after Ramzan this year. “We have postponed it to next year after consulting with the bridegroom’s family,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-gives-up-money-for-nieces-wedding-to-help-the-needy/article31294460.ece
09 April 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Industries seek time to pay electricity consumption charges||Industries in Coimbatore have sought time to pay the electricity consumption charges for the lockdown period. The Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation (Tangedco) has asked the industries to pay the previous month current consumption charges for the current bill cycle too as the Corporation personnel were unable to take the readings because of the lockdown. According to J. James, president of Tamil Nadu Association of Cottage and Tiny Enterprises, the government should not collect electricity consumption charges from industries for three months. “When there is no income for the industries and when there is a lockdown, how can the units pay the electricity bill ?” he asks. The government should also waive off all the mandatory taxes for a year for the micro units, he says. Minimum Demand charges According to R. Ramamurthy, president of Coimbatore District Small Industries Association, the government should give at least 15 days time after lifting the lockdown for the industries to pay the current charges. Similarly, the Minimum Demand charges should be reduced as the industries have not been operating, he says. P. Nallathambi, president of Coimbatore SIDCO Industrial Estate Manufacturers’ Welfare Association, said the government should allow the industries to pay the current consumption charges in two instalments after the lockdown is lifted. Similarly, it should not collect Minimum Demand charges for the lockdown period. K. Kathirmathiyon, secretary of Coimbatore Consumer Cause, said the lockdown is an announcement by the government and according to TNERC norms, it can collect only 20 % of the Minimum Demand charges for this period. The Tangedco should do so without expecting the industry to ask for a reduction as the TNERC does not permit it to collect the complete amount. Similarly, it may not be possible for industrial and commercial consumers to pay the previous month bill for the current month when the units and businesses are not in operation. Even for domestic consumers, the Tangedco should give two weeks time after the lockdown is lifted to pay the electricity consumption charges. Now, it is keeping the counters open and the consumers cannot come out to pay the bills. Also, they may not be able to maintain social distancing at the counters in all the places. It should encourage consumers to pay online. And, if they are not able to do so, should give them time to pay the charges, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/industries-seek-time-to-pay-electricity-consumption-charges/article31294468.ece
09 April 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||IAF airlifts 3,500 kg of medical equipment from Chennai to Bhubaneshwar||Indian Air Force (IAF) airlifted 3,500 kg of medical equipment from Chennai to Bhubaneshwar in an AN-32 aircraft for COVID-19 management in Odisha. “An-32 aircraft, on April 6, 2020, airlifted personnel and 3500 kg of medical equipment of ICMR from Chennai to Bhubaneshwar for setting up of testing labs and facilities in Odisha,” said IAF in a statement issued from its Southern Air Command. It said that the IAF was continuing its support in the fight against COVID-19 wherein medical supplies were being transported to equip State governments and supporting agencies to combat the contagion effectively and efficiently. During the last few days, the IAF had airlifted essential medical supplies and commodities from nodal points to Manipur, Nagaland and Gangtok in North Eastern region and the Union Territories of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh, said the statement. The IAF has earmarked aircraft at nodal points to airlift medical supplies and equipment at short notice to proactively support operations against COVID-19, it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/iaf-airlifts-3500-kg-of-medical-equipment-from-chennai-to-bhubaneshwar/article31294467.ece
09 April 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Postal Dept. offers cash withdrawal facility at doorstep||Department of Posts has launched payment facility at doorstep as part of the Union Government's ‘Break the Chain’ campaign. Senior Superintendent of Post Offices Sudhir Gopal Jakhare said residents need to call up the branch, sub or head post offices or the postmen in the division to avail of this facility. Linked to Aadhaar If their bank account is linked to Aadhaar, the residents can withdraw money up to Rs. 10,000 or pay bills through the mobile devices that the post men and post women in Coimbatore division carry. The Division has 57 branch post offices, 46 sub post offices and two head post offices. This facility is available for cash from any bank where the customer has an account. They can make pre-paid and post paid bills too. The aim is to discourage the public from coming out to public places. Further, all the postmen and postwomen have been advised to wear mask. The machines will be cleaned after it is used once. The service will not be available in areas marked as containment zones, he said. The service was launched on Wednesday. Details Satyaprabu, Senior Manager, IPPB, and nodal person for AePS transactions throughout Coimbatore division, can be contacted on 8667521689 for details.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/postal-dept-offers-cash-withdrawal-facility-at-doorstep/article31294469.ece
09 April 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Bharat Sena functionary arrested||The police on Tuesday arrested Jegadheesh, a functionary of Bharat Sena’s youth wing, after he allegedly prevented a sub-inspector from discharging his duty during a vehicle check conducted by Selvapuram police late on Tuesday. He was produced before a magistrate and remanded in judicial custody, said the police. 643 arrested on violation charges The police registered 593 cases and arrested 643 persons on charges of violating the prohibitory orders in Coimbatore district on Tuesday. While Coimbatore city police arrested 149 persons and seized 62 vehicles, Coimbatore rural police arrested 494 persons and seized 455 vehicles. Those arrested were released on bail.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bharat-sena-functionary-arrested/article31294473.ece
09 April 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Collector donates to CM fund||Collector K. Rajamani in his capacity as the district’s head administrator donated Rs. 1 lakh to the Tamil Nadu Chief Minister’s Public Relief Fund. A release from the district administration says he gave a cheque for the sum to District Revenue Officer D. Ramaduraimurugan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/collector-donates-to-cm-fund/article31294464.ece
09 April 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Collector suspends three PDS staff||District Collector K. Rajamani has suspended three employees of Public Distribution System for alleged irregularities in distributing corona relief package. A release from the district administration said the Collector had suspended R. Rajasekar, an employee to attached to the Pari Nagar fair price shop, S. Rajan, attached to the Velandipalayam fair price shop and K. Lathabai, attached to the Kovaipudur, after they were found giving less than the determined quantity of corona relief materials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/collector-suspends-three-pds-staff/article31294463.ece
09 April 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Dimexon distributes food packets||Diamond manufacturer Dimexon said that they have been supplying nearly 1,000 food packets every day to feed those in need amid the COVID-19 lockdown. General Manager (Operations) of Dimexon N. Baskaran said that the food is prepared in the kitchen located on the factory premises at Narasimhanaickenpalayam. Nearly 20 employees and volunteers are involved in preparing and packing the food, which are collected by Revenue Department officials for distribution, he said. Mr. Baskaran along with Deputy General Manager (Operations) K. A. Ramesh have been organising this initiative since April 1. All COVID-19 safety precautions, including disinfection and wearing of masks, are being followed at the kitchen, according to Mr. Baskaran.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dimexon-distributes-food-packets/article31294474.ece
09 April 2020||Dindigul,TAMIL NADU||Control rooms set up||The district administration had established control rooms which would function round the clock, said Collector M Vijayalakshmi here on Wednesday. In a press release, she said these would help people on information about COVID-19. The staff manning the control room can be reached at 0451-2427304, 94450-00579 and 99428-28331. With 45 persons having tested positive to COVID-19 virus, who were undergoing treatment in Karur Government Medical College Hospital, their dwellings have been cordoned off. At least 10 locations/colonies in the city have been identified under local containment plan. She urged residents to cooperate by staying indoors and not to venture out unnecessarily. Those who had returned from abroad after February 20 have been instructed to remain in quarantine in their dwellings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/control-rooms-set-up/article31294726.ece
09 April 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Farmers claim drop in pollution level in Kalingarayan Canal||With textile and tannery processing industries closed due to nationwide lockdown, farmers claim that pollution level has dropped significantly in the Kalingarayan Canal. The canal runs for 91.10 k.m. irrigating 15,743 acres in the district. But, mixing of effluents and dumping of waste by the people led to the canal losing its glory in all these years. Cement lining was done and baby canal was constructed to prevent effluents from entering the canal. But farmers said that despite all measures, water pollution remains and they continue to receive the water, which is black in colour. Boopathy, a farmer at Parisalthurai said that there is a significant improvement in the water quality. “The colour of the water is green which we are seeing after many years”, he said and added that pollution level had dropped in the past one week. Earlier, the leachate generated from the dumped solid waste at Vendipalayam entered the canal through the natural drains which jas also stopped as the waste was bio-mined and removed. But untreated sewage from the city is discharged into the canal at Konavaikal in Vendipalayam area. Senior officials of the Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board said that there is no discharge of effluents into the canal and action has been taken against units that illegally discharge effluents during night time. “We continuously monitor the units even during night time to check for violations and no effluents are discharged into the canal”, they added. Officials said that once the lockdown period is over, they would test the water quality.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/farmers-claim-drop-in-pollution-level-in-kalingarayan-canal/article31294449.ece
09 April 2020||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||SPCA distributes water troughs||In a bid to initiate public in general and animal lovers in particular into acts of compassion, the Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals distributed water troughs to enable people keep water outside their houses to quench the thirst of street dogs, cattle, and birds in Krishnagiri town limits. The distribution of water troughs commenced here ahead of the street dog feeding drive during the lockdown period. The distribution of water troughs was a prelude to the feeding drive started by the SPCA in Krishnagiri town. A fortnight ago, SPCA distributed water troughs and started feeding drive of street animals in Hosur, an exercise that is continued every day with a band of volunteers and members. According to Sanjay Tanesh, secretary, SPCA,street dogs are left to starve, especially during the lockdown when their usual sources of food is dried up. It is now more than ever that the street dog feeding should pick up momentum, Mr. Tanesh said. In Krishnagiri, the SPCA volunteers are cooking the meal inside the government veterinary hospital campus, and is then taken in a SPCA van and given to street dogs across the town. Initially one team has been constituted. Contact number The volunteers will be given SPCA batch and passes during the feeding exercise. Those expressing interest to participate in the drive may contact Mr. Tanesh, on 9791381308.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/spca-distributes-water-troughs/article31294446.ece
09 April 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||43 coaches becoming isolation wards||Madurai Railway Division is fast converting 43 passenger coaches into isolation wards in Madurai and Tirunelveli railway yards. The work is likely to be completed in the next couple of days. The railways has chosen Integral Coach Factory-made coaches for this purpose. Coaches that are 15 to 20 years old have been selected for the purpose. “Certain modifications have been made in the bays of general class coaches and non-AC sleeper class coaches to make them into beds. Each coach would have 18 beds,” a railway official said. The work includes removal of middle berths, fixing of mosquito nets and conversion of Indian toilets into bathrooms with drainage facilities. Clamps have been provided to fix medical equipment, including cylinders. Different types of dustbins and plastic curtains have been provided for partition. Coat stands and bottle holders are also being provided. The conversions were possible with the untiring efforts of railwaymen. “Though many of the materials were procured from Golden Rock Railway Workshop, some of the materials were procured with great difficulty under the lockdown condition,” Additional Divisional Railway Manager, O.P. Shaw, said. The coaches, which would be completely disinfected, could be moved to any remote location in the railway network based on the need of the State government,” Mr. Shaw said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/43-coaches-becoming-isolation-wards/article31294746.ece
09 April 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Curfew throws new opportunities and challenges to police||Threat of COVID-19 along with curfew has thrown life out of gear for most of the people. While majority of them remain indoors, it has brought more responsibility to the police. They have to be out on roads to enforce curfew, enable availability of essential goods and help people maintain personal distance. These are the most trying times as police personnel need to take care of their health too. But Madurai City Police have not only realized their duties and responsibilities but also their well-being. Instead of the usual day-long slogging at police stations or on roads for most of the officers and men, they have drafted new working hours for the lockdown period. As per the new schedule, officers and men work only eight hours, that too in two shifts. The first shift starts at 6 a.m. and ends at 10 a.m. Another batch of men work between 10 a.m. and 2 p.m. Those in the early morning shift come again for the 2 p.m. to 6 p.m. shift and the second batch works between 6 p.m. to 10 p.m. “While one-third of the strength is being given rest for a week on rotation as part of keeping them in quarantine as a precautionary measure, some skeletal staff get night duty,” Commissioner of Police S. Davidson Devasirvatham said. All the changes in working pattern is possible as the police do not have court duties, investigation and petition hearing these days. After the roll call at 7 a.m., Inspectors used to have meetings either at offices of ACs or Deputy Commissioners of Police in the mornings. The petition enquiry that starts around 11 a.m. goes on till 2 p.m. or 3 p.m. “Immaterial of the time of taking a break for lunch, all officers have to return for duty at 5 p.m. for evening rounds and the work gets dragged invariably up to 11 p.m.,” a city Inspector of Police said. All men and officers up to the rank of Assistant Commissioner are happy about the new pattern of work, says the Commissioner. “With the lockdown, all family members are at home. And spending some quality time with them gives us all energy to work non-stop for the next four hours,” the Inspector said. Though there are no public meetings, processions and protests in the curfew period, the police are facing a different task. “We have to enforce curfew - ensure that shops for essential goods remain open only during stipulated time. We need to create awareness among people to remain indoors, maintain social distance. We do vehicle check, seize vehicles, book cases against violators of curfew,” another officer said. While only one Inspector of the station, either Law and Order or Crime, is on duty in a shift, for stations under newly added areas of the city with single Inspector, and additional Inspector has been deputed. “Police are talking about social distancing but our men cannot avoid touching others when they do not listen to our instructions. How else can we deal with people who are bent upon violating rules,” a policeman asks. The policemen and officials do their work risking their lives too. “We need to take lot of pain like washing our clothes and taking a bath every time we return home after duty to safeguard our family members from infection,” a police officer said. However, with the number of COVID-19 positive cases increasing, the number of people complying with the curfew has gone up. The added advantage of the curfew is that they do not get calls regarding family quarrels due to closure of TASMAC shops. Similarly, no case of theft is reported as all houses have people round the clock. With fewer vehicles on the road, number of accidents too has come down. Mr. Davidson said that the top priority has been given to keep people indoors. “We have been straining every nerve to make all essential goods available at all places, including door delivery, so that people need not come out,” he said. Besides ensuring equitable distribution of work among the police personnel, the Commissioner has encouraged their men to come up with innovative ideas to make people aware of the dangers of COVID-19. He appreciated Sub-Inspectors of Police, Sivaramakrishnan of Teppakulam and Thiagapriyan of Sellur for organising various competitions for children and street plays.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/curfew-throws-new-opportunities-and-challenges-to-police/article31294728.ece
09 April 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Disinfection tunnel set up on Madurai Corporation campus||A disinfection tunnel costing Rs. 75,000 was set up at the Madurai Corporation office through contributions from the Madurai Freemasons here on Wednesday. Commissioner S. Visakan said that with a control room teeming with people working on COVID-19 prevention, the disinfection tunnel would come in handy. He added that the tunnel had less than a percentage of hypochlorite solution which is instrumental in the process of cleaning. “Our plan is awareness and disinfection. In our office, we already actively encourage hand washing and have also set up sanitisers across the building. It is essential since we are all working outside of our offices and are on the field a lot,” he said. The Collectorate campus and the market set up at Madura College also now have disinfection tunnels to ensure that more people who shop are safe. The number of COVID-19 positive cases in the district is 24. Health camp Minister for Cooperation Sellur K. Raju and Mr. Visakan on Tuesday inspected the Urban Primary Health Centre (UPHC) at Sathamangalam here where health screening of conservancy workers was under way. To ensure that the conservancy workers, who are in the forefront against the fight against COVID-19 pandemic, are healthy, the civic body arranged for a full body health check-up from Monday. Every day, health check-up will be held for conservancy workers at the UPHCs in their respective zones to ensure that every worker is screened, said a Corporation official. The Minister said that advanced vehicles are bought for undertaking disinfection activities across the city. Later, he distributed face masks to the conservancy workers at the UPHC. The Commissioner said the conservancy workers will be screened to check for haemoglobin level, blood pressure level, cholesterol level, fever and diabetes. “This is being undertaken to ensure that the workers are healthy, especially during this time when there is the outbreak of COVID-19 pandemic. Also, the workers are being sensitised to the importance of personal distancing and hygiene practices that they need to follow,” he said. Vitamin supplements and tablets for other ailments are also given to the workers. Personal distancing between the workers was followed at the UPHCs, he added.  Inspection Mr. Visakan inspected the functioning of mobile vans distributing packaged fruits and vegetables priced at Rs. 100 on Wednesday. As part of the steps taken to ensure the spreading of COVID-19, the commissioner checked whether the vans were serving people in different areas to ensure that crowding in shops can be avoided. Currently, a total of 101 vans are selling a package consisting of 14 types of vegetables for Rs. 100. They have also started packaging six varieties of fruits for the same cost. Organisations, including Vaa Nanba, Hi Tech Arai, FEDCROT, Equitas Bank as well as volunteers and members of the Horticulture department, have volunteered to sell these commodities in mobile vans. In his early morning visit, the Commissioner insisted that physical distancing must be followed. He also inspected the temporary markets set up set up at Wakf Board college, St. Joseph's Girls' School and Teppakulam after which he visited an Amma Canteen on New Ramnad Road. The Commissioner told The Hindu that the areas under the containment plan were being inspected and monitored according to a plan set by the district administration. “Food for the needy is also being provided to ensure that everyone can sustain themselves,” he said. Awareness campaigns too were being undertaken by corporation staff, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/disinfection-tunnel-set-up-on-madurai-corporation-campus/article31294748.ece
09 April 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Drop in number of cases at veterinary polyclinic; elective surgeries put off||The number of animals attended to by doctors at the veterinary polyclinic in Madurai district has dropped from around 150 to 200 a day in the last week of February to between 50 and 70 during theCOVID-19 lockdown. Regional Joint Director of Animal Husbandry Department, D. Suresh Christopher said that prior to the district borders being closed due to COVID-19, people from neighbouring districts including Sivaganga, Ramanathapuram, Theni, Dindigul and Virudhunagar would often bring animals from cats to cattle to their polyclinic in case of emergencies. Earlier, the number of emergency cases would be a minimum of 15 each day. That has reduced to around five cases. “Usually, we would deal with a lot of complications that arise in animals during the process of giving birth. Although such cases continue to be a regular feature, there has been a drop since people who usually travelled long distances to access the doctors here until February have stopped coming,” he said. The number of outpatient cases too have drastically reduced to around two patients arriving each day. This is a deflection from the usual number of around 15. All elective surgeries which are not life threatening have been postponed and mass vaccinations for cattle too have been stopped, the Joint Director said. The polyclinic is now functioning with a full strength of doctors but only few paramedics because of the lack of public transportation. “Many people find it difficult to travel as they come from faraway places. We have been able to manage all cases as of now. However, the doctors who are managing dispensaries in 96 locations across the district should be lauded as they are struggling but still attending to cases,” he said.  Apart from this, the Animal Husbandry department on the instructions of District Collector T. G. Vinay, have been distributing around 500 kg of rice with lentils and curd for strays on the streets via a network of animal volunteers. Mr. Vinay told The Hindu that it was essential to care for all life forms during this time of distress as most would not have any access to food. “Usually, strays often eat scraps and waste in bins and outside hotels. When we got calls from volunteers during the first two days of the lockdown regarding most strays starving, we decided to take matters into our own hands,” he said. He added that all volunteers had received special passes to continue their voluntary work across the district and said that more people can come forward to join this initiative. Dr. Suresh Christopher said that rice was being distributed daily to volunteers who could come and replenish their stocks to feed dogs in their areas. Elaborating on the presence of COVID-19 in animals, the doctor said that there has not been any unusual spike in the number of cases regarding respiratory illnesses in the district. “As a pet owner myself, I request people not to panic and abandon their pets. There have been no cases in Madurai regarding transmission to pets. They will not be able to survive on the streets by themselves and it would be an inhuman thing to do,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/drop-in-number-of-cases-at-veterinary-polyclinic-elective-surgeries-put-off/article31294752.ece
09 April 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||NGO helps transgenders, HIV positive women||Swasthi, a non-governmental organisation run by transperson Priya Babu, has been distributing rice, lentils, cooking oil and small amounts of cash to transgenders and and HIV positive women in Madurai during lockdown as most of them find it difficult to earn a living. Priya Babu says that they had already distributed around 150 kg of rice and bags having vegetables and essential commodities to around 2,000 HIV positive women and transgenders in Munichalai, Goripalayam, Bethaniyapuram, Sellur and Arapalayam. They hope to eventually cover the entire city through the crisis in order to ensure that the people in her community do not starve. "For most who earn wages on a daily basis, there has been little or no respite. Most women do not have savings and are dependent on stepping out to ensure their survival. That means of earning has been cut off," she says. She adds that HIV positive women require basic food to ensure that they have their medicines regularly. Food supplies become more important, she says. Donations from religious institutions and individuals who are looking to help the community are helping them serve transgender people currently, she says. Priya Babu recounts that it is difficult to navigate through the city as they are regularly stopped by police personnel with the curfew in effect. Collector T. G. Vinay says that passes will be made available for genuine volunteers. He adds that the social welfare department has also been distributing food supplies to transgender persons.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ngo-helps-transgenders-hiv-positive-women/article31294740.ece
09 April 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Lockdown hits thousands of families making bamboo products||The COVID-19 pandemic has afflicted almost every section of society, affecting the livelihood of thousands of families. Count among those affected, the families from Aruldosspuram and Thathaneri in Madurai, who for generations have been weaving bamboo baskets, plates, broomsticks, mats and window blinds. The disruption in procuring fresh bamboo from Munnar in Kerala for making products and the lower takers for their finished products amidst the lockdown, has deprived the livelihood of these families, leaving them with no source of income. M. Latha, says that she and her husband have to toil for around 12 hours each day to earn an income of Rs. 400, which is only sufficient to make their ends meet. “Usually there is a good demand for our products during summer and wedding seasons. We save the money from this period to see through lean seasons in the rest of the year,” she says. R. Selvam, 61, says that even traders from wholesale markets who regularly buy products from him, are currently unwilling to procure baskets from him. “I made these baskets, a month back, when we were able to procure bamboo from Kerala. I purchased a bundle of bamboo for around Rs. 1,000 to make products, which would have fetched an income of Rs. 800, if the products are sold,” he says. But with no income, he and his wife are currently feeding themselves with the rice supplied through public distribution shops for sustenance. “But, it would be difficult to sustain ourselves for a longer period,” he says. These families generally borrow from money-lenders for a higher interest rate, says S. Mohan, whose family has been involved in the business for the last four generations. We are also scared that the epidemic would force the money-lenders would to further increase the interest rate. With increasing amount of debt, we are clueless on how to handle the situation,” he says. B. Palaniammal, former councillor of Aruldosspuram, says that the elderly who live alone and are involved in the business, are the worst affected. Mr. Selvam suggests the government can facilitate the sales of their products after the end of the lockdown. He also adds that the government can take steps to ensure seamless supply of bamboo from Kerala to Madurai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/lockdown-hits-thousands-of-families-making-bamboo-products/article31294738.ece
09 April 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Telephonic counselling||In an attempt to ensure that the public have access to mental health care, TOPKIDS is offering free telephonic counselling from 8 a.m. to 9 p.m. each day. According to the TOPKIDS chairan, Dr. Dheep, most fears are aggravated by messages on social media platforms and rumours spread through messaging platforms like WhatsApp. “With the lockdown and social distancing in place now, personal visits to psychiatrists or mental health professionals have to be avoided. The simple and easy option which can be done for free, is to seek this help and guidance over the telephone,” he says. He adds that it is common to experience despair during these times and be stigmatised towards discussing these topics. This is why he assures that all calls will be handled by experienced counselors and the conversations will be kept strictly confidential as in the case of all counselling sessions. People can contact 98421-78739 or 98437-81073 for psychologist support.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/telephonic-counselling-sessions-to-aid-psychological-care/article31294741.ece
09 April 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||SC youth wants cop jailed||A 20-year-old youth from a Scheduled Caste community in Sengam has urged the Director General of Police to arrest a policeman, Eswaran of Tiruvannamalai district, as he allegedly abused the youth by naming his community. In a press release, Evidence, a Madurai-based NGO, said that on March 31, when A. Goutham Priyan, an engineering graduate, was talking with his friend at Sengam bus stop, the policeman, after allegedly pointing at his costume, abused him using a filthy language. The T-Shirt he was wearing had B.R. Ambedkar’s image. Immediately, the youth lodged a complaint with the Sengam police station. After an inquiry, the police suspended Eswaran. However, the youth claimed that the policeman continued to threaten him and his family. Hence, he was under constant threat, he said. The Evidence Executive Director A. Kathir said that police investigations had been fair and after finding that the complaint was genuine, they suspended him. However, using his clout as an uniformed personnel and hailing from an influential community, the policeman threatened the SC family, he alleged. Under such circumstances, the State government should direct police to arrest him, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sc-youth-wants-cop-jailed/article31294739.ece
09 April 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||People in touch with Thai preachers under scanner||Health officials in Madurai are now monitoring 30,000 people who have had contact with eight preachers from Thailand in the wake of COVID-19 outbreak. The eight preachers are said to have preached to people residing in 6,000 houses across the city. Collector T.G. Vinay said that a majority of the 30,000 people might not have had any direct contact with the Thailand preachers, but they were likely to be classified under ‘primary contact’ category. Around 80 health workers had been deployed to ensure that symptoms associated with the disease were reported immediately. “Most of these houses are in containment zones,” he said. Even though a majority of the 24 positive cases reported here were asymptomatic, the Collector said, they would not test people unless they had any direct contact with the Thai nationals and displayed symptoms. As on Wednesday, 3,15,877 people had been home-quarantined, and 2,91,600 of them were below 60 years of age and 24,000 above 60. The Collector said that the officials were also keeping track of people with influenza-like symptoms, including fever and cough. “Twenty-one people with severe respiratory problems have been admitted to various hospitals in the district. We are monitoring containment zones and have deployed 1,019 employees on the field,” he said. He said the number of people home-quarantined after international travel in Madurai came down from 6,000 to 2,000 now as their 28-day quarantine period was over.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/people-in-touch-with-thai-preachers-under-scanner/article31294744.ece
09 April 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Eight Thai nationals booked||The Madurai rural district police have booked eight Thailand nationals under the Foreigners Act, 1946, for taking up religious propaganda, in violation of tourist visa norms. All eight foreign nationals have been under medical observation, at a quarantine centre under the Austinpatti police station limits, since March 21. The police said that the foreign nationals and two Indians have also been booked under sections of the IPC. Besides, they have been charged under provisions of the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897, Tamil Nadu, the Public Health Act, 1939, and the National Disaster Management Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/eight-thai-nationals-booked/article31294423.ece
09 April 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||‘Conservancy workers deserve pay rise’||The Madurai Legal Awareness Co-ordination Committee, a city-based non-governmental organisation, has urged the State government to ensure that all conservancy workers, who are in the forefront of the fight against the COVID-19 pandemic, are provided quality protective gear and a pay rise. Doctors, nurses, police personnel, and conservancy workers are out on the streets doing their duty, risking their health. Advocate Sahaya Philomin Raj who runs the NGO said the workers were prone to risk. “The protective gear provided to them is not of great quality.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/conservancy-workers-deserve-pay-rise/article31294742.ece
09 April 2020||NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||CM to decide on waiver of EB bill, says Thangamani||Minister for Electricity, Prohibition and Excise P. Thangamani has said that the issue of waiving off the minimum electricity charges for small, medium and large industries would be taken up with the Chief Minister after which a decision would be taken. Addressing mediapersons after chairing a review meeting at the Collectorate here on Wednesday, he said that owners of the units and industries had made a representation to waive off the minimum electricity bill for them as their units were closed due to lockdown. “It will be discussed with the Chief Minister”, he said. The Minister said that 28 persons who have tested positive for COVID19 in the district were currently at the Government Medical College Hospital in Karur and were undergoing treatment. Collector K. Megaraj, Superintendent of Police Ara. Arularasu and officials from various departments participated in the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-to-decide-on-waiver-of-eb-bill-says-thangamani/article31294458.ece
09 April 2020||NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||Six Tasmac workers placed under suspension||Six Tasmac workers who were found selling liquor at the shop during night were placed under suspension here on Wednesday. The State Government had announced closure of all Tasmac shops during the lockdown period. On April 4, the police, during patrol, found a Tasmac shop near the municipal bus stand kept open, and liquor boxes being taken out. While a few escaped, the police caught a man with liquor boxes. He was taken to the police station and was identified as Sridhar of Nallipalayam. The man, who escaped from the shop was identified as the supervisor Needi Nayagam. A case was registered and the police seized 864 bottles of liquor worth Rs. 1 lakh. After inquiries, Tasmac management placed the supervisor, assistant supervisor Sekhar, salesman Murugesan, workers Satheesh Kumar, Dhanapal and Srinivasan under suspension.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/six-tasmac-workers-placed-under-suspension/article31294455.ece
09 April 2020||NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||Solatium given to family of youth who died in Telangana||Minister for Electricity, Prohibition and Excise, P. Thangamani, handed over cheque of Rs. 1.50 lakh to Balasubramaniam of Aavathipalayam in Pallipalayam area, whose son Logesh (22) died of heart attack at Secunderabad in Telangana recently. A software engineer in Nagpur, Logesh managed to reach Secunderabad in a truck on March 30 during the lockdown. He stayed along with a few others in a camp during which he died. The Marredpally police registered a case and a post-mortem was done and the body brought to his village later. Mr. Thangamani met Logesh’s father and offered his condolences.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/solatium-given-to-family-of-youth-who-died-in-telangana/article31294456.ece
09 April 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Home delivery of rice from April 10 in U.T.||The government will start home delivery of additional free rice to the below poverty line ration cardholders from April 10, Minister for Social Welfare M. Kandasamy said on Wednesday. . The Centre had decided to distribute 5 kg of free rice per person and 1 kg of pulses per household under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana for the next three months to ensure availability of food to poor people during the lockdown. The Minister, in a statement, said the rice would be packed in bags of 15 and 30 kg. The government would take steps to ensure uniterrupted distribution of grain in the next three months. It had constituted 50 committees to oversee safe home delivery of food packets by the employees drawn from various departments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/home-delivery-of-rice-from-april-10-in-ut/article31294414.ece
09 April 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Five active cases in U.T.||The total number of active COVID-19 cases in the Union Territory has gone up to 5 with a person from the enclave of Mahe getting infected to the virus on Tuesday. The patient, in his early 70’s, has been admitted to the Pariyaram Medical College in the Kannur district of Kerala after he was tested positive for the virus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/five-active-cases-in-ut/article31294417.ece
09 April 2020||Ranipet,TAMIL NADU||Man arrested for spreading rumours on COVID-19||The Nemili police arrested a 30-year-old man from Nedumpuli on charge of spreading fake messages about COVID-19. The police gave the name of the arrested as P. Kumaresan and later sent him to Gudiyatham sub-jail.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-arrested-for-spreading-rumours-on-covid-19/article31294410.ece
09 April 2020||SIVAGANGA,TAMIL NADU||Fruits ready for harvest||The district administration had made elaborate arrangements to procure farm produce through Tamil Nadu Horticulture Development Agency (TANHODA) for the benefit of fruit and vegetable growers, said Collector J Jayakanthan here on Wednesday. It has close to 4400 hectares under cultivation of fruits and 2300 ha of vegetables. The crops were ready for harvest. Many farmers apprehend that they may not be able to harvest and move them to markets due to the curfew. He said adequate steps had been taken to procure them from the fields through the TANHODA and Farmers’ Producers’ Organisation (FPO) at fair price. The farmers can contact the Assistant Director (Horticulture) or horticulture officers in their offices situated at Devakottai, Illayankudi, Kalayarkoil, Kallal, Kannangudi, Manamadurai, S Pudur, Sakottai, Singampunari, Sivaganga, Tirupathur and Tirupuvanam. The Collector said that farmers could procure animal feed for their milch animals. Officials of Animal Husbandry department said sufficient stocks of feed have been made available in authorised outlets. Animal feed selling shops too would be kept open from 6.30 a.m. to 12.30 p.m. like other shops.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fruits-ready-for-harvest/article31294729.ece
09 April 2020||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||Honesty in the midst of adversity||Residents of Papanasam in the district seem to have once again exhibited their resoluteness to remain honest by availing the ‘unmanned shop’ service offered by a bakery owner in their area. Normally, the Rotary Club of Papanasam used to convert the bus stop in the village as an ‘unmanned shop’ where household articles, writing materials and snacks would be kept for sale with a price tag on Gandhi Jayanthi day every year. Those who wish to make some purchase would do so by dropping the exact cost of the product they had chosen to buy in the cash box or drop excess amount and take back the change. This exercise with the main objective to imbibe a sense of honesty among the public was being conducted for nearly two decades by the Rotary Club of Papanasam. Now with the prohibitory orders in force, a bakery owner, Srinivasan of Papanasam, who is in this business for the past 18 years, has decided to follow the model at his outlet in view of the difficulties faced by the people in getting bread and other bakery products as the business hours of shops have been curtailed. For the past three days, he has been keeping 120 packets of bread, wheat bread and rusk in front of the closed shutter of his shop with the price of each product displayed on the bakery showcase and a cash drop box. His intention to serve people was received with honesty by the consumers as he has been able to clock a sales of around Rs. 2,000 every day for the past three days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/honesty-in-the-midst-of-adversity/article31294775.ece
09 April 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||A stitch in time||The nation-wide lockdown that has brought industrial and business activities to a grinding halt seems to favour a small group of tailors in Thanjavur town. The tailors are now busy stitching reusable face masks. Reports of huge shortage of masks has prompted about a dozen tailors to make non-surgical face masks with cotton cloth, which can be washed and reused. “I saw the news and was toying with the idea to manufacture face masks when a friend approached me with a request to stitch face masks for his NGO for distribution to residents in their area,” says Usha, who runs a training institute at Arokiya Nagar, Thanjavur. Her venture into the making of masks with cotton cloth began with an order for 300 masks. Subsequently, there has been a steady flow of orders from other organisations too. Raheem, who runs his shop at Kizhavasal casually started displaying the face masks made using white and coloured cloth materials a few days before the lockdown began. The masks priced in the range of Rs. 20 to Rs. 30 sold in no time. He then scaled up the production by procuring a bundle of cloth from a known merchant. Thankfully, these tailors who keep their shops during the daytime have not been disturbed by police or government officials. The tailors say they are convinced that they are rendering a valuable service in a crisis situation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/a-stitch-in-time/article31294761.ece
09 April 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Newborn taken away after mother tests positive||A mother was separated from her newborn child at the Rajah Mirasdar Government Hospital after she tested positive for COVID-19 on Tuesday. The 32-year-old woman from Sundaram Nagar, Thanjavur, developed COVID-19 symptoms last weekend, while officials screened her and her family members, after her 55-year-old father-in-law tested positive for the viral infection, upon returning after attending the Tablighi Jamaat conference in New Delhi. The woman, kept under observation at the RMGH, gave birth to a boy on Monday. The swab taken from her was sent for test and the result came back positive on Tuesday. Subsequently, the infant was separated from the mother and kept in a separate room. The woman’s father-in-law continues to be under observation at the Thanjavur Medical College hospital, said sources.  The woman from Sundaram Nagar, Thanjavur, developed COVID-19 symptoms last weekend||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/newborn-taken-away-after-mother-tests-positive/article31294432.ece
09 April 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||30 homeless people rescued in Thanjavur||A group of 30 street dwellers in Thanjavur town were accommodated in a temporary shelter set up on Rajah Serfoji Government College premises on Tuesday. They were picked up by the civic body, police and representatives of Renewal Foundation, Thanjavur, near railway junction, Gandhi Road and Court Road.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/30-homeless-people-rescued-in-thanjavur/article31294787.ece
09 April 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||University alumni donate sanitisers||A WhatsApp group formed by the 1990-94 batch of Tamil Nadu Agriculture University has donated 500 litres of sanitiser for use by policemen in the range. The gesture came at the suggestion of Deputy Inspector General of Police, Thanjavur range, J.Loganathan. “As an alumnus of the university and a member of the group, I suggested that to begin with sanitisers can be donated to police personnel working in Thanjavur, Tiruvarur and Nagapattinam districts and it was accepted. Thus, 2,500 bottles, each of 200 ml capacity, have been donated,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/university-alumni-donate-sanitisers/article31294788.ece
09 April 2020||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Sealed||A private hospital here was sealed on Wednesday after a woman lab technician of the hospital tested positive for COVID-19. Subsequently, patients undergoing treatment in the multi-specialty hospital near Thoothukudi South Police Station were shifted to other hospitals. Even as seven COVID-19 patients from the district are undergoing treatment in Thoothukudi Government Medical College Hospital and four more in Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital, a woman lab technician of the private hospital tested positive for the dreadful viral infection. Subsequently, her husband and her mother-in-law screened and they too tested positive for COVID -19. So, they were admitted to Thoothukudi Medical College Hospital. Subsequently, the Chief Medical Officer of the hospital was home quarantined and 8 more colleagues of the affected lab technician were also admitted to the isolation ward and blood and swab samples have been taken from all of them. Though the Chief Medical Officer tested negative for COVID-19, he has been advised to be in home quarantine for 14 days. The results of 8 employees of the private hospitals are awaited. Meanwhile, the hospital was sealed for sanitizing and the patients were shifted to other hospitals. The officials are in the process of identifying the people who met the lab technician, her husband and her mother-in-law.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/private-hospital-sealed-in-thoothukudi/article31294735.ece
09 April 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Switching to online mode||Teachers of some colleges affiliated to Bharathidasan University have been issued instructions to engage students online during the lockdown. While welcoming the initiative, the teachers feel that poor internet connectivity, or even lack of it in rural areas from where most of the students hail, can be a stumbling block. They have been asked to utilise the online support system provided by the Ministry of Human Resource Development and the University Grants Commission to conduct online classes and evaluation. In a communication issued on Tuesday, an autonomous college has directed its faculty to ensure that internal assessment for final year undergraduate and postgraduate students is completed during the lockdown so that the semester exams can be held right thereafter. “The perception that every student will have a high-end phone compatible for online teaching-learning process is flawed,” a senior professor says. Apparently, the reality of students being confined to their homes due to enforcement of prohibitory order for containment of COVID 19 virus has not been factored in, he points out. In other circumstances, it is logical to expect students to visit the nearest computer centres. In the current situation, all computer centres are closed. Also, those venturing out will be subjected to harsh treatment by police personnel, another teacher adds. The concept of online teaching-learning is not entirely new. The trend of students of the university and its affiliated colleges pursuing Massive Open Online Courses (MOOC) promoted by MHRD on UGC’s SWAYAM programme has been increasingly visible. MOOC enivsages bridging of the digital divide for students who have not been able to join the mainstream of knowledge economy. During 2016, UGC advised universities to identify courses where credits can be transferred to the academic record of students for courses done on SWAYAM. In the context of the nationwide lockdown, the university is keen on providing teachers and students online access to e-books, tutorials and other valuable inputs from academic publications of global repute, S. Srinivasa Ragavan, Professor and Head, Department of Library and Information Science, Bharathidasan University, says. Of course, the students do require considerable time to adapt to online learning. In the long run, the onus is on parents to make sure that the students have the right gadgets and connectivity for accessing valuable learning materials and to pursue online courses, Mr. Srinivasa Raghavan, who is also SWAYAM Coordinator, contends. Ultimately, the inclination of the learner to explore matters the most, he adds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/switching-to-online-mode/article31294769.ece
09 April 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Six more test positive||Six patients tested positive for COVID-19 at Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital here on Wednesday, taking the total number of positive patients in the city to 36. The patients, all men, had taken part in the Tablighi Jamaat conference in New Delhi last month. “With the latest results, one round of testing has been completed for the Dehi returnees under observation,” hospital sources said. A total of 40 patients, including four other positive patients hailing from Karur and Erode, Ariyalur and Perambalur, were undergoing treatment at MGMGH. Swabs of 10 patients was examined and six tested positive. The other four were negative. Along with them, six patients who were admitted to the isolation ward on Tuesday night were being kept under observation. The testing for the newly admitted patients was under process. Sixty -nine patients, who tested negative earlier this week, were being monitored under institutional quarantine at Jamal Mohammed College. “All patients are stable and are responding well. There is no need for panic,” R. Yeganathan, Medical Superintendent, MGMGH said. Of the 3,045 people, who were kept under home quarantine, 2,010 had completed the 28-day period and would removed from quarantine after a through check-up.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/six-more-test-positive/article31294765.ece
09 April 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||If it is yellow, you can venture out for shopping on Monday and Thursday at Tiruverambur||In an effort to ensure personal distancing in 20 village panchayats falling under the Tiruverambur sub division at a time when prohibitory orders were in place, Tiruchi Rural Police has undertaken an initiative involving distribution of cards of different colours to every family specifying the dates on which they can come out to buy essential commodities and to attend anyemergencies. Ahead of introducing the initiative, the Tiruchi Rural Police convened a meeting with the heads of the 20 village panchayats to ascertain their suggestion and views in this regard. Upon obtaining positive feedback from the panchayat heads, the police printed three different cards of varying colours — yellow, pink and light green — specifying the days on which the residents can venture out using them at the specified timings. Police sources said families in possession of yellow cards could venture out on Monday and Thursday. Those with pink cards could go out on Tuesday and Friday and for the light green card holders it was on Wednesday and Saturday. Permission would not be accorded to venture out on Sunday except under extreme emergency cases. Deputy Superintendent of Police, Tiruverambur sub division Y. Suresh Kumar convened a meeting with heads of 20 village panchayats on Wednesday and gave away the cards of different colours to them. About 46,000 cards had been printed and provided to every family settled in the 20 panchayats, the DSP said. The police would ask for the cards when residents ventured out. The police personnel would make a mention about the time in the card carried by the public while venturing out to buy essentialcommodities. The card could be used only once in a day. The whole idea of putting in place the initiative was to ensure personal distancing in the wake of the spread of COVID-19 pandemic, and bring about strict compliance for the prohibitory orders, Mr. Suresh Kumar said. The card would be valid from 6 a.m. to 1 p.m. on the specified days and could be used only by those in the age group 18 – 60 years. Those carrying the cards should wear mask. Those coming on two-wheelers carrying the card should wear helmet and be in possession of the vehicle documents. The police made it clear action would be initiated against those venturing out in the respective panchayats even with the cards but without any valid reason. The system would be in vogue till such time the prohibitory orders were in force. The village heads would distribute the cards to the residents in their respective panchayats. During the meeting with the village heads on Wednesday, the police drove home the importance of strict adherence to precautionary measures and ensure hygiene in the respective panchayats. Depending on the feedback of this initiative put in place as per the direction of the higher authorities, a decision to extend it to other police sub divisions in the district would be examined. The Tiruchi Rural Police has in its jurisdiction five sub divisions: Tiruverambur, Lalgudi, Musiri, Jeeyapuram and Manapparai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/if-it-is-yellow-you-can-venture-out-for-shopping-on-monday-and-thursday-at-tiruverambur/article31294767.ece
09 April 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Waiting for Amma Unavagam||Financially downtrodden people in Tiruverumbur and numerous surrounding villages have been waiting for long for the government to start Amma Unavagam in the town, which has turned into an economic nerve centre witnessing large-scale footfall of workers and farmers. Workers travel every day from various villages including those situated as far as Kallanai for earning their daily bread. The nutritional needs of the workers employed at construction sites or the industrial clusters in the surroundings of the town would be fulfilled at the subsidised costs if the Amma Unavagam is established in Tiruverumbur town. The unused buildings of the erstwhile Tiruverumbur Panchayat Union Office could be utilised for the purpose, according to P. Lenin, district unit Secretary of Democratic Youth Federation of India. Besides workers, several students from poor families enrolled in the Government Industrial Training Institute, the government polytechnic and the government arts and science college would also benefit if the Amma Unavagam is established in Tiruverumbur town, Mr. Lenin said. The demand has been conveyed by public welfare forums to the government ever since Tiruverumbur was subsumed by the Tiruchi Corporation in 2011. During 2016, late Chief Minister Jayalalithaa had taken cognisance of the demand raised by the Tiruverumbur Makkal Valarchi Kuzhu and had asked the local body to extend the benefit of the scheme that requires municipal corporations into establish canteens at multiple places in cities and sell subsidised food at very low prices. “The vacant buildings in the Tiruverumbur Union Office need to be utilised for productive purposes. Starting of a Amma Unavagam in the buildings will be ideal,” N. Anbalagan, president of Tiruverumbur Makkal Valarchi Kuzhu, said. The poor will be spared the need to spend considerable amounts on lunch in restaurants. The need for Amma Unavagam in Kattur must also be given due consideration, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/waiting-for-amma-unavagam/article31294768.ece
09 April 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Nehru’s gesture to Tiruchi West constituency||DMK principal secretary and MLA K.N. Nehru has decided to distribute rice worth Rs. 40 lakh to all households in Tiruchi West constituency. Mr. Nehru, who inaugurated distribution of rice at a function here on Wednesday, said the lockdown had caused untold sufferings to the people of his constituency. People of all walks of life, including construction workers, load men, road workers, self-help groups, had been rendered jobless. They were struggling to meet their day-to-day expenditure. Hence, as a token of assistance it had been decided to distribute rice to all households in the constituency. A total of 100 tonnes had been arranged at an estimated Rs. 40 lakh for distribution in 35 wards. Each ward had been allotted 250 bags and every household would get at least 5 kg. It would be distributed by DMK workers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nehrus-gesture-to-tiruchi-west-constituency/article31294783.ece
09 April 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||12 disinfectant tunnels come up in Tiruchi markets||Twelve disinfectant tunnels have been set up at various places in the city. Most of them have come up near temporary vegetable markets. Corporation Commissioner S. Sivasubramanian told The Hindu that while four tunnels had been set up in Srirangam zone, three were established at Golden Rock and K. Abishekapuram zones each. Central Bus Stand, Chathiram Bus Stand, Srirangam Boys Higher Secondary School, E.R. Higher Secondary School and Bishop Heber College ground were among other places where the disinfectant tunnels had been set up. The objective was to ensure that the public visiting the markets pass through the tunnels to get themselves sprayed with sodium hydrochloride solution to check the spread of the virus. The tunnels would be kept open between 6 a.m .and 1 p.m. The traders, who set up shops in the markets, should pass through the tunnels frequently. Similarly, the public should also utilise the facility well, Mr. Sivasubramanian added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/12-disinfectant-tunnels-come-up-in-tiruchi-markets/article31294785.ece
09 April 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Police warn against usury||Deputy Inspector General of Police, Tiruchi Range, V. Balakrishnan has warned stern action against those found indulging in lending money with exorbitant interest. Public must contact the special control room functioning in Tiruchi, Perambalur, Pudukottai Ariyalur, Karur and Perambalur districts to convey information regarding the practice. The telephone numbers of the special control rooms are: Tiruchi - 0431 2333638;, Pudukottai - 04322 266966; Karur - 04324 -255100; Perambalur - 04328-224962; and Ariyalur 04329-222216.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-warn-against-usury/article31294776.ece
09 April 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Call to ex-servicemen to take part in campaign||Tiruchi City Police has invited ex-servicemen below the age of 60 years to assist them in creating COVID-19 related awareness campaigns and in ensuring personal distancing. Interested ex-servicemen can express their willingness to the Assistant Commissioner of Police, Traffic North, Vigneswaran either in person or in his mobile number 94981-57122. The ex-servicemen can also convey their willingness in person to the Office of the Police Commissioner or contact in the numbers 94981-00615 or 96262-73399. While enforcing the prohibitory orders, the City Police have been creating awareness among public of COVID-19 through its vehicles or using private vehicles,a police press release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/call-to-ex-servicemen-to-take-part-in-campaign/article31294789.ece
09 April 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Corporation making concerted efforts in Tirunelveli||The corporation is carrying out anti-COVID-19 operations in all 55 wards under the four zones in a laudable fashion by deploying men and materials in adequate number despite constraints that threaten to cripple its functioning. Its work moved to top gear in the second week of March by deploying 1,077 conservancy workers and 700 anti-dengue workers who are being involved in solid waste management and other cleaning operations. Since ‘source segregation’ of waste being generated in houses has been made compulsory quite long back, these personnel, visiting every house, are getting degradable and non-degradable waste to be transported to the garbage yard at Ramaiyanpatti. “More than 60% of conservancy and anti-dengue workers, provided with mandatory protective equipment, are concentrating on cleanliness to be ensured in the areas of COVID-19 positive patients and in the Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital where they are undergoing treatment since it is the designated hospital for Tirunelveli, Tenkasi and Thoothukudi districts,” Corporation Commissioner G. Kannan said. Moreover, all parts of the corporation, especially ‘containment zones’ and near houses where 1,643 persons are in ‘home isolation,’ are being sanitized by 172 disinfectant sprayers including 12 truck or tractor-mounted sprayers and 160 hand-held sprayers being operated by conservancy workers. “The drone deployed to disinfect inaccessible areas and tall buildings has yielded desirable results as sanitizing these areas was a major challenge,” Mr. Kanann says. When the corporation, which has created temporary vegetable markets in several parts of the city with around 550 makeshift shops in these places, launched 35 mobile vegetable shops to ensure selling the veggies at the consumers’ doorsteps to avoid crowding in temporary vegetable markets, it became an instant hit as price of vegetables in these shops is monitored by field staff who are also monitoring anti-COVID-19 operations. Since the lockdown has telling impact on the homeless and the gypsies, the corporation, operating 10 ‘Amma Unavagams,’ is feeding 150 homeless persons after admitting them in its shelters and 1,500 gypsies in their colony at Pettai. “Though anti-COVID operations are challenging and sanitary workers are working despite threat to their health, we’re keeping their morale high by providing them with whatever they need. So we’ll comfortably win this battle against this virus,” Mr. Kannan said. Residents’ welfare associations within the Corporation limits are quite satisfied with the anti-viral exercises being initiated by the urban civic body. “Though the corporation has financial constraints and manpower shortage, the manner in which its officials work is praiseworthy. If the State Government gives more money and manpower to the corporation, the urban local body, which was embroiled in pathetic administration due to corruption till six months ago, has risen to the occasion to deliver desirable results and it should continue,” says K.M.A. Nizam of Marumalarchi Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corporation-making-concerted-efforts-in-tirunelveli/article31294732.ece
09 April 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Six held for murder||Tiruppur City Police on Wednesday arrested six accused, including three teenagers, in connection with the murder of a loadman at Thennampalayam on Monday. According to A. Prakash, Inspector at Tiruppur South police station who was the investigating officer in the case, the six went around the Daily Market in Thennampalayam in search of liquor amid the COVID-19 lockdown. One of the accused, R. Gowtham (19), approached the loadman Veerakumar (38) to inquire about alcohol, to which the deceased allegedly attacked the accused with a hook, Mr. Prakash said. In retaliation, Gowtham called five of his accomplices - a 16-year-old boy, E. Manikandan (18), K. Manoj (23), A. Mohammed Ariz (57) and M. Viswanathan (24) to attack the loadman. The gang slashed his left hand with a knife, letting the deceased bleed to death, according to Mr. Prakash. Two special teams were formed under the supervision of Commissioner of Police Sanjay Kumar and the six accused were nabbed on Wednesday. The accused were booked under Section 302 (Punishment for murder) of the Indian Penal Code and were remanded in judicial custody. History-sheeters Gowtham, Viswanathan and Manikandan were history-sheeters, who were allegedly involved in a 2019 murder in Tiruppur, Mr. Prakash said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/six-held-for-murder/article31294453.ece
09 April 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Tiruppur gets COVID-19 sample collection kiosk||In another unique step to combat COVID-19 after the disinfection tunnels, Tiruppur District Administration set up a sample collecting kiosk at the Tiruppur Government Hospital premises on Wednesday. District Collector K. Vijayakarthikeyan inspected the kiosk in the presence of Tiruppur GH Dean S. Valli on Wednesday. He told The Hindu that there will be a “two-step process” with two kiosks set up – one was set up at the hospital entrance will screen the patients, where those found to have symptoms of COVID-19 will be sent to the sample collection kiosk set up at the entrance of isolation ward. “If ILI [influenza-like illness] also start coming [to the sample collection kiosk], then there is a chance of infection,” Mr. Vijayakarthikeyan noted. Also known as walk-in sample kiosks (WISK), the sample collection kiosk was prepared indigenously by Tiruppur Corporation at the cost of Rs. 99,946. The screening booth at the GH entrance was set up by District Administration in collaboration with Indian Medical Association. Features With features such as a pair of gloves and exhaust fans, the kiosk will ensure the safety of medical personnel collecting the swab samples from the patients, Mr. Vijayakarthikeyan said. “The gloves will be disinfected and changed periodically,” he said. This sample collection kiosk is the first of its kind in Tamil Nadu, following Ernakulam district in Kerala which set up a kiosk earlier this week, the Collector said. With the number of positive COVID-19 cases touching 22 in Tiruppur district as of Wednesday, the district adminstration is planning to set up more such sample collection kiosks and screening booths at containment zones in Tiruppur district, according to Mr. Vijayakarthikeyan. Explaining the process of sample collection, Dr. Valli said that doctors will be inside the kiosk and insert their hands into the gloves fixed at the kiosk to take the swab samples of patients, who will be sitting outside the kiosk. “Doctors will also be wearing a pair of surgical gloves,” she said. The sample will be collected in a test tube held by patients and they have to place it on a stand fixed on the kiosk after collection. “The gloves [at the kiosk] will be disinfected using a spray every time after a sample is collected,” Dr. Valli said. Following the sample collection, a designated health inspector will carry the samples via Viral Transport Medium (VTM) to Coimbatore Medical College Hospital for testing. The results are usually announced within two days, Dr. Valli said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tiruppur-gets-covid-19-sample-collection-kiosk/article31294406.ece
09 April 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Warden placed under suspension after Jharkhand CM’s tweet||Following the tweet from Jharkhand Chief Minister Hemant Soren regarding alleged mistreatment of female migrant workers at a hostel in a garment factory in Uthukuli, Tiruppur district, officials said the warden was suspended on Tuesday evening. On Tuesday, Mr. Soren tweeted a media report claiming that nearly 200 women migrant workers from Jharkhand who are working at a garment company in Uthukuli and residing at a hostel there are being “subjugated to inhumane treatment by employers.” Responding to the tweet, Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami directed District Collector K. Vijayakarthikeyan to look into the issue. “Strict action has been initiated against the warden. We have inquired and provided all the support and taken care of them [the workers],” Mr. Vijayakarthikeyan said. He confirmed to The Hindu on Wednesday that the warden has been suspended. Uthukuli police said that no case was registered in this connection and that the warden was suspended by the management for 10 days. A police officer said that there were only 17 women from Jharkhand, all of them in their 20s, who were staying in the hostel. The warden allegedly scolded the women while collecting their particulars, the officer said, following which they reached out to a media organisation claiming of mistreatment. Officials from the Revenue Department and the police inspected the hostel premises on Tuesday. The women from Jharkhand were part of a group in the garment factory involved in the preparation of personal protective equipment for doctors for COVID-19 treatment, according to the officer. The officials assured the migrant workers that they could visit their native towns in Jharkhand after the end of lockdown period, the police officer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/warden-placed-under-suspension-after-jharkhand-cms-tweet/article31294471.ece
09 April 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Probe held into infant’s death||Following the death of a three-day-old male baby, who was en route to Coimbatore from Tiruppur Government Hospital on Tuesday night, Dean S. Valli said that a departmental inquiry was launched on Wednesday. The child was born at Tiruppur GH on April 4 and was referred to Coimbatore Medical College Hospital (CMCH) for further treatment. “The baby was already in a critical condition when it left from [Tiruppur GH],” Dr. Valli told The Hindu . The infant was taken in a ‘108’ neonatal ambulance to CMCH along with the parents and ambulance staff after he was diagnosed with sepsis at Tiruppur GH. A friend of the couple said that the family decided to not lodge a police complaint and buried the deceased in the early hours of Wednesday. He alleged that the ambulance staff were inexperienced and claimed that they allegedly botched up the replacement of oxygen cylinders, which led to the baby’s death before arriving at CMCH. “The family were told that a post-mortem will be conducted if they file a police complaint,” he claimed. However, Dr. Valli maintained that all ambulance staffs are well-trained. “We can conclusively tell [the cause of death] only after the completion of the inquiry,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/probe-held-into-infants-death/article31294472.ece
09 April 2020||TIRUVARUR,TAMIL NADU||CUTN sets up i-corner||The Central University of Tamil Nadu (CUTN) has set up an online platform on its campus to students to complete their syllabus and project work. The guest house on the campus has been converted into ‘i-corner’ with high-speed internet connectivity where the faculty can have seamless interaction with their pupils. Vice-Chancellor A.P. Dash has urged faculty members to reach out to students through online tools such as MOOC, Google classroom, WhatsApp, Zoom and other softwares. The institute’s main priority should be final year students as they will be moving out to pursue higher education or jobs, he said. A committee headed by the Registrar, S. Bhuvaneswari, has been formed to take appropriate measures to continue the teaching and evaluation process. The committee has proposed submission and evaluation of the final year project report and dissertation through online mode. Counselling Further, a panel of experts for counselling students has also been formed. The helpline numbers are available in the university website, according to a release. The date of opening of the university will be communicated to students after April 14 upon receiving directions from the University Grants Commission and the Ministry of Human Resource Development.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cutn-sets-up-i-corner/article31294777.ece
09 April 2020||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Parcel trains to run on Chennai - Coimbatore route||The Southern Railways will operate daily parcel special service trains (0653 and 0654) on the Chennai Central-Coimbatore section from April 9 to 14. Six pairs of trains are to be operated to help cargo movers to space out their supplies, an official said. The public can make use of the facility to send parcels.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/parcel-trains-to-run-on-chennai-coimbatore-route/article31294476.ece
09 April 2020||VILLUPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Police launch manhunt for person who tested positive for COVID-19||The Villupuram district police have alerted their counterparts in Puducherry and launched a manhunt, after test results of a man who was quarantined in a private institution and released on Tuesday night came back positive. The man is absconding and police teams have launched a search for him. Highly placed sources, on condition of anonymity, said that the Health Department in Villupuram had released 25 persons, quarantined in the institution, on Tuesday night, after their test results came back negative. All the 25, excluding the man, were immediate relatives of returnees from the conference in Delhi. A top police official said that the authorities seemed to have bungled up test reports, since the results of four of them had come back positive. The police immediately swung into action and traced three of them — all relatives of people who had returned from Delhi. They have been taken to isolation wards in Villupuram, while whereabouts of the man hailing from Delhi is not yet known. The man, hailing from Patel Nagar in New Delhi, had come to Puducherry to attend an interview last month, after which he reached Villupuram. When contacted, Villupuram Collector A. Annadurai said that the incident was being investigated by the Directorate of Medical Services. Meanwhile, the Villupuram district administration on Wednesday circulated the photo of the man. The administration has issued the appeal, asking people to immediately alert the control room on 04146 - 223265 if he is spotted anywhere. The Villupuram police have formed three special teams to look for him.  All the 25, excluding the man, were immediate relatives of returnees from the conference in Delhi||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-launch-manhunt-for-person-who-tested-positive-for-covid-19/article31294433.ece
09 April 2020||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Cleanliness workers get masks||Collector R.Kannan on Wednesday began distributing bags containing 22 varieties of groceries to cleanliness workers as a mark of appreciation for their hard work in the battle against COVID-19. He distributed the essential commodities along with masks to 138 workers of Kariyapatti, Tiruchuli, Narikudi, Aruppukottai panchayat unions at different places. He said that disinfection work was being carried out in all 450 village panchayats, nine town panchayats, seven municipalities on a war-footing and the role of cleanliness workers was exemplary. All cleanliness workers of the district would get essential commodities. Meanwhile, Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation Limited officials on Wednesday commenced distribution of free meals to the destitute. Food prepared in refreshment rooms in Madurai Junction was supplied in bulk through Assistant Revenue Officer, Madurai Corporation. Around 1,285 packets, each containing 450 grams of tamarind rice, were distributed. The distribution would continue till April 14.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cleanliness-workers-get-masks/article31294736.ece
09 April 2020||April 09 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||In search of Vitamin D this summer of lockdown||As spring turns to summer, the nation is for the first time looking forward to the heat as it is widely believed that the novel coronavirus (COVID 19) will not be able to survive the hot Indian summer, where, in some places, the soaring mercury can make it very difficult even for us mere mortals to survive. However, this hypothesis still needs to be proven, as with most things regarding COVID-19 are still shrouded in mystery. But there is another reason to welcome the Indian summer. It is that time when we get an opportunity of being exposed to sunlight to obtain our requisite dose of Vitamin D. Sadly, despite India being a tropical country, most Indians (over 60% as shown in a recent study done by my team) are deficient in (< 20 ng/ml) or have insufficient (20-30 ng/ml) Vitamin D. Even the recommended dietary allowance of Vitamin D (400-800 IU) is arguably very low for Indians who probably need between 2,000 and 4,000 units of Vitamin D a day to maintain normal blood levels of the vitamin. Diet alone does not seem to be enough, for several reasons. First, we do not eat the right food in adequate amounts, processing of food over the years has reduced its micronutrient content, and sometimes our cooking practices (excessive cooking) might contribute to this national Vitamin D insufficiency. Added to this, many of us live or work within the air-conditioned environment at our home and in offices. Our dark skin (melanin) and the clothes we wear may make it difficult for our skin to get enough vitamin D from the sun. A micronutrient is required in small or micro quantities and yet we Indians are deficient in micronutrients, which can lead to macro consequences as micronutrients are co-factors for the efficient catalytic action of many enzymes in our body, and they enable us to optimally use our macronutrients as well. Benefits of walking We do not go for walk when we should (10 a.m. to 3 p.m. is the best time for optimal sunlight of a particular wavelength, UV-B, 290-320 nm to reach our skin) and some of us apply sun screen lotions with sun protection factor (SPF) that again impairs production of adequate vitamin D precursor in the skin. So, what has all this to do with COVID-19? COVID-19 has understandably led to a lockdown in our country for 21 days till April 14 to break the chain of transmission and flatten the epidemic curve. And even after that we will need to stay at home as far as possible, practise social distancing, and adhere to personal and public hygiene standards. In such a situation, exposure to the sun will further go down. You would be interested to know that Vitamin D is not just a vitamin or micronutrient. It is also a hormone in that it has effects way beyond the well-known effects on bone mineral metabolism. Incidentally, the bone is an endocrine organ. There are Vitamin D receptors on many cells in our body and at a genetic level, Vitamin D modulates cell function. It may be an uncanny coincidence, but there is evidence to suggest that Vitamin D may have some anti-coronavirus activity as well (e.g., it attenuates the Spike protein of this virus which is an obvious advantage). Moreover, it has the potential to modulate the cytokine storm seen in serious COVID-19 patients, and it can improve innate immunity by increasing the production of cathelicidins and defensins in our body. But the more important point is that if we are deficient in Vitamin D, then we need to take steps to detect and then treat this problem. The prevalence of Vitamin D deficiency is higher in people with diabetes. Hence, as people with diabetes are known to have a more severe form of COVID-19 infection, they should particularly pay attention to improving their Vitamin D levels. Vitamin D can strengthen our immune system and our ability to stay strong and healthy. On a lighter note, one of the simple approaches to COVID-19 could be COVID – Co rrecting V itamin D I nsufficiency and D eficiency! Your doctor will tell you whether you need to take Vitamin D and if yes, at what dose. Remember that it should never be taken without the advice of a doctor. Just as personal protective equipment (PPE) are life-saving for health-care workers in hospitals treating serious COVID-19 patients, for patients with chronic conditions, such as those with diabetes or hypertension, their doctors are their PPE. Hence these patients should stick to their doctors’ advice on lifestyle modification, take the prescribed medicines prescribed on time, and check their BP, blood sugar level and so on to try and be at goal so that they are better equipped to face the ravages of COVID-19, just like people without these conditions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/in-search-of-vitamin-d-this-summer-of-lockdown/article31294413.ece
09 April 2020||April 09 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Some private school teachers allege salary cut||Some of the private schools here have deducted up to 30% of the teaching staff salary for March, due to the shutdown in view of COVID-19 pandemic. Speaking to The Hindu , on condition of anonymity, a private school teacher who got her salary on Wednesday said, the deduction was up to 30%. Similarly, a few other private schools have deducted salaries, according to teachers unwilling to be named. With the COVID-19 preventive curfew put in place on March 18 onwards in the State, the government had appealed to industries to pay full wages to the workers. Service sector and airlines had announced pay cuts on the grounds that the lockdown had affected business revenue that goes into payment of staff salaries. However, schools operate on a different revenue model, which is the tuition fee collected from the students, With the COVID 19 outbreak derailing normal life in March, at the fag end of the school academic year, when tuition fees are fully collected for the final term as well, teachers have found the deduction uncalled for. There was no pre-emptive circular from the Education Department to ensure the teachers were paid in full. Usually schools credit salaries or pay cash for contractual teachers by the 7th of each month. When contacted, Collector S. Prabhakar said this would be taken up as a complaint and that the Chief Education Officer would be directed to hold an inquiry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/some-private-school-teachers-allege-salary-cut/article31294450.ece
09 April 2020||April 09 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Specialised cabin for collecting swabs, as positive cases tick upwards||The Pudukottai Government Medical College Hospital has devised a safe method to collect throat and nasal swabs of patients to determine presence of COVID-19 virus. A cabin with openings only for forearms has been set up so that the medical staff could avoid exposure to the patient. The chamber will cut down the cost of purchasing Personal Protective Equipment (PPE). “A set of protective equipment that has to be changed for sample collection of every patient costs anywhere between Rs. 2,000 to Rs. 3,000. Stimulation of nose and throat while collecting samples can lead to sneezing and coughing, which can increase the viral spread. The specialised cabin offers the much-required safety for frontline medical staff,” L. Meenakshisundaram, Dean, toldThe Hindu. The Dean's cabin has been converted into sample collection area, with a partition created with aluminium frames and glass. The concept has been replicated from an idea followed by South Korea provide protection to the doctor. “The cabin developed here has space for the doctor to be seated, switch on the fan and stay comfortable," he said. After each patient is tested, the entire area can be sprayed with disinfectants. The need for doctors to change their PPE does not arise, Dr. Meenakshisundaram says the same technique can be used in Intensive Care Units for COVID-19 patients where intubation and mechanical ventilation is needed. “Pulmonologists will have to put their hand through the openings to intubate. It is a high risk job and the possibility of exposure is high.” Construction of the entire structure costs Rs. 25,000, the amount incurred towards PPE kits on a daily basis, he points out. “Doctors conducting the sample collection can wear one set of PPE for double protection.” The specialised cabin was inspected by Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar and Collector P. Uma Maheshwari on Tuesday. “The Minister has instructed other hospitals treating COVID-19 patients to follow suit,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/specialised-cabin-for-collecting-swabs-as-positive-cases-tick-upwards/article31294764.ece
09 April 2020||April 09 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Contractors yet to provide basic necessities to migrant workers||Worries over yet-to-be- paid wages, a possible extension of the lockdown, and the uncertainty of their employment were temporarily suspended as clusters of migrant workers of Hosur lined up to collect their meal that had just arrived in a mini tempo at forenoon on Monday. That meal was the breakfast that arrived at 12 noon, cooked for over 250 workers by the Amma Canteen in Hosur. These are the migrant workers working on the floors of tiny, small and large units of automobile and engineering spare parts making units in Hosur. They stayed put, when the lockdown was announced. “There was no way to leave because we had no money and we can’t leave without collecting salaries,” said Sudeep (23), who came to Hosur eight years ago for work. As salaried, contractual workers - some are on the rolls of their employers, while others get paid in cash by the job contractor, who outsourced their labour to the units. Typically, those who said they had company identity cards got their salaries credited to their bank accounts by their employers. The others, who got paid through cash also had no work IDs. Both sets of workers got paid in the second week of the month. “We contacted our manager (job contractor). He said, he will transfer everybody’s pay if we passed on an account number of someone,” said Rajendar Malik, a welder from Bihar. Everyday, since April 3, the Democratic Youth Federation of India has been bringing hot, cooked meal from the Amma Canteen to over 250 migrant workers. On Monday, an additional 1,150 workers, whose hungry presence in another block was known, DYFI set out to negotiate for more meals from the Amma Canteen in order to feed the new batch of migrant workers. Last week, when the Tripura cluster of migrant workers ran out of rations, Shibhu, a labourer from Tripura reached out to the local MLA of Hrishyamukh Badal Choudhury back home, who in turn alerted the State DYFI secretary Nabarun Deb. Deb contacted the Tamil Nadu DYFI unit that alerted DYFI, Krishnagiri. “When I called Shibhu, he said, they had not eaten for more than a day. Immediately, rations were bought for two days and handed over,” says Sridharan, district president, DYFI. Since then, food was sourced from Amma Canteen and transported in a rented vessel and a tempo at Rs. 1,250 per day borne by DYFI, to ply between Amma Canteen and the worker tenements three times a day. The effort was being coordinated daily by Vignesh, vice-president of DYFI, who volunteered to feeding of the workers. “We wanted to focus on the migrant workers, because they are sidelined.” But, the food arrives late, since Amma Canteen cooks meals for 5,000 people daily. For the workers, it is a long wait for each meal. “We know we will get our salaries for March. But we do not know if it will be till March 24 or till March 31,” says 38-year-old Tapan, from Tripura. “We have our room rents to pay, but the question is will we get paid for April?,” asks Noni Gopal Das (32) from Tripura. According to Sridharan, labour welfare should be the principal employer’s responsibility, even if vast majority are contractual labourers. The employer should provide them with rations, and full pay to enable them to pay their rents and send money home till the industries reopened. But, according to R. Kumaresan, Revenue Divisional Officer, majority are contractual labourers and companies/small units do not take responsibility. “We called for a meeting with contractors and told them to provide basic necessities. However, that is yet to see fruition.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/contractors-yet-to-provide-basic-necessities-to-migrant-workers/article31294452.ece
09 April 2020||April 09 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||On service extension and leading the charge||While people remain indoors safeguarding themselves and their families from novel coronavirus, S. Dhanapaul, Head of Department, K.A.P. Viswanatham Government Medical College who also heads the COVID-19 testing centre in Tiruchi, constantly keeps motivating his team of virologists and microbiologists. “In fact, my physical presence is not necessary for my team to be on their toes,” he says. “I did not expect my last days as a professor to be this vibrant. Had I retired even a month earlier, I would have regretted not being able to contribute,” Dr. Dhanapaul, says. Had it not been for a pandemic, Dr. Dhanapaul would have retired from service on March 30. He is now on two-month extension of service. “Even if I had retired, I would have found my way back here somehow,” he said. Along with K. Lakshmi, Associate Professor, Department of Microbiology, technicians and six post-graduate students, the testing centre is working like a perfectly assembly line, Dr. Dhanapaul says. The most difficult part of their day is sample collection at the isolation ward at the Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital, Dr. Dhanapaul says. “Two students go to the ward on a rotation basis and do a careful job of collecting blood samples and throat swabs. One does the extraction while the other makes notes. Even with layers of Personal Protective Equipment (PPE), one needs to be absolutely careful,” he says. Dr. Dhanapaul also spearheads the activity to make hand sanitisers at the medical college using the World Health Organisation’s formula. “We are unable to supply on par with the demand,” he admits. Even as this interview progresses, four representatives of two private hospitals in the city approach him to purchase about 100 bottles each. He is also working with an electrician to remodel equipment to suit their needs. Two walk-in-coolers have been set up and are ready to use. A sterilization chamber is also being made. “It is easier to furnish them with available material than purchase it at exorbitant costs,” he says. The Department of Health has been very helpful in providing necessary supply of PPEs for the doctors, but we are rationing it, lest we run out of stock, Dr. Lakshmi says. “Only those going to the isolation ward and those inside the lab conducting the tests wear it,” she says. Once a PPE is worn, it is removed only after the job is done, usually after six to eight hours, Dr. Lakshmi says. “The testing labs are temperature-controlled and kept cold. Even then, one cannot go to the restroom, or take a break as the PPE would have to be removed, disposed of and a new set must be worn,” she says. A day's work ends at about 11 pm, after all the tests are done, data is computed and sent to the Dean, K. Vanitha for verification, Dr. Lakshmi says. The team is also looking to research on antibody testing for COVID-19. "Results could be yielded in 15 minutes as opposed to six to eight hours," Dr. Dhanapaul says. Food, sleep, family, has all become secondary for us at this moment, Dr. Dhanapaul says - "My PG students too were afraid and hesitated initially. But this is a doctor's life, one of unconditional service and we are all prepared to do it."||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/on-service-extension-and-leading-the-charge/article31294759.ece
09 April 2020||April 09 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||KGMC hospital emerges key centre for treatment, but needs more doctors, nurses||The newly opened Karur Government Medical College Hospital at Sanapiratti has emerged as an important centre for treatment of COVID-19 positive patients in the State. However, the hospital faces a shortage of doctors and nurses. The hospital was recently notified by the State government as a designated centre for treatment of patients from Karur, Namakkal and Dindigul districts. The 700-bedded block has newly built infrastructure, including furniture and medical equipment, which is said to have influenced the Public Health Department’s decision. While a portion of the hospital is being used as isolation wards to observe suspected patients, a smaller section admits those who tested positive. It is 100 now According to sources, the hospital has 96 positive patients. Of them, 23 are from Karur district and 28 from neighbouring Namakkal. The remaining patients are from Dindigul. The number is set to cross 100, with six more patients from Namakkal and Dindigul districts testing positive on Wednesday. They are expected to be shifted to the hospital anytime now. However, it has been learnt that the existing strength of doctors and para-medical staff is inadequate to handle the emerging situation. Along with regular patients, they have to pay special attention to COVID-19 category too. CPI(M) district secretary K. Kandasamy said the hospital had a number of vacancies for doctors and nurses. Hence, the State government should take immediate steps to fill the vacancies and also depute doctors from other districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kgmc-hospital-emerges-key-centre-for-treatment-but-needs-more-doctors-nurses/article31294784.ece
09 April 2020||April 09 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Police to introduce colour codes for vehicles||Starting Thursday, the Salem police is planning to mark vehicles with different colour codes for each day to reduce vehicle movement on roads. According to the police, a vehicle would be marked with a particular colour when they come out to buy vegetables or other essentials and the person would be able to come out of his house again only after five days. Police said that those going for medical emergencies would be excluded.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-to-introduce-colour-codes-for-vehicles/article31294454.ece
09 April 2020||April 09 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||In Thanjavur, mini-goods carriers turn into mobile vegetable markets||Mini-goods carriers with public address system soliciting patronage for vegetables brought in these vehicles during morning hours have become a common feature in most of the hamlets in the northern part of the Thanjavur district in view of the prohibitory orders in force. Though mobile marketing of vegetables was not new in rural pockets, the number of such vehicles frequenting the villages in a day has increased. In the Thiruvaiyaru-Papanasam-Kumbakonam belt, on an average two to three vehicles visit a hamlet in a day giving consumers choice to procure vegetables at a competitive rate. The service has been provided by vendors having their shops in Thiruvaiyaru, Ayyampettai, and Papanasam by hiring mini-goods carriers or pressing into service their own vehicles which were used to procure vegetables from major vegetable markets in Tiruchi, Thanjavur and Kumbakonam. “I used to procure certain vegetables from Tiruchi and Kumbakonam market and purchase some vegetables directly from farmers in Sundaraperumalkovil and Swamimalai belt and sell them in my shop at Ayyampettai,” said a vegetable trader, Baskar of Ayyampettai. “Given the lockdown the number of retail vendors procuring vegetables from my shop has dwindled and hence I decided to take up mobile marketing in my own vehicle”, he said. Initially, he could not find takers for his service but as the days rolled by people started purchasing vegetables from him as they were unable to move out from their hamlets such as Ganapathi Agraharam, Boothangudi and others located around Ayyampettai. “In the initial days of the lockdown, there were less than 10 such vending vans but now nearly 50 such vehicles are plying in this region”, he said. Narrating a similar story, Raju of Swamimalai said he leaves home by 4 a.m. and gets back by. “I try to cover as many villages as possible in Swamimalai, Darasuram, and Sundaraperumalkovil belt and every day I am able to get a few hundred rupees as profit after meeting out the expenses such as procurement cost, vehicle hire charges, driver batta etc,” he said. Meanwhile, G. Srinivasan of Ganapathi Agraharam said the services offered by the vegetable vendors were of immense help to the villagers as the local vendors were unable to pile up their stock in view of the restriction on shop functioning timings. Though the cost was a little bit higher, consumers have been left with no other option than to depend on these service providers in view of the lockdown.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/in-thanjavur-mini-goods-carriers-turn-into-mobile-vegetable-markets/article31294773.ece
09 April 2020||April 09 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Narikuravas to be fed at Amma Unavagams||Narikurava families in the town will be fed through Amma Unavagams during the curfew, Government Chief Whip Thamarai S. Rajendran said on Wednesday. Inaugurating disinfection tunnels on Chinnakadai Street and Bus Stand, where temporary vegetable markets had been opened, Mr. Rajendran said all traders and customers must use the facility. The tunnels would be kept open from 6 a.m. to 1 p.m. Also, 135 Narikuravas would be fed. Similarly, 95 homeless persons sheltered in a school would also be supplied food thrice a day. The facility had been extended to 135 sanitary workers and 15 students of other districts staying in Ariyalur. Collector D. Rathna said out of 2.27 lakh ration cardholders, 2.24 lakh had received cash relief of Rs. 1,000 each. The distribution would be completed in a day or two. Earlier, Mr. Rajendran visited Amma Unavagams in the town and checked the quality of food and precuationary measures being followed by the workers in the kitchen.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/narikuravas-to-be-fed-at-amma-unavagams/article31294782.ece
09 April 2020||April 09 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||covid-19 update||As on April 8  Coimbatore  No. of persons in hospitals: 142 (Male - 126, Female -16) Govt hospitals: 119 Private hospitals: 23 Positive cases: 60 Result awaited: 64  Tiruppur  House quarantine cases: 908 Persons released : 158 Persons added to house quarantine: 185 Samples lifted: 134 Results declared: 63 Positive cases: 22 (Two confirmed on April 8; all admitted at ESI Hospital, Coimbatore) Negative: 41 Discharged from ESI Hospital: 1 Results awaited: 71||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/covid-19-update/article31294470.ece
09 April 2020||Belagavi/Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||CM reaches out to Belagavi nurse over phone||A video clip of a three-year-old crying as her mother — a staff nurse at a COVID-19 hospital in Belagavi district currently under quarantine — watches helplessly from a distance was widely shared on social media and television channels, tugging at the heartstrings of many people, including Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa. In accordance with safety protocols, staff nurse Sugandha Korikoppa is under quarantine after she served at the hospital for a week. She has not gone home for 11 days, and has another four days before she can return to her family. Her daughter was missing her mother terribly and was crying almost every night before going to bed. Ms. Sugandha’s husband, Santosh, took her on his bike and rode to the private hospital where she is being quarantined. He parked outside the premises and called his wife on her mobile phone. She came out but stood at the entrance of the hospital and waved to her family. The clip shows the girl crying and pleading with her mother to come home with them. Ms. Sugandha cries too as she could not embrace her child. Mr. Santosh told The Hindu that he understands the plight of his wife and daughter, but was proud of Ms. Sugandha’s service. “She will complete her two-week quarantine period and come home,” he said. The Chief Minister, moved by images of her daughter crying, reached out to Ms. Korikoppa over the phone and assured her support in the battle against COVID-19. He told her: “You are struggling, working hard without even seeing your own children. I saw it on TV channels. Please cooperate. You will have better opportunities in the future. God bless you, and I hope your hard work does you well.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cm-reaches-out-to-belagavi-nurse-over-phone/article31294370.ece
09 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Lockdown proving to be doubly testing for the disabled||A couple, both blind, used to weave mats, baskets and chairs for a living. Ever since the lockdown was announced, though, life has turned upside down. Out of work, and out of money, they were at a loss about how and where to get essentials from. They then heard of a helpline for persons with disabilities and reached out to them. The NGO staff reached their slum in J.P. Nagar with a 15-kg bag of ration, soaps and other essentials that will last them at least till the end of the lockdown. The COVID-19 pandemic and lockdown has affected various sections of society, and among them are persons with disabilities. Helplines started by NGOs working in the sector have found several instances of this. City-based Samarthanam Trust has received around 1,000 calls in just three days since they launched. They have been distributing provisions to those in need apart from lending help in emergency situations by joining hands and mobilising resources from corporates, individual donors, institutions, agencies and the government. The helpline started by the National Centre for Promotion of Employment for Disabled People (NCPEDP) has been receiving up to 10 genuine calls a day from across the country. Among the calls they have received so far includes a person with disability in Nagpur not being able to take his pregnant wife to the hospital without transportation, and people with thalassemia facing difficulty in blood transfusion as limited blood is available in hospitals. The NCPEDP has pointed out that getting hold of essentials is a big challenge across the country, as persons with disabilities, who have mobility issues, have to step out to buy essentials. Those who had arranged for caregivers are also hit as the caregivers are unable to reach them. Arman Ali, Executive Director, NCPEDP said that the calls coming in were ranging from problems such as a broken walker of an amputee, to a group of blind men clueless about how they can get oil and salt as they had been given only wheat. “Persons with disabilities are in all the States, not just the few that are taking proactive steps. The fundamental right to life and dignity cannot be dispensed with even in a medical emergency. People with disabilities are not a homogeneous, distinct group. They are to be found in every strata of society and in every aspect of life, and they need to be enabled during this pandemic,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/lockdown-proving-to-be-doubly-testing-for-the-disabled/article31294350.ece
09 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||High Court takes cognisance of doctors’ emails on safety of health workers||Taking cognisance of issues raised in separate e-mails received from two medical practitioners and a group of Accredited Social Health Activists (ASHAs), the High Court of Karnataka has asked the State government to immediately respond to the instances of attack on health workers and need for protection for them, and non-supply of Personal Protection Equipment (PPE) kits to some hospitals. Rajiv Ramesh Gothe, in his petition sent to the High Court through e-mail, has pointed out two separate instances of attacks on ASHAs in Bengaluru and Dakshina Kannada when they were on official duty in COVID-19 related assignments. He sought directions to the government to protect life and limbs of the registered medical practitioners working in all types of health institutions, registered nurses, medical and nursing students, paramedical members, ASHAs, and other accredited and non-accredited health workers, and to take penal action on the offenders. Dr. Gothe also sought direction to the government for timely payment of salary and statutory benefits to the medicare service personnel and ASHAs. ESI hospital Kalaburagi In her letter, Zeenath, Professor and Head, Department of Pathology in the Employees’ State Insurance (ESI) Hospital, Kalaburagi, has pointed out that the ESI hospital staff were not even provided with masks. She has also pointed out that some of the staff members were present in the room in the ESI hospital where the COVID-19 patient had visited before he was tested positive. Similarly, in another email, ASHAs and other health workers serving in Bidar district check-posts complained that they have not been provided with PPE kits. A special Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice B.V. Nagarathna, in its Tuesday’s order, treated Dr. Gothe’s plea as a separate PIL petition, and other two emails as part of the pending PILs related to issues that have cropped up following enforcement of lockdown.  After going through data submitted by the government on health infrastructure set up for the treatment of COVID-19, the Bench directed the government to submit by April 9 the up-to-date district-wise data of positive cases, and district-wise break up of isolation beds and intensive care units with ventilators. The government was also directed to disclose whether all 740 ventilators (234 in government hospitals and 506 in private hospitals) reserved for COVID-19 treatment were in working condition, and whether any study was conducted on the number of ventilators needed in the State in addition to the existing ones, and requirement of isolation beds in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/high-court-takes-cognisance-of-doctors-emails-on-safety-of-health-workers/article31294365.ece
09 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Restaurateurs struggle to keep kitchens running||Every other day, Deepesh Kumar goes to the APMC yard in Yeshwantpur to buy produce and returns to the restaurant on New BEL Road, where he is employed. Depending on the availability of produce, he and the other staff, who have been working through the lockdown, plan the menu for the day. “There are 12 employees, including three cooks. We have been living in the restaurant since the lockdown was enforced. We are managing with whatever is available,” said Mr. Kumar. Some of the staff left for their native towns before the lockdown was announced. ‘Sweets, non-veg items were first to go’ Pushparaj Joshi, who works with Mr. Kumar, said many items on the eight-page menu were now unavailable. “The first things to go were sweets and non-vegetarian dishes,” he said and added that the number of delivery requests had reduced to barely 10 from the earlier 70-odd. The staff at a restaurant in Whitefield have a lot of time on their hands. According to an employee, Omar Iqbal, the number of delivery requests via food aggregator apps had come down. “Every day, we used to have at least 200 delivery requests. We hardly do 60 now. We are managing to just about stay afloat,” he said. But the eight-member team that works at a restaurant on Koramangala Club Road is busy all through the day, though the number of delivery requests have reduced by over 50%. Saurabh Singh, the restaurant manager, said the kitchen staff are busy preparing 200-odd food packets that are distributed to the needy every day. Many restaurants decided to do away with delivery service and have reduced the cost of some items. “We make around 200 masala dosas a day and keep them ready. We used to sell a dosa for Rs. 50, but now we charge Rs. 20,” said a staff member at a small eatery on Double Road. At another hotel on K.R. Road, the price of many items has remained the same, but the staff don’t turn away anyone who is hungry. Mahesh N.S., one of proprietors, said, “We are not charging any money from police personnel who come in uniform. There are a few who have promised to pay after the lockdown is lifted. We are managing to keep afloat while trying to help those in need,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/restaurateurs-struggle-to-keep-kitchens-running/article31294347.ece
09 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Cancer patients worried||Many people who have conditions that need frequent and regular medical support, like dialysis, and cancer patients are struggling to cope in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic and the subsequent lockdown. In some cases, hospitals are asking them to defer their treatment in an attempt to reduce their risk. There have also been reports of patients finding it difficult to reach hospitals due to the absence of public transport. Cancer patients at the Kidwai Memorial Institute of Oncology, who have been asked to postpone their visit by one or two weeks, are worried. The hospital is also advising patients who do not need emergency care to leave the premises. The director of the hospital, Dr. C. Ramachandra, in a release issued recently, said that patients suffering from cancer have low immunity. “If these patients get infected with the coronavirus, it will be dangerous to their life. More so for patients receiving radiotherapy and chemotherapy, whose immunity will be further compromised. Delaying chemotherapy and radiotherapy for one or two weeks will not harm them. However, those developing breathing difficulty, bleeding, abdominal distension, difficulty in swallowing and severe pain, should visit the hospital and get examined by doctors.” On an average, prior to the COVID-19 pandemic, at least 1,500 patients would come to the hospital every day. Dr. C. Ramachandra told The Hindu that the number of patients who visit the hospital has been reduced to around 150. However, many cancer patients currently at the hospital are concerned that they will develop complications if they go home. Najmul Hossain Laskar, who lost his four-year-old son to cancer on April 6, alleged that the authorities at Kidwai refused to admit his child. “I went thrice to the hospital on April 4, 5 and 6. They refused to admit him and stated that only emergency cases will be admitted. Coronavirus is a big problem, but what about cancer patients?” he said. Kidwai has set up an isolation unit of 150 beds for COVID-19 patients, and there are fears that it would pose a risk to cancer patients who would be treated there later as they already have low immunity.  Blood banks  It’s not just cancer patients who are worried. People suffering from thalassemia, and conditions that require blood transfusion, are noticing that blood banks are not receiving sufficient donations with the lockdown. While blood banks usually stock around 4,000 units per month, they now have barely 100 units, said a press release by Naavu Bharateeyaru, a volunteer group. The release also stated that although the government has announced that HIV patients can collect their ART drugs for three months from health facilities, many are unable to travel to their health facilities during the lockdown. Officials of the health and family welfare department said that they have given permission to 200 private cab operators to provide transportation for non-COVID 19 medical services.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cancer-patients-worried/article31294357.ece
09 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Doctors go all out to help patients in Victoria Hospital||Doctors in the Emergency and Trauma Care Centre on Victoria Hospital campus are going out of their way to cater to every need of the 28 COVID-19 patients in the isolation ward. From tetra pack drinks, nail cutters and toiletries to kettles and pedestal fans, doctors are struggling to procure things during the lockdown period when all shops are shut. “While AC is not allowed in COVID-19 wards, ceiling fans are being used. But some patients are asking for pedestal fans and with no shops open, we are finding it hard to get them,” Balaji S. Pai, Special Officer of the centre, told The Hindu on Wednesday. Also, as most patients want hot water to sip all through the day, doctors have now arranged for plug-in kettles in the isolation ward. Earlier, nurses were using induction stoves to boil water. But that meant use of more Personal Protection Equipment (PPE) kits and providing kettles was the solution. “As no stores are open, our nodal officer Asima Banu managed to source the kettles from the houses of friends and relatives,” he said. While food for the patients was initially cooked in the in-house kitchen of the hospital, now the Taj Group has pitched in and is providing it to all patients and staff of the hospital. Immune boosting food such as ragi ganji, eggs, fruits, dates, and herbal beverages are also given to the patients as snacks. First patient Recalling that their first patient was a Netherlands citizen in the COVID-19 ward, Dr. Pai said they have over time developed a bond with most of them. “Most of the patients here are asymptomatic, two are in the ICU requiring high flow of oxygen. But it is the symptomatic patients who make the most demands. Initially, they were non-cooperative, but they gradually understood our problems and we too became empathetic towards their plight. Now, we understand what they are going through,” he said. Dr. Asima Banu said: “As some people speak in languages other than Kannada, Hindi and English, we find it hard to understand their needs. But, we are working to ensure that the patients are satisfied.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/doctors-go-all-out-to-help-patients-in-victoria-hospital/article31294366.ece
09 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Opposition, activists urge Yediyurappa to act against communal propaganda||Civil society organisations and Opposition leaders, while welcoming the recent statements by Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa warning of severe action against those communalising the COVID-19 pandemic, have urged him to follow it up with action against those doing so. They pointed out that many within his party were making communally provocative statements. Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah has demanded criminal cases against BJP legislators Renukacharya and Basanagouda Patil Yatnal over their communal statements calling for shooting of those who went to the Tablighi Jamaat event in Delhi and did not undergo tests. In a series of tweets, JD(S) State president H.D. Kumaraswamy also called for action against the BJP party leaders. “Contrary to your stand, legislators from your own party are giving communally charged statements that you need to put an end to,” he tweeted. He also came down heavily on the tone of media coverage of the pandemic. Two civil society organisations have written open letters condemning communalisation of the COVID-19 pandemic in the State by a section of politicians and media. “Social media and WhatsApp is filled with calls to boycott Muslims socially and even in trade. It is also happening in some villages. It cannot happen unless supported by local politicians,” said Janavadi Mahila Sanghatane, Karnataka, in an open letter on Wednesday. Campaign for Ethical Media Reporting, a group of activists, said reporting on the pandemic with communal overtones had hit the livelihoods of people. Writer Devanur Mahadeva, in an open letter to Zarin Taj, whose family members were attacked for distributing relief material to labourers, said the attack on her family was an attack on humanity.  Contrary to your stand, legislators from your own party are giving communally charged statements that you need to put an end to.H.D. KumaraswamyJD(S) State president   Social media and WhatsApp is filled with calls to boycott Muslims socially and even in trade. It is also happening in some villages. It cannot happen unless supported by local politicians.Janavadi Mahila Sanghatane||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/opposition-activists-urge-yediyurappa-to-act-against-communal-propaganda/article31294361.ece
09 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||550 beds available||Although Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa a fortnight ago announced that Victoria Hospital would be converted into a 1,200-bed dedicated COVID-19 hospital, not more than 550 beds have been made available here as of now. Victoria Hospital, which is a referral tertiary public healthcare facility, houses the Emergency and Trauma Care Centre, PMSSY Super-speciality Hospital, Institute of Nephro Urology, Minto Ophthalmic Hospital, and Vani Vilas Hospital. The 50-bed Mahabodhi Burns Ward, which is the only such facility in the State, is also located on this campus. While the government intends to utilise all the beds (1,200) in these facilities for COVID patients, Health Commissioner Pankaj Kumar Pandey said the functioning of Vani Vilas, Nephro Urology and Burns ward could not be disturbed as there are no such speciality alternatives for the poor in the government sector. Excluding these facilities, after rearranging the beds with adequate space in between two beds, 550 beds are now available in Victoria, PMSSY and Trauma Care Centre. Discharged All in-patients have been discharged after their recovery and no more admissions are being done. The out-patient department has also been suspended as of now. “More beds will be added to the isolation wards in a phased manner. We now have 17 dedicated hospitals with 4,030 beds for COVID across the State. This is apart from 250 ICU beds,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/550-beds-available/article31294367.ece
09 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Treat garbage from quarantined households as biomedical waste’||The Directorate of Municipal Administration has come out with directives for waste management of houses where residents have been quarantined. This comes after the High Court of Karnataka directed the government to take special measures to protect pourakarmikas while they collect waste from houses where persons subjected to home quarantine reside. Waste from households under quarantine should be put in yellow non-chlorinated plastic bags, and be treated as biomedical waste. Once collected, these bags and their contents must either be incinerated or buried deep in a pit at a common biomedical treatment facility, as per the Biomedical Waste Management Rules, 2016. If yellow non-chlorinated plastic bags are unavailable, district health officials and jurisdictional officials of the Karnataka State Pollution Control Board have to take appropriate action. Waste should be picked up from such homes in a separate vehicle. Pourakarmikas and vehicle drivers should be provided with the necessary safety gear, such as gloves, goggles and gowns. Once the waste has been transported to the designated waste management facility, the vehicle should be washed with hypochlorite solution – 1% every day. Local bodies must check the temperature of civic workers by using thermal sensors before and after the waste pick up every day. If any of the civic workers fall ill, they must immediately be sent to the district/taluk hospitals for medical treatment. Civic bodies have been directed not to terminate the services of workers if they take leave or remain absent during this period. Masks and gloves from non-quarantine houses should not be mixed with other waste.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/treat-garbage-from-quarantined-households-as-biomedical-waste/article31294373.ece
09 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘581 Tablighi event attendees have not returned to State’||A total of 581 from Karnataka who attended the Tablighi Jamaat congregation have not come back to Karnataka, said Primary and Secondary Education Minister S. Suresh Kumar. He said that samples of 808 people have been taken for testing and they have been quarantined. The Minister said that in a bid to promote wearing masks, the Department of Health and Family Welfare has issued fresh guidelines for homemade masks. He said the Union government sent a circular on Wednesday to all State governments to ensure all the healthcare workers treating COVID-19 patients are to be insured under PM Garib Kalyan Yojana. If any person dies during his service, the circular says the dependents will be given Rs. 50 lakh as insurance compensation. Mr. Suresh Kumar also informed that the COVID-19 committee consisting of doctors has submitted a report about things to do after the relaxation of lockdown to the Chief Minister. The Minister said that the government will take a call after going through the report.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/581-tablighi-event-attendees-have-not-returned-to-state/article31294371.ece
09 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||IIMB gets new director||The Board of Governors of the Indian Institute of Management, Bangalore (IIM-B) has appointed Rishikesha T. Krishnan as the next director of the institute. He is scheduled to assume office on July 31, following the superannuation of G. Raghuram, the current director. Dr. Devi Shetty, Chairperson, Board of Governors, IIMB, said, “As a well-regarded faculty member of IIMB and a proven administrator during his term as Director of IIM Indore, Professor R.T. Krishnan combines academic and administrative excellence. Under his leadership, IIM Bangalore is sure to set impressive standards in innovation and technology.” Mr. Krishnan said it is an extraordinary privilege to lead India’s best management institution.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/iimb-gets-new-director/article31294356.ece
09 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Water bill to be sent by SMS||In view of the lockdown, the Bangalore Water Supply and Sewerage Board (BWSSB) will send the water bill through SMS to customers whose mobile numbers are available with the board. Payment can be done via different online platforms using the link provided in the SMS. More details can be obtained fromwww.bwssb.gov.in, said the BWSSB in a press release. Plugging of water leakages The BWSSB will plug leakages in water pipes as soon as it’s brought to its notice. If contamination is detected, measures would be taken to ensure that it doesn’t affect the water supply, the board said in a press release. Regarding the five cases reported on April 6 and 7, samples from four areas were not collected as water supply was not supplied to those areas. While the remaining one case does not come under BWSSB limits, the release stated. Cholera, gastroenteritis The details of the localities from where cholera and gastroenteritis were reported have been collected from the Department of Health and Family Welfare, the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/water-bill-to-be-sent-by-sms/article31294352.ece
09 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||8 injured in accident||Eight pourakarmikas and a health staffer of the BBMP were injured when their vehicle met with an accident on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/8-injured-in-accident/article31294355.ece
09 April 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||KPTCL donates Rs. 43 crore||Karnataka Power Transmission Corporation Ltd. (KPTCL) has donated Rs. 25 crore from its CSR fund, besides another Rs. 18 crore as two days’ salaries of all officers and employees of KPTCL and ESCOMS towards the CM’s Relief Fund for COVID-19. The cheque was handed over to Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa by KPTCL officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kptcl-donates-rs-43-crore/article31294362.ece
09 April 2020||Chikkamagaluru,KARNATAKA||GPs getting masks ready||Many gram panchayats in Mudigere taluk, including Banakal GP, have taken the task of preparing face masks with easily available material and supply them to the needy within a short period. A group of tailors in Banakal has joined hands with the panchayat to complete the task. Since Saturday last, the tailors have produced 3,000 masks. Mudigere Taluk Panchayat has appealed to the gram panchayats to make use of the local tailors to get such masks ready.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/gps-getting-masks-ready/article31294576.ece
09 April 2020||Chikkamagaluru,KARNATAKA||Blood donation camp||A forum of youths in Chikkamagaluru, on Wednesday, conducted a blood donation camp with the cooperation of the blood bank of the district hospital. The organisation made arrangements for volunteers to donate blood at Ranganna Choultry here. The beds for the donors were arranged keeping the social distance between them. Minister for Tourism C.T. Ravi visited the camp and thanked the organisers for taking the initiative. The camp would help those who require blood easily at a time when lockdown is on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/blood-donation-camp/article31294577.ece
09 April 2020||Chikkamagaluru/Hassan,KARNATAKA||Police decide to seize vehicles in Chikkamagaluru, Hassan||The police have stepped up action to prevent people coming out of their houses during the lockdown in Chikkamagaluru and Hassan districts. Besides booking cases for violating the order, the police have decided to seize vehicles. The officers felt that this measure was required as the public continued to roam around even after repeated appeals and awareness campaigns on how to prevent the spread of COVID-19. Chikkamagaluru Superintendent of Police Harish Pandey and other senior officers were seen checking documents and passes of those riding motorcycles and travelling by four-wheelers in the city on Wednesday. Meanwhile, the police had a tough time in handling the crowd at the APMC Market in the morning. In Hassan too, the police decided to seize all private vehicles, including two-wheelers, that hit the roads. Hassan Superintendent of Police R. Srinivasa Gowda told the media that except those with passes and emergency vehicles, all others would be seized as it was necessary to check the spread of COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/police-decide-to-seize-vehicles-in-chikkamagaluru-hassan/article31294579.ece
09 April 2020||DHARWAD,KARNATAKA||Warning issued to those distributing food without permit||Deputy Commissioner M. Deepa has issued a stern warning against distribution of food packages without obtaining permission from the competent authorities and in violation of norms. In a release, Ms. Deepa said that she had received complaints about some individuals and organisations distributing food packages on their own in different places of the district. It has also come to the administration’s notice that they have not obtained the required permission and were not following norms, including social distancing, while distributing food packages. Moreover, it has also been learnt that those distributing food packages move in groups and that a large number of people gather while food packages are being distributed. This would defeat the very purpose of imposing a lockdown and also result in law and order problems. As the prohibitory orders under Section 144 of the Cr.PC are in force, a gathering of more than five persons would be in violation of the norms pertaining to the lockdown and prohibitory orders and invites action, she said. Ms. Deepa has instructed the officials of the Hubballi-Dharwad Municipal Corporation (HDMC), other local bodies and all tahsildars to check such incidents in their respective jurisdictions. The district administration wants such organisations and individuals to cooperate with the administrative machinery during such times of crisis. Violation of norms may adversely affect the health of the people. Therefore, it is necessary to streamline such activities, she said and added that before issuing permission for food distribution, the Health Department officials should ensure that hygiene is maintained at all levels of food preparation and check the personal health condition of those involved in cooking, packaging and distributing food. She has also said that those who have obtained permission for food distribution should limit their activities to their respective areas. Their vehicles would be seized if the conditions are violated and legal action would be initiated against offenders, Ms. Deepa said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/warning-issued-to-those-distributing-food-without-permit/article31294569.ece
09 April 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Virology lab set up at KIMS in Hubballi||Amid complaints of neglect of North Karnataka, Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has given permission for starting a SARS-CoV-2 testing laboratory in the region’s premier medical institution Karnataka Institute of Medical Sciences (KIMS) and Hospital in Hubballi. The facility was formally launched on Wednesday. In the absence of a testing laboratory, hitherto, throat swabs taken from suspected patients of COVID-19 pandemic from across North Karnataka were either sent to the Bengaluru or Shivamogga laboratory for tests. Speaking to presspersons after an inspection of Swab Collection Booth and the SARS-CoV-2 Testing Laboratory set up in the Microbiology Department of KIMS here on Wednesday, Minister for Industries Jagadish Shettar said that Union Minister for Parliamentary Affairs Pralhad Joshi called him on Tuesday night to inform him about the permission given by ICMR for setting up the laboratory. “With the facility functioning from Hubballi now, we will be able to get test results within 24 hours instead of sending samples to Bengaluru and Shivamogga and waiting for results. In the new facility, at least 40 samples can be tested daily,” he said. Mr. Shettar said that the KIMS Director had placed a demand for RNA Extract Machine which would help in testing a minimum of 100 samples per day and efforts are being made to get the requisite sanction for it. “This apart, a testing facility will be set up in Belagavi and ICMR is expected to give permission,” he said. The Minister said that the State government was providing all basic infrastructure for setting up the testing facility. “At present, three microbiologists are working in the laboratory and the Deputy Commissioner of Dharwad has written to the Vice-Chancellor of Karnatak University to get the services of two more microbiologists from the university,” he said. On the assault on ASHAs in Chikkodi in Belagavi district, he said that necessary direction had been given to the Deputy Commissioner and Superintendent of Police for taking action against those involved in the attack. Earlier, office-bearers of Young Indians and Ladies Circle India handed over the Swab Collection Booth to KIMS authorities. MLCs S.V. Sankanur and Pradeep Shettar, Deputy Commissioner M. Deepa, KIMS Director Ramalingappa Antaratani, Medical Superintendent Arun Kumar, Srinivas Joshi and others were present. Also, another Swab Collection Booth developed by Prakash Sankanur of Gadag was handed over to KIMS authorities by Mr. Sankanur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/virology-lab-set-up-at-kims-in-hubballi/article31294571.ece
09 April 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Heavy rain adds to their lockdown woes||For some farmers in Kalaburagi district, who were hit hard by the country-wide lockdown and have been unable to carry out farm activities, the unseasonal rain that lashed the region for a couple of days has been an additional blow. For example, Kamalabai of Hebbal village at Kalagi taluk is distraught because she lost her entire crop of papaya that was grown in 2.5 acres spending over Rs. 3 lakh. When the crop was ready for harvest, the country entered into lockdown, closing all its markets. Now, the rain has doubled her woes. “A few traders had visited our field and taken some samples. They were supposed to come back to purchase the crop and take it to Hyderabad. Before they did, the lockdown was declared closing the markets and imposing restrictions transportation,” Shankar, son of Kamalabai, told The Hindu . While Ms. Kamalabai was still hopeful of selling her crop after the lockdown, the rain coupled with gusty winds that lashed their area on Sunday night shattered her dreams. The entire crop, 2,600 papaya trees each carrying heavy bunch of fruits, were flattened. “We did not expect great prices at the time of COVID-19. But we were expecting at least Rs. 5 lakh income, which was calculated at a very minimum price. All our expectations have been shattered,” said Mr. Shankar. Many others in this village and surrounding areas have suffered a similar fate. The village accountant visited the field and assured the family of reporting the loss to higher authorities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/heavy-rain-adds-to-their-lockdown-woes/article31294381.ece
09 April 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Coastal Security Police keeping close vigil on sea routes||Karnataka Coastal Security Police are keeping a close vigil to stop unauthorised entry of fishing boats from Kerala and Goa into Karnataka, according to Superintendent of Police R. Chetan. Mr. Chetan told The Hindu here on Wednesday that the personnel are continuously patrolling in their jurisdiction using the interceptor boats. “As there is no fishing in Dakshina Kannada, it is easy for us to identify any boat operating in the area,” he said. Vigil has been intensified at the six landing points in Mangaluru where the boats fromKerala generally land. More personnel have been posted at the check-points set up at these landing places. Personnel have been deployed at Batpady off Someshwara Uchhila to stop the likely entry of people from Kerala by walking across the beach. Though there is not much movement of boats from Goa towards the landing points in Karwar of Uttara Kannada district, the coastal police had intensified patrolling in the sea and landing points in that area.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/coastal-security-police-keeping-close-vigil-on-sea-routes/article31294574.ece
09 April 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Admission only at K.S. Hegde Hospital, says DC||Dakshina Kannada Deputy Commissioner Sindhu B. Rupesh said on Wednesday that patients from Kerala, who required emergency treatment in Mangaluru, will be allowed to be admitted only at K.S. Hegde Medical College Hospital in Deralakatte. Ambulances with such patients entering Dakshina Kannada through Talapady should take them to Deralakatte, on the outskirts of the city, without coming to Mangaluru city, the District Magistrate said in a release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/admission-only-at-ks-hegde-hospital-says-dc/article31294378.ece
09 April 2020||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Mango yield likely to be halved this year||Though mangoes start appearing on the retail fruit sellers’ shelves by late March, this year the fruit has remained conspicuous by its absence at the start of the second week of April. The immediate reason is not the lockdown declared by the government to keep COVID-19 at bay. Climatic conditions marked by unseasonal rainfall and change in night-time temperatures have been cited as reasons for not only delay in hitting the markets but also a huge decline in yield. While the yield will be limited, the harvesting of mangoes will also have to be staggered over the next two months, according to experts. “Mangoes require a good drought and harsh winter. But, they got neither of them,” said C.G. Nagaraju, MD of Karnataka State Mango Development and Marketing Corporation Ltd., referring to the unseasonal rain lashing the State last year followed by a relatively warm winter. “We did not see the night-time temperature dip below 12 degrees on many days,” he said. The climatic conditions had led to delayed and poor flowering. “Overall, the yield is expected to be only 50% this year,” Mr. Nagaraju said. Mango orchards spread across 1.8 lakh lakh hectares of land in Karnataka – more concentrated in Kolar, Chickballapur, Ramanagaram, and other parts of Bengaluru rural in South parts, and Dharwad and Belagavi in the northern parts – can yield 12 to 14 lakh tonnes of fruit a year, he said. Rudresh Kumar, Deputy Director of Horticulture, Mysuru, said climatic conditions across the State that were marked by rain in November and December last year impacted the flowering process. “We can’t expect even 50% of the crop this year,” he said. The yield is expected to be in the range of 30% to 40% in Sindhura, Malgova, Mallika, and Raspuri, about 50% in Badami and more than 60% in Totapuri. While the fruit is expected to be harvested in Ramanagaram and made available across markets in Bengaluru in a week to 10 days’ time, mangoes from Kolar and Chickballapur will have to wait till the first week of May to hit the market. But the crop in Kolar-Chickballapur, the biggest hubs of mango cultivation in the State, has been further affected by the mango hopper pest attack in the first week of March. “The yield in the twin districts may not even be 15% of the expectation,” said K. Srinivas Gowda, president, Chickballapur Mango Growers’ Association.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mango-yield-likely-to-be-halved-this-year/article31294376.ece
09 April 2020||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||In a fix||Mango growers are keeping their fingers crossed that the lockdown is lifted by the time they harvest their crop. Merchant Farooq Pasha from Mysuru said not only will they be hit by poor yield, they may have to cough up more for transportation if the lockdown is not lifted by harvest time. However, C.G. Nagaraju said they had already begun the process of facilitating direct marketing of mangoes to customers in Bengaluru by providing the contact details of apartments to farmers. Non-table varieties like Totapuri, Sindhura, Badami, and Neelam are mainly consumed by processing plants, all of which are now shut due to the lockdown. “These varieties will come up for harvest only by mid-May. By then, we hope the processing plants are up and running,” said K. Srinivas Gowda.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/in-a-fix/article31294383.ece
09 April 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Extend lockdown in red zones, says Sriramulu||Health Minister B. Sriramulu said on Wednesday that he would urge Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa to consider continuing the lockdown in 18 COVID-19 affected districts, including Bengaluru, Mysuru and Bidar, and relaxing the curbs in districts that were by and large free from positive cases. “I will express my view to the Chief Minister in Thursday’s Cabinet meeting. The issue will also be discussed in the COVID-19 task force meeting, which is also scheduled on Thursday,” he told reporters. Mr. Sriramulu, who reviewed measures at a meeting with department officials, said 18 districts in Karnataka had been affected by COVID-19 and a few such as Mysuru and Bengaluru had been categorised in “red zone” because of more number of positive cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/extend-lockdown-in-red-zones-says-sriramulu/article31294382.ece
09 April 2020||Shivamogga,KARNATAKA||Bar on entry to forests to check KFD spread||To prevent the spread of Kyasanur Forest Disease (KFD), also known as monkey fever, the entry of people to forests in 31 affected villages in the district has been barred. Since January 1, a total number of 129 positive cases of KFD have been reported from 31 villages in Tirthahalli and Sagar taluks in the district. Deputy Commissioner K.B. Sivakumar told presspersons that all the 31 affected villages have been identified as sensitive areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bar-on-entry-to-forests-to-check-kfd-spread/article31294374.ece
09 April 2020||Tumakuru,KARNATAKA||Family watches last rites of man online||The family of a 67-year-old man, who died of heart attack in Tumakuru, watched the final rites being performed from their village in West Bengal through a video call on WhatsApp. The deceased, Kanai Das, eked out a living selling handkerchiefs on the pavement in Tumakuru city for the last 30 years, while his wife and two children lived in their native village in West Bengal. He developed chest pain on March 28 and was taken to Jayadeva Institute of Cardiovascular Sciences and Research in Bengaluru. He failed to respond to treatment and died on April 2. Social worker N. Nataraj told The Hindu: “We informed his family members but as there was a lockdown, they could not come to Tumakuru to perform his last rites. They requested us to perform his last rites.” Expenses Congress leader Ambarish along with three other people paid to transport the body from Bengaluru to Tumakuru and the funeral charges at the crematorium.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/family-watches-last-rites-of-man-online/article31294368.ece
09 April 2020||UDUPI,KARNATAKA||House owners warned against collecting rent from workers||Deputy Commissioner G. Jagadeesha said on Wednesday that criminal cases would be booked against owners of houses and sheds who were collecting rent from those, including workers, staying in rented houses. In a press release issued here, Mr. Jagadeesha said that to prevent the spread of COVID-19, restrictions had been imposed throughout the district under Section 144(3) of the Criminal Procedure Code. The administration had through an earlier order made it clear that house owners and shed owners should not collect rent from their tenants and workers for March and April. But the administration had received complaints that some house owners and shed owners were collecting rent despite the order. Hence, the administration had decided that in addition to filing criminal cases, the local bodies would take action against such owners, the release added.  HOPCOMS outlets Mr. Jagadeesha said that HOPCOMS outlets in Udupi district would be selling vegetables and fruits from 7 a.m. to 7 p.m. daily. In a press release issued here, he said that HOPCOMS was a part of the Horticulture Department. It would purchase vegetables and fruits from farmers and sell them to consumers. HOPCOMS outlets were operating in Udupi, Uppunda and Karkala, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/house-owners-warned-against-collecting-rent-from-workers/article31294575.ece
09 April 2020||Vijayapura,KARNATAKA||Muslims told not to gather in large numbers for prayers||Deputy Commissioner Y.S. Patil has appealed to Muslims not to gather in large numbers to offer prayers in mosques during Shab-e-Barat on Thursday night. Addressing presspersons after holding a daily review meeting on COVID-19 here on Wednesday, he said that since the government has banned all sorts of religious congregations to prevent the spread of coronavirus, Muslims should follow the government order and not gather in large groups to offer mass prayers in mosques. “Muslims must remain indoors and offer prayers. Do not venture out for any mass prayers for Shab-e-Barat or any prayers for that matter till further announcement,” he said. Meanwhile, similar appeals have also been made by Muslim clerics who have asked the people from the community to remain indoors and adhere to government orders. A cleric Tanveer Hashmi has in his appeal said that a devout Muslim will never put his life or the life of others in danger. Offering prayers in groups could lead to the spread of coronavirus. Therefore, in the interest of humanity, Muslims must remain at home and offer all their regular or special prayers indoors, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/muslims-told-not-to-gather-in-large-numbers-for-prayers/article31294564.ece
09 April 2020||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Gurmitkal gets sanitiser spray tunnel as part of preventive measures||Janata Dal(S) MLA from Gurmitkal Naganagowda Kandkur has set up a sanitiser spray tunnel at Gurmitkal in Yadgir distict. On Wednesday, Shantaveera Murugharajendra Swamiji of Khasa Mutt inaugurated the tunnel after paying floral tributes to Matha Manikeshwari Amma who passed away recently. The swamiji said that with more than a hundred people falling prey to coronavirus, life was badly affected in the country. People in the rural areas should take guidance from the officials about the preventive measures that they must take to curb the spread of the deadly virus, he said. “Mr. Kandkur has established the sanitiser spray tunnel at the entrance of the degree college ground where officials have set up a vegetable market. Therefore, people who are coming to purchase vegetables should go through the tunnel as part of the preventive measures,” he said. Sharanagowda Kandkur, Janata Dal(S) youth leader and son of the MLA, announced Rs. 50,000 for the family of a farmer who committed suicide at Karkihalli village in Shahapur taluk on Tuesday owing to debts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/gurmitkal-gets-sanitiser-spray-tunnel-as-part-of-preventive-measures/article31294568.ece
09 April 2020||YADGIR/RAICHUR,KARNATAKA||There are no restrictions on farming activities: Minister||Agriculture Minister B.C. Patil has said that there are no restrictions on agricultural activities during the lockdown. Mr. Patil, who was addressing a meeting in Yadgir on Wednesday, said that he came here to instil confidence in farmers and that there are no restrictions on any kind of agriculture activities, transportation of agriculture produces, seeds, fertilizers and pesticides. Farmers can continue with their activities unabatedly but they should ensure social distancing, he added. Rajshekhargowda Patil Vajjal, ZP president, Girijamma Rotnadagi, ZP vice-president, Shilpa Sharma, CEO, Rishikesh Sonawane, Superintedent of Police, Prakash Rajput, Additional Deputy Commissioner, Devika, Joint Director of Agriculture Department, Shankaragowda Somanal, Assistant Commissioner of Yadgir sub-division, were present. Direction to officials In Raichur, the Minister directed the officials to give priority to solving the problems of farmers who were finding it difficult to transport their produces to the market. Under the circumstances, the officials should store sufficient seeds and fertilizers to meet the demand as farmers will take up sowing in a short of time. S.S.Abid, Joint Director of Agriculture Department, was present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/there-are-no-restrictions-on-farming-activities-minister/article31294566.ece
09 April 2020||April 09 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||‘Maintain water in small open ponds’||The Chief Justice of Karnataka High Court, through the register (administration), has directed officials to maintain water levels in small open ponds and cement pots in the High Court premises for birds and animals. The letter issued by the register states that the three cement pots and an open small pond had been unattended due to the lockdown, and that the birds and animals were suffering without water. This comes after T. Narasimha, lawyer, wrote to the Chief Justice to direct officials to look into the matter. Kusuma G., Deputy Director, Cubbon Park, said that the issue was addressed immediately.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/maintain-water-in-small-open-ponds/article31294351.ece
09 April 2020||April 09 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Visitors||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/visitors/article31294354.ece
09 April 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||Two more cases in Alappuzha||Two more persons tested positive for COVID-19 in the district on Wednesday. According to officials, one of them hailing from Chengannur had attended the Tablighi Jamaat meet at Nizamuddin in Delhi last month. The other person from Cherthala had returned from Dubai. Both have been tested positive for the disease despite being asymptomatic, said an official. “The person who attended the religious conference had first travelled to Delhi from Qatar. After attending the conference at Nizamuddin, he reached the Kayamkulam railway station on March 23. He then went to his home in Chengannur taluk. From there, the person was shifted to the corona care centre in Alappuzha on April 6. He will be admitted to Government Medical College Hospital, Alappuzha, for treatment. The person from Dubai reached Kochi on March 22. From the airport, he travelled to Kottayam before reaching his home in Cherthala taluk. He has already been hospitalised,” said an official. Five cases, one cured  The district has so far logged five COVID-19 cases. The first person, a Wuhan returnee, was completely cured in February. The second case, a Gulf returnee, was discharged on Monday after consecutive samples collected from him tested negative for the disease. The third patient who attended the Tablighi Jamaat meet is undergoing treatment at the Government Medical College Hospital. Meanwhile, the district administration has urged the passengers of the EK 532 flight that reached Kochi from Dubai on March 22 to contact the Health Department immediately. Contact numbers: 0477 2239999, 0477 2239300.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/two-more-cases-in-alappuzha/article31294707.ece
09 April 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||Excise, police to intensify raids||The Excise Department and police will intensify raids in the district following a spurt in the production and sale of illicit liquor. According to Excise Department officials, illicit brewing has increased after the closure of liquor shops as part of the nationwide lockdown The Excise Department alone has arrested at least 23 persons for hooch making in the last 13 days. Besides, the police have registered several cases and arrested a number of people during the period. In recent days, 900 litres of ‘koda’ (undistilled spirit) and 6.5 litres of arrack have been seized from different parts of the district in separate raids conducted by the excise and police. As many as 13 people have been arrested. Surge in cases “There is a surge in illegal brewing activities, especially the production of arrack and wash. The number of Abkari cases has seen a jump since March 24,” says Shaji S. Rajan, Deputy Excise Commissioner.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/excise-police-to-intensify-raids/article31294715.ece
09 April 2020||Chennai/VIJAYAWADA/Bengaluru,KERALA||Virus claims one life each in A.P., Karnataka||Andhra Pradesh reported one fatality and 34 new novel coronavirus cases on Wednesday, while in Karnataka, a 65-year old resident of Kalaburagi succumbed to COVID-19, taking the toll in the State to five. The district administration in Karnataka was working to trace the fruit vendor’s infection trail. He had severe acute respiratory infection. A statement from the Deputy Commissioner of Kalaburagi said a team of police and doctors was inquiring. A notice was served to Bahmani Hospital, where he was first admitted on April 4, as the hospital referred him to the government hospital only two days later. A case was booked against the management for criminal negligence, and the hospital’s medical team was quarantined. Briefing the media, Primary and Secondary Education Minister S. Suresh Kumar said 20 primary contacts of the person were traced and shifted to quarantine, and samples of close primary contacts were being taken. An effort was on trace secondary contacts. On Wednesday, Karnataka recorded five more COVID-19 cases, taking the total to 181. They included one each from Uttara Karnataka, Kalaburagi, Mandya, Chikkaballapur and Bengaluru. One was in contact with a person who had travelled to Dubai, and two others were contacts of positive patients. Two others had travelled to New Delhi. Seven A.P. districts A 70-year-old man from Kalyandurg in Anantapur district became the fifth victim of COVID-19 in Andhra Pradesh and the State reported 34 new cases from seven districts, taking the tally to 348. Three patients had recovered and were discharged in Visakhapatnam. Two of them, a 49-year-old woman and a 51-year-old man contracted the virus from contacts who returned from abroad. Guntur, Nellore and Krishna districts had eight, six and six fresh cases. Anantapur reported seven, the Health Department said. The department said 48% patients were in the 21-40 age group and 36% in the 41-60 age group, while 8% each were above 60 years and below 20 years.  In Tamil Nadu Forty-eight persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Tamil Nadu on Wednesday, taking the State’s tally to 738. This, even as a 74-year-old woman was discharged from the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital. She is among the 21 discharged so far in the State. T.N. has so far reported eight deaths, the last being a 45-year-old man who was undergoing treatment at the Christian Medical College, Vellore, on Tuesday. Health Secretary Beela Rajesh said he did not have a history of travel but did have a contact history. “He was already in hospital. The first test was inconclusive. The second turned out positive. The report came after his death. His condition deteriorated suddenly,” she said. Of the 48 fresh cases, 42 were connected to the “single source event” (Delhi conference). Of the 42, eight had travelled to Delhi together, 33 were their contacts and one was a Malaysian national. “Even if patients are asymptomatic, they cannot be left untreated, though they may seem stable,” the Tamil Nadu Health Minister said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/virus-claims-one-life-each-in-ap-karnataka/article31294673.ece
09 April 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||Food kits for schoolchildren||Children of migrant workers in Peerumade tea plantations share a rare a bond with Samagra Shiksha Kerala (SSK) volunteers and teachers of the schools where they study. Though classes have been suspended following the lockdown, the SSK volunteers are in touch with the students. The SSK volunteers have distributed food kits to families of around 400 students in Peerumade taluk. “This is as part of a Statewide programme to distribute food kits to wards of migrant workers studying in schools,” said Sheeba, education volunteer under the SSK at EKM Lower Primary School, Pasupara. The school has 40 students under the SSK. Each food kit worth Rs. 1,000 comprises 12 items, including those needed for children. She said when the volunteers visited their homes to distribute the food kits, the students enquired about their teachers and the school reopening. Though most of the students are from Assam, there are children from Bengal, Odisha and Jharkhand.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/food-kits-for-schoolchildren/article31294706.ece
09 April 2020||IDUKKI/Wayanad,KERALA||Do natural barriers keep COVID-19 at bay?||Have the hilly topography and low population density played a role in limiting the COVID-19 cases in Idukki and Wayanad districts? So far 10 persons have tested positive in Idukki. Of the 4,255 people under observation in the district, nine persons, including five positive cases, are in isolation in hospitals. District Collector H. Dinesan says the low density of population is a major factor that prevented the spread of the disease in Idukki. “As individual contacts are less, we are able to concentrate on the hotspots, mainly Munnar,” he says. “Timely measures have helped in containing the disease in the district. Besides, social distancing is a reality here as people stay far in between in the hilly terrain,” a health official says. District Medical Officer T.R. Rekha told The Hindu that screening is being done with the help of the police at the four check-posts bordering Tamil Nadu and the porous mountain routes are under surveillance. “Unlike those in towns and cities, people in remote areas usually move out for meeting their necessities once a week. In the high ranges, markets function mainly on Saturdays as farm workers get their pay that day. This natural distancing might have helped in controlling the spread of the disease,” a senior police officer says. This is also evident in Wayanad which is similar to the topography and density of population of Idukki. So far only three positive cases hav been reported from the district. As per the 2011 census, the density of population in Wayanad is 383 people per sq km compared to 255 people in Idukki, where as the State density is 860 people per sq km. In Wayanad The fewer number of cases in Wayanad, just three, is in sharp contrast to the rise in positive cases reported from neighbouring districts. While 59 cases have been reported from Kannur, 12 have been reported from Kozhikode, and 14 from Malappuram. “Natural barriers such as topography and low density of population have helped in limiting the spread of the disease in the district. The low number of Gulf returnees and stringent enforcement of law have also helped in containing the pandemic,” Wayanad Collector Adeela Abdulla says. The five ghat roads that connect Wayanad to neighbouring districts have helped the district administration restrict the movement of vehicles and effectively enforce the law, Ms. Abdulla says. “We could also seal the major roads to Karnataka and Tamil Nadu in a time bound manner.” Strict enforcement of quarantine for travellers from other districts and States and stern action by the police have also helped to tackle the spread of the disease, she says. As many as 12,102 people are under observation in the district on Wednesday, including a positive case in isolation in hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/do-natural-barriers-keep-covid-19-at-bay/article31294687.ece
09 April 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Dip in demand for masks, sanitisers||Production ramp-up combined with price control measures seem to have ended the rush for stockpiling of masks and sanitisers here during the pandemic. Retail outlets and pharma stores selling masks and sanitisers have recorded a dip in demand in view of adequate stocks available for distribution. Besides, complaints about retailers jacking up prices of masks and sanitisers have come down drastically, according to a senior Drug Control Department official. Enforcement by Drug Control and Legal Metrology departments received a boost after the Centre notified the prices of masks and sanitisers and declared them as essential commodities till June 30 by amending the Essential Commodities Act, 1955. Enforcement officials in the Drug Control Department pointed out that hoarding and overpricing of masks and sanitisers had been hit after the government directive. A drug store owner said the spike in prices of masks was regulated after several organisations and voluntary groups started making masks. “There are so many individuals who own facilities for stitching cotton masks at home. The initial shortage was overcome by the increase in production at the grassroots level,” he added. Women attached to the Kudumbashree Mission here said there was good demand for their double-layered cloth masks made of cotton fabric. They can be reused after washing using carbolic soap. The masks should be soaked in hot water and can be reused after drying and ironing, they added. Meanwhile, a senior official of the Legal Metrology Department cautioned the public against attempts by a few retailers to sell handwash as sanitisers. “We had come across instances where handwash was sold as sanitisers to people who lacked knowledge about alcohol-based sanitisers,” he said. According to the Drug Control Department, the manufacture of sanitisers undertaken in the unorganised sector had helped in regulating their spiralling prices in the initial days of COVID-19 outbreak. “The department did not stop anyone from doing it as there was a huge gap in demand and supply initially,” the department said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/dip-in-demand-for-masks-sanitisers/article31294657.ece
09 April 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Poachers may have free run during lockdown||Wildlife conservationists have cautioned about a possible spike in poaching during the COVID-19 lockdown period even as a few such cases have been reported from Kerala during the fortnight. Conservationist K. Ullas Karanth notes that there has been a surge in poaching in some of the wildlife habitats in the Western Ghats. “As the governments get busy with the protecting human lives and human priorities and all legitimate economic activities being shut down, people may turn to poaching. Encroachments can also go up. Its a global trend,” Mr. Karanth told The Hindu . When there is a fall in patrolling and enforcement activities, all those factors that have been suppressed by enforcement can spring up, he says. Poachers held Forest officials in Kozhikode arrested five persons last week while attempting to sneak into the Puthupady forest area. They also seized dried meat of wild boar weighing 5 kg. The arrested were released on bail by court following instructions not to imprison them in the wake of COVID-19 spread, says M. Rajeevan, Divisional Forest Officer, Kozhikode. In a separate incident, the forest officials seized meat of wild fowl and some weapons for hunting from the Karuvarakkundu forest, which comes under the Silent Valley forest range, last week. Though none could be arrested, the suspects have been identified, says B. N. Anjan Kumar, Chief Conservator of Forest (Wildlife), Palakkad. Terming the cases as stray incidents, Surendra Kumar, Chief Wildlife Warden, Kerala, says field reports indicate that there has not been any sudden surge in poaching activities in the forest areas.  The mobility of the front-line forest staff has not been affected by the lockdown as the protection of forest and wildlife has been declared as an essential service by the State and the Central governments, Mr. Surendra Kumar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/poachers-may-have-free-run-during-lockdown/article31294670.ece
09 April 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Milma wants new conversion plant to be set up in Alappuzha||Milk marketing apex cooperative Milma has made an appeal to Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan to consider setting up a new milk conversion unit in Alappuzha to utilise the excess milk now being procured by the cooperative across the State in the wake of the continuing lockdown to contain COVID-19 pandemic. In an urgent message sent to the State authorities, the milk cooperative said the Kerala Cooperative Milk Marketing Federation had set up a milk conversion plant in Alappuzha in 1996. However, the plant has been lying idle for a long time now for want of enough milk in the State for conversion. However, the 21-day lockdown has resulted in Milma being left with excess milk. It is procuring more milk than it could sell on a day-to-day basis, said John Theruvath, chairman, Ernakulam Regional Cooperative Milk Producers’ Union, which is part of the apex cooperative. It is estimated that Milma procures about 70,000 litres in excess of its sales. The reason for the excess milk procurement is that more dairy farmers are now relying on Milma to buy milk, as local sales in the unorganised sector had plummeted in the wake of the lockdown. While Milma sale is around 2.75 lakh litres a day, procurement hovers around 3.25 lakh litres. The excess milk had been sent to Tamil Nadu for conversion work, turning milk into powder. However, the neighbouring State had initially refused to allow milk lorries into that State fearing the spread of the pandemic. However, Kerala government’s intervention had seen Tamil Nadu relent and allow milk lorries for the conversion work. Mr. John said the milk conversion plant lying idle now in Alappuzha could not be revived. It would require around Rs. 10 crore for establishing a new plant, he said. Meanwhile, the Ernakulam region has been able to sell most of its procurement with the supplies being redirected to meet demands from the special situation arising from the lockdown.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/milma-wants-new-conversion-plant-to-be-set-up-in-alappuzha/article31294674.ece
09 April 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Green certification for metro stations||Kochi Metro’s operations command centre at Muttom and the stations at Ernakulam South, Kadavanthra, Elamkulam, Vyttila, Thykoodam, and Petta have been awarded Platinum Green certification. IGBC Green Mass Rapid Transit System (MRTS) rating was launched by the Indian Green Building Council (IGBC) to encourage green concepts in the design, construction and operation of all new rail-based MRTS projects. The rating system verified the Kochi metro’s efforts to address the best site selection and national priorities like conserving natural resources, demand side energy and water efficiency, adoption of renewable energy, and waste management.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/green-certification-for-metro-stations/article31294649.ece
09 April 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Walk-in Sample Kiosk draws attention||The Walk-in Sample Kiosk (WISK) that was demonstrated at the district collectorate here on Monday has drawn national attention and a major corporate house has contacted the State government expressing its willingness to fund the project, said sources in the district administration. Easy procedure WISK was developed by the doctors of the district Health department and the Government Medical College, Ernakulam, for taking throat swabs from suspected patients without having to wear the personal protection equipment (PPE). This will enable healthcare professionals to obtain samples quicker and more easily.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/walk-in-sample-kiosk-draws-attention/article31294646.ece
09 April 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Discrimination against health workers punishable||On Monday, an ophthalmologist in a private healthcare institution found it difficult to enter his own home in a residential apartment complex in the city. The president of the residents’ association had allegedly given instructions at the gate that the doctor or anyone who goes out for work had to present a certificate that they did not have COVID-19. The doctor somehow managed to enter his house by sending the association president a Government Order that permits healthcare professionals to work during the lockdown period. Two nurses were also harassed for coming home from work while in another incident, a doctor staying in a rented apartment was asked to vacate the house by the residents’ association. Meanwhile, the District Collector came out with a special order on Wednesday which says that any individual, establishment, landlord, residents’ associations or society found to discriminate against healthcare workers and professionals would be punished under the Indian Epidemics Act 1897.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/discrimination-against-health-workers-punishable/article31294650.ece
09 April 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Rural police launch blood donation drive||Notwithstanding their near-relentless duty enforcing the lockdown and monitoring those quarantined, the rural police have found time to hit on a campaign donating blood following reports of blood shortage in some blood banks. Spearheaded by the district rural committees of the Kerala Police Association and the Kerala Police Officers Association, the campaign will continue in the days to come. “Eighteen police personnel donated blood at the Aluva blood bank on Wednesday and more will be part of the campaign. The idea is to organise the donation of blood without affecting the duty of the police personnel and creating crowd at the blood banks,” said M.V. Sanil, district secretary (rural), Kerala Police Association. The associations chose the Aluva blood bank after being told that there was shortage of blood of various negative groups since donors were not available as before owing to the lockdown. The rural police have around 2,200 personnel who are being deployed in three shifts in view of the lockdown.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rural-police-launch-blood-donation-drive/article31294658.ece
09 April 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Award for Cusat researcher||Sreeja Narayanan, researcher in the department of biotechnology at Cochin University of Science and Technology (Cusat), has won the Early Career Award, jointly instituted by the Department of Biotechnology, Government of India, and Wellcome Trust, UK. The award consists of a research grant of Rs. 1.3 crore. It has been approved for a period of five years for conducting research in understanding the potential of immuno-modulatory approaches for improving breast cancer therapeutics, according to a release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/award-for-cusat-researcher/article31294660.ece
09 April 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||HC directive to Bar Council of Kerala||A Division Bench of the Kerala High Court on Wednesday directed the Bar Council of Kerala (BCK) to file a statement on the proposal mooted by the council for distributing money from the Legal Benefits Fund to lawyers, including those who are not members of the Kerala Advocates’ Welfare Fund Trust. The Bench comprising Justice A.K. Jayasankaran Nambiar and Justice Shaji P. Chali passed the order on a writ petition filed by Mohammad Shah and P. Abu Siddik, president and general secretary respectively of the Kerala Lawyers Forum. The petitioners alleged that the Bar Council was not taking steps to disburse the amount from the Legal Benefits Fund to the lawyers who are in need.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hc-directive-to-bar-council/article31294675.ece
09 April 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||KSCDC veggies for community kitchens||The vegetables have been cultivated as part of ‘Vishuvinu oru muram pachakkari’ project, but now the Kerala State Cashew Development Corporation (KSCDC) will supply the produce from its various farms to community kitchens. The corporation had already distributed two quintals of vegetables among factory workers and local residents during the past week and on Wednesday, an equal amount was handed over to the community kitchens run by Kollam Corporation and Mayyanad panchayat. “We had planned the harvest targeting the Vishu market, but taking into account the current crisis, we decided to distribute it free of cost. We are expecting a total production of 15 tonnes this season,” said S. Jayamohan, chairman, KSCDC. The corporation is planning to harvest around 150 kg of vegetables every week.  Ensuring income The corporation had formed a plantation department last year to ensure income for its staff when the factories were not functioning owing to the scarcity of raw cashew nuts (RCN). Spinach, tapioca, eggplant, tomato, okra, green chilly, and beans are among the main crops cultivated||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kscdc-veggies-for-community-kitchens/article31294718.ece
09 April 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Illicit brewing thrives in Kottayam||Every time curbs are in place on liquor sales, the demand for jaggery records a perceptible but suspicious rise in the district. The Excise Department knows what the trend means and accordingly has intensified its presence across remote villages, forest fringes and backwater isles. The results have always been encouraging, with several hundred litres of wash and brewing equipment being seized and a corresponding number of arrests being made. As the countrywide lockdown progressed into its third week, excise sleuths in the district have been on their toes against a booming illegal brewing business in the region. As on Monday, the department has busted 14 illegal breweries in locations as different as R-Block in Vembanad Lake to Koruthodu and Pampa Valley in the High Ranges.  Confirming a sudden spurt in illegal brewing activities since the start of the lockdown, A.R. Zulfikar, Excise Deputy Commissioner, Kottayam, said joint raids with the Forest Department were being conducted in the High Ranges and with the police in backwater regions. “Over 850 litres of wash and brewing equipment have been seized, besides eight litres of country-made arrack. Investigations so far suggested that hooch distilled in some of these units had reached the open market as a substitute to liquor during the lockdown days,” the official said.  Official sources attributed the flourishing of illicit breweries deep inside the forests to the easy availability of water and firewood, considerably bringing down the cost of production. At the same time, those on the backwater isles banked on the inability of officials in accessing these locations. Meanwhile, the curbs on remanding prisoners in jails due to the COVID-19 crisis have put the excise sleuths in a spot. “Of the 14 taken into custody, we have been able to record the arrest of only six persons” said an official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/illicit-brewing-thrives-in-kottayam/article31294716.ece
09 April 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Sale of low-quality food, overpricing continue||Despite repeated appeals, overpricing and sale of low-quality food items is on the rise, and the Kozhikode Corporation is making desperate efforts to control the situation. The Health squad led by supervisor K. Sivadas conducted inspections at fish stalls at Kovoor, Chevarambalam, NGO quarters, and Kottooli on Wednesday and took action against vendors who did not exhibit the wholesale price list. Retail vendors are not supposed to charge more than 20% over the wholesale price. Several vendors were asked to lower prices. The squad also seized two vegetable carts and a fruit cart from the Palayam market for overpricing and selling damaged goods. The inspection was carried out following complaints that rotten vegetables were being sold. On Tuesday, the health squad confiscated a full truckload of fish near Kallai market. The corporation had authorised only 17 truckloads of fish to be brought to the city for sale at 16 designated markets. Sale of fish outside the markets have been banned during the lockdown period. However, there have been incidents of additional loads of fish being brought to the city during early hours and sold on roadsides to retailers for higher prices.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sale-of-low-quality-food-overpricing-continue/article31294664.ece
09 April 2020||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||MP urges PM to auction seized gold||M.K. Raghavan, MP, has said that the Union government should auction off contraband gold to raise money to take the country out of the economic crisis arising from the lockdown. In a letter to the Prime Minister on Wednesday, Mr. Raghavan said large quantities of smuggled gold were kept in the custody of the Customs Department and the Revenue Intelligence units across the country. “This seized gold is now a blessing in disguise for us,” he said urging Mr. Modi to pass legislation to auction the contraband immediately.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mp-urges-pm-to-auction-seized-gold/article31294648.ece
09 April 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||20,000 in isolation in Kozhikode district||The number of persons under home isolation for COVID-19 has come down to 20,049 in Kozhikode district, with 2,100 completing their observation period on Wednesday. District Medical Officer V. Jayasree said in a release that a total of 2,624 persons had completed the observation period so far. Twenty are under surveillance at the Government Medical College Hospital and two are at the Government General Hospital. Twelve persons were discharged on Wednesday. No new SARS-CoV-2 positive cases were reported on the day. Of the 12 persons who were tested positive for the virus here, five have recovered. Two from Kasaragod and one from Kannur too had been under treatment, of whom one has been discharged. Of the 417 body fluid samples sent for lab tests, 369 are negative. The results of 33 samples are awaited. Meanwhile, the district administration has imposed more restrictions, including travel ban in some wards within the Kozhikode Corporation, Chengaroth and Kayakkodi grama panchayats, in view of the reporting of COVID-19 cases from there recently.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/20000-in-isolation-in-kozhikode-district/article31294647.ece
09 April 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Online booking for Sabarimala offerings||The Travancore Devaswom Board (TDB) has launched an online booking facility for various offerings ( vazhipadu ) at the Sabarimala Ayyappa temple from the Vishu festival that begins on April 14, N.Vasu, board president, has said.   Mr. Vasu said the facility would be extended to more major temples attached to the TDB in a phased manner. A board meeting on April 13 would take the final decision. Mr. Vasu said devotees could make bookings for neeranjanom, ghee lamp (nei-vilakku), ashtothara archana, swayamvara archana, navagruha nei-vilakku , and bhagavathi seva at Sabarimala from April 14 onwards. Devotees could make their bookings through the online platform onlinetdb.com and bookings had already started. No entry for pilgrims Though the Ayyappa temple would be opened for the Vishu festival on April 13 evening, pilgrims would not be permitted to enter the temple owing to the restrictions imposed by the government as part of the anti-COVID drive across the State. The board would also provide facility for the devotees to make online offerings to the ‘hundi’ ( kaanicka ) and for the feeding of devotees ( annadanam) through the proposed e-kaanicka o n the same portal soon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/online-booking-for-sabarimala-offerings/article31294358.ece
09 April 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Number of cases rises to 16 in Pathanamthitta||The total number of COVID-19 cases in Pathanamthitta has gone up to 16 with a 27-year-old youth, who came from Dubai, testing positive for the infection on Wednesday. According to a medical bulletin, the youth reached Bengaluru from Dubai on an Emirates flight (Flight 568, seat 39 K) at 2.55 a.m. on March 21. He was taken to Akash Hospital in Bengaluru by the airport authorities on March 22. He reached the Thiruvananthapuram international airport on an Indigo flight (6E 379, seat 5 C) at 10 a.m. on March 22 and reached home at Edappavoor, near Ranni, in a car by 12.45 p.m. Since then, the youth has been home-quarantined. A total of 15 persons have been quarantined at isolation wards.  District Medical Officer A.L. Sheeja said 158 samples were tested negative on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/number-of-cases-rises-to-16-in-pathanamthitta/article31294708.ece
09 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||230 more under surveillance in capital||The district administration placed 230 more people under COVID-19 surveillance on Wednesday, even as 1,620 persons completed the 28-day observation period without exhibiting symptoms. Only four of the 15 individuals who had tested positive for the infection in the district are currently under treatment. This include two adults from Malayinkeezhu and Pothencode and two children. In all, 6,245 people are in home quarantine in the district, while 92 others are under surveillance in hospitals. The COVID-19 care centres in the district have 327 persons at present.  The results of the 119 samples received on Wednesday tested negative for COVID-19, the district administration said in its daily bulletin. The results of 214 samples were awaited. Fifty-six samples were submitted for tests on Wednesday. 481 arrested As many as 481 people were arrested in the district on Wednesday for violating COVID-19 lockdown restrictions. In all, 462 cases have been registered in this regard, according to the police. Eight-six persons were arrested in the Thiruvananthapuram city limits, while 375 were arrested in rural Thiruvananthapuram. The police also seized 352 vehicles in connection with the violations. The police are using drones in Varkala and its neighbourhood as part of strengthening lockdown surveillance. In the initial days of the lockdown, movement of people were mostly centred in the urban areas of the region. However, this has reduced in recent days. Crowds were now mostly detected at junctions and shops, the police said. The police were also banking in on the drones to discourage crowding on beaches and at grounds, Varkala CI G. Gopakumar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/230-more-under-surveillance-in-capital/article31294712.ece
09 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||273 posts in Kasaragod MCH||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Wednesday said that in Kasaragod only those patients who cannot have their treatment elsewhere should attempt to go to Mangaluru seeking health care. Doctors have been readied in the Kasaragod border area and patients would have no problem in getting COVID-19 certification. Meanwhile, the Cabinet gave approval for the creation of 273 posts for making the Kasaragod Medical College Hospital (MCH)functional. The posts were created so as to make a 300-bed hospital with a 24-hour emergency medicine division and OP/IP facilities feasible. The posts created include that of 91 doctors and 182 non-academic staff. The appointment to half of these posts would be done immediately. Kasaragod district accounts for more than half the number of COVID 19 patients currently under treatment in the State at 132. The CM said the police would not confiscate the vehicles of those detained on suspicion of having violated COVID-19 lockdown without due reason. Instead, officers would fine the suspects and allow them to take their vehicles. The police had found it difficult to accommodate the large numbers of cars they impounded daily. For one, on Wednesday the police seized 1,919 vehicles and arrested 2,607 persons for curfew violation. Mr. Vijayan said there were news reports about hospitals facing shortage of blood and appealed to all voluntary organisations involved in blood donation to intervene. He said that mobile blood collection units could be arranged. He warned people against disposing of used masks and gloves carelessly on public roads as the SARS-CoV-2 virus can stay alive on such surfaces for a few hours.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/273-posts-in-kasaragod-mch/article31294667.ece
09 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Panchayats in emergency mode||The government has initiated efforts to create the necessary emergency response infrastructure in rural areas as part of the fight against COVID-19. Buildings that could be converted into first-line treatment centres have been identified in 67 grama panchayats that may emerge as COVID-19 hotspots. Buildings Preparations are on to equip 2,378 buildings in rural areas as COVID care centres and another 1,383 buildings to store foodgrains. As many as 183 medical officers have been posted to primary health centres to augment the manpower resources, and a list of doctors, nurses, para medics, lab technicians, medical students and palliative care workers identified for the constitution of a reserve force in panchayats made. An official press note issued here says 1,037 community kitchens are functioning in 941 grama panchayats across the State to provide food for the needy during the lockdown period. Kitchens The kitchens have so far supplied cooked food to 19,24,827 persons, of which 17,38,192 persons were provided free meals. As many as 134 Janakeeya (people’s) hotels have also been opened in rural areas, and panchayats have deployed volunteers for home delivery. Besides, ward-level health committees, health monitoring committees and emergency response teams are providing food, medicines and essential goods for those in home quarantine and keeping a close tab on their health. War rooms have been opened at the panchayat directorate and district offices to coordinate the activities and collate information to be passed on to the government. As many as 20 temporary labour camps have also been set up by panchayats to accommodate migrant workers.  Preparations are on to equip 2,378 buildings in rural areas as COVID care centres||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/panchayats-in-emergency-mode/article31294696.ece
09 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Certificates for those who completed quarantine||In the initial days of COVID-19 quarantining, neighbours and residents of the area have been the main sources of information for the civic bodies whenever one person or the other jumped quarantine and went off to the nearby shop or junction. However, with many of them completing the quarantine period successfully now, the prospect of them facing continued surveillance has made the city Corporation think of issuing a certificate for each of them. On Wednesday, Mayor K. Sreekumar presented ‘quarantine completion certificates’ to six who completed quarantine. A token of appreciation “We decided to issue the certificates due to two main reasons. One, there are chances of the public viewing them with a suspicious eye when they go out after the quarantine. This certificate could save them from such issues. Secondly, the certificate is a token of appreciation for staying inside during the entire quarantine period,” says Mr. Sreekumar. Till Wednesday, 234 people within the city completed their quarantine period. The first certificate was issued to Chacka resident Aparna Jyothi, a student in Bengaluru. Two other students from the area also got the certificates. Currently, 2,170 people are under quarantine in the city. The information of almost everyone under quarantine have now been fed into the Corporation’s geo-fencing mobile application, which will track their movement using GPS, and alert the civic body if they moved out of the designated area.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/certificates-for-those-who-completed-quarantine/article31294709.ece
09 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Panel for extended curbs on air travel||Air travel from other countries and States into Kerala should not be allowed till full relaxation of the lockdown restrictions, an expert committee headed by former Chief Secretary K.M. Abraham has recommended. However, Non-Resident Keralites (NoRKs) stranded in various countries should be brought home in a phased manner. The committee, in its report to the government, has come up with a protocol for screening those coming to the State. All returnees should be subjected to a thorough serological test and if found positive for COVID-19 should be quarantined. A confirmatory RT-PCR test should be followed within a day or two. If they are asymptomatic and the RTPCR is negative, they could be quarantined at home with telemedicine/telementoring. Till such time as such a protocol could be ensured, the returnees should be quarantined for 28 days at corona care centres. The committee has suggested that selected hotel facilities be converted into corona care centres and NoRKs be shifted to these centres. Housekeeping and front office personnel in these hotels should be trained in paramedical services. Documentary proof NoRKs who submit documentary evidence of being COVID-19 negative as per tests done in the countries from where they come should be given free access and stay at home under surveillance for 14 days if the test is as per specifications. The District Medical Officer would have to certify the acceptability of the test conducted abroad. The committee said all new entrants to the State should undergo 14-day home quarantine. Border control procedures should be established jointly by the Health and Police departments. The district administration should institute special tracking mechanisms for monitoring and mobile positioning apps or RFID bracelets should be used.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/panel-for-extended-curbs-on-air-travel/article31294678.ece
09 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||GO on aided college workload under review||Facing backlash from a section of the teaching community, job aspirants, and college managements, the State government is reviewing its order on modifying workload norms for ‘creating teaching posts in aided arts and science colleges’. The move has come against the backdrop of an intervention by the CPI(M) State leadership to broker peace in the issue that apparently found two of its feeder organisations adopting conflicting perspectives. File recalled The Finance Department is learnt to have recalled the file pertaining to the Government Order along with representations that have been made by various fora to the Higher Education Department. Major concerns Besides increasing the workload of teachers in aided colleges from 9 hours to 16 hours per week as a criterion to sanction new posts, the Higher Education Department removed the weightage that considered each teaching hour of postgraduate (PG) classes as equivalent to one-and-a-half hours while calculating workload for staff fixation. Taking exception to the move, college teachers including the members of CPI(M)-affiliate All Kerala Private College Teachers’ Association had maintained that it would have far-reaching consequences. Under the existing circumstances, the reform would lead to staff strength in PG departments decreasing from five to three, they claimed, adding the provision that posts created on the basis of “workload less than 16 hours will vanish on the retirement/resignation/relieving of the teacher” could lead to a loss of roughly over 2,000 periods over a certain period of time. Social media campaign An aggressive social media campaign appears to have resonated among job aspirants who fear the move could lead to a virtual appointment freeze to teaching posts for at least 10 years. While the Finance Department had insisted the order be implemented to realise its promise of creating 1,000 teaching posts in the aided sector, critics claimed that they were meant to address the inadequacy of posts for those courses that had been created by the previous United Democratic Front (UDF) government in 2013 and not compensate for the expected loss of seats caused by modifying workload norms. Government sources said the reform was in continuance of the ongoing scrutiny of post creation in the aided sector that previously saw the dispensation flagging violations of the Pupil-Teacher Ratio, prescribed in the Right to Education Act, in appointments in aided schools.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/go-on-aided-college-workload-under-review/article31294668.ece
09 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Local bodies may defer capital spending||The State government will have to revisit the sectoral fund ceilings set for local bodies and also prompt them to defer capital expenditure for at least a year to channelise maximum resources for bolstering health-care infrastructure facilities in the wake of the COVID-19 outbreak. Other than 25% of the Plan funds, 9.5% of the State’s revenue is being religiously apportioned to local governments for meeting their committed expenditure, comprising salary and administrative costs, and for constructing and maintaining roads and buildings. In the present context, a cut in Plan size will eventually have its impact on the allocation down the line, but the State’s share may remain untouched. The resource crunch triggered by the virus spread may force the government to take a more realistic view of the Plan size and route more funds for enhancing the health-care facilities and educational infrastructure facilities. Local Administration Department sources told The Hindu that considering the spurt in revenue expenditure, local governments would have to defer projects for constructing roads and similar facilities at least till the State succeeds in containing the damage incurred by the virus spread. Sources say in deferring such infrastructural projects, the local bodies would not have to bother about inviting criticism, as the move is in the face of a crisis. Also, the proactive role being played by local bodies by setting up community kitchens and also enforcing quarantine in their area has increased their stock among the public. Even some of their harsh critics have hailed their pivotal role in handling the situation-related emergencies. MGNREGS More accent will have to be laid for using the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS) for asset creation and for planned investment in the agriculture and animal husbandry sectors. Though the State has set a remarkable record in executing the job scheme, it needs to be optimised further by creating durable public assets for posterity. This could be done without upsetting the job component through meticulous planning. Given the volume of funds expended through the job scheme, it could be used for enhancing public facilities. It will also increase the spending capacity of the rural poor. In the current context, the Centre may not slash the allocation for the scheme, say sources. If their community-based interventions made to complement the State’s virus containment efforts are any hint, the local bodies could resort to more such service activities that will not incur added financial burden. There is a crying need for such a reorientation and it may come up for active consideration of the government soon, sources say.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/local-bodies-may-defer-capital-spending/article31294690.ece
09 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Raids across State yield 7,557 kg of inedible fish||Officials of the Health and Food Safety Departments carried out raids across the State on Wednesday and seized 7,557 kg of contaminated and rotten fish. Notices were issued to 15 persons and Health Minister K.K. Shylaja warned of stern action against those found using hazardous chemicals for preservation of fish. “The government will crackdown on those resorting to such means to boost profit at a time when the masses are facing much hardship,” the Minister said. The raids carried out at 184 locations on Wednesday under Operation Sagar Rani yielded 196 kg of rotten and contaminated fish from various places in Kottayam, 195 kg in Idukki, 4,030 kg in Ernakulam and 1,300 kg in Kannur district. About 25 kg of rotten prawns were seized from the Cherthala market and 1,700 kg of tuna and shrimp from Thrissur. With Wednesday’s raids, a total of 43,081 kg of fish had been seized under the operation over the last few days, an official press note issued here said. A good word While lauding the officials who were involved in the operation, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan sounded a note of caution, saying that all shipments of fish from Tamil Nadu were not stale goods and authorities should scientifically examine the consignments before condemning them for destruction.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/raids-across-state-yield-7557-kg-of-inedible-fish/article31294694.ece
09 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Disinfection tunnels to be set up at hospitals||The district panchayat is installing disinfection tunnels at hospitals as part of COVID-19 prevention measures. Tourism Minister Kadakampally Surendran will inaugurate the walk-through enclosure at the Government Medical College Hospital on Thursday. Eight hospitals are being equipped with the facility in the first phase. At the medical college, the tunnels will be equipped at the entrances to the OP, super specialty and casualty wings. The main entrance to the SAT Hospital also will be equipped in a similar manner. The other hospitals included in Phase I are the General Hospital and the district hospitals at Neyyattinkara, Peroorkada and Nedumangad. The disinfection tunnels are being supplied by Bharat Aerosol Industrial Pvt. Ltd, Kollam. The district panchayat had earlier supplied large quantities of masks and sanitisers for the COVID-19 prevention programme. Steps were also taken to start community kitchens to ensure food supply to all.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/disinfection-tunnels-to-be-set-up-at-hospitals/article31294713.ece
09 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Mohanlal’s words of solace to health workers||When Health Minister K.K. Shylaja joined health workers under observation for a videoconferencing session, they had a surprise guest waiting for them. Actor Mohanlal joined them in the conference from his home in Chennai, even crooning the song ‘Lokam muzhuvan sukham pakaraanaay’, as a dedication for them. The doctors, nurses and other health workers, after their days of duty in the isolation ward, have to compulsorily remain under observation for 14 days. The videoconference session was organised to provide mental support to these health workers. Around 250 health workers from all the districts joined in the session. The actor said he considered himself lucky to have got such an opportunity to interact with the health workers. In such an hour of crisis, the immense efforts they were putting in to save lives were a matter of pride for everyone. They provided a lot of hope to those who were affected by COVID-19, he said. The cinema industry was ready to provide any kind of support. Kerala’s place had gone up several notches globally, thanks to the work of thousands of health workers, from cleaning staff to doctors, and the able leadership of the Health Minister, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mohanlals-words-of-solace-to-health-workers/article31294669.ece
09 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Experts suggest effective use of digital technology||Pointing out that the COVID-19 pandemic had given many new insights into epidemic control, an expert committee headed by former Chief Secretary K.M. Abraham has stressed the need for effective use of modern digital technology and urged the government to invest substantially in research involving Machine Learning (ML) and Artificial Intelligence (AI) technologies that are extensively used in predicting epidemic outbreaks and for monitoring around the world. On future health research, the committee has said research papers from other countries have showed that it has been possible to identify, retrospectively, bio-markers that predicte prognosis of epidemics. The State should initiate data collection and research to analyse case sheets and laboratory test results from different COVID-19 hospitals and collate them to see if there are distinctive patterns of the disease progression. This would help the State’s preparedness for meeting the challenges in the future. As part of the lockdown reversal strategy, the committee has said the Centre should formulate schemes and allocate funds for undertaking sero-epidemiological study, gene sequencing, solidarity trial of WHO and Cuban Interferon, drug trials and convalescent serum-based research and antigen testing. All States should be encouraged to initiate seroprevalence study of COVID-19 to understand the community spread of the disease and also to formulate appropriate State health system policies. Currently, testing for COVID-19 is confined to viral and antibody testing. Attempts are being made by institutions such as the Sree Chitra Tirunal Institute of Medical Sciences and Technology to develop an antigen test for COVID-19. This should be encouraged with funding and other requirements.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/experts-suggest-effective-use-of-digital-technology/article31294680.ece
09 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Nutrition kits for senior citizens among tribes||In view of the COVID-19 scenario, the district administration is distributing nutrition kits to senior citizens among Scheduled Tribes. Every individual aged above 60 will be eligible for a kit containing 3 kg of broken wheat and half a kg each of red cowpea, green gram and jaggery and oil. District Collector K. Gopalakrishnan launched the initiative on Wednesday by distributing kits to beneficiaries of Podiyam village in Kuttichal grama panchayat. In all, 3,078 Scheduled Tribe members in the district from Vithura, Palode, Nanniyode, Amboori, Vellarada, Ottasekharamangalam, Pangode, Pozhiyoor and Tholikode stand to benefit from the programme. Mr. Gopalakrishnan toured the tribal village at Podiyam for assessing the availability of essential commodities during the lockdown.   Meanwhile, the district panchayat has posted volunteers to ensure the supply of essential commodities and medicines in 206 tribal settlements in 12 grama panchayats in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/nutrition-kits-for-senior-citizens-among-tribes/article31294710.ece
09 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||CM refutes RSS claim on migrant workers’ plight||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Wednesday refuted a news report that Union Minister Smriti Irani had rushed aid to other-State workers caught in the COVID-19 lockdown in Wayanad after the State government failed them. Mr. Vijayan said Organiser, the mouthpiece of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS), had carried the “false report” from New Delhi and some other mainstream media outlets had echoed the same without verification. He said 41 migrant workers bivouacked on a camp provided by their employer on Afzal. The panchayat authorities had inspected the camp and supplied the workers with essentials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cm-refutes-rss-claim-on-migrant-workers-plight/article31294665.ece
09 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Labour Minister’s plea||Labour Minister T.P. Ramakrishnan has urged Union Labour Minister Santhoshkumar Gangwar to provide economic relief to all employees an employers covered under the Employees' State Insurance (ESI) scheme in the wake of the COVID-19 outbreak. In a letter to the Minister, Mr. Ramakrishnan urged him to relax the ESI norms for providing superspecialty care to its subscribers till the lockdown is lifted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/labour-ministers-plea/article31294691.ece
09 April 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||Train passengers complete quarantine period, sent home||The 225 train passengers who were under quarantine at Kerala Institute of Local Administration (KILA) completed the observation period on Wednesday. They were sent home in KSRTC buses. The passengers reached Thrissur railway station on March 25 by Dibrugarh–Kanyakumari Vivek Express. The District Collector, who visited KILA on Wednesday, gave them permission to go home. They were sent home in six KSRTC buses. District panchayat president Mary Thomas flagged off the bus service. However, passengers from other States have to continue at KILA till the end of the lockdown period. Guest workers were shifted to camps. Food and essential goods for them had been arranged by the district administration. The service of volunteers were also provided. Health, revenue and civic officials at Cherpulassery in Palakkad bid farewell on Wednesday to a group of persons who completed two weeks’ quarantine at Kerala Medical College. They were part of a larger group that reached Palakkad Junction Railway Station by Dibrugarh-Kanyakumari Vivek Express from different States two weeks ago. They were placed under quarantine first at Government Victoria College, Palakkad, and later at Kerala Medical College, Cherpulassery. Seventy of them left for their homes on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/train-passengers-complete-quarantine-period-sent-home/article31294653.ece
09 April 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||Health experts for One Health approach||Public health and animal health experts have called for following the One Health concept in view of reports of animals contracting COVID-19. One Health is an approach that recognises that the health of human beings is closely connected to the health of animals and the shared environment. An expert committee headed by former Chief Secretary K. M. Abraham also has mooted the One Health system in view of a large number of zoonotic diseases affecting humans. Many countries, the committee says, have started adopting the system and the Centre should follow suit by establishing an appropriate institutional framework. Public health and veterinary services should work together on the One Health approach to share information and conduct risk assessment when a person with COVID-19 reports of being in contact with animals, says B. Sunil, Professor and head, Kerala Veterinary and Animal Sciences University ( KVASU) meat technology centre, Mannuthy, Thrissur. Veterinary and public health experts suggest good rearing practices and risk-assessment strategies to contain the emerging threat. COVID-19 infection has been reported in a tiger from the Bronx zoological park, New York. Besides, unofficial reports from Belgium and Hong Kong indicate man-to-cat transmission of the disease. To date, there has been no evidence that companion animals have spread the disease. Currently, COVID-19 spread is owing to human-to-human transmission, T.P. Sethumadhavan, former director, Kerala Veterinary and Animal Sciences University (KVASU), says. “Keeping animals that test positive for COVID-19 away from unexposed animals should be considered the best practice,” Dr. Sunil says.  Safety of products People should take all hygienic measures while visiting live animal markets, wet markets, or animal product markets. Contact with sick animals or spoiled animal products should be strictly avoided, Dr. Sunil says. Contact with other animals, possibly living in the market (eg, stray cats and dogs, rodents, birds, and bats), should be avoided. Care should be taken to avoid contact with animal waste. As per general food safety practices, raw meat, milk, or animal organs should be handled with care. Meat from healthy livestock prepared and served in accordance with good hygienic practices is safe to eat, Dr. Sunil says.  Veterinary support During their routine work, veterinarians have the responsibility to safeguard their health and that of their colleagues and clients. Appropriate levels of bio-security are to be implemented. Animal owners are to be informed of the precautionary measures in place, including social distancing. The Animal Husbandry Department has issued necessary instructions in this regard, Dr. Sethumadhavan says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/health-experts-for-one-health-approach/article31294677.ece
09 April 2020||April 09 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Early intervention helps medical team fight pandemic||Though four more COVID-19 positive cases were reported in Kannur on Wednesday, the district administration and the Health Department have something to cheer about. Their efforts to combat the disease have reaped results as 26 COVID-19 patients have completely recovered and returned home after treatment. District Collector T.V. Subhash, who convened a review meeting on Wednesday, congratulated all health workers and officials for the achievement. District Nodal Officer Dr. N. Abhilash told The Hindu that early intervention helped the medical team identify patients. Many who were tested positive were in the early stage of the disease and did not have a severe condition, he said. “Since most of the 26 patients were in the age group of 30 to 40 years, they recovered fast,” he said adding that all the patients contracted the disease from abroad. The district has reported 60 positive cases including the four cases tested positive on Wednesday. There are 9,403 people under observation, which include 9,311 in home quarantine. In Kasaragod In Kasaragod, six patients have been completely recovered so far. Those who went home after treatment were also in the age group between 20 and 40 years, said health officials. With one more testing positive on Wednesday, the district reported 152 COVID-19 cases. District Surveillance Officer A.T. Manoj said many patients did not reach hospitals in the early stage of the disease. In Thrissur One more COVID-19 case was reported in Thrissur district on Wednesday. The patient is a relative of a person who was tested positive earlier. There are 15,716 persons under observation in the district. In Wayanad Two persons who tested positive for COVID-19 and remained in isolation at the District Hospital, Mananthavady in Wayanad district, were discharged after recovering from the disease on Wednesday. According to the hospital administration, Alikutty, 50, of Kokkottil at Thondarnadu, who returned from Abu Dhabi, and Abdul Razak, 56, of Mukkil Valappil at Kambalakkad, who returned from Dubai were discharged on Monday. They have been advised to remain in home quarantine for 28 days. District Collector Adeela Abdulla visited the hospital on the day when the two persons were sent home. Ms. Abdulla said that it was a proud moment for Wayanad district and the recovery was made possible owing to the sincere and tireless efforts of the physicians, nurses, and other staff members of the hospital. District Medical Officer R. Renuka lauded the medical team of the hospital for its dedication and teamwork. A 28-year-old patient from Muppainad grama panchayat who returned from Dubai, was still in the hospital and his condition was improving, Dr. Renuka said. As many as 12,102 persons were under observation in the district, Dr. Renuka said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/early-intervention-helps-medical-team-fight-pandemic/article31294662.ece
09 April 2020||April 09 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Pvt. pharmacists seek inclusion in high-risk category||Private pharmacists have urged the government to include them in the high-risk category of health workers and provide protective measures against possible COVID-19 transmission. Galileo George, member, Kerala State Pharmacy Council, said on Wednesday that even ration dealers had been included in the high-risk category. “However, pharmacists working in private medical shops, hospitals, and clinics were left out of its ambit though we too are in direct contact with different cross-sections of society. We too are at risk,” he said. During the initial days of the lockdown, pharmacy stores were asked to operate between 10 a.m. and 7 p.m. Now, the working hours were between 8 a.m. and 5 p.m., Mr. George, a former State general secretary of the Kerala Private Pharmacists’ Association (KPPA), said. Mr. George added that some of them had bought masks and gloves on their own to ward off the threat of infection after the government urged people to be careful. “But private pharmacists also need other security measures as we are in direct contact with patients and their relatives on a daily basis,” he added. Coverage sought Meanwhile, Medical Laboratory Owners’ Association has sought the inclusion of paramedical employees working in private clinical laboratories in the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Package for Health Workers Fighting COVID-19, which was recently announced by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitaraman. A memorandum has been sent to the Prime Minister through Members of Parliament from the State and also directly to the Finance Minister and the Health Minister in this regard.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pvt-pharmacists-seek-inclusion-in-high-risk-category/article31294651.ece
09 April 2020||April 09 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||CM flays attack on student||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Wednesday expressed outrage that some “anti-social” elements had attacked the house of a student under observation for suspected COVID-19 symptoms in Pathanamthitta soon after she sought the protection of his office against the same group. Mr Vijayan said the police should identify and arrest the accused and ensure that they were convicted for their crime so that the action would deter others of the same menacing mindset. He urged the people in the neighbourhood to rally behind the family in their locality at Thannithode. He demanded that they isolate the miscreants socially. The CM said the assailants had also made attempts on social media to stigmatise the family and had made threats against the student’s father. When pointed out that at least a few of the attackers owned allegiance to the Communist Party of India (Marxist), Mr Vijayan said the political loyalties of individuals did not matter if they acted criminally against fellow citizens.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cm-flays-attack-on-quarantined-student-in-pathanamthitta/article31294681.ece
09 April 2020||April 09 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Lockdown blues||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/lockdown-blues/article31294655.ece
09 April 2020||April 09 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Silent paths||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/silent-paths/article31294720.ece
09 April 2020||April 09 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||In safe mode||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/in-safe-mode/article31294723.ece
09 April 2020||April 09 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Relief at last||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/relief-at-last/article31294684.ece
09 April 2020||April 09 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||COVID effect||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/covid-effect/article31294699.ece
09 April 2020||April 09 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||NoRKs could consult doctors via video telephony||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Wednesday said non-resident Keralites (NoRKs) in need of medical counsel could consult specialist doctors in the State through a special video telephony portal to be set up by the Department of Non-Resident Keralites Affairs (NoRKA). Experts of various disciplines ranging from general medicine to ophthalmology would come online between 2 p.m. and 6 p.m. Indian Standard Time (IST) to offer their advice to patients privately. The CM expressed concern that members of the Malayali diaspora, spread across the globe, were falling victim to the COVID-19 contagion. The State had received scores of calls from NoRKs seeking medical counsel and aid. The government had persuaded Malayali associations in at least five countries to set up help desks and channel their local resources to help their needy brethren caught helpless and without food or medicine in the global lockdown, he said. The State had also sought the help of the Centre to instruct Indian embassies in those countries to support the Malayali diaspora. It planned to expand the help desk network across the globe soon, the CM said. The government would make NoRKA registration cards mandatory for students studying abroad. It would accord insurance coverage for scholars and subsidy in airfare.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/norks-could-consult-doctors-via-video-telephony/article31294689.ece
09 April 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Four medical staff among 7 new cases in Anantapur||A 70-year-old man from Kalyandurg in Anantapur district became the fifth victim of COVID-19 in the State. Four people working at the Government General Hospital, including two doctors, are among seven persons who have tested positive for COVID-19 in Anantapur on Wednesday, according to Collector Gandham Chandrudu. With the seven new cases, the total number of positive cases has shot up from six to 13 in the district. District Medical and Health Officer K.V.N.S. Anil Kumar said at a press conference that six of the seven new positive cases were due to local transmission from the 58-year-old patient from Hindupur, who died while being treated at the GGH here on April 4. Two doctors and two paramedical staff, who attended to the patient before it was known that he was suffering from COVID-19, tested positive. The patient’s wife and son also tested positive. The seventh person who tested positive hails from Kalyandurg and had travelled to Delhi. Hunt on for 65 contacts “It was the negligence of the GGH staff in not suspecting the patient to be COVID-19 positive, which led to the spread of the infection. The patient was a regular visitor to GGH with bronchial problems and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), which led to complacency among the medical staff,” Dr. Anil Kumar said. The son of the deceased COVID-19 patient is a Registered Medical Practitioner at Hindupur and had treated 65 other patients after contracting the virus and had also treated his own father, it is learnt. The district administration is now scrambling to locate all those who came in contact with the RMP. The district so far has collected 312 samples, 13 of which have tested positive and 87 negative. Results of 112 samples are awaited. With the capacity of Anantapur VDRL Laboratory at the Government Medical College being limited, the authorities have sent some samples to SVIMS, Tirupati and are in touch with a private laboratory called VIMTA Labs in Hyderabad to get more samples tested there if needed, Dr. Anil Kumar said. ‘No dearth of masks’ The Collector said that there was no dearth of Personal Protection Equipment (PPE) for doctors and paramedical staff attending to suspected or confirmed COVID-19 patients. The district currently has 1,711 PPEs, 3,241 N-95 masks, 53,692 normal masks, 2.17 lakh surgical gloves, 90 HIV surgical kits and 4,226 delivery kits in addition to others. All these have been positioned in various places to enable immediate replenishment, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/four-medical-staff-among-7-new-cases-in-anantapur/article31294795.ece
09 April 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Number of positive cases goes up in Kurnool to 75||The number of COVID-19 positive cases in Kurnool district has gone up to 75, with another case emerging from Alyuru in Nandyal mandal on Wednesday afternoon. District Medical and Health Officer Ramagiddaiah said that all the 550 primary contacts of this positive person have been identified and shifted to a government quarantine facility. Sufficient number of Personal Protective Equipments(PPEs), N-95 Masks and other requisite protective gear were provided to doctors, paramedical staff, drivers, sanitation staff working at the Shantiram Hospital, Viswabharathi Hospital and the Government General Hospital(GGH), the official said. So far in the district, 840 persons with foreign travel history and 358 attendees of Tablighi Jamaat event in Delhi have been identified and are being tested. “In cases where one tests positive to the virus, their close contacts will also be tested,” he added. Meanwhile, Government Kazi, Mufti Md. Abdus Salami Kausar Quasmi, appealed to the Muslim community not to visit the Kabristan for ‘Badi Raat’ Namaz and instead read it at home. In a video call, he thanked District Collector G. Veerapandian and Superintendent of Police Fakkeerappa Kaginelli for their efforts in curbing the spread of the virus. Mr. Fakkeerappa also appealed to people to abide by the lockdown rules, adding that vegetables, groceries and other essential medicines would be supplied at their doorstep.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/number-of-positive-cases-goes-up-in-kurnool-to-75/article31294800.ece
09 April 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rain damages crops in Kurnool, Anantapur||Heavy winds and rain at isolated places in Kurnool and Anantapur districts in the last two days damaged agriculture and horticulture crops. In Anantapur, paddy and maize crops were hit resulting in an estimated loss of Rs. 93 lakh. Joint Director Agriculture Pottipati Wilson said paddy in 86 hectares and maize in 44 hectares was damaged by winds in Beluguppa, D. Hirehal, Kothacheruvu, Bukkapatnam and Bukkarayasamudram mandals. In Kurnool district, paddy and maize was damaged in Jupadu Bangala, Midthuru, Owk, Holagunda and Halahavri mandals, he said maize was damaged in 66.20 hectares and paddy in 665.6 hectares. Horticulture crops were also damaged, but the department was yet to ascertain the extent of damage, Horticulture Deputy Director Subbarayudu said. Till Tuesday, the damage was assessed at 15 hectares in Beluguppa with mango in 12 hectares and 1.6 hectares of other crops. A field visit showed fallen banana plantation in Rotarypuram in Bukkarayasamudram mandal, with six farmers suffering loss in 21 acres. In Mudigubba, a large plantation of papaya in over two acres was completely damaged. Elsewhere roses and other flowers had fallen to the ground. Meanwhile, Agriculture Research Station, Rekulakunta Agrometeorologist S. Malleswari Sadhineni said that thundershowers and rain was predicted over Kadapa and Chittoor districts on Wednesday night and Thursday, as the trough of low pressure was now passing from Rayalaseema to Tamil Nadu across interior Karnataka. Light to Moderate rain or thundershowers were likely to occur at Isolated places over entire Rayalaseema and lightnings over Chittoor and Kadapa.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rain-damages-crops-in-kurnool-anantapur/article31294793.ece
09 April 2020||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Karnataka moots salary cuts for Ministers, MLAs||Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa has called a meeting of the State Cabinet at 11 a.m. on Thursday and it is expected to take a decision on slashing monthly salaries and allowances of MLAs, MLCs, and Ministers. The expected salary/allowances cut is around 30%. Reliable sources said that Mr. Yediyurappa held a telephonic conversation with Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah and consulted him on the salary cut. The Congress leader has reportedly endorsed the Chief Minister’s suggestion. The Union Cabinet has decided to reduce salaries of MPs by 30% and has suspended MPLAD funds for two years to mobilise more funds to fight COVID-19. The Cabinet is expected to discuss methods to be adopted in case of extension of the COVID-19 lockdown in hotspot districts and its impact on the State’s finances. Cabinet Ministers are also expected to brief the Chief Minister of the actions taken by their departments in handling the impact of the disease. Issues related to health, agriculture, and agricultural marketing, transport, drinking water situation, free distribution of KMF milk, rations under PDS, inter-district transportation, and holding of SSLC and PU examinations are likely to figure in the meeting, sources said. The Finance Department is expected to brief the Cabinet on the impact of lockdown on the fiscal situation, including slowdown in revenue mobilisation from different departments. The State government has constituted 17 task forces in various fields and the government is expected to look into the suggestions of the task forces while taking decisions. Based on the output received from different districts, departments, and task forces, the Cabinet meeting is expected to chalk out a plan to deal with the situation in case the lockdown is extended as demanded by some State CMs. The Cabinet may take a call on forming a team of Ministers to give suggestions to the Centre on the lockdown and its likely relaxation in COVID-19-free districts of the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/karnataka-moots-salary-cuts-for-ministers-mlas/article31294263.ece
09 April 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||COVID-19 cases touch 20 in Chittoor district||Three new cases of COVID-19 surfaced in Chittoor district on Wednesday, with two persons from Nagari municipality and one in Tirupati testing positive for the disease. With this, the total number of cases rose to 20 in the district. Confirming the three new cases, Collector Narayana Bharat Gupta told reporters that 444 samples were sent for tests, of which 374 tested negative while results were awaited for 50 samples. He said that the fresh cases were related to those who had already tested positive and were under isolation after returning from the Tablighi Jamaat meeting in Delhi. The Collector said that there was no dearth of masks and personal protective equipment (PPE) for the medical and paramedical staff on COVID-19 duty in the district. Meanwhile, Nagari town wore a deserted look even during the relaxation period as two new cases were reported here from Ramnagar Colony. Senior medical officials along with revenue and police personnel rushed to the Mandal Parishad Development Office, and chalked out an action plan that included a second round of spraying disinfectants in the red zone. With this, the total number of COVID-19 positive cases touched five in Nagari Assembly constituency, with three earlier cases in Nagari town and at Nindra mandal headquarters.  Roads deserted The rise in tally led to panic among denizens in several places of Nagari constituency. Roads became deserted with two hours still to go for the relaxation period to end. At Nagari and Puttur, several supermarkets ran out of stock, forcing people to search frantically for provisions. By 11 a.m. sharp, police personnel took over vital junctions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/covid-19-cases-touch-20-in-chittoor-district/article31294796.ece
09 April 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||All Jamaat meet returnees and contacts have been traced: DGP||Police have tracked the identity and contacts of all 1,167 persons who attended a gathering at the Alami Markaz Banglewadi Masjid, the headquarters of Tablighi Jamaat in the Nizamuddin area of Delhi during March, Director-General of Police Gautam Sawang said here on Wednesday. “We have accounted for everyone and only 132 persons are now out of the State and some are in Delhi. The AP Police is playing a major role in the identification of their primary and secondary contacts of those who tested positive for COVID-19 and in cluster containment of the zones, where persons have tested positive. So far, we have identified 146 red zones in the State and this number might change later,’’ the DGP told reporters here. Mr. Sawang along with Guntur range IG J. Prabhakara Rao, Collector I. Samuel Ananda Kumar and DIG PHD Ramakrishna visited the areas declared as red zones in the city.  ‘Delicate situation’ While stating that AP is among the States which has managed the global pandemic well, the DGP admitted that there were still uncertainties like asymptomatic nature of the disease. “We will however, win the war against this global scourge with the combined effort of the government and the general public, who have showed great restraint and compliance during the lockdown period,’’ said the DGP. While explaining the way the police were able to successfully track the affected persons and their families, Mr. Sawang said initially, the focus was on foreign returnees. The data from the Bureau of Immigration revealed that 21,000 persons returned from various countries during March, but later, it emerged that only 11 tested positive. He said it took time to collect information regarding the number of people from the State that attended the Delhi meeting. Since there were many other attendees from other Asian countries, the virus spread had been swift, the DGP pointed out.  Calibrated exit hinted Hinting that the State government could go in for a calibrated exit from the lockdown, the DGP said he was not in favour of resuming public transport any time soon. Police would clamp down on any one posting messages on social media misleading people over possible cures for the disease and added that 47 cases had been booked so far. Additional DGP Tripathi, SP, Guntur Rural, Ch. Vijaya Rao, Joint Collector AS Dinesh Kumar and Municipal Commissioner C. Anuradha were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/all-jamaat-meet-returnees-and-contacts-have-been-traced-dgp/article31294811.ece
09 April 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Nine more test positive in Guntur district||Nine more persons tested positive in the district on Wednesday taking the total number of positive cases to 50. Now, more number of people are getting tested at the COVID test lab at Guntur Medical College. Samples of as many as 138 persons were tested on Wednesday and nine of them tested positive. District Collector I. Samuel Ananda Kumar said that lockdown would be implemented strictly and asked people to stay indoors in the last week of lockdown. Barricading of the areas declared as red zones would be further strengthened and police personnel from APSP were being drafted for bandobast duties. There was a scramble among people to buy essential commodities in the town as the lockdown relaxation was reduced to three hours (6 a.m. to 9 a.m.). Out of 40 cases identified in Guntur so far, eight cases have been reported from Guntur West constituency, two each from Koretipadu and Nallacheruvu and four from Srinivasarao Thota. Minister for Home Mekathoti Sucharita on Wednesday inaugurated the Fever Hospital and said that six isolation wards were set up at the hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/nine-more-test-positive-in-guntur-district/article31294303.ece
09 April 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Guntur chilli yard closed down||Asia’s largest chilli market here has been shut down amid a growing number of positive cases in the district. The decision to close down the market in the peak of season when over a lakh bags of chilli are traded was taken at the end of a meeting with representatives of traders, farmers and market yard chairman. Collector I. Samuel Ananda Kumar said that the chilli yard would be closed until further orders. The decision was taken after a person was tested positive at Srinivasara Thota which falls within 3 km radius of the cluster. He said traders could buy chilli from other market yards at Piduguralla, Sattenapalli, and Durgi. The situation in the town continues to be tense after eight new cases were reported on Tuesday. The authorities have declared 10 areas as cluster containment zones. Areas in Guntur West, Koretipadu, Sai Baba Road, Chaitanyapuri Colony were also declared the cluster containment zones. There was a scramble among the people to buy essential commodities after lockdown restrictions were relaxed from 6 a.m. to 9 a.m. Police were tough as they stopped many commuters from going ahead. Pillion-riders were stopped and counselled at barricades.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/guntur-chilli-yard-closed-down/article31294301.ece
09 April 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘CM proved commitment to social justice’||Advisor to to the State government, Sajjala Ramakrishna Reddy, has said that Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has again proved his commitment to social justice by providing 50% reservations to weaker sections and women in the Executive Councils (ECs) of universities in the State. “In 14 Universities of the State, 50% reservations were provided to SCs, STs, BCs, minorities and the Chief Minister was particular that women should get half of the posts,’’ said Mr. Ramakrishna Reddy. Of the 116 persons who made it to the ECs, 58 are women. There were 360 applications which were shortlisted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cm-proved-commitment-to-social-justice/article31294304.ece
09 April 2020||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kerala infant gets treatment for eye cancer in Hyderabad||The power of social media and the joint effort of Kerala and Telangana governments as well as many other committed healthcare workers and organisations ensured that baby Anvitha got her timely chemotherapy treatment for retinoblastoma at the L.V. Prasad Eye Institute here on Wednesday. The baby, aged one year and nine months, hailing from Alappuzha, has been suffering from the life-threatening eye cancer and has been taking treatment at the institute. She was due for next cycle of intra-arterial chemotherapy when the lockdown happened. Her parents, Vineeth Vijayan, an electrician, and Gopika, were worried about travel to Hyderabad as patients like their daughter should not miss or even delay a single chemo cycle. It was then that Mr. Vineeth took to social media and appealed for help. "Help came from so many quarters that I was overwhelmed. My wife received a call from Health Minister K.K. Shailaja within a day of posting in the Facebook. She enquired about the baby’s health and made arrangements, including permissions for our travel to Hyderabad and back by an ambulance with two drivers,” he said. ‘CM enquired’ Mr. Vineeth had come to know later that Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan himself had entrusted the task to Ms. Shailaja on getting to know of the baby’s health condition Anvitha and her parents reached Hyderabad on Tuesday and the baby successfully underwent the treatment. “We were anxious because missing the treatment cycle would have put our daughter’s life in danger. She is much better now and I want to thank each and every person who helped us,” said a grateful Mr. Vineeth. LVPEI’s head of eye cancer services Swathi Kaliki, under whose care Anvitha is, said there were good chances of the baby’s eyesight to be saved as her condition was improving. “Patients undergoing cancer treatment need close monitoring and it is critical to attend all the follow-ups. It is commendable on the part of the parents not to have given up hope because of the lockdown and on the part of several people rushing to their help," she said. Anvitha is getting treatment free of cost at the institute.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kerala-infant-gets-treatment-for-eye-cancer-in-hyderabad/article31294261.ece
09 April 2020||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘South India has high WFH potential’||A research to assess the potential impact, especially economic, of the COVID-19 induced lockdown, on occupations, industries and different districts of the country has been initiated by the Indian School of Business (ISB). Using a 2019 survey of 3,000 workers to measure the impact on over 100 occupations – as defined in the National Classification of Occupations of the Ministry of Labour and Employment – the research assigned a Work from Home Index (WFI) to each occupation. A ‘Human Proximity Index’ (PI) was also assigned to each one of these occupations. Sharing details of the initial findings, of the ongoing study, a release from ISB said the WFI and PI indices were mapped, district-wise and industry-wise, to determine the impact of the current lockdown. In this district-level measure, researchers found that cities had a higher potential for work from home, with many services based from here. Also, some urban districts were found more amenable to work from home. “Surprisingly, not just urban centres like Hyderabad, Delhi or Bangalore fell high on the WFI, but the entire peninsular south India was found to have a high work-from-home potential,” said Shekhar Tomar, faculty in the Economics and Public Policy area at ISB and co-researcher of the study. Some unintuitive findings also came from the study. Most jobs which have a high work from home potential and high human proximity, for example, middle school teaching associates, were found to be highly susceptible to automation, owing to their high work from home potential, the release said. The researchers said sectors which are more prone to working from home may be provided with a policy nudge, like tax breaks, by the government. Organisations might need to design effective policies, practices and initiatives that assist or complement WFH.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/south-india-has-high-wfh-potential/article31294607.ece
09 April 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||KMC bans meat sale on Sundays||The Kakinada Municipal Corporation (KMC) has banned the sale of chicken, mutton, and fish in the dedicated markets on Sundays beginning from April 12. The ban also applies to home delivery service. Municipal Commissioner K. Ramesh Kumar has said that the ban on the sale of chicken, mutton and fish was being imposed to avoid a large number of customers congregating at the markets during the lockdown. The ban will remain in force until the lockdown is lifted or until further orders from the East Godavari district authorities. However, there will be no ban on meat sales in the rest of the week. The Kakinada civic body is gearing up to implement the ban with the support of the police personnel, and has warned of stringent action against those violating the ban.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kmc-bans-meat-sale-on-sundays/article31294799.ece
09 April 2020||KOZHIKODE,ANDHRA PRADESH||A musical balm to lift spirits amid gloom||France may be among the countries worst-hit by COVID-19, but a few days ago, a spirit-lifting video came from there. Fifty-one musicians of the National Orchestra of France played Maurice Ravel’s Bolero from their homes and posted the video that was watched by millions across the globe. Before that, a similar effort by 18 musicians of the Rotterdam Philharmonic Orchestra from the Netherlands had also caught the world’s attention. 3.5 lakh views Now closer home, playback singer K.S. Chithra has put together a Malayalam song that features 22 singers, including Sujatha, Shwetha, Devanand, Vidhu Prathap, Jyotsna, Rimi Tomy, Renjini Jose, Kavalam Sreekumar, Afsal, and Sharreth. That song too has gone viral. It has attracted more than 3.5 lakh views within a day on Chithra’s Facebook page. Not to mention the forwards on other social media platforms such as WhatsApp. “More than 25 people have already forwarded the song to me on WhatsApp,” Devanand told The Hindu . “When Chithra suggested this idea to a group of singers, I liked it straight away and wanted to be a part of it,” he said. Melodious Chithra could not have chosen a more melodious or appropriate song. Lokam muzhuvan sukham pakaran... , written by P. Bhaskaran and composed by Pukazhenthi for the 1972 film Snehadeepame Mizhi Thurakkoo , is one of the finest devotional songs in Malayalam. It was originally sung by S. Janaki. It is one of those songs in which the singer, the lyricist and the composer are at their very best. Lokam muzhuvan... is a prayer, beginning with lines meaning “The light of love, please open your eyes/ To give comfort to the entire world.”  Feedback It is one of Renjini Jose’s favourite songs and she often sings it on her live shows. “So I was glad that Chithra chose this song,” she said. “Even before that, I had selected this song when some others wanted for their campaigns during the lockdown. The feedback has been tremendous,” Renjini said. The other singers Chithra roped in are Nishad, Sreeram, Rakesh Brahmanandan, Teenu Tellence, Ravishankar, Rajalakshmy, Akhila Anand, Sachin Warrier, Sangeetha Sreekanth, Divya Menon, and Ramesh Babu. They have all sang rather well, despite the constraints. You won’t be disappointed by this musical treat, as you sit home.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/a-musical-balm-to-lift-spirits-amid-gloom/article31294265.ece
09 April 2020||Mangaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ambulances allowed to enter Karnataka||A day after Karnataka allowed entry of medical emergency cases from neighbouring Kasaragod district of Kerala through Talapady on NH 66 following Supreme Court intervention, three Kerala government ambulances entered Dakshina Kannada on Wednesday, ferrying patients. The district administration that had already deployed a medical team to screen those bringing goods to Karnataka from Kerala in two shifts has augmented the system by adding another team for an additional shift. The team of a medical doctor and a paramedic from the health department was being assisted by the police to screen the crew of incoming vehicles when The Hindu visited Talapady on Wednesday. District Health Officer Ramachandra Bairy said the health department was adhering to the directions of the district administration. Besides primary checking of documents, the medical team would also check the patient whether he/she was having any symptoms of fever or respiratory illness. Such cases would not be allowed entry as per the government direction, a team member told The Hindu.  Personnel at Talapady check post, led by an Inspector of Police, said three government ambulances ferrying emergency patients with certification from government medical officers of Kasaragod had arrived late on Wednesday. Dakshina Kannada Deputy Commissioner Sindhu B. Rupesh in an order on Tuesday evening said patients in need of emergency medical treatment and road accident victims only would be allowed to enter Dakshina Kannada through Kerala government ambulances via Talapady. Government medical officers of Kasargod have to certify that the patient was non-COVID and the particular treatment was not available in Kasaragod. The ambulance should have only the patient, one attendant, one paramedic along with the driver.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ambulances-allowed-to-enter-karnataka/article31294268.ece
09 April 2020||NELLORE/ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||10 new cases in Nellore, Prakasam districts||Ten more persons, seven in SPSR Nellore and three in Prakasam districts, have tested positive for novel coronavirus on Wednesday. With this, the tally rose to 49 in Nellore district and 27 in Prakasam district, health officials said. Meanwhile, two persons, one each from Nellore and Ongole, have been discharged on recovery. Three of those who tested positive in Nellore on Wednesday included close contacts of an infected doctor who is currently undergoing treatment at a private hospital in Chennai. The doctor’s wife, driver and paramedic had contracted the infection. Meanwhile, a doctor, who came in close contact with him, is missing. With the detection of new cases, all entry points to Magunta Layout were closed to restrict movement of people. The containment action plan was implemented with full vigour in, among other places, Nellore, Naidupeta, Kavali, Gudur, Tada and Vakada. Sanitation drive was stepped up in the affected areas, and police personnel posted at major traffic junctions restricted unnecessary travel. In Prakasam district, all the three persons who tested positive were from the red zone area of Islampet in Ongole. In all, 101 persons who had either returned from New Delhi after attending a religious meet or those who came in contact with them were tested for the disease. Meanwhile, the Prakasam district administration geared up for conducting random rapid testing in the red zone areas in Ongole, including Old Market Centre, Pernamitta and Kondamitta, where positive cases were reported. The health staff concerned were provided with necessary training to conduct the test to prevent the spread of the disease, explained District Collector P. Bhaskar. He appealed to people to confine themselves to their homes to prevent spread of the disease.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/10-new-cases-in-nellore-prakasam-districts/article31294803.ece
09 April 2020||Staff Reporter,ANDHRA PRADESH||MSSRF seeks relief package for marine fishing communities||The M.S. Swaminathan Research Foundation (MSSRF) has appealed to the State government to provide an immediate relief package for marine fishing communities compensating for the COVID-19 lockdown period. The team of MSSRF scientists led by Principal Co-ordinator, Coastal Systems Research (Machilipatnam), R. Ramasubramanian, and technical staff from Kakinada has conducted a field-level study documenting the impact of the lockdown on the coastal fishing communities in the State. “The day-to-day earnings of small-scale fisherfolk have been affected while the income of the fish vendors, mostly women, was greatly lost during the lockdown. The disturbance to the fish supply chain has led to the absence of livelihood for those associated with the ice plants,” Mr. Ramasubramanian said.  Annual ban “This year, the marine fishing communities would have to stop the fishing activity for nearly 90 days as the 60-day annual ban comes into force from April 15 on the East Coast. Andhra Pradesh is one of the most affected States due to the absence of fishing activity for such a long gap,” added Mr. Ramasubramanian. The MSSRF recommendations are being submitted to the respective State governments. The MSSRF has also recommended a special package for the marine fishing communities by the National Fisheries Development Board and the State Fisheries Department.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/mssrf-seeks-relief-package-for-marine-fishing-communities/article31294798.ece
09 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kerala experts for 3-phased easing of curbs||An expert committee headed by former Chief Secretary K.M. Abraham has recommended a phased relaxation of the lockdown to contain COVID-19 for areas outside the seven hotspot districts in the State from April 15. “It should be borne in mind that the phased withdrawal is sustainable only if there is a steady recovery and decline in the number of cases leading to initial flattening of the infection curve and then gradual tapering of the curve to zero infection cases,” the committee said. It has asked the government to advise the people that in the event of a resurgence, they should be ready and willing to undergo the rigours of a complete lockdown once again. Phase I relaxation For qualifying for Phase 1 relaxation, there has to be not more than one new case in the district for the entire week prior to the date of review on April 14. No increase more than 10% of the number of persons under home surveillance in the district and no hotspots of COVID-19 anywhere in the district as identified by the Health Department are the other criteria fixed. Criteria for Phase II A district will qualify for Phase II relaxation at the time of second review only if there is no more than one new case for the entire fortnight prior to the date of review. Not more than a 5% increase in the number of persons under home surveillance from the date of the previous review and no infection hotspots are the additional criteria. Phase III relaxation A district will qualify for Phase III relaxation only if there is no new case of infection in that district for the fortnight prior to the date of review. In addition, a decrease of more than 5% of the number of persons under home surveillance in the district from the date of the previous review and no hotspots anywhere in the district are needed. The committee has also come up with health-related and non-health-related objectives for the withdrawal strategy and steps for management of hotspots and vulnerable population.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kerala-experts-for-3-phased-easing-of-curbs/article31294272.ece
09 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,ANDHRA PRADESH||Indrans returns to his roots to stitch masks||When popular Malayalam actor Indrans sits seriously before the sewing machine and carefully sews quality cloth masks with ease, it was not acting or becoming part of the Kerala government’s anti-COVID-19 campaign for him, but going back to his own roots. He explained the nuances of stitching and shared tips on how to make quality masks with materials available at home as part of the State government’s ‘Break the chain’ campaign through a short video, which went viral. Before donning the grease paint for hundreds of characters in his decades-long career as comedian and character artist, Mr. Indrans was a small-scale tailor, who toiled hard to make ends meet. He later became a sought-after costume designer in tinsel town.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/indrans-returns-to-his-roots-to-stitch-masks/article31294280.ece
09 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram/Bengaluru/Chennai,ANDHRA PRADESH||Karnataka reports fifth death; tally rises to 181||Andhra Pradesh reported one fatality and 34 new novel coronavirus cases on Wednesday. A 70-year-old man from Kalyandurg in Anantapur district became the fifth victim of COVID-19 in Andhra Pradesh and the State reported 34 new cases from seven districts, taking the tally to 348. Three patients had recovered and were discharged in Visakhapatnam. Two of them, a 49-year-old woman and a 51-year-old man contracted the virus from contacts who returned from abroad. Guntur, Nellore and Krishna districts had eight, six and six fresh cases. Anantapur reported seven, the Health Department said. The department said 48% patients were in the 21-40 age group and 36% in the 41-60 age group, while 8% each were above 60 years and below 20 years.  48 more positive in T.N. Forty-eight persons tested positive in Tamil Nadu on Wednesday, taking the State’s tally to 738. This, even as a 74-year-old woman was discharged from the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital. She is among the 21 discharged so far in the State. T.N. has so far reported eight deaths, the last being a 45-year-old man who was undergoing treatment at the Christian Medical College, Vellore, on Tuesday. Health Secretary Beela Rajesh said he did not have a history of travel but did have a contact history. “He was already in hospital. The first test was inconclusive. The second turned out positive. The report came after his death. His condition deteriorated suddenly,” she said. Of the 48 fresh cases, 42 were connected to the “single source event” (Delhi conference). Of the 42, eight had travelled to Delhi together, 33 were their contacts and one was a Malaysian national. In a slight shift in treatment protocol, Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar said: “Even if patients are asymptomatic, they cannot be left untreated, though they may seem stable. Many of them tell us that they are fine and have no symptoms. Our expert committee comprising doctors from the government and private sectors discussed the treatment protocol and the need to look at the lung signs of these patients.”  Kerala stabilising Kerala’s COVID-19 case curve appeared to be stabilising, but it could not let up on the vigil or preparedness, the Chief Minister, Pinarayi Vijayan, said. The State’s surveillance, testing, and preparations such as equipping hospitals, finding isolation rooms, stockpiling Personal Protection Equipment, drugs, ventilators would continue at the same pace, regardless of case numbers, he told the media on Wednesday. Nine cases of COVID-19 were reported on Wednesday in the State. Four were those who had returned from abroad, two were linked to the Jamaat meeting in Delhi and three were contacts of imported cases. Of the nine, four were in Kannur, two in Alappuzha, and one each from Kasaragod, Pathanamthitta and Thrissur. Mr. Vijayan said the State had identified 212 individuals who travelled to Nizamuddin, of whom 15 were positive. In Telangana, an official State bulletin on Wednesday said the total number of cases in the State was 453, and 397 were active, and 45 treated and discharged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/virus-claims-one-life-each-in-ap-karnataka/article31294276.ece
09 April 2020||Thrissur,ANDHRA PRADESH||2-year-old goes to Chennai||The timely intervention of the government helped Mohammed Nahyan, a two-year-old boy from Mathilakam in Thrissur district suffering from eye cancer, to go to a Chennai hospital for emergency treatment. Little Nahyan, son of Fazil and Abida of Kulimuttam, Mathilakam, has been suffering from retinoblastoma (eye cancer) for the past one-and-a-half year. He was diagnosed with the disease just four months after his birth. As a rare disease, there was no treatment for retinoblastoma in the State. So his parents approached Sankara Netralaya in Chennai for treatment. For the past one-and-a-half year, Fazil and Abida have been shuttling between Chennai and Mathilakam with the toddler. The boy has been undergoing cryotherapy for the past five months. It has to be done in every 21 days. The boy should have been taken for the treatment on March 25. Though they reached Walayar on March 24, they were not allowed to go to Chennai because of the lockdown. When the parents contacted the doctor at the Chennai hospital, he asked them to go immediately. The desperate parents then sought the help of E.T. Tyson Master, MLA. He then contacted the Chief Minister and the Health Minister. Considering the seriousness of the case, they asked the District Collector to make arrangements for their journey.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/2-year-old-goes-to-chennai/article31294270.ece
09 April 2020||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vedic school student admitted to hospital||A student of the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams-run SV Vedapatasala was on Wednesday admitted to Aswini Hospital here after he complained of cold, cough and diarrhoea. After being administered first-aid, he was rushed to the Sri Venkateswara Institute of Medical Sciences (SVIMS) super-speciality hospital at Tirupati for better treatment. On duty doctor Bhaskar told The Hindu that it was too early to jump to any conclusion and that there was no other alternative but to wait for medical reports. Sources said the student had reportedly visited Maharashtra and New Delhi last month.  TTD warns of action Meanwhile, the TTD in a press release said it was unfortunate that a section of electronic media put out exaggerated reports creating anguish among students of the Vedic school as well as their parents. It warned scaremongers of stringent action under the Disaster Management Act and the AP Epidemic Diseases Act. The Vedapatasala has about 470 students on its rolls.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vedic-school-student-admitted-to-hospital/article31294269.ece
09 April 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||MLAs work towards improving immunity, hygiene of people||Legislators in the Chittoor district have now shifted their focus from providing essential commodities to ensure sustenance to improving immunity and hygiene of a person to protect self from acquiring the infection. Srikalahasti legislator Biyyapu Madhusudhan Reddy distributed two tonnes of chicken and lakhs of eggs to meet the nutritional needs of his constituents. After distributing 3 lakh hand sanitiser bottles and 50 tonnes of bleaching powder across his Chandragiri constituency at the launch of the lockdown, TUDA Chairman and government whip Chevireddy Bhaskar Reddy gave away 4 lakh face masks on Wednesday. Each of the 1.42 lakh households in the constituency, in addition to the 14,000 households in the new housing colonies around Tirupati, will be given two pieces for the benefit of those going out to buy groceries. Every mask is accompanied by a pamphlet on its usage. In Kadapa, Superintendent of Police K.K.N. Anburajan formally flagged off vehicles carrying groceries, in an initiative by the ITC company to home-deliver them in the areas marked as red zones. The company had come forward to deliver its products free of cost to all localities in the city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/mlas-work-towards-improving-immunity-hygiene-of-people/article31294806.ece
09 April 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||TTD launches five health products||The Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) joined the fight against COVID-19 by bringing out five innovative products, all conforming to the standards prescribed by the Ministry of AYUSH. The products — ‘Pavitra’ (hand cleaning sanitiser), ‘Rakshogna Dhupam’ (protective disinfectant), ‘Gandoopam’ (gargling liquid), ‘Nimba Sasha’ (nasal drops) and ‘Amruta’ (antibiotic tablets) — were formally released on Wednesday coinciding with World Health Day. Joint Executive Officer P. Basant Kumar had directed Sri Venkateswara Ayurvedic College principal M. Bhaskar Rao and Pharmacy Medical Officer Narapu Reddy to come up with five formulations to fight the pandemic. The drugs were distributed to the 200 employees of the TTD canteen, who are currently preparing and distributing meal to tens of thousands of stranded pilgrims and people who are destitute. The medicines will be first distributed to the 1,000-strong canteen staff in Tiruchanur on Thursday and later to others engaged on similar purposes at Sri Padmavathi College on Friday. It has also been decided to distribute the same to all TTD employees in a phased manner.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ttd-launches-five-health-products/article31294807.ece
09 April 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kellogg’s donates food kits||Sri City-based Kellogg’s Industry, which manufactures cereal nutritional products, came forward to help the poor people in the region by donating 1.2 tonnes of food products. Kellogg’s Senior Manager S. Prakash formally handed over the food products worth Rs. 5 lakh to Satyavedu MLA Koneti Adimulam on the factory premises on Wednesday. The healthy food products are meant for the people facing penury and deprivation in the region, as economic activity came to a grinding halt during the lockdown in the backdrop of coronavirus outbreak. Mr. Adimulam thanked the management for the noble act and assured them to distribute the products to the poor and malnourished people in his constituency. He also thanked Sri City Founder Managing Director Ravindra Sannareddy for mobilising donations .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kelloggs-donates-food-kits/article31294804.ece
09 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. takes over 58 private hospitals across the State||The government has taken over 58 private hospitals across the State to cope with the eventuality of further spread of COVID-19. A total of 19,114 beds are available in these institutions. Of them, 17,111 beds are Non-ICU, 1,286 are ICU and 717 are isolation beds. These apart, alternative facilities with a capacity of 530 beds have been set up, according to Girija Shankar, Nodal Officer (availability of beds, ventilators, ICUs and technical personnel). “Many private institutions have responded to the CM’s call to involve themselves in the fight against COVID-19. We have taken over 58 private hospitals with a capacity of over 19,000 beds. This will further boost our medical infrastructure and help the State brace for any eventuality,” Mr. Girija Shankar said. Morale booster Production of ventilators, testing kits and other equipment, which had already started in Visakhapatnam, would further strengthen the system in the State, he observed. This, in turn, would help the frontline warriors such as doctors and paramedical staff cope with the pressure. “An order for three lakh rapid testing kits has already been placed by the government,” he added.  Following is the district-wise break-up of hospitals taken over by the government: Srikakulam, Guntur, Prakasam, Anantapur 4 each; Vizianagaram, Visakhapatnam, East Godavari, Krishna, Chittoor, Nellore 5 each; West Godavari and Kadapa 3 each; Kurnool 6.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govt-takes-over-58-private-hospitals-across-the-state/article31294812.ece
09 April 2020||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Focus on paying industrial incentives, says Jagan||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has ordered the officials to concentrate on paying industrial incentives amounting to Rs. 4,800 crore outstanding for the last five years. Priority in clearing the dues should be given to those generating the much-needed employment, he said, and added that Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSME) should be given importance in the promotion of industries. In a review meeting on the new industrial policy, which was attended by Industries Minister Mekapati Goutham Reddy and Special Chief Secretary Rajat Bhargava, among others, at his camp office on Wednesday, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said the department should fulfil it’s existing obligations and then give fresh commitments keeping the government’s limitations in view. Thrust on transparency He insisted that priority be attached to uninterrupted power supply and providing other facilities, particularly water. Besides, he wanted the process of allotment of lands to be transparent. At the same time, the entrepreneurs should be held accountable for the lands taken by them. Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy stressed the need for controlling industrial pollution. Citing the impact of the lockdown on industries, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said necessary steps should be taken to help them overcome the crisis. The officials told him that the Centre was seized of the matter and it was likely to come up with a policy that would mitigate the shock to industries, especially the MSMEs which might need capital infusion to stay afloat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/focus-on-paying-industrial-incentives-says-jagan/article31294808.ece
09 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Hospitals must be prepared to meet any contingency: CM||Taking stock of the COVID-19 containment measures at a high-level review meeting here on Wednesday, Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy said that emphasis should be laid on the preparedness of hospitals to meet a possible surge in the number of positive cases in the coming days. Officials told him that a majority of the persons who tested positive so far attended the religious congregation at Nizamuddin. They were all identified and screened and the symptomatic ones among them put in isolation. A total of 6,662 beds and 334 ICU beds were readied in COVID hospitals in districts for treating the patients, the officials told the Chief Minister. Survey under way The Chief Minister wanted a comprehensive survey of the households to be done, to which the officials replied that a third round of door-to-door identification of persons with COVID-19 symptoms was under way. A total of 1,42,13,460 families were touched upon and 6,289 persons were found to be suffering from cold, cough, soar throat and fever. Of them, 1,750 were placed in home quarantine. The Chief Minister instructed the officials to stock adequate quantities of medicines to deal with the emerging situation. Aid to the poor The officials said ration and Rs. 1,000 assistance was distributed to 1.22 crore below poverty line households. Regarding the plight of farmers, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said those facing problems in selling their produce due to lockdown should inform the officials by dialing toll free number 1902 to facilitate necessary action.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/hospitals-must-be-prepared-to-meet-any-contingency-cm/article31294818.ece
09 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||49 returnees from Hyderabad sent home as quarantine ends||The revenue and police officials on Wednesday sent all the 49 persons who had returned from Hyderabad in Telangana to their respective residences in Andhra Pradesh after they completed the mandatory 14-day quarantine period. “We have advised them to be in home isolation for 14 more days, maintain social distance and take all precautions,” said Krishna district Superintendent of Police M. Ravindranath Babu. About 500 persons, who included women, staying at various hostels, lodges and private rooms in Hyderabad had earlier tried to return to their native places in Andhra Pradesh. When they reached the Garikapadu check-post on the A.P.-Telangana border, the police prevented them from entering the State because of the lockdown and the consequent sealing of the borders following the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic. Tension prevailed at the border for a few hours as the police stopped their vehicles on the highway. After Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy reviewed the situation, the officials rushed to the spot and made it clear to them that those wanting to enter A.P. should undergo medical tests and be in quarantine for 14 days. While 49 persons agreed to the condition, the remaining returned to Hyderabad. The police later shifted the 49 persons to the quarantine facility arranged on the IIIT campus of Rajiv Gandhi University of Knowledge Technologies located at Nuzvid. Transport arranged Speaking to The Hindu , Mr. Ravindranath Babu said the health condition of all the 49 persons was normal. “They hail from East and West Godavari, Prakasam, Krishna and other districts. Transport has been arranged to enable them to reach their native places,” he added. Checkposts inspected Meanwhile, Mr. Ravindranath Babu, along with Nuzvid Deputy Superintendent of Police B. Srinivasulu, inspected the border check-post at Rajavaram village of Gampalagudem mandal and the police outpost at Tiruvuru. The DSP interacted with the police officers, ANMs and other staff posted on the border and enquired about their problems. They distributed food packets to the migrant workers staying in the shelter homes, and sanitizers and masks to the police personnel on duty. Mylavaram CI P. Srinivas was present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/49-returnees-from-hyderabad-sent-home-as-quarantine-ends/article31294821.ece
09 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||19 railway stations in Vijayawada division bag ISO certification||The Vijayawada railway division has added a feather in its cap by achieving ISO certification for 19 stations, which was highest in South Central Railway (SCR) zone. The stations were awarded ISO-14001 certificates, for three years, for maintaining better environment management system and unique standards. The audit teams which inspected the stations observed the cleanliness, anti-litter activities, water management, avoiding defecation, energy management, disposal of solid waste, arranging pet bottles crushing machines in stations and developing greenery, said Divisional Railway Manager P. Srinivas. Stations which achieved the certification are: Gudivada, Bhimavaram Junction, Rajahmundry, Gudur, Ongole, Narsapur, Bhimavaram Town, Nellore, Chirala, Kakinada Town, Annavaram, Tuni, Samalkot, Eluru, Kakinada Port, Nidadavole, Tenali, Anakapalle and Tadepalligudem.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/19-railway-stations-in-vijayawada-division-bag-iso-certification/article31294310.ece
09 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. vows to bail out stranded people of A.P.||COVID-19 Task Force Committee Chairman M.T. Krishna Babu on Wednesday said Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy had given clear instructions on extending all possible help to students and migrant labourers from Andhra Pradesh who were stranded in other States. Mr. Krishna Babu said nearly 8,183 students and migrant workers belonging to A.P. were stranded in at least 10 States. Of them, 6,000 were fishermen held up in Gujarat. To ensure their safety and well-being, the government had sent assistance to them through a team of revenue officials, accompanied by four representatives of the fishermen association. A majority of these fishermen were from Srikakulam district. Relief centres Similarly, the government had had set up 353 relief centres in the State for nearly 53,000 people belonging to other States. Mr. Krishna Babu said Chief Secretary Satish Chandra and Special Secretary Arja Srikanth were constantly in touch with officials of other States to ensure that no inconvenience was caused to people who could not return home due to the lockdown. In addition to this, some 200 people from A.P. who were returning home, were held up in New Delhi due to travel restrictions. He said based on the Prime Minister’s decision on the lockdown, these people would be brought back home at the earliest. ‘Helpline a big hit’ He said the helpline number 1902 had so far received 7,295 calls and an official team had been addressing the grievances immediately. Swift arrangements were being made to ensure free flow of essential commodities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govt-vows-to-bail-out-stranded-people-of-ap/article31294813.ece
09 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||IPS officer’s suspension extended till August 5||In another jolt to former Intelligence chief A.B. Venkateswara Rao, the State government issued orders extending his suspension officer till August 5. Mr. Rao was facing charges of violation of All India Service (Conduct) Rules and corruption. The DGP-rank officer was suspended in February, and the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) confirmed it after a month. It was alleged that the officer had colluded with an Israel-based defence manufacturing company— R.T. Inflatables Private Limited — and reportedly leaked key intelligence information to the foreign firm. The review committee constituted to review the action against Mr. Venkateswara Rao, too asked the government to continue the suspension up to August 5, 2020, or till further orders, whichever is earlier. Based on the recommendations of the ACB and the review committee, Chief Secretary Nilam Sawhney on Tuesday issued orders extending the suspension of the senior IPS officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ips-officers-suspension-extended-till-august-5/article31294278.ece
09 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Centre’s focus on citizens, will assist States later: GVL||BJP MP G.V.L. Narasimha Rao said that the Centre’s first priority will be to provide ration and financial aid to around 80 crore citizens affected by the lockdown, and will extend necessary support to State Governments after overcoming the COVID-19 crisis. “For now, the Centre has considered it appropriate to give relief to people directly instead of paying the State Governments keeping in view the possibility of diversion of funds at this critical juncture. Nevertheless, the Centre will do its best to help the States tide over the crisis,” he said. “The impact of the lockdown on the economy, which was already in a slowdown, will be severe and the ramifications of this will be felt for many more months to come as the restrictions are likely to be eased gradually than in one go,” Mr. Narasimha Rao told mediapersons in a video-conference. ‘Will ensure justice’ Regarding the economic paralysis that many States find themselves in due to the pandemic, Mr. Narasimha Rao said that the Centre would certainly come to their rescue and see that justice was done to each one of them, including Andhra Pradesh, which was already mired in financial difficulties post bifurcation. “The Centre took note of the difficulties being faced by States including A.P. It will do its best to bail them out from the crisis,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/centres-focus-on-citizens-will-assist-states-later-gvl/article31294817.ece
09 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rapid testing kits made at AMTZ launched||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy launched the COVID-19 rapid testing kits manufactured at the Visakhapatnam-based A.P. MedTech Zone Limited (AMTZ), at his camp office at Tadepalli, near here on Wednesday. Industries Minister Mekapati Gautham Reddy and several officials were present. Later, addressing the media, Mr. Goutham Reddy said Andhra Pradesh took the lead in the fight against COVID-19 by getting the kits manufactured at the Medtech Zone. These kits would not only be used in Andhra Pradesh but also despatched to others States, he said. The kits would be extremely helpful in obtaining a clear picture of the extent to which the virus had spread, the Minister added. Test results in a jiffy The result of the Polymerase Chain Reaction (PCR) test usually takes two to three days to be known, whereas the kits made at the Medtech Zone give the outcome in less than an hour, the Minister added. “At present, 2,000 kits can be manufactured per day, and it is planned to scale it up to seven lakh by the end of May,” the Minister said, and added that 60% of the equipment required for screening would be ready soon. Similarly, manufacture of ventilators would also commence at AMTZ on April 15, the Minister said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rapid-testing-kits-made-at-amtz-launched/article31294815.ece
09 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Andhra Sugars, associate firms donate Rs. 2.85 cr. to CM fund||The Andhra Sugars Limited and its associates have contributed Rs. 2.85 crore to the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund. Chairman and managing director P. Narendranath Chowdary said the firm had handed over a cheque to CM Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Tuesday. The Andhra Sugars Limited has contributed Rs. 2 crore, its subsidiary company JOCIL Limited, Guntur, has contributed Rs. 25 lakh and its associate The Andhra Petrochemicals Limited contributed Rs. 50 lakh and Jayalakshmi Ferilizers, Tanuku, contributed Rs. 10 lakh to the relief fund.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/andhra-sugars-associate-firms-donate-rs-285-cr-to-cm-fund/article31294305.ece
09 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Apply for APPGE CET before April 17||In view of the COVID-19 lockdown, the last date for submission of application forms for the Andhra Pradesh Post Graduate Engineering Common Entrance Test (APPGE CET) has been extended up to April 17, according to examination convener P. Srinivasa Rao. UGC panel The University Grants Commission (UGC), meanwhile, has constituted an expert committee under the chairmanship of R.C. Kuhad, former UGC member and Vice-Chancellor of the Central University of Haryana, to discuss issues related to the examinations and the academic calendar to prepare a roadmap in the wake of the coronavirus outbreak.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/apply-for-appge-cet-before-april-17/article31294814.ece
09 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ensure PPEs to paramedics, doctors: Kanna||BJP State president Kanna Lakshminarayana has requested Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy to focus on provision of Personal Protection Equipment (PPE) to the doctors, paramedical staff and others supporting them in the fight against COVID-19. Mr. Lakshminarayana stated that the doctors and paramedics were scared of attending to their duties in the quarantine and isolation centres due to the lack of PPEs. “It is important to boost their morale in the prevailing situation,” he observed. He also said that the COVID-19 affected people were inconvenienced by the lack of basic facilities in the quarantine and isolation centres, which was forcing a few of them to escape, the BJP leader said. Besides, persons with COVID-19 symptoms were reluctant to get themselves tested, he observed. The CM should, therefore, take urgent steps for improving the facilities to ensure that people were not apprehensive about the quarantine and isolation centres, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ensure-ppes-to-paramedics-doctors-kanna/article31294819.ece
09 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Offer Good Friday prayers from home’||Andhra Pradesh State Christian (Minorities) Finance Corporation has appealed to the Christian fraternity not to gather for prayers on the occasion of Good Friday and Easter. The community is scheduled to observe Good Friday on April 10 and Easter on April 12. Corporation managing director S. Yesu Ratna appealed to the Christian community members to offer prayers from their homes as lockdown would be in force up to April 14.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/offer-good-friday-prayers-from-home/article31294307.ece
09 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Officials told to expedite testing||Government General Hospital Superintendent P. Nancharaiah on Wednesday informed the Commissioner, Health and Family Welfare, Katamneni Bhaskar, that testing of swab samples sent to the Vijayawada Regional Central Research Lab would be done quickly and details uploaded on a COVID-19 app designed for this purpose. Dr. Nancharaiah said that of the 549 positive cases in the district, testing had been done on 358 persons while the remaining would be done soon. The Commissioner wanted the testing process to be expedited and urged officials to coordinate with the field-level staff and be accurate with the information passed out to the public through the app.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/officials-told-to-expedite-testing/article31294306.ece
09 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||SHG members make 65,000 masks||The members of Self-Help Groups (DWCRA) have handed over 65,210 face masks to District Collector A. Md. Imtiaz here on Wednesday. The masks were prepared by thousands of SHG women in the district to help the government fight COVID-19. As per the instructions given by doctors, the cloth masks were stitched by 2,254 groups in 13 mandals of the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/shg-members-make-65000-masks/article31294308.ece
09 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Many deprived of benefits due to ‘erroneous’ Aadhaar seeding||Bhagavata Radha lives in a ramshackle rented house at Neralakoneru in Allipuram area. With her husband, a painter, left without a source of income due to the lockdown, she is now wondering how much longer their family can sustain themselves. “We have two daughters. As five electricity consumer numbers have been seeded to our Aadhaar, we have been deprived of benefits being given by the government to beneficiaries,” Radha told The Hindu on Wednesday. She was among many who vented out their woes at the APEPDCL office in Pandimetta for being left out of government benefits after multiple electricity service numbers were ‘erroneously’ seeded to their name. The government, due to the COVID-19 crisis, has decided to give 20 kg rice and one kg of red gram free to the white card holders. This apart, Rs. 1,000 cash benefit is also given. Selection of beneficiaries for house-sites has also been finalised. The ward secretariat has informed Lanka Raju, an auto-rickshaw driver, that his ration card will be cancelled as three power connections were seeded to his Aadhaar number. “I have been deprived of the benefits due to this problem,” bemoaned Lanka Raju who lives in a rented house at Venkateswarmetta. It’s a different story for K. Bhaskar Rao, who works at an automobile showroom. “I was given a house under the Rajiv Gruhakalpa scheme at Marikivalasa. Apart from a grant of Rs. 15,000 under Amma Vodi scheme, ration and other benefits being extended to those having white ration cards have also been denied to me. The reason being cited is that I apparently own three houses as three electricity service connections are seeded to my Aadhaar number,” he said. An official of APEPDCL clarified that at the time of distribution of LED bulbs, some persons might have fraudulently claimed the bulbs by citing Aadhaar numbers of other individuals. Some tenants were also given bulbs against service numbers referred by them. He said service numbers not linked to them could be removed easily by submitting an application at the electricity revenue office concerned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/in-andhra-pradesh-many-are-deprived-of-benefits-due-to-erroneous-aadhaar-seeding/article31294360.ece
09 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Over 4,000 held for violation of lockdown norms in district||The rise in the number of COVID-19 positive cases and repeated appeals by the authorities to abide by the lockdown norms appear to have failed to convince the citizens to stay indoors, if the number of cases pertaining to violation of guidelines are any indication. Police records suggest that more than 4,000 persons have been arrested on charges of roaming on roads without valid reasons in the district since the 21-day lockdown was announced on March 24. According to police, a large number of people are yet to take the lockdown seriously. The district police registered 1,950 cases and arrested 2,140 persons for violating the lockdown orders between March 23 to April 7. The police teams also seized 752 vehicles including auto-rickshaws and two-wheelers. “People who violate the lockdown orders are being taken to police station, their Aadhaar cards and other details are being noted down and they are being released. They are being issued notices and vehicles are being seized. They need to attend court later and pay the fine,” says a police officer. E-challans The violations of various traffic regulations are even more. During the same period, a whopping 16,989 cases were booked under the MV Act and nearly Rs. 75.57 lakh was collected as fines in the rural police limits. For strict implementation of the lockdown orders, the district police under the supervision of Rural Superintendent of Police Attada Babujee, have set up checkposts at many places. The situation in the city is not better. Between March 23 and April 6, the police registered 890 cases and arrested 1,923 persons on charge of violation of lockdown orders. The enforcement teams have seized 1,152 vehicles, including two-wheelers and auto-rickshaws. Between March 23 to April 4, more than 25,000 e-challans were issued under the MV Act. The fine amount imposed was nearly Rs. 66 lakh, said a police officer. High-risk zones The authorities have identified Thatichetlapalem, Poorna Market, Padmanabham, and other areas as sensitive places, with most number of COVID-19 positive cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/over-4000-held-for-violation-of-lockdown-norms-in-district/article31294827.ece
09 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Akshaya Patra distributes 2,600 food kits to the needy||The Akshaya Patra Foundation and Infosys distributed 2,600 food kits on Wednesday, as part of the the first phase of the COVID-19 relief programme. The kits contain food material that would last for 21 days for two adults for two meals a day. The kits were distributed at Kommadi, Rushikonda, Old Post Office, Kummari Street, Akkayyapalem, Abidnagar, Kapparada and Baji Junction among watchmen and daily wagers at Panduranga Puram and MVP Colony. The kits have rice or rice flour, dal, chana, cooking oil, turmeric, pickle, spice mix and sambar powder. Vegetables with longer shelf life such as potato and pumpkin were included. The distribution is being organised under the guidance of Hare Krishna Movement president (Visakhapatnam) Niskinchana Bhakthadasa. Around 100 volunteers were engaged in packing the kits and 50 more for distribution.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/akshaya-patra-distributes-2600-food-kits-to-the-needy/article31294831.ece
09 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police distribute essentials as shandies closed down in Agency||The district police have launched an awareness drive to educate tribal people in Visakha Agency on the precautionary measures to be taken to check the spread of COVID-19. Working with the Health Department, police personnel are visiting the interior villages and sensitising people on sanitation and importance of lockdown. The police have arranged 24 checkposts at the entry and exit points of the Agency to prevent entry of outsiders. They have distributed masks, sanitisers, and essential commodities in Pedabayulu and Munchinhgputtu. Testing and quarantine “As the weekly-shandies have been closed down in the Agency, we are distributing essential commodities with the help of ward volunteers and the Girijan Cooperative Corporation (GCC). We have conducted tests many tribal people who have returned home after the lockdown was announced. They have been kept under quarantine,” said Paderu Sub-division DSP V.B Raj Kamal. According to Rural SP Attada Babujee, the police have been partnering with firms to provide food and essential commodities to the needy. “We are ensuring smooth movement of essential services by setting up dhabas for drivers ,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/police-distribute-essentials-as-shandies-closed-down-in-agency/article31294823.ece
09 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||3 COVID-19 patients discharged from hospital||Three COVID-19 positive patients who were undergoing treatment at GITAM (GIMSR) Hospital in the city were discharged after they tested negative twice, on Wednesday. GITAM Hospital has been identified as one of the district-level hospitals, along with NRI Medical College, for treatment of COVID-19 positive patients in the city. One floor of the hospital has been dedicated to the treatment of the positive patients. Of the 19 positive patients under treatment at the hospital, three were discharged. “The patients had been under treatment for the past 10 days. Prior to coming here, they were treated at the Government Hospital for Chest and Communicable Diseases (GHCCD) for a few days. They have been tested negative for two consecutive times. However, they will be under home isolation for 14 days,” said C.V. Rao, Pro Vice- Chancellor of GIMSR said. Meanwhile, the district administration issued a statement saying that two of the patients who were discharged belonged to a family from Revidi village in Padmanabham mandal and one is a resident of Allipuram.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/3-covid-19-patients-discharged-from-hospital/article31294824.ece
09 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Pregnant woman dies as lorry hits two-wheeler||A pregnant woman died after the two-wheeler she was pillion riding was hit by a goods truck near NAD Junction on Wednesday. The victim, identified as Bora Venkata Appala Narsamma, got married to Bujji of Reddy Palem in K. Kotapadu some 10 months ago. Narsamma, who was three months pregnant, went to a private clinic for a check-up along with her husband. A speeding truck laden with goods hit the two-wheeler when they were returning home. Narsamma came under the wheels of the truck, resulting in her death on the spot. Kancharapalem traffic police reached the spot and shifted the body to King George Hospital for autopsy. Airport police arrested the driver and seized the lorry. A case has been registered. Investigation is on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/pregnant-woman-dies-as-lorry-hits-two-wheeler/article31294832.ece
09 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Doctor who alleged mask shortage ‘suspended’||A day after refuting the allegations made by an anaesthetist of Narsipatnam Area Hospital, Sudhakar Rao, over the shortage of masks, personal protective equipment (PPEs) in the hospitals, the Health Department reportedly suspended him on Wednesday. Dr. Sudhakar Rao had made allegations expressing concern over the safety of doctors treating COVID-19 suspects at Narsipatnam hospital. The suspension sparked a debate on the social media by the evening. More than 3,400 tweets with a hashtag #westandwithDrSudhakar were posted in Twitter. A number of messages were shared in WhatsApp groups against the action. Utterly shocking: Naidu Former Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu, in his official Twitter account, posted, “Dr. Sudhakar opened up about the lack of masks and gloves at Narsipatnam Govt. Hospital which is the minimum responsibility of AP Govt. Instead of addressing the issue, the doctor was suspended. His only crime was to demand for an N-95 mask. This is utterly shocking.”  51 cases test negative Meanwhile, of the 624 samples sent from the district so far, 51 cases have been tested negative for COVID-19 on Wednesday. Till Tuesday, 483 patients have tested negative, taking the total to 534 so far. “The number of positive cases in the district are 20 and the report of 70 other patients is awaited,” according to Collector V. Vinay Chand. The number of patients in the isolation wards is 72. Of the 537 patients in the District-level COVID Hospitals in the district, 465 have been discharged, the Collector said. The total number of patients who have been placed at quarantine centres in the district is 176, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/doctor-who-alleged-mask-shortage-suspended/article31294828.ece
09 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||33 temporary rythu bazaars set up||There are a total of 13 regular rythu bazaars and 33 temporary ones have been set up in the district. In addition to these, 48 small markets, maintained by municipalities in the district and 55 mobile rythu bazaars. A total of 3,185 quintals of vegetables had arrived in the rythu bazaars in the district on Wednesday. The sale through mobile rythu bazaars stood at 758 quintals, which was 24 % of the total sales, a statement issued by the Assistant Director of Marketing said here on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/33-temporary-rythu-bazaars-set-up/article31294825.ece
09 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Waiver of rental for units in VSEZ sought||AP Chambers of Commerce and Industry Federation has appealed to Union Commerce Minister Piyush Goyal to waive off rental for a limited period for units in the Visakhapatnam Special Economic Zone. Chambers chairman Sudhir Mulagada said in view of difficult time ahead in view of the COVID-19 pandemic, the authorities should write off rent, water and other charges from April to June. He said after talks with Collector V. Vinay Chand, the Chamber had been permitted to place its representative at the Command Control Room to sort out issues relating to getting permission for trucks transporting export and import cargos. For details, people can dial 9121221477 or send mails tofederationvisakha @apchamber.in.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/waiver-of-rental-for-units-in-vsez-sought/article31294835.ece
09 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||YSRCP bats for gradual lifting of lockdown||The YSRCP has urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to lift the lockdown clamped to contain the spread of COVID-19 in a phased manner, its Parliamentary Party leader V. Vijaya Sai Reddy said on Wednesday. Mr. Vijaya Sai Reddy said that Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy and the YSRCP were of the view that the lockdown should be lifted in a phased manner excluding hot spots and busy areas. Lockdown should continue for cinema theatres and shopping malls to avoid crowding, but shops selling essential commodities should be allowed to open, Mr. Vijaya Sai Reddy told reporters here. Ventilators sought The PM was urged to provide two lakh testing kits, two lakh N-95 masks and 2,000 ventilators to Andhra Pradesh to effectively deal with the situation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ysrcp-bats-for-gradual-lifting-of-lockdown/article31294809.ece
09 April 2020||ADILABAD,TELANGANA||BRF||The Adilabad district administration has organised a free ambulance service called ‘Suraksha’. Some 10 ambulances will comprise the pool, which will be at the disposal of patients. People can call the toll free number 1800 425 1939 to put in a request, which will have an ambulance take the patient to hospital and drop him back too. This was disclosed at a press conference by Collector A. Sridevasena on Wednesday. She also spoke about ‘galli warrior’ voluntary force across the district. She said that 1,492 youth, at the rate of one per lane in wards and elsewhere, were trained to help people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/brf/article31294616.ece
09 April 2020||ADILABAD,TELANGANA||Municipal Commissioner suspended||Kagaznagar Municipal Commissioner in Kumram Bheem Asifabad district, B. Tirupathi, was placed under suspension on Wednesday for violating government rules and instructions pertaining to COVID-19. The incumbent had issued a travel pass to a Kagaznagar resident to visit Raipur in Chattisgarh and come back between April 4 and 7 though he was not authorised to do so.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/municipal-commissioner-suspended/article31294639.ece
09 April 2020||ADILABAD/Khammam,TELANGANA||Six new cases in Nirmal||Six suspects tested positive for COVID-19 in Nirmal district on Wednesday which includes two from Nirmal district headquarters raising the number of positives to 10 in the district. An official release said the others include one each from Kankapur in Laxmanchanda mandal, Rachapur, Ankena Rayadari in Pembi mandal and Kotha Limgampalli in Mamda. Meanwhile, 11 suspects who have completed their quarantine at government facility and tested negative were released and sent to home quarantine. In Khammam, a 63-year-old resident of the town reportedly tested positive at a private hospital in Hyderabad on Wednesday, taking the total number of COVID-19 positive cases in the district to two. He has been suffering from cancer for the past eight years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/six-new-cases-in-nirmal/article31294599.ece
09 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||12 containment clusters to be under intensified surveillance||GHMC, together with the Medical and Health, Revenue and Police departments, has identified COVID-19 containment clusters in the city, where the disease surveillance protocols will be intensified. The areas include those resided by patients returning from Nizamuddin Markaz at Delhi, where several were infected with the novel coronavirus. Tests for COVID-19 were carried on a total of 593 Delhi returnees, of whom 63 tested positive for the disease. In addition, 45 more of their family members have been infected, GHMC Commissioner D.S. Lokesh Kumar revealed during a media interaction on Wednesday. Altogether, 12 containment clusters have been identified across the city, from where a total of 89 cases of novel coronavirus infection have been recorded. The clusters include Ramgopalpet, Shaikpet, Red Hills, Malakpet-Santhosh Nagar, Chandrayangutta, Alwal, Moosapet, Kukatpally, Qutbullahpur-Gajularamaram, Mayuri Nagar, Yusufguda and Chandanagar. Special attention will be paid to sanitation and spraying of disinfectant solution in these areas, and teams comprising members from GHMC and Medical and Health departments will visit every house in these areas regularly, and identify persons with COVID-19 symptoms. All these clusters will be heavily barricaded by the police, and surveillance will be intensified to keep a watch on the entry and exit points. Already, deliberations have been held with the Commissioner of Police Anjani Kumar with regard to barricading for a specified duration, Mr. Lokesh said. Elaborating on the efforts being taken to ameliorate the conditions for public convenience in view of lockdown, Mr. Lokesh Kumar said a total of 330 mobile Rythu Bazars have been organised to supply vegetables across the city. Migrant workers have been supplied with 12 kilograms of rice and Rs. 500 allowance per person, and 3,400 homeless persons have been shifted to 12 temporary shelters, in addition to 14 permanent shelters. Free meals are being provided for 55,000 needy persons during noon, and 35,000 more during night. Through the special cell set up by GHMC, 17,000 food packets are being collected from donors and distributed. This apart, passes have been issued to 145 philanthropists who are feeding close to 50,000 people. Provisions such as rice, oil, soaps and others donated by 93 NGOs have been distributed at the shelter homes. Mr. Lokesh said reusable cloth masks stitched by self-help groups are being distributed to the sanitation workers, and health kits too will be provided to them soon. A total of 34 buses have been organised in coordination with TSRTC, to carry the sanitation workers from various locations in the city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/12-containment-clusters-to-be-under-intensified-surveillance/article31294614.ece
09 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Centre urged to ensure sufficient farm credit flow for next kharif||The State government has requested the Centre to give appropriate directions to banks through regulator Reserve Bank of India (RBI) so that the farming community is not forced to face any credit crunch by ensuring sanction of sufficient crop production loans without any restrictions in the wake of coronavirus lockdown. It was one of the several issues linked to the farming community, including the ongoing paddy procurement, taken to the Centre’s notice by Minister for Agriculture S. Niranjan Reddy on Wednesday, in a video-conference conducted by Union Agriculture Minister Narendera Singh Tomar. Another key issue raised by Telangana was about the seed packaging material stuck in Singapore in the wake of lockdown measures. Mr. Niranjan Reddy pointed out that farming community in the country would face seed scarcity during the next kharif season since about 400 private and multinational seed companies, whose processing and storage facilities are located in Telangana, meet about 70% of the country’s seed needs. Besides, they also export seed to several Asian and African countries and urged the Centre to resolve the issue and arrange for getting the material for seed packing. On the problems faced in disposal of sweetlime produced in Telangana, mostly in Nalgonda district, due to the lockdown, Mr. Reddy noted that the fruit crop sales were mostly operated with Delhi as center but farmers are unable to transport the produce. The Centre was urged to arrange for transport of sweetlime so that the farmers are saved from incurring huge losses. Paddy procurement Highlighting the huge gunny bag shortage being faced in Telangana for procurement of the major crop, the Minister said about 1.03 crore tonnes of paddy is had from about 40 lakh acres cultivation. In the wake of lockdown measures, the State government has arranged procurement in almost every major village by opening 7,077 purchase centres by giving farmer-wise coupons in advance. All the market yards in constituency headquarters, other towns and cities were also closed to prevent the virus spread. However, against the requirement of about 20 crore gunny bags, the available numbers within the State, including the old (once in use) is about 8 crore and they would be sufficient to procure only half of the estimated production of paddy. He requested the Centre to arrange for transport of gunny bags from West Bengal to overcome the problem. Reiterating the State government’s demand for linking MGNREGS with agriculture, Mr. Reddy explained about labourer problem and stated that harvesting of paddy was being done only with the help of harvesters now. He also explained sale of vegetables and fruits through 300 mobile bazaars in Hyderabad during the ongoing lockdown.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/centre-urged-to-ensure-sufficient-farm-credit-flow-for-next-kharif/article31294624.ece
09 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Additional guidelines for COVID-19 body disposal||The State government, on Tuesday, issued separate guidelines for the safe management and disposal of Hindu and Christian bodies infected with COVID-19, in addition to a separate set already issued, which was applicable to Muslims. Accordingly, the body should be prepared as per the rituals of the religion concerned, be it cleaning or wrapping. Family members not exceeding three will be permitted to see the body at the hospital at any point of time through protected glass window. Body will be placed in a leak proof zip bag with transparent section for viewing face of the deceased. Two GHMC vehicles with supporting staff in full PPE gear will accompany the transportation vehicle, with COVID safety material and power spraying cans. Each designated hospital is required to designate a COVID Liaison Officer (CLO) who will interact with the family and make required provisions. A hospital-level committee with the Resident Medical Officer, Deputy commissioner of the circle concerned, Assistant Commissioner of Police, and Hospital CLO should meet daily and sort the issues with regard to disposal of bodies. No family members will be allowed on the vehicle during transit to the graveyard, and only five persons may attend the last rites. They should reach using their own transport, and wear masks and gloves given by the hospital CLO. It is the responsibility of the CLO to ensure that all the arrangements are in place at the graveyard or crematorium, before releasing the body. On reaching, the body should be carried to the cremation spot by handlers not exceeding four in number. The funeral pyre should be encircled on all sides by a temporary rope barricade, at four meters distance. Customary ‘Pradakshinas’ may be allowed within four metre distance, and the pyre should be lit with three-metre long stick from outside the barricade. The local police should arrange for video recording of the entire process and submit the same to the ACP concerned. After the funeral, all family members and body handlers should wash with liquid soap, and all the PPE gear should be disposed with in a separate cover. The body handlers should spray disinfectant solution on their PPE and the vehicle. GHMC should identify three to five cremation or burial grounds and prepare certain area earmarked for disposal, in advance. In case of Christians, the family should indicate the cemetery. If space is not available there, GHMC should provide it. Coffin shall be arranged by the family, to be shifted by Police and GHMC staff from coffin maker to the hospital. From there, the coffin with the body will be transported in GHMC vehicle. The grave should be dug to a depth of 10 feet and sprayed with disinfectant, into which the coffin is to be lowered using ropes. After filling the grave with soil, another round of disinfectant should be sprayed on the top. As per the earlier guidelines, distance of three feet should be maintained between two graves.  No family members will be allowed on the vehicle during transit to the graveyard, and only five persons may attend the last rites. They should reach using their own transport, and wear masks and gloves given by the hospital COVID Liaison Officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/additional-guidelines-for-covid-19-body-disposal/article31294615.ece
09 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||HC notice over crowds at rythu bazars, markets||The Telangana High Court on Wednesday issued notice to the government over rythu bazars and markets getting crowded by people, triggering the possibility of spread of coronavirus, during the ongoing lockdown. A bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice T. Amarnath Goud instructed the government to file a counter-affidavit on the matter by April 16. The bench took up as a PIL petition a letter written by lawyer G. Ronal Raju expressing apprehensions that failure of the officials to ensure social distancing at rythu bazars and markets would result in further spread of the pandemic. The lawyer sought a direction to the government to install disinfecting tunnels at all places like markets, courts and public places with its own funds or with the assistance of philanthropists. Directing the government to explain its stand on the matter, the bench posted the plea to April 17. The bench also took up three more letters as PIL petitions written by lawyers on different issues connected to COVID-19. All the four pleas would be heard on April 17. Lawyer K. Karunasagar, in his letter, stated that inadequate security for doctors and other medical staff at hospitals attending coronavirus patients was posing threat to their lives. Citing an attack on doctors and damage to hospital property by the family members of a patient, who died of coronavirus, at Gandhi Hospital, the lawyer contended that the police department should take responsibility for the safety of doctors and others at the hospital. He stated that such attacks had been reported in Khammam and Nizamabad districts. The lawyer sought a direction to the police to invoke non-bailable sections of law against those involved in the attacks. HC senior lawyer S. Satyam Reddy wrote to the Chief Justice, stating that the Telangana government’s order (GO MS 27) for payment of 50% salaries to employees was against the fundamental rules. He said the GO was in conflict with another direction (GO MS 45) stating that all other public and private establishments should pay full salaries to their employees. Another letter was written by lawyer Umesh seeking a direction over ‘police excesses’ during the ongoing lockdown. Citing the incident of police beating up a man before his minor son, the lawyer sought a direction to police to constitute an expert team to inquire into the alleged police excesses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/hc-notice-over-crowds-at-rythu-bazars-markets/article31294628.ece
09 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||2BHK scheme work to gain momentum||Construction of houses under the prestigious two-bedroom housing scheme is expected to gather pace with the State government permitting the Telangana State Housing Corporation Limited to avail loan to the tune of Rs. 2,400 crore from the HUDCO. The corporation has sought the government’s permission to accept the terms of conditions offered by HUDCO to avail the new loan under the housing programme for the just-concluded financial year 2019-20 besides issuing guarantee for the said loan. The corporation planned to utilise the assistance for construction of 70,318 houses under the 2BHK scheme. These include 8,519 houses in rural areas, 26,577 in urban and 35,222 houses in the GHMC area. The government in its orders accorded permission to the corporation to avail the loan and accepted to provide guarantee along with budgetary provision for repayment of principle along with interest for the entire tenure of repayment of the HUDCO loan for the construction of over 70,000 houses. Central schemes The development follows the government’s plan to raise Rs. 2,500 crore as loan from HUDCO as announced by Housing Minister Vemula Prashanth Reddy in the Legislative Assembly during the budget session in September last. The loan was in addition to release of Rs. 1,365 crore under Central schemes while the State government had made budgetary allocation of Rs. 185 crore for the scheme during the previous fiscal. The allocation for the prestigious project during the current financial year has, however, been increased significantly to Rs. 10,000 crore as part of efforts to accelerate the works on the project and ensure that the housing units are handed over to the beneficiaries at the earliest. The 2BHK project was launched with an outlay of over Rs. 18,000 crore envisaging construction of 2.82 lakh houses of which tenders had been called for works relating to two lakh houses. Construction started on 1.8 lakh houses and works on more than 30,000 houses had been completed in all respects. The government had incurred close to Rs. 7,000 crore towards the construction of the 2BHK houses in different parts of the State including a massive complex of 17,000 houses in Kollur on the city outskirts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/2bhk-scheme-work-to-gain-momentum/article31294632.ece
09 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Standalone centre at IPM nodal for blood collection||To avoid cross-infection to donors at blood banks attached to hospitals, the Telangana government has decided to collect blood at the standalone blood centre at Institute of Preventive Medicine (IPM), Narayanguda. Blood and its components like plasma will be given based on request received from blood banks or centres at hospitals. District Medical and Health Officer (DMHO) J Venkati said donors would be given through WhatsApp, which could be shown to the police to get clearance on roads. Apart from name and other details, a timeslot for the donation would be mentioned on it. They have to call 8497958597 or 040-29569047 between 10 a.m. and 5 p.m. for the passes. In-charge of the COVID-19 voluntary blood donation drive Prasad Muvva said that when a person calls, they would ask the donor if they had any international or national travel history in the past one month, if they suffered from fever, cold or cough in the past one month, if they had contact with any COVID-19 patient or were suspected of COVID-19. Further, donor’s body temperature and blood pressure would be checked. This was meant to ensure that blood was not collected from people carrying the virus. Regular blood donation camps had not been conducted by government blood banks in the past two weeks in view of the lockdown. Some objectives of the initiative are to minimise infection transmission to both donors and recipients, to serve all government blood banks in the districts, to enlist rare blood groups and ensure availability. An average of 100 to 115 units of blood would be collected in a day during the COVID-19 pandemic. It would be further processed into components such as plasma and red blood cells. There are around 1,625 patients suffering from thalassemia in the State and they require regular blood transfusion twice a month. Health department officials released a format of the ‘Donor appointment’ pass. Communication about the initiative was given to the police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/standalone-centre-at-ipm-nodal-for-blood-collection/article31294594.ece
09 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Discussions on culture, faith move to cyberspace||Given the lockdown to prevent the spread of the novel coronavirus, scores of city residents who usually organised in-person meeting to discuss spirituality, religious texts, culture and Indian tradition have taken to technology. These in-person meetings have now been replaced by conferences in cyberspace and are facilitated by a host of online tools. Take for instance, Venkatraman Ramachandran. An entrepreneur and Carnatic musician, he is part of a couple of groups which meet online on Zoom, a video conferencing app, to discuss the Vedic concepts, including dharma.  “We are trying to understand such concepts and frame them in such a way that do not create schisms. For instance, we interpret dharma as something which enlivens the self, the other and the context. I am also a part of a group where we try to understand and pronounce Sanskrit words properly with due adherence to diacritics,” he says. Importance of charity Others such as Waseem Ahmed, a senior manager who works with a prominent banking firm, are part of such groups which convene in cyberspace frequently to discuss important aspects of the faith and the significance of being charitable during testing times. “Over the past few days, around 25 people are sharing insights on how to deal with crises in light of the scriptures. We have been speaking of, and putting into practice how to help the less privileged. One of the things we have been focusing on is prayers for all people in these testing times,” Mr Ahmed says. Religious scholars, too, have taken to social media to broadcast their lectures online. Maulana Ahsan al Hamoumi, khateeb of the Shahi Masjid in Public Gardens, has taken to Facebook to speak about Shab-e-Baraat, popularly known as Jaagne ki Raat. On the other hand, Mufti Omar Abedeen, deputy director of Islamic seminary Al Mahaad ul Aali al Islami, has launched a course on the basics of the faith.  Over the past few days, around 25 people are sharing insights on how to deal with crises in light of the scriptures. We have been speaking of, and putting into practice how to help the less privileged. Waseem Ahmed, Senior banker||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/discussions-on-culture-faith-move-to-cyberspace/article31294601.ece
09 April 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||More contributions pour in for CMRF||Contributions to the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund (CMRF) continued to pour in on Wednesday as well, with several individuals and organisations meeting Municipal Administration Minister K.T. Rama Rao and handing over cheques. CMD of Rainbow Hospitals, Ramesh Kancharla donated 5,000 PPE kits, 10,000 N95 masks, and 2,00,000 3-ply masks worth about Rs. 1 crore while Botta Parvathaiah of Vivin Drugs & Pharmaceuticals Pvt Ltd, and D. Srinivas Reddy, MD, Optimus Drugs Private Ltd. donated Rs. 25 lakh. Musi River Front Development Corporation chairperson D. Sudheer Reddy distributed one lakh sanitiser bottles and 30,000 cloth masks. Other industry leaders and public representatives who contributed to the CMRF included SARK Projects India Private Limited - Rs. 20 lakh, TKR Educational Society - Rs. 12 lakh, Indian Drug Manufacturers’ Association, Telangana - Rs. 11 lakh, and SSB Infra Developers - Rs. 10 lakh, Bishop Joab Lohara, President AIM ASIA - Rs. 10 lakh, Shatabdi Townships Pvt Ltd - Rs. 10 lakh, Binjsaria Ispat Pvt Ltd - Rs. 10 lakh, All India Telaga Kapu Balija Sangham - Rs. 5,01,116, M. Sagar, Artist - Rs. 5 lakh, Shenoy Hospital - Rs. 5 lakh and Emmanuel Resorts Pvt. Ltd. - Rs. 5 lakh. Minister KTR thanked the industry leaders for their contribution.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/more-contributions-pour-in-for-cmrf/article31294611.ece
09 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||IT/ITES companies prepared for WFH till month-end||Many IT and ITES companies are inclined to exercise caution even if the Centre may not extend lockdown beyond April 14, by asking their employees to work from home for a few more days. A financial services company with global operations indicated it may ask its employees here to continue to work from home (WFH) till April-end. Many companies are also in favour of continuing the WFH mode for their employees for a few more weeks before phasing it out to ensure that their employees follow social distancing norms until the COVID-19 curve is flattened. Even before the lockdown was announced by the State government in Telangana till March 31 and later extended by the Centre till April 14 to curb the spread of the novel coronavirus, some IT and financial services companies were proactive to let some of the workforce work from home as a precautionary measure with COVID-19 positive cases increasingly being reported in the State. Subsequently after lockdown was announced, the companies were quick to ensure that all their employees switched to WFH mode. Hyderabad Software Enterprises Association (HYSEA) president Murali Bollu says that most companies are prepared to let employees work from home till the end of April to ensure business continuity. Even in the event of lockdown being lifted from April 15, employees of software companies may continue to work from home for two or three days more as it will be middle of the week. If the lockdown is lifted, potentially IT/ITES offices may be kept open and employees may be given an option to work from office, he says. Many employees may avail the option because of internet and system issues encountered by some while working from home. There is also the issue of shortage of laptops to be provided to all employees. Mr Bollu says the period of lockdown may be longer in Covid hotspots and Telangana is among five or six states with a high number of positive cases with the numbers suddenly spiking after the Markaz event in Delhi. Many after Markaz event travelled back to various districts of Telangana. Secondly, US imposed lockdown till April 30 and corporate offices of many IT/ITES companies here are in the US and they may direct their Indian offices to continue working from home till the month-end. The other smart option for India is to to assess, based on the data, when the COVID cases will hit the plateau. In China, the disease plateaued out after about 80,000 cases. Mr Bollu says even if the lockdown is extended by a couple of weeks or more with few days of intermittent relief in between, companies may not totally reverse the ongoing WFH mode till the COVID-19 transmission is totally under control.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/itites-companies-prepared-for-wfh-till-month-end/article31294590.ece
09 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Tough times for smokers, pan chewers too||Pan shop owners across twin cities are being ‘harassed’ by their customers to sell cigarettes and pan masala in black as tobacco addiction is no less worse than alcohol addiction and the effects are showing their ugly face during this lockdown. On the other hand, cashing in on the situation and demand, owners of grocery stores are selling cigarettes and banned gutka products at premium prices. “Our regular customers are calling us repeatedly to sell pan masala or cigarettes. But, we cannot open our stores during the lockdown,” said Pan Shop Owners’ Association of India general secretary Mohammed Salahuddin Dakhni. “The government must permit us to open at least one shop in a colony till the stocks are exhausted, as there is no supply from other States,” he said. There are more than 5,000 pan shops here. “I’m getting at least 20 to 30 phone calls per day and a couple of people are coming to my house requesting for products,” says Mr. Dakhni. Mr. Salahuddin said that kirana shops who have old stocks were ‘looting’ people by charging almost double compared to normal days. A packet of Gold Flake that costs Rs. 170 is now being sold for not less than Rs. 250 and Rs. 300. Same is the case of pan masala. A large box of Rajnigandha that costs Rs. 700 is being sold for Rs. 1,400 or more. “While they (grocers) are making a quick buck, we are completely out of business. Our lives and earnings are very similar to daily wage workers,” he said. Many people, especially students and small-time employees who cannot afford the sky-rocketing prices of cigarettes have taken to smoking beedi. “With no money to buy cigarettes in the black market, I’m smoking beedis,” said a final year engineering student from Ramanthapur. Meanwhile, Mr. Salahuddin said that the city got its cigarettes from Kolkata and Bengaluru, normal betel leaves were imported from Kadapa, Chittoor and Kolkata.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/tough-times-for-smokers-pan-chewers-too/article31294618.ece
09 April 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Govt. bans spitting in public places||The State government has banned spitting in public places and institutions with immediate effect, as part of efforts to check the spread of COVID-19. In a notification issued to this effect on Wednesday, the government said that COVID-19 pandemic brought to the fore the importance of hygiene and cleanliness in both personal and public spheres. There is an utmost need to impose restrictions on unhealthy practices of people that might potentially lead to the spread of viruses like COVID-19 and several other infections. “Spitting in public places poses a serious threat and can lead to spread of such infections,” Health department Special Chief Secretary A. Santhi Kumari said in the notification.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/govt-bans-spitting-in-public-places/article31294605.ece
09 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Rural tele-medicine project launched in Narayanpet dist.||Narayanpet district in association with the Telangana Information Technology Association (TITA) has launched a pilot project ‘T- Consult - a Rural Tele-Medicine project’ from Makthal mandal to enable people living in rural and remote areas with no access to doctors - to seek medical check-ups and consultations. As many as 62 doctors from various fields of specialisation, join together to provide free consultation services to the rural poor. In the first phase, the project will be launched in 39 villages of Makthal mandal, making it the first mandal in the country to have 100% access to tele-medicine. 39 gram panchayats Narayanpet District Collector Hari Chandana told The Hindu that under the project all the 39 gram panchayat offices in the mandal will have facilities to offer telemedicine services and consultation. Citizens can book appointments with doctors of their choice and speciality through tele-consult facility led by panchayat-level officers. Doctors will interact with patients and also provide prescription which can be had in hard copy format, she explained. In the next phase, the effort will be to offer citizens, direct interaction through their smart phones, she said. Role of AYUSH doctors The T-Consult was formally launched by Tridandi China Jeeyar Swamy from JIMS institute, whose AYUSH doctors made important contribution to the project. He offered free consultation and medicines from JIMS AYUSH College for the district. Ms. Hari Chandana said the tele-consultation project would assume significance in view of the current lockdown and restrictions on movement. The TITA team along with the district medical officers of Narayanpet led by the Collector had undergone training as the nodal officers through tele-conference for this tele-medicine project.  TITA partners TITA global president Sundeep Kumar Makthala said the tele-medicine project is part of the efforts of the district administration to offer quality and free medical care to the rural people. TITA has partnered with Digithon and Klinikals for the required technology for the project. As part of this, various medical specialists will list out the time slots during which they will be available for tele-consultation and people will seek an appointment online. Following the tele-consultation, the prescription will also be sent to the patients online.  The panchayat secretary, who will be the nodal officer for the project, will coordinate the required video-connect.  To be expanded After Narayanpet, efforts will be made to extend to other areas. TITA through its Digithon Online Clinic had recently hosted a tele-consultation facility for NRIs stranded in Italy, France, Netherlands and other places on COVID-19. Now, the same platform is being extended to rural areas, Mr. Sundeep Kumar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/rural-tele-medicine-project-launched-in-narayanpet-dist/article31294641.ece
09 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||RSS activists distribute survival kits to the poor||Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) activists have distributed kits of essential commodities to people whose livelihood have been affected due to the lockdown being implemented to prevent the spread of coronavirus. In a statement issued on Wednesday, Telangana in-charge of the organisation Kancham Ramesh said that they have been distributing groceries to poor families right from day one of the restrictions. “We have been working with various organisations, including those inspired by organisations like Seva Bharati, to feed poor people by distributing essential commodities given as ‘survival kits’ at their doorstep. He stated that about 2,700 Swayamsevaks had so far distributed the grocery kits to about 25,000 families in need at 369 locations in Telangana. The RSS workers have also been creating awareness about precautions to be taken to prevent the spread of coronavirus. In addition, they have been volunteering to ensure that social distancing is followed at ration shops and other places where people gather to buy essentials, besides volunteering to help the police and sanitary workers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/rss-activists-distribute-survival-kits-to-the-poor/article31294604.ece
09 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Mobile detection stations for collection of swabs||A Hyderabad-based startup has come up with a solution to detect the novel coronavirus by developing mobile ‘detection stations’ where swabs can be collected and sent for testing. Pulse Active Stations Network, a Y Combinator backed startup, has designed Pulse Active Stations, a kiosk in which the operator collects samples through two slots. The ‘operator’ who collects these samples is fully protected. Speaking to The Hindu , startup founder Joginder Tanikella said a meeting with officials of the Telangana government is scheduled for Thursday after which the further course of action on deployment will be decided. “The difference is that we will be developing analysis for co-morbidity testing. Which will help the government and Public Health Institutions to determine the strategy for fighting COVID-19,” Mr Tanikella said. Each Pulse Active Station measures various health and wellness parameters and in conjunction with their proprietary AI-based platform, give indications of potential lifestyle diseases with personalised recommendations, on a regular basis. The company has a presence in 150 locations in 106 cities and uses. The kiosks are placed in public spaces where samples can be taken. IT Minister K.T. Rama Rao lauded the startup. Taking to Twitter, he posted, “The Pulse Active Station measures vital health data along with coronavirus screening for assessing co-morbidity of testee & provides real-time telemedicine and health monitoring solutions Proud of this Hyderabad Medical devices park based company (sic).” Hyderabad Parliamentarian Asaduddin Owaisi also lauded the effort.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/mobile-detection-stations-for-collection-of-swabs/article31294600.ece
09 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Over 300 are Markaz returnees, contacts||Of the total COVID-19 positive cases in Telangana, over 200 are those who returned from Markaz, New Delhi, and nearly 100 cases are their contacts. Health Minister Eatala Rajender, who gave the statistics, said the total number of people who had returned from Markaz and their contacts was 3,183. Till Wednesday, a total of 453 COVID-19 cases had been detected in the State, including 45 who were discharged and 11 who died. Home quarantine “Those who returned from Markaz and tested negative have to be under home quarantine till April 21,” said Mr Rajender at a press conference held on the State Health Campus at Koti on Wednesday. Family members of Markaz returnees, who tested negative, have to be under home quarantine till April 28. Stamps mentioning the date till when people have to be under quarantine were imprinted on their wrists. The Heath Minister said all Markaz returnees to Telangana had been traced.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/over-300-are-markaz-returnees-contacts/article31294620.ece
09 April 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Pharm.D graduates offer services||The Pharm.D Doctors Welfare Association has come forward to join the State government in the fight against COVID-19 pandemic. Association representatives led by its president Chandrashekar Naik, who met State Planning Board vice-chairman B. Vinod Kumar here, said in the present circumstances, the system might require clinically trained professionals and as there was an excessive burden on the healthcare staff, it was better to accommodate Pharm.D doctors, pharmacists, nurses, lab technicians and other paramedics. There are a total of 1,900 interns and 5,700 graduated Pharm. D andPharm.D (P.B) doctors in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/pharmd-graduates-offer-services/article31294592.ece
09 April 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||OU to provide free COVID-19 counselling||Sahayam, Centre for Excellence, Osmania University, will offer free tele-counselling to vulnerable clients under mental stress in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic. Sahayam in-charge director, C. Beena said a team of 15 psychology experts is ready to render tele-counseling services through proactive strategies to minimise the impact of psychological stress. Counselling would focus on cognitive, behavioural and emotional reactions to the current situation including anxiety, fear, helplessness, uncertainty, confusion, stigma, stress and coping with change, loss, grief, depression, hopelessness, suicidal thoughts, difficulties in interpersonal relationships and other related issues. The tele-counselling services would be offered from Monday to Friday between 10 a.m. and 8 p.m. on the following numbers: 10 a.m. to 12 noon (9848353305); noon to 2 p.m. (8309661424); 2 p.m. to 4 p.m. (7674901954); 4 p.m. to 6p.m. (8297976773) and 6 p.m. to 8 p.m. (9573027033). E-mail can be sent on sahayamou@gmail.com. In a press release, the Association of Health Psychologists said, in collaboration with UNICEF, Action Aid, Dr. Reddy’s Foundation and AP Sofia Service Forum, it has started a helpline for tele-counselling. More information can be had on 9985010680.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ou-to-provide-free-covid-19-counselling/article31294591.ece
09 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||CII seeks support for COVID-19 relief work||The Confederation of Indian Industry has requested all corporates to come forward and support COVID-19 relief activities taken up by the government of Telangana. Stating this, an official release from CII Telangana on Wednesday said Alpla India in collaboration with the CII donated 666 ration kits to migrant workers at Pashamylaram Industrial zone in Sangareddy district. CII’s Young Indians Network donated 4,200 meals and Tata Consultancy Services donated 500 meals in collaboration with police department in Hyderabad. ITC PSPD donated 1,100 meals in Bhadrachalam and 100 medical equipment and 100 sanitary equipment to the Government Hospital, Bhadrachalam, the release further informed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cii-seeks-support-for-covid-19-relief-work/article31294598.ece
09 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||BITS-Pilani comes up with face mask||Even as several public and private institutions are racing against time to come up with different face shields, BITS-Pilani Hyderabad has unveiled a simple and cheap face mask. MEMS, Microfluidics and Nanoelectronics (MMNE) lab of the Department of Electrical and Electronics Engineering of the institute has developed a 3D printed face mask for medical professionals. The face shield has been realised using a simple design and fabricated by utilising a polylactic acid based biocompatible and biodegradable filament, and a 0.1 mm thick A4 size lamination sheet. Professor Sanket Goel and his research associate Avinash Kothuru have come up with this device that costs just Rs. 40. It takes just three hours to make the mask, which can be further reduced by increasing the layer-height and the required resolution. They said that the face mask can be reused as it is made of high melting point and it has been found to be water and air insulated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bits-pilani-comes-up-with-face-mask/article31294608.ece
09 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||MLC urges govt. to help jr. advocates||Senior BJP leader and city president N. Ramchander Rao on Wednesday appealed to the Government to come to the aid of the junior advocates who have been facing much difficulty during the ongoing Covid-19 lockdown. In a communication to Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao, a copy of which was released to the media, Mr. Rao, also an MLC, pointed out that the various courts from High Court to the lower courts have been shut down and working only on matters of utmost urgency. This has affected the junior lawyers and the Government can provide succour by making use of the interest accrued out of the Rs.100 crore fund set up by the Government when Telangana State was formed. "The Chief Minister is well aware of the important role played by the lawyers during the agitation and this is the right time to make use of fund to meet the current exigency," he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/mlc-urges-govt-to-help-jr-advocates/article31294630.ece
09 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Parcel trains||The SCR has announced that it would be running 32 parcel trains between Kakinada town and Secunderabad from April 8 to April 14; daily parcel trains between Renigunta and Secunderabad from April 8 to April 14; two Doodh Duronto trains between Renigunta and Nizamuddin (Delhi) will be run from April 8 and April 12. A parcel train will be run from Secunderabad to Howrah on April 9; from Hyderabad to Amritsar on April 10. Another parcel train is planned towards Aurangabad based on demand.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/parcel-trains/article31294602.ece
09 April 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Helping the needy||Forum Sujana Mall in association with Cyberabad Police and Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation is distributing 500 meal packets every day to the needy in the city. This CSR initiative is being undertaken with the help and support of Prestige Foundation and will go on till the lockdown ends, a press release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/helping-the-needy/article31294610.ece
09 April 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||IPE nominated||In recognition of its contribution to the discipline of Accounting and Public Policy, the Institute of Public Enterprise (IPE) has been nominated as member of the Committee on Public and Government Financial Management as a Special Invitee for the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India Council (ICAIC) year 2020-22. Amongst others, the primary activities of the committee consists of formulating Accounting Standards for Local Bodies, providing technical inputs on government accounting related matters within India and internationally on the documents of IPSAS Board, and building capacity of the finance officials of various tiers of the Government in India, a press release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ipe-nominated/article31294609.ece
09 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TJUDAs||A day after seeking donations from people to buy Personal Protection Equipment (PPE), and N95 masks, the Telangana Junior Doctors Association said their effort was to support one another, and make people part of it. They issued a press release mentioning a bank account to gather funds for it. Minister Eatala Rajender said order for 5 lakh each of PPEs and N95 masks, and 3.5 lakhs testing kits was placed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/tjudas/article31294621.ece
09 April 2020||HYDERABAD/KARIMNAGAR,TELANGANA||Group of 10 Indonesians tests negative, discharged||The 10 Indonesians, who arrived in Karimnagar on March 14 from the Tablighi Jamaat (TJ) meeting in New Delhi, have freshly tested negative for COVID-19, bringing huge relief to officials of Karimnagar district. Four residents of Karimnagar, including two women, all of whom are believed to have contracted COVID-19 through these foreigners, however, are still undergoing treatment at Gandhi Hospital in Hyderabad. Three men out of the 18 others from Karimnagar, who also attended the TJ meeting, contracted the novel coronavirus and are undergoing treatment at that hospital. Cases registered “While 10 Indonesians were discharged and kept under quarantine for observation, the condition of the remaining is also being closely monitored,” Karimnagar Police Commissioner V.B. Kamalasan Reddy told The Hindu on Wednesday. Cases have already been registered against the foreigners by police in Karimnagar and Ramagundam for alleged visa rule violations and spreading an infectious disease. The ‘recovery reports’ of the Indonesians and dip in further cases made the ‘Karimnagar model’ of controlling the pandemic a success story. Initially, the official machinery was on its toes following reports of ‘foreigners’ (participants of TJ meeting in Delhi) moving about in Karimnagar and spreading COVID-19. On learning that these foreigners were accommodated in a local Ahamadiya mosque near the district collectorate, police closed all lanes and by-lanes within a kilometre radius of the area. No stranger was allowed to enter the hotspot and none was allowed to go out either. “Although it caused inconvenience to people, it was done to check further transmission of virus to others,” Karimnagar Assistant Commissioner of Police Ashok said. On the other hand, extensive door-to-door heath checks were conducted by multiple teams of Health department. All vulnerable persons were shifted to isolation wards. Fortunately, the foreigners did not move extensively in Karimnagar. Police collected details of their movement since they landed at Ramagundam railway station at 5.52 a.m. on March 14 by Sampark Kranthi Express. From there, the foreigners went to Musalaya mosque in Ramagundam. After offering prayers there, they left for Karimnagar by 7 a.m. in a car and an auto-rickshaw with two residents of Karimnagar. The duo and two female members of their family also contracted the virus. After reaching Karimnagar, they had breakfast at a roadside eatery. Gathering such minute details, police began identifying primary and secondary contacts of the foreigners and local residents who assisted them. Simultaneously, precise details of the 18 persons from Karimnagar who participated in TJ Delhi meeting were also identified. Their close and casual contacts were traced too. Three of them tested positive for the virus. One of them, unaware of contracting the virus, went to Warangal and even attended a marriage function in Suryapet, having travelled in a bus. “Field inquiries by our Special Branch policemen alerted us about the movement of foreigners a day after their arrival. Without losing a minute, we did everything to contain the virus and it is yielding positive results,” Mr. Kamalasan Reddy said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/group-of-10-indonesians-tests-negative-discharged/article31294597.ece
09 April 2020||INDERVELLI (ADILABAD DIST.),TELANGANA||Social distancing norms followed to the T here||The hard working couple at Indervelli mandal headquarter stand out for being methodical while the world around them is mired in the seeming chaos generated by the COVID-19 phenomenon. Dinesh Rathod and his wife Parameshwari, who operate the State Bank of India customer service point (CSP) at this tribal centre implement in letter and spirit every procedure associated with working with a good number of customers in such crucial times and the norms of social distancing. Between 10 a.m. and 6 p.m. every day, you can find at least a score of women seated in the boxes in front of the CSP on the main road patiently waiting for their turn to withdraw the Rs. 500 that have been credited into their Jan Dhan Yojana (JDY) bank accounts by the Union government. Every hour, those present get to clean their hands, even as the tireless Dinesh administers the sanitiser supplied by the bank. “A tent has been erected for the customers and drinking water provision has been made. Every possible step has been taken to prevent contamination of water or anything else,” the CSP owner claimed. “It is quite tidy and we can handle about 200 customers every day and there is no crowding as we hand over slips with a time slot for given customer,” Mr. Dinesh affirms. “We have already made payments to about 3,000 customers including those who hold accounts in erstwhile Andhra Bank and Telangana Grameena Bank through the Aadhaar enabled payment system,” he added without mentioning the fact that he and his wife take no lunch break. The couple have opened about 13,000 zero balance accounts since the JDY came into being. Their CSP stands first among the 50 sponsored by the SBI in this aspect.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/social-distancing-norms-followed-to-the-t-here/article31294634.ece
09 April 2020||KAMAREDDY,TELANGANA||Tendu leaves destroyed in lightning strike||Tendu leaves worth about Rs. 1 crore packed in over 3,000 gunny bags were destroyed as lightning struck a warehouse of a private beedie company on the outskirts of Domakonda mandal headquarters on Tuesday night. Fire tenders arrived from Kamareddy and Ramayampet in Medak district and put out the fire. Local water tankers were also roped in to control the flames. Police registered a case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/tendu-leaves-destroyed-in-lightning-strike/article31294635.ece
09 April 2020||PEDDAPALLI,TELANGANA||SCCL miner goes missing in UG mine||A coal miner of Singareni Collieries Company Limited (SCCL) is feared missing from the underground mine at GDK 11 incline in RG-1 area since the first shift on Tuesday. He was not traced till Wednesday evening. Mine acting pump operator Kodem Sanjeev went into the mine on Tuesday morning to switch on the motor at 11th seam and one dip, and did not return. The officials after searching for him in the entire mine area, pressed into service rescue teams. Ramagundam legislator Korukanti Chander and municipal chairman Anil Kumar rushed to the mine area and inquired about the rescue operations with the Singareni officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/sccl-miner-goes-missing-in-ug-mine/article31294636.ece
09 April 2020||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||Speaking in their own language||Slowly, but surely, the involvement of community elders is making the job easy for officials who are dealing with persons in quarantine centres located at Narayana College in Pati and Maheswara Medical College in Patancheru mandal and MNR Medical College at Fasalwadi. While seventeen persons were kept at MNR Medical College, eight persons were at Maheswara Medical College and about seventy-five persons at Narayana College at Pati. All of them are first and second contacts of those who had participated in religious congregation in New Delhi. Though initially it had become a Herculean task for police, medical and revenue personnel to identify them and bring them to quarantine, the contacts are understanding the seriousness of the pandemic after counselling by doctors and officials. “Initially, many from the minority community felt that they were being targeted as they had attended the meeting. But when the results were coming positive for those who attended the religious congregation, they started to realise the truth. Now they are understanding that not only they and their families but also their community are at risk. Many of them have understood this and are cooperating with us,” said an official involved in the activities at a quarantine centre. At the help desk also, the officials posted an employee from the same community so that it would be easy to deal with them. They also roped in personnel who could speak the same language with those in quarantine, which narrowed the gap between the administration and those in the centre. “Even at places where some persons were kept in house quarantine, neighbours from the same community are coming forward to share information and their movements. At times they are calling us to enforce the restrictions strictly,” the official said. The repeated appeals by Finance Minister T Harish Rao to people to follow the lockdown norms did also have their impact.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/speaking-in-their-own-language/article31294638.ece
09 April 2020||BERHAMPUR,||Ganjam starts 3-day mega health screening programme from today||Health condition and travel history of all families in Odisha’s Ganjam district would be checked through a three-day-long mega health screening programme to identify persons having symptoms related to COVID-19. The programme will start from Thursday morning and end on April 11. It is the first district in the State to take up such a major health screening programme that will reach each and every citizen of the district. Ganjam is the most populous district in Odisha with around seven lakh families, having a population of around 40 lakh. According to Ganjam Collector Vijay Amruta Kulange, the programme will be taken up in rural and urban areas. This door-to-door screening will be done on war footing in over 6,000 revenue villages of 22 blocks as well as 18 urban bodies of the district, including the Berhampur Municipal Corporation area. Each anganwadi service area will be taken as a single unit for the survey. A three-member team — the anganwadi worker, her helper and a teacher — will visit each household to collect the information. Basic information Through a questionnaire, basic information about the family and its members, their present health condition nad travel history will be collected. There will be extra stress on locating persons with symptoms of cold, cough, fever along with information about those who have returned from abroad or other parts of the country. Such persons will be under focus of the administration. If needed, they will be tested for possible COVID-19 infection. Till now, no COVID-19 positive case has been reported from Ganjam district. As per the official information, till now 761 persons have returned to the district from foreign countries. Similarly, 28,098 persons have returned to their homes in Ganjam from different States. These include migrant workers, who have returned from Kerala, Maharashtra and Gujarat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/ganjam-starts-3-day-mega-health-screening-programme-from-today/article31294540.ece
09 April 2020||Bhopal,||Policemen remain unfazed amid scare||Policemen at the Jahangirabad police station, whose six members had contracted COVID-19, remain unusually unfazed. Their faces refuse to betray the lack of sleep, unending duty hours and the daunting task of screening people on roads at a time when a local outbreak looms over Bhopal. Assistant Sub-Inspector of Police R.K. Singh plops himself in a chair inside, keeping at least a metre’s distance from his colleagues sitting around a table. “What is there to fear while serving the public? Even if it’s death in line of duty, we are ready to accept it.” Although the disease has downed the City Superintendent of Police Alim Khan as well as the police station’s incharge, the morale of other policemen, including juniors, remains unruffled. The 19 hours of duty — manning barricades and patrolling in vehicles to ensure the lockdown is complied with — has failed to take a toll on them. “We get to sleep for just three hours. And I return home only to take a bath,” said Mr. Singh, 55, while sprinkling hand sanitiser on his shoes, a ritual he performs at least five times a day. “It is inevitable to face the threat of falling ill now while working in a congested area like this. In fact, I would say if you don't fall ill, you didn’t perform your duty well,” he chuckles. Different officials may use the same vehicles, sit in the same chairs and use the same protective face masks at different times during the day. “And you don’t know who’s carrying the infection,” he said. Just one of the infected policemen is above 60. “Young boys in uniform are spindly and lack a strong immune system. They can’t take pressure and long working hours,” a constable chipped in.  ‘No pickpockets’ And the crime rate remains unaffected, said Mr. Singh, only their nature had changed. “There are violators of prohibitory orders now. And no pickpockets. Who will they target anyway when there's barely anyone on the roads?” he asked.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/policemen-remain-unfazed-amid-scare/article31294536.ece
09 April 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||Masks must for stepping out in Odisha||While adopting strict social distancing and isolation measures to contain the spread of COVID-19, the Odisha government has ordered that people coming out of their homes across the State should wear masks from Thursday. The general public has been directed to cover their mouth and nose with any kind of mask while stepping out of the house for any purpose. A handkerchief or any other piece of cloth in at least two layers can also be used for the purpose, the government said. Strict implementation All the district and municipal authorities have been directed to implement the decision strictly, said the State government’s chief spokesperson for COVID-19, Subroto Bagchi, on Wednesday. Mr. Bagchi urged the people to cooperate with the authorities in areas that had been earmarked as containment zone following detection of positive cases from those localities in Bhubaneswar and other places in the State. “During the time of an extraordinary situation like this, all are requested play a positive role and not create any confusion. We can’t afford to be distracted at this hour of crisis. Help us to fight COVID-19. Everyone must play his role,” said the State government’s Health & Family Welfare Department. “Do not believe in fake news. While sharing information about COVID-19, use only trusted sources. Stay alert, stay safe,” said the Health Department. As many as 55 cases have been registered in the State for rumour-mongering. A total of 2441 samples had been tested in the State till Thursday morning. Of the 42 positive cases detected so far, while two had recovered and one had died, 39 COVID-19 cases were under treatment. A total of 91 persons were kept under hospital isolation. While three testing laboratories – two at Bhubaneswar and one at Cuttack – are already functioning at present, the fourth facility will commence testing at the Institute of Life Sciences, Bhubaneswar next week.  Farming allowed Meanwhile, the State government has allowed farming operationsfor ongoing Rabi and preparatory activities for the coming Kharif season. Harvesting of agricultural produce including fruits and vegetables and transportationto markets have been permitted without any restrictions by retailers and transporters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/masks-must-for-stepping-out-in-odisha/article31294534.ece
09 April 2020||CHANDIGARH,||No move on extending curfew yet: Punjab CM||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Wednesday said that no decision had been taken yet on extending the curfew in the State beyond April 14 even as the State reported seven fresh cases of COVID-19. The State government was yet to take a decision in the matter and a call in this regard would be taken after the Cabinet meeting on April 10, he said in a statement here. The government was continuously assessing and reviewing the evolving situation, which was changing day to day, and any decision would be taken in the context of the conditions prevailing around mid-April, keeping in mind the overall interest of the State and its people, he said. “Though pandemic was currently in control in Punjab, nothing could be predicted at the moment, given the ever-changing dynamics of the situation,” he said, adding that all the factors would be taken into account before coming to a final decision on extending or lifting the curfew, either fully or partially. The Chief Minister also announced that a task force would soon be set up to find ways for the State to gradually come out of the unprecedented lockdown. Earlier in the day, the Chief Minister held a video conference with industrialists. After the meeting, he tweeted, Interacted over video conferencing with experts of Punjab’s industry regarding measures to be taken to assist industry during the #Covid19 crisis.  106 positive cases According to the State health department two patients who tested positive are from Jalandhar, while one is from Faridkot. Four other cases were from Sahibzada Ajit Singh Nagar, taking the tally of confirmed Covid-19 cases to 106, it added.  (With PTI inputs)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/no-move-on-extending-curfew-yet-punjab-cm/article31294529.ece
09 April 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Textile industry hit by slowdown, lockdown||Reeling under losses amid nationwide lockdown due to Covid-19 outbreak and economic slowdown, Punjab’s textile industry has urged the State government to lend a helping hand to mitigate the problems of the industry. Amritsar Textile Processor Association (ATPA) has written to State Industries Minister Sunder Sham Arora and pointed out that amid the economic slowdown and the lockdown the industry is unable to meet its expenses, including interest cost on term loan and working capital, instalments of term loan, statutory taxes, dilution in value of stock due to seasonal fashion trends, revenue losses due to low demand in export as well as domestic market and salaries.. “Banks should should be asked to defer all instalments of loans for six months till 30.09.2020. MSMEs may be allowed to repay these six instalments without interest over a period of 12 months. Also, there should not be compulsion for payment of full salary-wages to employees from the employer for lockdown period,” said Krishan Kumar Sharma, president ATPA. Mr. Kumar said the association has also demanded the government not to impose anti-dumping duty on textile basic raw materials for a period of two year. “This is needed so that the user industry can avail the advantage of international decline in rates of key textile raw materials to be able to remain competitive,” he said. The textile processing units, which prepare dye and print fabrics are considered to be the backbone of nearly 700-800 textile factories that are involved in warp-knitting, woollen, embroidery, spinning and weaving. The closure of these processing units is apparently having a cascading affect on the textile business.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/textile-industry-hit-by-slowdown-lockdown/article31294527.ece
09 April 2020||Ghaziabad,||Fourth death in U.P. due to COVID-19||A 76-year-old COVID-19 infected woman died in Agra on Wednesday, taking the tally of deaths in Uttar Pradesh to four, said district officials. According to District Magistrate Prabhu N. Singh, the woman was also an asthma patient and was admitted to S.N. Medical College. “The grandson of the aged woman had returned from the Netherlands on March 15. She was admitted to two different private hospitals because of asthma-related problems,” Mr. Singh told reporters. A health department official said, later, she was shifted home and was on oxygen. “On Tuesday, when her report came out to be positive, a rescue team brought her to S.N. Medical College where she succumbed during treatment,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/fourth-death-in-up-due-to-covid-19/article31294530.ece
09 April 2020||GUWAHATI,||Police disperse gathering in Guwahati||The police on Wednesday dispersed scores of people who had gathered at a temple in the Fancy Bazaar area of Guwahati on the occasion of Hanuman Jayanti. Officials said the devotees had gathered in large numbers to offer prayers standing close to each other, ignoring the social distancing guidelines.  Closure order The city administration had almost a fortnight ago asked all religious institutions to close down. The authorities had also asked the people to remain indoors and avoid social gatherings in other to stop the spread of the killer COVID-19 virus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/police-disperse-gathering-in-guwahati/article31294537.ece
09 April 2020||JAIPUR,||Industrial workers faced with widespread hunger||Industrial labourers from other States, who have been rendered jobless by the lockdown, are faced with widespread hunger at their habitations in Sitapura and Sanganer industrial areas near Jaipur. The State government’s Labour Department is yet to ascertain their number. The inter-State workers came here from Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Jharkhand, Odisha and West Bengal. Activists working for extending relief in the industrial areas said on Wednesday that the majority of workers had not been paid by their contractors, while their landlords were pushing them to leave their rooms and the kirana stores were refusing to sell provisions to them. Jaipur Collector Joga Ram had issued an order on March 26, asking the industry owners to make the payment of wages to workers for the month and arrange food and other provisions for them through industrial associations. Even after the exodus on March 30, a huge number of labourers has been left behind in the two industrial areas. Following the Collector’s visit to the areas, the Labour Department started a survey to find out the number of those who needed immediate assistance. Civil rights groups, working under the banner of Jan Prayaas, said since the labourers had cooking arrangements at home, they should be provided with dry rations for a month, irrespective of their numbers and whether the industry does anything or not. Memorandum submitted In a memorandum submitted to State Labour Secretary Neeraj K. Pawan, Jan Prayaas said Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot’s assurance that “no one would go to bed hungry during the lockdown” should be implemented universally. “The distribution of dry rations must begin now and in all earnestness and swiftness for all,” PUCL-Rajasthan president Kavita Srivastava said. Mukesh Goswami of Rajasthan Unorganised Labour Union said the distribution of food packets by the administration was ad hoc and unsystematic. “We have now begun redistributing 2,000 packets a day in the industrial areas,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/industrial-workers-faced-with-widespread-hunger/article31294539.ece
09 April 2020||JAIPUR,||Rajasthan govt. returns drug stocks to market||The Rajasthan government has returned the entire stocks of hydroxychloroquine 300 mg tablets and 25% of hydroxychloroquine 200/400 mg tablets to the private firms from which it had acquired the medicine for managing the novel coronavirus patients. The antimalaria drug is considered useful for treatment of COVID-19 and some other ailments. After the State government acquired the medicines from the clearing and forwarding agents, distributors, stockists, wholesalers and retailers in March-end, its shortage in the market had created inconvenience for patients of rheumatoid arthritis and other diseases. Additional Chief Secretary (Medical & Health) Rohit Kumar Singh said here on Wednesday that these medicines would be available only on medical prescription and the Drug Controllers would take action to prevent their black marketing and profiteering. The notification for acquiring hydroxychloroquine 200/300/400 mg tablets from private firms was earlier issued under the provisions of Rajasthan Epidemic Diseases Act, 1957, for treatment of COVID-19 patients and for controlling the coronavirus infection. Meanwhile, Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot has urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to reconsider the decision to allow the export of hydroxychloroquine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/rajasthan-govt-returns-drug-stocks-to-market/article31294531.ece
09 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Dehradun daily wagers running out of food||In a sign that hunger is overtaking daily wage workers in the slum settlements of Dehradun, almost half of those surveyed by a workers’ movement this week said that they will run out of saved rations and money within three days under present conditions.  Lockdown extension The COVID-19 pandemic and the lockdown imposed to contain it have deprived most daily wage workers of their livelihood. As originally announced, the lockdown is supposed to last another week, till April 14, but the Centre and State governments are mulling an extension. Chetna Andolan, a movement which includes a 7,000-strong informal workers’ union, surveyed 282 families living in 14 slums or bastis on April 5 and 6. They were asked how many days their food ration would last under the current circumstances where they were not receiving any wages. They found that 128 families (45%) could not manage beyond three days, while 12 families (43%) said they could manage for another week. Only 33 families (12%) said that they would be able to cope for two more weeks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/dehradun-daily-wagers-running-out-of-food/article31294532.ece
09 April 2020||new delhi,||30 doctors, nurses in AIIMS advised to self-quarantine||Around 30 healthcare workers including doctors, nurses and technicians at the Cardio-Neuro Centre in AIIMS here have been advised to undergo quarantine after a 72-year-old man who visited the facility with neurological problem tested positive for COVID-19, sources said on Wednesday. The patient had reported to the emergency with brain stroke symptoms around two days back and was immediately shifted to the Neurology ward N-S5 for evaluation and treatment. “He was then subjected to radiological investigations like CT and MRI and was kept in a cubicle with other patients. He later complained of chest and respiratory distress after which his chest X-ray was done and and he was intubated. “There was some suspicion over his respiratory problems and his sample was taken and sent for testing which came out positive for COVID-19,” a source said. According to an official, the patient was immediately transported to AIIMS Trauma Centre, which has been converted into a dedicated COVID-19 hospital, and contact tracing has been initiated. The neurology ward where the patient was admitted is being sanitized and doctors in the emergency department are making robust screening of all patients to identity such cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/30-doctors-nurses-in-aiims-advised-to-self-quarantine/article31294704.ece
09 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Man booked for spitting||A case has been registered against a man, lodged in Bakkarwala quarantine centre in west Delhi, for allegedly spitting and misbehaving with the medical team, police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/man-booked-for-spitting/article31294705.ece
09 April 2020||LONDON,||China lifts Wuhan lockdown after 76 days||After 76 days in lockdown, the Chinese city at the heart of the global pandemic reopened on Wednesday, and tens of thousands immediately hopped on trains and planes to leave. Elsewhere, the economic, political and psychological toll of fighting the virus grew increasingly clear and more difficult to bear. In the Chinese city of 11 million where the pandemic began, residents waved flags and the city staged a light show with skyscrapers and bridges radiating images of health workers helping patients. More than 50,000 people in Wuhan were infected, and over 3,300 deaths were reported, about 80% of all deaths in China, according to official figures. “I haven’t been outside for more than 70 days,” said Tong Zhengkun. “Being indoors for so long drove me crazy.” Some 55,000 people were expected to leave Wuhan by train on Wednesday. By early morning, more than 10,000 had left by plane, an airport official said. Flights to Beijing and international locations have not resumed. People from Wuhan arriving in Beijing must undergo two rounds of testing for the virus. Need for caution “We are acutely aware that we must not relax as we have not claimed final victory,” Hubei Vice-Governor Cao Guangjin said at a news conference on Wednesday. “We need to remain calm, and be just as cautious at the end as at the beginning.” Across the Atlantic, New York City endured one of its darkest days yet, with the death toll surging past 4,000, hundreds more than the number killed on 9/11. New York state recorded 731 new COVID-19 deaths on Tuesday, its biggest one-day jump yet, for a statewide total of nearly 5,500. New York’s Mayor acknowledged on Wednesday that the true death toll is even higher because the city’s count does not include people who died at home without ever being tested for the virus. “We’re talking about something like 100, 200 people per day,” Bill de Blasio said. Across the U.S., the death toll reached about 13,000, with approximately 4,00,000 confirmed infections. More economic pain was felt. Japan, the world’s third-largest economy, could contract by a record 25% this quarter, the highest since gross domestic product began to be tracked in 1955. The dismal prediction by two economists said exports are expected to dive 60% in the April-June period. Europe has been scrambling to put together billions of euros to save lives and prevent bankruptcies. The countries worst hit by the virus are among those that can least afford the costs, like Italy and Spain. But they disagree over how to tackle the challenge.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/china-lifts-wuhan-lockdown-after-76-days/article31294205.ece
09 April 2020||April 09 2020 00:00 IST,||Singer John Prine dies at 73||John Prine, the raspy-voiced country-folk singer whose ingenious lyrics to songs by turns poignant, angry and comic made him a favourite of Bob Dylan, Kris Kristofferson and others, died on Tuesday at Vanderbilt University Medical Center in Nashville, Tennessee. He was 73. The cause was complications from COVID-19, his family said. Mr. Prine underwent cancer surgery in 1998 to remove a tumour in his neck identified as squamous cell cancer, which had damaged his vocal cords. In 2013, he had part of one lung removed to treat lung cancer. His debut album, called simply John Prine and released in 1971, included songs that became his signatures. Some gained wider fame after being recorded by other artists. They included Sam Stone , about a drug-addicted war veteran (with the unforgettable refrain “There’s a hole in Daddy’s arm where all the money goes”); Hello in There , a heart-rending evocation of old age and loneliness; and Angel From Montgomery , the hard-luck lament of a middle-aged woman dreaming about a better life, later made famous by Bonnie Raitt. “He’s a true folk singer in the best folk tradition,” Ms. Raitt told Rolling Stone in 1992. Dylan, listing his favourite songwriters in a 2009 interview, put Mr. Prine front and centre. “Prine’s stuff is pure Proustian existentialism... Midwestern mind trips to the nth degree. He writes beautiful songs.”NY Times||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/singer-john-prine-dies-at-73/article31294196.ece
09 April 2020||New York,||TikTok sees appeal growing during lockdowns||This is TikTok’s time. The social video platform which was already a favourite of teens is increasingly being used by adults looking for ways to pass the time during coronavirus lockdowns. Users post short videos — no longer than 60 seconds but often as short as 15 — to showcase their bite-size dance skills or share relatable experiences with a humorous twist. The application, owned by Chinese tech company ByteDance, saw 65 million worldwide downloads in March, according to analytics site SensorTower. In addition to the existing 800 million reported in January by DataReportal, the app is nearing a billion users —though TikTok itself does not publish such data. And though teens have been posting on the platform for months, it seems adults with more free time — as much of the world is encouraged to stay at home to stop the spread of the novel coronavirus —are finally catching on. Cecile, stuck at home in Paris with her six- and three-year-old children, was intrigued when a friend sent her a video. Soon, she had downloaded the app and was posting clips herself. “I said to myself: ‘Well, this is something funny I could do with the boys to pass the time, if only for fifteen minutes’,” she said. Celebrities have joined the fun too, from Jennifer Lopez to Mariah Carey —even 82-year-old Jane Fonda. Social media use is up across the board as movement is restricted around the world, but TikTok — already having a moment before the pandemic — is doing better than others. Idyllic vacation views and perfectly framed artistic shots — long the markers of the Instagram aesthetic — are currently out of reach for most. But the typical TikTok post does not require a beautiful background, explained Thibault Le Ouay, founder of Pentos, a company that helps brands with their marketing strategy on the platform. “On TikTok, you do a dance in your own house,” he said. Many videos on the platform — a descendant of the website Musical.ly — are amateur performances of short choreographed dances and lip syncs to song clips, repeated and riffed on over and over.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/tiktok-sees-appeal-growing-during-lockdowns/article31294200.ece
09 April 2020||Washington,||Bernie Sanders opts out of Democratic presidential race||Senator Bernie Sanders, who saw his once strong lead in the Democratic primary evaporate as the party’s establishment lined swiftly up behind rival Joe Biden, ended his presidential bid on Wednesday, an acknowledgement that the former Vice-President is too far ahead for him to have any reasonable hope of catching up. The Vermont Senator’s announcement makes Mr. Biden the presumptive Democratic nominee to challenge President Donald Trump in November. “The path toward victory is virtually impossible,” Mr. Sanders told supporters as he congratulated Mr. Biden. The former Vice-President is “a very decent man whom I will work with to move our progressive ideas forward.” Mr. Sanders initially exceeded sky-high expectations about his ability to recreate the magic of his 2016 presidential bid, and even overcame a heart attack last October. But he found himself unable to convert unwavering support from progressives into a viable path to the nomination amid “electability” fears fuelled by questions about whether his democratic socialist ideology would be palatable to general election voters. Oldest contender The 78-year-old Senator began his latest White House bid facing questions about whether he could win back the supporters who chose him four years ago as an insurgent alternative to the party establishment’s choice, Hillary Clinton. Despite winning 22 states in 2016, there were no guarantees he’d be a major presidential contender this cycle, especially as the race’s oldest candidate. Mr. Sanders, though, used strong polling and solid fundraising — collected almost entirely from small donations made online — to more than quiet early doubters. Like the first time, he attracted support from young voters and was able to make new inroads within the Hispanic community, even as his appeal with African Americans remained small. Mr. Sanders amassed the most votes in Iowa and New Hampshire, which opened primary voting, and cruised to an easy victory in Nevada — seemingly leaving him well positioned to sprint to the Democratic nomination while a deeply crowded and divided field of alternatives sunk around him. But a crucial endorsement of Mr. Biden by influential South Carolina Representative Jim Clyburn, and a subsequent, larger-than-expected victory in South Carolina, propelled the former vice president into Super Tuesday, when he won 10 of 14 States. In a matter of days, his top former Democratic rivals lined up and announced their endorsement of Mr. Biden. The former Vice -President’s campaign had appeared on the brink of collapse after New Hampshire but found new life as the rest of the party’s more moderate establishment coalesced around him as an alternative to Mr. Sanders. Loss in Michigan Things only got worse the following week when Mr. Sanders lost Michigan, where he had campaigned hard and upset Ms. Clinton in 2016. He was also beaten in Missouri, Mississippi and Idaho the same night and the results were so decisive that Sanders headed to Vermont without speaking to the media. The coronavirus outbreak essentially froze the campaign, preventing Mr. Sanders from holding the large rallies that had become his trademark and shifting the primary calendar. It became increasingly unclear where he could notch a victory that would help him regain ground against Mr. Biden. Though he will not be the nominee, Mr. Sanders was a key architect of many of the social policies that dominated the Democratic primary, including a “Medicare for All” universal, government-funded health care plan, tuition-free public college, a $15 minimum wage and sweeping efforts to fight climate change under the “Green New Deal.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/bernie-sanders-opts-out-of-democratic-presidential-race/article31294189.ece
09 April 2020||Dhaka,||Mujibur Rahman’s killer to face the gallows after 45 years||A Bangladesh military captain arrested after nearly 25 years on the run over the assassination of the country’s founding leader will be executed, officials said Wednesday. Sheikh Mujibur Rahman, father of current Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina, was killed along with most of his family in a military coup on August 15, 1975, nearly four years after he led Bangladesh to independence from Pakistan. In 1998, Abdul Majed was sentenced to death along with a dozen other Army officers over the murders. Bangladesh’s Supreme Court upheld the verdict in 2009 and five of the killers were executed several months later. Majed is believed to have fled to India in 1996. He returned to Bangladesh last month, a prosecutor told reporters. Acting on a tip-off, counter-terrorism police arrested Majed on Tuesday as he rode in a rickshaw in the capital Dhaka, said police inspector Johurul Haque. “The formalities to execute him have already begun,” Justice Minister Anisul Huq told AFP, adding that the former officer will not be able to appeal his sentence. Mr. Huq said Majed’s only option to avoid the gallows was to appeal to the President for clemency. However, since President Abdul Hamid is a close confidante of Ms. Hasina, any mercy appeal is expected to be turned down, paving the way for his execution within weeks. Ms. Hasina, whose public celebrations this year for the centenary of her father’s birth have been hampered by the pandemic, survived the 1975 attack because she was in Europe with her sister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/mujibur-rahmans-killer-to-face-the-gallows-after-45-years/article31294198.ece
09 April 2020||BEIJING,||Chinese tycoon and Xi critic faces investigation||An outspoken Chinese Communist Party critic and millionaire property tycoon, Ren Zhiqiang, has been placed under investigation for “serious violations of discipline and law”, an anti-graft watchdog said. The Beijing Commission for Discipline Inspection announced late on Tuesday that the 69-year-old former chairman of the State-owned real estate developer Beijing Huayuan Group was under investigation. Rights campaigners accuse President Xi Jinping and the Communist Party of using charges such as “disciplinary violations” — often considered to refer to corruption -- as a way to silence dissent. Beijing has stepped up its crackdown on civil society since Mr. Xi took power in 2012, tightening restrictions on freedom of speech and detaining activists. Mr. Ren disappeared from the public eye in March, shortly after penning an essay that was fiercely critical of Mr. Xi’s response to the coronavirus outbreak. The retired entrepreneur has emerged in recent years as one of the Party’s most prominent critics in the business world.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/chinese-tycoon-and-xi-critic-faces-investigation/article31294191.ece
09 April 2020||Kabul,||Afghan govt. releases 100 Taliban prisoners||The Afghan government released 100 low-risk Taliban prisoners Wednesday, officials said, a day after the insurgents announced they were walking out of talks with Kabul. The two foes have been negotiating in Kabul since last week to try to finalise a prisoner swap that was originally supposed to take place by March 10 and pave the way for “intra-Afghan” peace talks between Kabul and the Taliban. But the swap has been beset with problems, with Kabul claiming the Taliban want 15 “top commanders” to be released, while the insurgents have accused Afghan authorities of needlessly wasting time. In a statement, Afghanistan's Office of the National Security Council (NSC) said the 100 prisoners freed on Wednesday were “thoroughly vetted” and had all taken an oath never to return to the battlefield. The government “has received the same assurance from the (Taliban’s) leadership in Doha,” the statement read. An NSC spokesman earlier said the 15 commanders were not among those being released. The Taliban has not yet respondend. Officials said the freed prisoners were chosen based on their health, age and length of remaining sentence “as part of our efforts for peace and containment of COVID-19.” Afghan officials have said they want to release up to 10,000 non-Taliban prisoners to slow the spread of coronavirus in jails.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/afghan-govt-releases-100-taliban-prisoners/article31294187.ece
09 April 2020||Copenhagen,||WHO Europe warns against relaxing curbs||The World Health Organization’s European office said on Wednesday that despite seeing “positive signs” from some countries, it was too early to scale back measures aimed at containing the coronavirus. “Now is not the time to relax measures. It is the time to double and triple our collective efforts,” WHO regional director for Europe, Hans Kluge, told a press conference.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/who-europe-warns-against-relaxing-curbs/article31294203.ece
09 April 2020||Islamabad,||Virus cases in Pakistan rise to 4,072||Pakistan’s COVID-19 cases increased to 4,072 on Wednesday, as Army chief General Qamar Javed Bajwa directed his top commanders to provide full support to the federal and provincial governments in combating the pandemic, which has killed 58 people in the country. The Ministry of National Health Services said that 208 new cases were added to the list in the last 24 hours.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/virus-cases-in-pakistan-rise-to-4072/article31294202.ece
09 April 2020||Brussels,||EU science chief resigns over response||The head of the European Research Council has resigned, the EU confirmed on Wednesday, reportedly in protest at the bloc’s handling of its pandemic response. Mauro Ferrari, who only took over as president of the ERC in January, told the Financial Times he was “extremely disappointed” by the EU’s response to the pandemic, which has hit Italy and Spain particularly hard.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/eu-science-chief-resigns-over-response/article31294192.ece
09 April 2020||Berlin,||Berlin, April 8, 2020 (AFP) -||Germany will welcome up to 500 unaccompanied minors from Greek migrant camps in the coming weeks, Foreign Minister Heiko Maas said on Wednesday. The Minister said he hoped other countries would also take in young migrants. “We want to set an example here.”AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/berlin-april-8-2020-afp/article31294194.ece
09 April 2020||London,||London, April 8, 2020 (AFP) -||Northern Irish truck driver Maurice Robinson has pleaded guilty to 39 counts of manslaughter related to the deaths of Vietnamese people found in a shipping container in southeast England last year, British media reported on Wednesday.Reuters||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/london-april-8-2020-afp/article31294201.ece
09 April 2020||April 09 2020 00:00 IST,||Needed, greater decentralisation of power||Over the course of the last few weeks, as we have found ourselves in the throes of a pandemic, one of the striking features of governance has been the signal role played by State Chief Ministers across India. Even before the Union government invoked the Disaster Management Act, 2005, many State governments triggered the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897, and installed a series of measures to combat what was then an oncoming onslaught of COVID-19. These actions have not always been perfect. Some of them have even disproportionately trenched upon basic civil liberties. But, by and large, they have been tailored to the reality faced on the ground by the respective governments. States such as Maharashtra, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Rajasthan, and Karnataka have shaped their policies to address their direct, local concerns. They have communicated these decisions to the public with clarity and consideration, helping, in the process, to lay out a broad framework for the nation. In doing so, they have acted not merely as “laboratories of democracy”, to paraphrase the former U.S. Supreme Court Justice Louis Brandeis, but also as founts of reasoned authority. Stifled by limitations Equally, though, as much as State governments have taken up positions of leadership, they have repeatedly found themselves throttled by the limitations of the extant federal arrangement. Yamini Aiyar and Mekhala Krishnamurthy of the Centre for Policy Research have pointed out at least three specific limitations. One, the inability of States to access funds and thereby structure their own welfare packages. Two, the curbs imposed by a public finance management system that is mired in officialdom. This has prevented States from easily and swiftly making payments for the purchase of health-care apparatus such as ventilators and personal protective equipment. Three, the colossal disruption of supply chains not only of essential goods and services but also of other systems of production and distribution, which has placed States in a position of grave economic uncertainty. As Ms. Aiyar and Ms. Krishnamurthy argue, these limitations demonstrate an urgent need to decentralise administration, where States — and local bodies acting through such governments — are allowed greater managerial freedom. Under such a model, the Union government will command less but coordinate more. Two distinct levels There are varying accounts of what Indian federalism truly demands. But what is manifest from a reading of the Constitution is that it creates two distinct levels of government: one at the Centre and the other at each of the States. The Seventh Schedule to the Constitution divides responsibilities between these two layers. The Union government is tasked with matters of national importance, such as foreign affairs, defence, and airways. But the responsibilities vested with the States are no less important. Issues concerning public health and sanitation, agriculture, public order, and police, among other things, have each been assigned to State governments. In these domains, the States’ power is plenary. This federal architecture is fortified by a bicameral Parliament. Significantly, this bicameralism is not achieved through a simple demarcation of two separate houses, but through a creation of two distinct chambers that choose their members differently: a House of the People [Lok Sabha] comprising directly elected representatives and a Council of States [Rajya Sabha] comprising members elected by the legislatures of the States. In formulating this scheme of equal partnership, the framers were also conscious of a need to make States financially autonomous. To that end, when they divided the power to tax between the two layers of government they took care to ensure that the authority of the Union and the States did not overlap. Therefore, while the Centre, for example, was accorded the power to tax all income other than agricultural income and to levy indirect taxes in the form of customs and excise duties, the sole power to tax the sale of goods and the entry of goods into a State was vested in the State governments. The underlying rationale was simple: States had to be guaranteed fiscal dominion to enable them to mould their policies according to the needs of their people. Despite this plainly drawn arrangement, the history of our constitutional practice has been something of a paradox. It is invariably at the level of the States that real development has fructified, but the Union has repeatedly displayed a desire to treat States, as the Supreme Court said in S.R. Bommai v. Union of India , as mere “appendages of the Centre”. Time and again, efforts have been made to centralise financial and administrative power, to take away from the States their ability to act independently and freely. As Christophe Jaffrelot and Sanskruthi Kalyankar have shown, as Chief Minister of Gujarat, Narendra Modi rallied against these attempts. So much so that an undertaking to decentralise power and steer a new era of Centre-State cooperation became a leitmotif of the Bharatiya Janata Party’s campaign for the 2014 elections. Among other things, in its manifesto, the party promised to create a “Team India” that will “not be limited to the Prime Minister led team sitting in Delhi,” but that “will also include Chief Ministers and other functionaries as equal partners”; to place “centre-state relations on an even keel”; and to “ensure fiscal autonomy of the States”. Matters of finance Some efforts have no doubt been made to this end. But they have been ostensible, at best. Consider the widely hailed decision to accept the 14th Finance Commission’s recommendation for an increase in the share of the States in total tax revenues from 32% to 42%. While, in theory, this ought to have enabled the States to significantly increase their own spending, in reality, as a paper authored by Amar Nath H.K. and Alka Singh of the National Institute of Public Finance and Policy suggests, this has not happened. Gains made by the States, as the paper underlines, have been entirely offset by a simultaneous decline in share of grants and by a concomitant increase in the States’ own contribution towards expenditures on centrally sponsored schemes. Other measures have proved still more destructive. Notably, the creation of a Goods and Services Tax regime, which far from achieving its core purpose of uniformity has rendered nugatory the internal sovereignty vested in the States. By striking at the Constitution’s federal edifice, it has made the very survival of the States dependent on the grace of the Union. The tension today is so palpable that a number of States are reported to have written to the Union Finance Ministry highlighting that more than four months’ worth of Goods and Services Tax compensation to the States — reportedly totalling about a sum of Rs. 40,000 crore — remains unreleased. The Union government’s centralising instinct, though, has not been restricted to matters of finance. It has also introduced a slew of legislation as money bills, in a bid to bypass the Rajya Sabha’s sanction, even though these laws scarcely fit the constitutional definition. Similarly, the role of the Governors has been weaponised to consolidate political power. But perhaps most egregious among the moves made is the gutting of Article 370 and the division of Jammu and Kashmir into two Union Territories without securing consent from the State Legislative Assembly. To be sure, this impulse to appropriate authority is not in any way unique to the Bharatiya Janata Party’s command. Congress-led governments of the past have also been susceptible to such motives. But perhaps a crisis of the kind that COVID-19 has wrought will show us that India needs greater decentralisation of power; that administration through a single central executive unit is unsuited to its diverse and heterogeneous polity. We cannot continue to regard the intricate niceties of our federal structure as a nettlesome trifle. In seeing it thus, we are reducing the promise of Article 1 of the Constitution, of an India that is a Union of States, to an illusory dream. Suhrith Parthasarathy is an advocate practising at the Madras High Court||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/needed-greater-decentralisation-of-power/article31294172.ece
09 April 2020||April 09 2020 00:00 IST,||Financing the pandemic rescue package||The priority for India is to ensure that it overcomes the COVID-19 pandemic and kick-starts GDP growth rather than fix the weaknesses in the macroeconomy: a high fiscal deficit of 7.49% and government indebtedness that was 69% of GDP in 2019. When COVID-19 cases began to increase, the Government of India (GoI) swung into action by announcing a 21-day national lockdown and a Rs. 1.7-lakh crore (approximately $22.59 billion) rescue package. Available in the state disaster relief fund is Rs. 60,000 crore, comprising Rs. 30,000 crore of outstanding balance and the Central government’s allocation of a similar amount for FY2021. Hence, the GoI needs to raise an additional Rs. 1.1-lakh crore, i.e., 65% of the rescue package outlay. Its financing strategy should be to raise long-term funds at cost effective rates, with flexible repayment terms that allow it to take tactical advantage of market movements. GDP-linked bonds The GoI may issue listed, Indian rupee denominated, 25-year GDP-linked bonds that are callable from, say, the fifth year. The coupon (interest) on a GDP-linked bond is correlated to the GDP growth rate and is subject to a cap. The issuer, the GoI, is liable to pay a lower coupon during years of slower growth and vice-versa. The callable feature from the fifth year till maturity allows the GoI to effect partial repayments during high growth years and when it earns non-recurring revenues such as proceeds from disinvestment of public sector enterprises (PSEs). The listing of bonds provides investors an exit option. Costa Rica, Bulgaria and Bosnia-Herzegovina issued the first pure GDP-linked bonds in the 1990s. Argentina and Greece issued warrant-like instruments similar to GDP-linked bonds in 2005 and 2012 respectively. India could learn from their experience. Publishing reliable and timely GDP data is a prerequisite for the successful issue of GDP-linked bonds, which the GoI may use to part-finance the COVID-19 rescue package and to diversify its borrowing sources. Streamlining PSEs The 15 largest non-financial central PSEs (CPSEs) in the S&P BSE CPSE index contributed approximately 75% of the GoI’s Rs. 48,256.41 crore dividend income from PSEs in FY2020. The Union Budget projected PSE dividends to increase by 36.25% to Rs. 65,746.96 crore in FY2021. This milestone is unlikely to be achieved in the current environment. The 15 CPSEs have accumulated sizeable non-core assets including financial investments, loans, cash and bank deposits in excess of their operating requirements, and real estate. The return on these assets (excluding real estate) is around 200 basis points lower than the returns on their core businesses. These CPSEs owe the government Rs. 25,904 crore as of end-March 2019. These non-core assets must be monetised to repay statutory dues and upstream dividends to GoI. While loans and excess cash and bank deposits may be monetised within three months, streamlining investments and selling real estate is a time-consuming process. It is imperative for the GoI to form a PSE and public sector bank holding company (‘Holdco’) along the lines of Singapore’s Temasek Holdings and Malaysia’s Khazanah Nasional Berhad to enable PSEs to monetise their non-core assets at remunerative prices, maximise their enterprise value and focus on their core businesses. The Rs. 30,168 crore loans that CPSEs have extended to employees, vendors and associates may be securitised or refinanced, with CPSEs guaranteeing loans extended to weak counterparties. It is essential that businesses maintain liquidity, especially during a downturn. However, the outstanding cash and bank deposits of the 15 CPSEs (Rs. 64,253 crore) is in excess of their operating requirements. CPSEs must determine the cash they require to meet, say, six months of operating expenses and use the excess cash to repay statutory dues and upstream dividends to the GoI. Banks must extend to CPSEs committed lines of credit that the latter may draw down during exigencies. The 15 CPSEs have accumulated Rs. 93,562 crore financial investments comprising listed and unlisted debt, equity and mutual fund units. These exclude investments in associates and joint ventures. The CPSEs ought to transfer these investments to Holdco, which can manage the portfolio and transfer the returns to the original investors. One important non-core asset, whose value is likely to exceed the combined value of other non-core assets, is the real estate holdings of PSEs. In September 2018, the GoI identified properties of nine PSEs (Air India, Pawan Hans, Hindustan Fluorocarbons, Hindustan Newsprint, Bharat Pumps & Compressors, Scooters India, Bridge and Roof Co, Hindustan Prefab, and Projects & Development India) to be divested. The GoI must mandate all PSEs and government departments to transfer their non-core properties to Holdco, which can opportunistically sell these properties and transfer the proceeds to the owners. RBI dividends The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has allocated Rs. 1 lakh crore to carry out long-term repo operations in tranches and has reduced the repo rates by 75 basis points to 4.4% to help banks augment their liquidity in the wake of the pandemic. Recognising the RBI’s liquidity requirements, the GoI must refrain from asking the RBI to pay more dividends that it can viably pay. During the five years ending on June 30, 2019, the RBI paid the GoI 100% of its net disposable income, with its FY2019 dividends more than trebling to Rs. 1.76 lakh crore from Rs. 50,000 crore in FY2018. The Bimal Jalan panel constituted in 2019 to review the RBI’s economic capital framework opined that the RBI may pay interim dividends only under exceptional circumstances and that unrealised gains in the valuation of RBI’s assets ought to be used as risk buffers against market risks and may not be paid as dividends. This sound recommendation must be adhered to in letter and spirit. The GoI may finance the COVID-19 rescue package by issuing GDP-linked bonds, tapping PSEs’ excess liquidity and monetising non-core assets. Further, it is in India’s self-interest to allow a robust and independent RBI to defend the financial sector’s stability. Nandini Vijayaraghavan is the Singapore-based Head of Research at Korea Development Bank. Views are personal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/financing-the-pandemic-rescue-package/article31294179.ece
09 April 2020||April 09 2020 00:00 IST,||A key arsenal in rural India’s pandemic fight||If you build a fortress to strengthen your defences against an enemy, what is of importance is the strength of its walls. The issue of space or comfort within the fortress is the last question one may dare to ask or even think about, apart from the minimum supplies required for sustenance. But what if the enemy is a virus? With the ongoing war against COVID-19, it is the exact opposite which needs equal if not greater attention — the state of preparedness within the fortress. Yes. With the ubiquitous 21-day national lockdown unprecedented in the history of independent India, stronger and harsher than anywhere else in the world, the interiors within the boundaries need attention. Ground realities Interestingly, every village is in itself a fortress during these difficult times and every village needs attention within. With the influx of thousands of migrant labourers into their villages, there is an imminent need to isolate them for at least 14 days. Unfortunately, the houses here, which are often one or two-room dwellings, with an average seven family members to accommodate, are some of the worst places where one can hope to contain the deadly disease. Along with the absence of running water within households, the possibility of common points in village arenas becoming hotspots for this deadly contagion becomes manifold. Notwithstanding the fact that the entire State machinery is now involved in near wartime efforts to contain the spread of this pandemic, only a few States have been able to organically involve their foundational governance structure — i.e. gram panchayats — very effectively and efficiently in this situation. In some southern States with pre-embedded conditions of self-governing and nearly autonomous panchayats, they are becoming the beacons of hope by proactively engaging with citizens at the village level. A case in example is the community kitchens run by local bodies in Kerala, where home delivery of cooked food is spiking as the situation demands. Enough has been discussed already of the instrumental use of panchayats as mere wings of State administration. Issuing orders from the top is the norm and an ecosystem has evolved where even the elected representatives of panchayats wait for directions and a sarpanch does not assert himself before a bureaucrat. It would be surprising, therefore, if such a conditioned institution, originally envisioned to be the pivot of self-sustaining villages, creatively thinks of dealing with this pandemic. But the time has arrived, to reinvigorate these institutions of people and facilitate them to be the proactive agents in this fight. Many scientists and researchers have already predicted the possibility of villages becoming hotspots of the disease after the 21-day lockdown is lifted. Though geographical spread may be limited, the concentration of the spread may get out of hand. It is here that gram panchayats which are very well placed, and close to their own people with limited resources, can help them in enforcing isolation and making the necessary arrangements. Panchayats can work exactly in three areas: awareness generation, setting up isolation conditions, and streamlining social security measures announced by the Central and State governments. Reaching out effectively First, a model needs to be established, with concrete standard operating procedures and best practices that can be replicated throughout rural India. Organisations such as Professional Assistance For Development Action (PRADAN) have been trying to influence gram panchayats and district administrations in many States ever since the pandemic. With sustained engagement, they have been able to coordinate with the administration to use the resources of panchayats, collaborate with self-help groups and to set isolation conditions within village premises (with beds, sanitisers, drinking water, cooked meals, etc.) in many interior blocks across the districts in central and eastern India. Involving panchayats — and by observing adequate safety measures — to establish isolation facilities across the length and breadth of the country is the need of the hour. Consider the second part, even with the harvesting of wheat almost over in States such as Madhya Pradesh; people are still out in the fields, but once they are done with their work it is the panchayat that can do the work effectively to confine people within their homes with adequate awareness generation. The police cannot reach out to each and every village round the clock because of their inadequate resources. Community policing with the active engagement of panchayats, by collaborating with women’s collectives, is a potential area where a people-led movement can be kick-started in a short time span. Who can make the people aware better than their own elected representatives and who the villagers see on a daily basis? Finally, despite the financial packages being rolled out to avert panic and worry about livelihoods and basic food requirements, it is an inexorable situation that many will be left out as documentation is core to availing these social-service provisioning schemes. The Jandhan–Aadhaar–Mobile trinity is vulnerable in those areas where even mobile connectivity fluctuates, leave alone Internet connectivity. Without the active engagement of panchayats, it would be chaotic to even expect everything remaining under control within villages in case of even a minor disturbance. A seminal understanding developed is that, without the agency of gram panchayats, it is not possible to deploy any system effectively and to adequately take prompt actions to include the excluded. With a package of Rs. 1.7-lakh crore to meet the needs of the population and streamlining health services, it is clear that the government is trying its best; with more volunteers and social commitment through raising resources, civil society organisations are trying their best; with pledges of financial support and donations, concerned citizens and industry players are also trying their best. There have been enough ideas floated, proposed and implemented — from food to using railway coaches as isolation wards. But reinvigorating panchayats is an unattended area which needs a push in strengthening the arsenal available in this fight against COVID-19. Directions to gram panchayats to use the 14th Finance Commission grants to help villagers is a welcome measure, already done by various State governments. But laying stress on three actions specifically — arranging isolation facilities with cooked meal supply; awareness generation, and finally, ensuring that the most vulnerable have access to the welfare measures announced — is crucial if rural India is to be saved. It is time for panchayats to exercise their agency. For this, thrust is needed from top layer of administration — a direction that will help the nation fight this deadly virus. With enough political will, and a changed perspective of executive machineries, it is totally possible. It is time to unleash the power of panchayats to be with the people and lead this fight. Sonubal I.V. is with the PRADAN – Bhoura Team at Betul, Madhya Pradesh||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-key-arsenal-in-rural-indias-pandemic-fight/article31294174.ece
09 April 2020||April 09 2020 00:00 IST,||No lockdown for abuse||In the first week of the lockdown, one of the 257 complaint calls that the National Commission for Women (NCW) received was from a father in Rajasthan who said his daughter was being beaten by her husband and had not been provided food since the lockdown began. The call helps to highlights the plight of many silent sufferers of domestic violence across the world in these times. In China, France, the U.K. and other countries, there have been reports of a significant increase in domestic violence cases since the imposition of lockdowns. These reports highlight the need for Indian authorities to take this issue seriously too. The literature on domestic violence suggests that when men and/or women get employed, domestic violence tends to fall as interactions between couples reduce. Under a lockdown, interaction time has increased and families have been left without access to the outside world. The literature also suggests that violence is a way for the man to assert his notion of masculinity. The current atmosphere of fear, uncertainty, food insecurity, and unemployment may create feelings of inadequacy in men. All these factors are only likely to aggravate tensions at home and make women victims of those tensions. The lack of access to friends, family and support organisations is expected to aggravate the situation for abused women further. Violence against women in India The National Family Health Survey (NFHS) data show that 24% of women faced domestic violence in 2015-16 not seeing any reduction since 2005-06. Compared to the survey results, the actual reports of domestic violence to the police are negligible at 58.8/ one lakh women. The disparity between the crimes reported in a survey and registered with the police highlight how women are unlikely to seek help. The more telling statistic from the NFHS data is perhaps that 52% of the surveyed women and 42% of the surveyed men think there is at least one valid reason for wife-beating. This attitude highlights how ingrained and normalised the idea is such that an abused woman should not expect support from others. The NFHS data also highlight how the proportion of women reporting violence is increasing among families with lower wealth. The lockdown due to the pandemic is leading to a substantial negative income shock for everyone. In our interviews with unorganised sector workers, we often heard that women suffered domestic violence coupled with the husband’s alcoholism. The NFHS data also show a high correlation between alcohol intake and domestic violence. Keeping in mind that access to alcohol may be limited in these times, frustration could also lead to abuse. What can be done? The most important thing that we can do is to acknowledge and accept that domestic violence happens and work to reduce the stigma attached to the victims of such violence. Such support may prompt abused women to seek at least informal means to redress their issues. The NCW has appealed to women to reach out to their nearest police stations or call the State Women’s Commission for support. While this is the least that can be done, there are some other formal means by which we can extend help to women right now. The provision of cash transfers and ration support are likely to sustain the family and also reduce stress in the household leading to lower violence against women. Since the lockdown began, the amount of TV viewing, particularly of news, has increased. Coupled with a lack of other activity, this is an opportune time to improve messaging. The NCW could increase its advertising expenditure on TV to relay messages requesting women to contact the police station for help. The 181 helpline number set up for this reason should remain active, and women should be reminded of this number via TV ads. The government could also send mass SMS messages as it did during the onset of the COVID-19 crisis as most women have access to at least a basic phone. The French government has extended monetary support to organisations fighting this crime. British activists have requested their government to release emergency funds to support organisations that are dealing with domestic violence-related issues. The Indian government should also extend monetary support to such organisations in India rather than rely entirely on ASHA workers on whom the burden of community welfare is already very high. The staff of such organisations should be allowed to travel without being stopped by the police. Studies show that women more than men tend to be affected adversely during epidemics. We need to take these advisories seriously to prevent further widening of the rift between men and women in our society. Akshaya Vijayalakshmi and Pritha Dev are faculty members at the IIM-Ahmedabad||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/no-lockdown-for-abuse/article31294182.ece
09 April 2020||April 09 2020 00:00 IST,||It’s time for the Red Berets||The World Health Organization (WHO) is not equipped to fight a pandemic of this proportion. Its responsibility is to monitor threats to public health and inform and advise the member states. The fight against COVID-19 has to be on a war footing. For this we need a composite force that has the capabilities of massive sanitisation, testing, hospitalisation and providing support systems. Even the most powerful nations are not able to cope with the effort and there are signs of conflict on account of shortages of equipment and trained personnel. The only UN body which has the training for assembling fighting forces for emergencies is the Department of Peace Operations. A force under Chapter VII The UN Security Council (UNSC) stands paralysed because of petty battles on the name of the pandemic, its origin and the need for transparency. It should hold an emergency meeting and authorise the UN Secretary General to put together a force under Chapter VII of the UN Charter. The mandate of the Charter should be interpreted to emphasise that this is the greatest threat to international peace and security. Moreover, conflicts are possible on account of the fragility of the international system. Member states should be requested to send not only troops, but also police, health workers and equipment. In war situations, the Secretary General is able to put together a force in about four months. This operation requires greater emergency. There is some delicacy about deploying the army internally in different political systems, but UN forces have been acceptable in most countries. As for the cost, the responsibility for the deployment of forces for peacekeeping, peace building and peace enforcement is that of the permanent members. Instead of competing with each other for leadership of the post-COVID-19 world, let them help create a post-COVID-19 world. So far COVID-19 has spread in relatively prosperous regions of the world, which have stable infrastructure and health systems. We cannot trust that it will not spread to less equipped states, in which the devastation will be much more. Only a UN force which can enforce social distancing and lockdowns can prevent a catastrophe. Most Chapter VII resolutions determine the existence of a threat to the peace, a breach of the peace, or an act of aggression in accordance with Article 39, and make a decision explicitly under Chapter VII. A UNSC Resolution is considered to be ‘a Chapter VII resolution’ if it makes an explicit determination that the situation under consideration constitutes a threat to the peace, a breach of the peace, or an act of aggression, and/or explicitly/ implicitly states that the UNSC is acting under Chapter VII in the adoption of some or all operative paragraphs. Many resolutions Chapter VII resolutions are very rarely isolated measures. Often the first response to a crisis is a resolution demanding the crisis be ended. This is later followed by an actual resolution detailing the measures required to secure compliance with the first resolution. Sometimes dozens of resolutions are passed over time to modify and extend the mandate of the first Chapter VII resolution. The UN stands discredited today as the UNSC has not been able to meet. It may take place, now that China has vacated the Security Council chair and Dominican Republic has taken over. Several resolutions are in circulation, but none under Chapter VII. The first step will be to pass a resolution to take action to end the crisis and authorise the Secretary General to request member states to make personnel available. Meanwhile, another resolution must spell out the modalities of the operation. The UN peacekeeping forces are called Blue Berets because of the colour of the caps that they wear. The health force can have caps of another colour, probably red. The launch of the Red Berets will be a historic action to be taken at a critical moment. The UN’s relevance will be established and there will be concrete action taken to end the pandemic. T.P. Sreenivasan, a former diplomat, is Director General, Kerala International Centre, Thiruvananthapuram. He tweets @sreeniv||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/its-time-for-the-red-berets/article31294183.ece
09 April 2020||April 09 2020 00:00 IST,||For better use||The suspension of the Members of Parliament Local Area Development Scheme (MPLADS) for two years to boost the funding available for the COVID-19 fight is a step in the right direction. It may appear at first blush that the decision may undermine the decentralised manner of funding local area development. However, past experience has been that some members do not utilise their full entitlement and that there is a gap between recommendation made by members and implementation by the administration under this scheme. The immediate benefit now is the freeing up of about Rs. 7,900 crore over a two-year period so that it can be spent on boosting the health infrastructure needed to combat the pandemic. This is the second announcement regarding MPLADS that the Centre has made after the disease outbreak. Last month, it allowed utilisation of MPLADS funds to the extent of at least Rs. 5lakh by each MP to purchase medical equipment for government hospitals in their constituencies. Many members made immediate use of the one-time dispensation to recommend the procurement of N95 masks, personal protective equipment, and ventilators. Now that the entire scheme has been suspended, the government should ensure that recommendations already made are acted upon immediately. While the transfer of these sums to the Consolidated Fund of India would help judicious deployment anywhere in the country, based on an assessment of the varying needs in different regions, it would redound to the government’s credit if the genuine efforts made by members to help their constituents are not frustrated. It should also see to it that allocations are non-discriminatory. Political reactions indicate that there is considerable disenchantment over the suspension — the Rs. 5-crore corpus available to each member is a source of much goodwill for elected representatives. Better performing MPs identify and fulfil local development needs with empathy and alacrity. However, there has also been persistent criticism about the scheme’s very nature. A conceptual flaw pointed out by experts is that it goes against the separation of powers. It allows individual legislators to encroach on the planning and implementation duties of the administration. Jurists have pointed out that the Constitution does not confer the power to spend public money on an individual legislator. Experts have called it out for weak monitoring. The Supreme Court, while declining to strike down the scheme, called for a robust accountability regime. MPLADS gives scope for MPs to utilise the funds as a source of patronage that they can dispense at will. The CAG has flagged instances of financial mismanagement and inflation of amounts spent. The Second Administrative Reforms Commission recommended its abrogation altogether, highlighting the problems of the legislator stepping into the shoes of the executive. The current suspension gives some scope for a reconsideration of the scheme in its totality.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/for-better-use/article31294169.ece
09 April 2020||April 09 2020 00:00 IST,||Prolonged injustice||It has been eight months since the Centre revoked the special constitutional status of Jammu and Kashmir and downgraded and divided it into two Union Territories in August 2019. Several political leaders imprisoned in the wake of the abrupt decision continue to be in detention even now, the most prominent among them being the former Chief Minister Mehbooba Mufti. Two other former CMs — Farooq Abdullah and Omar Abdullah — were released last month. Freedom for Ms. Mufti is still not near, the administration indicated on Tuesday as it shifted her from a guesthouse-turned-jail to her official residence that has been designated as a subsidiary jail. She will not be allowed to move out of here or receive visitors, and remains in detention under the controversial Public Safety Act (PSA). Hundreds of others including veteran Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) leader Naeem Akhtar and IAS-officer-turned politician Shah Faesal continue to languish in jail. The manner in which the Centre hollowed out Article 370 and dismantled a State set an inglorious precedent in the history of Indian federalism. The lockdown of J&K was mostly lifted, before it was reimposed to combat COVID-19. Meanwhile, the constitutionality of the revocation of the special status and accompanying restrictions on the entire population of a region remains unsettled before the Supreme Court, eight months on. Ms. Mufti’s home imprisonment, at a time when the entire population is expected to lock themselves up in their own homes, is the theatre of the absurd. Her continuing incarceration even after two other former CMs have been freed is inexplicable. What is it that makes her an exceptional suspect under the PSA? The change in the status of J&K and the massive deployment of force to deal with its aftermath were spectacles of a new national resolve, according to the supporters of those decisions. The unfolding tragedy of the pandemic bespeaks the pitfalls of lopsided priorities, by laying bare the country’s inadequate health-care infrastructure. J&K is badly hit by the disease, with a fightback restricted by the absence of an elected government. The havoc by the virus should not be used as a facade to trample upon civil rights or to criminalise expression of opinion. If anything, this unprecedented crisis should spur fresh thinking on finding solutions to intractable political problems. The BJP’s view on Kashmir is as old the party itself. But that by itself is no reason to avoid revisiting the issue. The very least it can do, however, is to immediately free Ms. Mufti. That will be a good signal to the people of J&K during these tough times.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/prolonged-injustice/article31294170.ece
09 April 2020||April 09 2020 00:00 IST,||Airlift of Post Cards to be Stopped||The Union Government is stated to have taken a decision in principle to stop airlifting of post cards. The actual date of implementing the proposal will be finalized soon. It is learnt that this decision follows a recommendation made by an economy subcommittee set up by the Ministry of Communications to go into the whole structure of post card operation. A post card actually costs 14 Paise for the Government, as against its price of 10 Paise. On post cards alone the department is making a loss of over Rs. 4 crores. The position was worse two years ago when the post card was selling at six Paise. At one stage, Government also considered the possibility of abolishing the post card altogether but since it is used by the poorer section of the community, the proposal was dropped. The economy sub-committee which consisted of top officials of the P and T Department has also suggested that the price of the inland letter should be the same as that of a envelope i.e. 20 Paise. The inland letter, it is stated, serves the same purpose as a letter by guaranteeing the same amount of secrecy. The Government is considering this suggestion too and a decision is expected to be taken shortly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/airlift-of-post-cards-to-be-stopped/article31294185.ece
09 April 2020||KOCHI,||Qualification period freeze a wise move: Anju||With every new day bringing a fresh load of worrying news, Anju Bobby George feels World Athletics’ decision to freeze the Olympic Games qualification period for eight months, till November 30, is a wise move. “They did this because there is a high chance of cheats taking illegal drugs during the coronavirus period since dope-testers cannot travel to take out-of-competition tests owing to lockdown in many places,” said Anju in a chat with The Hindu from Bengaluru on Wednesday. “Athletes can easily hide somewhere now, take drugs and qualify for the Olympics, and can later come up with better performances.” Big worry Anju, the chairperson of the Indian Olympic Association’s Athletes’ Commission, revealed that doping was a big worry when the qualification period extension was discussed recently. “We had a con-call between the athlete commissions of various countries by the end of March. All of us were worried that cheaters could benefit. That could be the reason for closing the Olympic qualification doors till December,” she said. “We feel that proper testing will happen only from January next year. So, to some extent, that will dissuade the dope cheats everywhere... even in India.” Anju feels that it will not be proper to conduct national competitions before the Tokyo qualification process begins in December. “If there is no qualification chance, I don’t think it will be wise to conduct national competitions. “And look at the way coronavirus is spreading in the country, I don’t think athletes can have enough time to train if they have competitions in September or October. “Right now, we don’t know how many days this situation will continue and when they can travel freely from one place to another. “Since athletes have to travel a lot for competitions, we have to be careful about all these things. Nothing can be more important than the safety and health of our athletes.” Stars like long jumper M. Sreeshankar, javelin thrower Annu Rani and shot putter Tajinder Pal Singh Toor will be among those who will be anxiously waiting for the qualification doors to open. Helplessness Anju said she was worried about the coronavirus pandemic. “When you see that the UK Prime Minister is in the ICU, you feel a certain helplessness about the whole thing. It just shows how small and insignificant we are in this world.”  We feel that proper testing will happen only from January next year. So, to some extent, that will dissuade the dope cheats everywhere... even in India||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/qualification-period-freeze-a-wise-move-anju/article31294316.ece
09 April 2020||Bengaluru,||Self-motivation is important: Ashwini||Like many sportspersons around the world, badminton player Ashwini Ponnappa is finding her way through uncertain times. The Tokyo Olympics has been postponed to 2021, there is little clarity over the new Olympic qualification period, and no one even knows when international sport will resume. All that Ashwini — confined to her home here on account of the coronavirus-inflicted lockdown — can do is to stay fit and ready when the time comes to return to the court. Important period “This is the most important period for us. We have to stay motivated to train and do our exercises. There are days when you don’t feel like doing anything. You don’t even know what day of the week it is. In this situation, self-motivation is important,” Ashwini, a Red Bull athlete, said. It helps that national coach P. Gopi Chand, Ashwini and other India international shuttlers are part of a WhatsApp group. “Gopi sir motivates us through our group. He gives us exercises, and he conducts group classes,” Ashwini, who partners Sikki Reddy in women’s doubles, said. While the International Olympic Committee (IOC) has set 29 June 2021 as a general Olympic qualification period deadline, it is up to the individual sports federations like the Badminton World Federation (BWF) to take their own final decision.  “It is confusing. It would be nice to know the qualification criteria. That being said, clarity cannot emerge until the coronavirus outbreak subsides and things return to normal. Until then, you have to train and be ready to get back on court,” Ashwini said. “Ideally, the BWF should extend the qualification period by how many ever months have been lost. In fact, the more time given the better. But if the cut-off is set at the 2020 All England Open (which concluded last month), that will be sad,” Ashwini said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/self-motivation-is-important-ashwini/article31294318.ece
09 April 2020||CHENNAI,||I have more time to recover: Deepak Chahar||The postponement of the IPL due to the pandemic has come as a blessing in disguise for India medium-pacer Deepak Chahar as the delay has given him time to regain full fitness from his lower-back injury. Chahar sustained a stress fracture on his lower back midway through the ODI series against the West Indies in December last year, which ruled him out of action until the end of March. “When things are not in your control, there is little you can do. So, I focus on what I can do during that time. I am trying to learn new things, focus on my fitness — as you know I was injured and getting back. This gives me more time to recover,” the 27-year-old was quoted as saying on Chennai Super King’s official website. Missing games He admitted that he would have missed CSK’s first few games if the IPL 2020 had started as scheduled on March 29. “Had the IPL season started on time, I would have missed the first few matches,” said Chahar, whose six for 7 (including a hat-trick) against Bangladesh last year was declared the ICC T20I performance of the year.  Chahar said it is a difficult time for all but the need of the hour is to stay safe and positive. “It is obviously a difficult time for all of us, everything coming to a standstill. Loss of business and jobs, especially for daily wage workers. “Be safe, learn something new now that you have time. Stay positive, stay in the time.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/i-have-more-time-to-recover/article31294387.ece
09 April 2020||Coimbatore,||A great learning curve: CCFC coach Akbar||With three matches to go and the season coming to a halt due to the COVID-19 pandemic, Chennai City FC’s coach Akbar Nawas took time out to share his views about the team. “It was not a perfect season for us in terms of results, but a great learning curve. The experience we gained, even money cannot buy. It will be in our arsenal as a wealth of experience to move forward with conviction,” he said “The start wasn’t good but we came up well towards the later stages. I am proud of the team this season than the last. Despite injuries to our key players, we came out fighting stronger than ever and the team is now more balanced,” he added. Akbar also discovered a few new positions of the players. “They were a gem to watch in the last few games. Players like Jockson, Charles, Sriram (the three central midfielders), Vijay (striker) and Mashoor (centre back) formed the spine of the team. Which team has six locals in their spine,” he asked, and quickly added that only foreigners mostly fill that space. He said these players could even make it to national team along with Ajit. “They will be the most sought after in the market when they play next season. “We are also working closely with the management in retaining and recruiting players. The Chennai league, the year before, worked wonders as I could select players in competition mode. Sure, players will go on to bigger clubs and better income stream but, for us, it’s a good opportunity to analyse and review how we can progress better next season,” he said. Akbar revealed that the errors made from the first two seasons, will help the team come out better next year. “Though we won last season we did commit mistakes but were not punished for those.” Mohun Bagan has already sealed the championship this season while the defending champion could have finished second “We will analyse both seasons on and off the pitch and then see how we can progress forward with the style of football people have now associated us with,” said Akbar. “It’s just the start of great things to come for this club that has great ambitions, and you will see that in the coming season,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/a-great-learning-curve-says-ccfc-coach-akbar/article31294389.ece
09 April 2020||LONDON,||Wisden honour for Ben Stokes||Ben Stokes has ended Virat Kohli’s three-year reign as Wisden’s leading cricketer in the world after playing a starring role in England’s World Cup win last year. Australia’s Ellyse Perry reclaimed the leading women’s cricketer in the world title from Smriti Mandhana. Stokes, the first England player to receive the honour since Andrew Flintoff in 2005, had won the ICC player of the year award. Two defining knocks The 28-year-old won the man-of-the-match award in the World Cup final against New Zealand at Lord’s and then produced a remarkable match-winning innings of 135 not out in the third Ashes Test against Australia. “Ben Stokes pulled off the performance of a lifetime — twice in the space of a few weeks,” said Wisden editor Lawrence Booth.  A photo taken by Gareth Copley for Getty Images showing Stokes celebrating after hitting the winning runs in the Headingley Test has won the Wisden -MCC Photograph of the Year award for 2019. Aussies strike it rich England pace bowler Jofra Archer, who bowled the Super Over in the World Cup final, is among Wisden’s five cricketers of the year. Australians Pat Cummins, Marnus Labuschagne and Perry have been named alongside Archer, as well as South Africa-born Essex off-spinner Simon Harmer. West Indian all-rounder Andre Russell was named leading T20 cricketer in the world.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/wisden-honour-for-ben-stokes/article31294322.ece
09 April 2020||HYDERABAD,||Vishal involves himself in awareness campaigns||Vishal Bharadwaj of Himachal Pradesh has been an integral part of Telugu Titans’ campaigns in the PKL since Season 5 and led the team in Season 6. The 22-year-old defender, known for his famed ankle-hold and great timing of his tackles and strong grip, says players in the league are quietly involved in a campaign, spreading the word across the interiors of the country on the importance of staying indoors in the fight against COVID-19. Vishal added that the kabaddi community is well-informed about the threat. Thanks to the initiative of PKL League Commissioner Anupam Goswamy, who personally wrote a letter to all players about safety measures, Vishal is involved in a big way to help the Government through awareness campaigns on the importance of staying indoors. Health is important “It is a challenge to stay at home for so long, but we must realise everything else, other than one’s health, should take a backseat,” Vishal said. “For kabaddi players, the biggest setback is that we cannot train on mats as we can’t move out for obvious reasons. “However, no player is giving up on his daily, two-hour fitness routine like push-ups and stretching, which are essential to be back in the reckoning when competitions start,” he said. “This is also a chance to spend some valuable time with my family. I help them in some cleaning work at home and also try out my cooking skills. I am not sure about the future and am praying that we get back to our normal life.”  I am not sure about the future and am praying that we get back to our normal life.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/vishal-involves-himself-in-awareness-campaigns/article31294581.ece
09 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Deepak’s mantra: prevention is better than cure||Asian Games silver medallist shooter Deepak Kumar’s message is “Saving lives, staying home.” It is a rare privilege for him to spend time with family at home. “I left home at the age of eight. After that I am in my house continuously for more than five days only now. Zindagi nikhal gayi, success k peeche peeche bhagte ( life went away running after success ) ,” said the 32-year-old.  Having studied at the Gurukul in Dehradun, Deepak said that he was happy to contribute to the school. Gurukul’s condition “There are so many celebrities, business and sports persons donating to PM CARES fund. The condition of the Gurukul is very critical because no one donates to it these days. “It is my responsibility to help them as there are hundreds of students,” said the soft-spoken Deepak, when asked about his contribution to the society in this time of world-wide crisis. With deep understanding of life’s challenges, Deepak firmly believes that “prevention is better than cure”.  Since he was preparing for the Olympics, Deepak had permission from the Air Force to focus on his training. That was the reason he could reach home after the shooting range was shut down. He is happy to spend time with his family and enjoy his favourite food. Of course, shooting is an integral part of his daily routine, as his main event is the 10-metre air rifle. “I am doing physical workouts and also dry-holding of the rifle in front of the mirror,” he said. Deepak could have been one of the first to win the Olympic quota, but missed it narrowly as he finished sixth in the World Championship in Changwon in 2018. After agonising moments in the World Cups, Deepak eventually clinched his berth on the last chance in the Asian Championship in Doha. He has also done well to stay on top of the list along with Divyansh Singh Panwar to make a convincing claim for a ticket to the Tokyo Games. With time on hand, Deepak follows all the expert talks on Facebook live everyday, arranged by the Sports Authority of India to help the sporting fraternity gain insight into many aspects of sports and life.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/deepaks-mantra-prevention-is-better-than-cure/article31294478.ece
09 April 2020||KOLKATA,||UWW plans to conduct Olympic qualifiers in ‘same period’ in 2021||United World Wrestling (UWW) has decided to hold the remaining Olympic Games qualifying events in the ‘same period’ next year. Following the coronavirus outbreak, the UWW postponed three of the four Olympic qualifiers scheduled last month. It organised the Pan-American Olympic qualifier in Ottawa last month, but had to postpone the African/Oceania, European and Asian qualifying events. It also postponed the World Olympic qualifier, scheduled from April 30 to May 3. The first Olympic qualifier, the World Championships, was held in September last year. “The remaining OG qualifiers shall be organised in 2021 in the same period as in 2020 (except minor adjustments to the dates). The same organisers as originally planned will stage the remaining qualifiers,” said a Wrestling Federation of India (WFI) release, stating that the decisions were taken at a UWW Executive Board meeting held via teleconference. The apex body also decided to postpone all UWW championships and cancel all international events planned until June 30. It advised all National federations to cancel their events to ensure that the health of all athletes and participants is protected.  The remaining OG qualifiers shall be organised in 2021 in the same period as in 2020 (supposing minor adjustments to the exact dates)Wrestling federation of India||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/uww-plans-to-conduct-olympic-qualifiers-in-same-period-in-2021/article31294340.ece
09 April 2020||KOLKATA,||SAI begins reaching out to athletes||The Sports Authority of India (SAI) has decided to reach out to athletes to ensure their physical and mental fitness during the lockdown period. In order to help them tackle this unique challenge, SAI has started an initiative that takes care of the overall well being of athletes. “We have started mapping the athletes. The process has begun. First of all, we are getting in touch with frontline athletes, especially the elite ones including those who are in the Target Olympic Podium Scheme (TOPS). Gradually, we will widen the reach of our initiative,” a top SAI official told The Hindu on Wednesday. Gym equipment “We are taking care of their physical and mental conditioning. For example, in case of those who don’t have access to gym equipment, we are coordinating with local gyms and getting portable equipment delivered to their home. It will possibly work on a monthly rental basis. It will help the athlete perform weight training and other basic exercises.” According to the SAI official, psychologists would get in touch with the athletes to keep them in a good mental state in this depressing period of confinement. “Besides, we have employed nutritionists to look into the sportspersons’ nutritional needs,” the official added. Shooters’ needs SAI has also been trying to address specific needs of shooters. “For shooters who have got ranges installed at home, we are trying to provide them with ammunition so that they continue with their training and maintain their focus. “Overall, every effort is being done to keep the athletes in good mental and physical shape so that whenever they return to the camp after the lockdown, they can immediately start their training without any problems.” The initiative should address the concerns of several athletes who have been stuck in their homes in remote places or those who have been put up in different SAI centres, including NIS Patiala, without access to training facilities due to lockdown related restrictions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sai-begins-reaching-out-to-athletes/article31294323.ece
09 April 2020||Coimbatore,||‘Am yet to join my family’||Many sportspersons have been confined indoors because of COVID-19. Akbar Nawas is one among them. “It’s tough for all and has affected everyone but nothing is more important than human lives. “Of course, there is a feeling of missing training, but it’s better to stay safe,” he told The Hindu here on Wednesday. Wise decision Nawas said the management took a wise decision by getting the local players back with their families in mid-March. “They have been home since then and I am in touch with them regularly to discuss football and much more.” But life has become really hard for Nawas after the lock down. “It’s tough for me at a personal level as I am yet to join my family. “The embassy in Chennai is trying their best to help me and my club is also assisting me. I hope the flights resume on April 14 so that people like me can quickly join our families.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/am-yet-to-join-my-family/article31294384.ece
09 April 2020||New Delhi,||Would love to win a Test series in India: Smith||Star Australian batsman Steve Smith believes India is one of the toughest places to play Test cricket and winning a five-day format series in the country is a major career goal for him. “India is the No. 1 team in the world and it is a very difficult place to play Test cricket, so I would love to win a series there,” Smith told New Zealand leg-spinner Ish Sodhi during a podcast organised by the inaugural IPL champion Rajasthan Royals. “It has been a pretty long year with the World Cup and Ashes, a few away one-day tours. So this rest is not the worst thing but hopefully it is for a few weeks. I am pretty keen to get back to playing. Smith also heaped praise on India’s spin allrounder Ravindra Jadeja, describing him as a difficult bowler to face in the subcontinent. Smith is hoping the Indian Premier League will be held “at some stage”.“Plenty going on in the world at present, but hopefully we can get an IPL at some stage,” said Smith. “The two seasons that I captained the Royals were both half seasons. “Looking at having a crack at it full time and the Royals have a pretty good squad,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/would-love-to-win-a-test-series-in-india-smith/article31294320.ece
09 April 2020||LAUSANNE,||IOC’s new roadmap for Tokyo berths||Around 6,500 athletes who have already earned their spots for the Tokyo Games have been confirmed for 2021 under the redrawn qualifying regulations published by the International Olympic Committee (IOC). It released a rewritten roadmap for qualifying for the Olympics which will be held from July 23 to August 8 next year. The new deadline for qualifying is June 29, 2021, and entry lists are due a week later. Individual sports federations will be in charge of their qualifying procedures. The IOC urged the federations to find a balance between protecting athletes who were close to qualifying based on the 2020 deadline and also ensure that the best athletes compete at Tokyo by taking into consideration performances in 2021. It also clarified a number of points, including the need for boxing to relax a rule that sets the top age at 40 and gymnastics to decide whether to allow those who would’ve been too young to compete in 2020 but will be eligible for 2021.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/iocs-new-roadmap-for-tokyo-berths/article31294339.ece
09 April 2020||New Delhi,||Akhtar moots India-Pakistan ODI series||Former Pakistan pacer Shoaib Akhtar, on Wednesday, proposed a three-match ODI series against arch-rival India to raise funds for the fight against the COVID-19 pandemic in both the countries. “In this time of crisis, I want to propose a three- match series in which, for the first time, the people of neither country would be upset at the outcome of the games,” Akhtar told PTI from Islamabad. “You are bound to get massive viewership for the games. For the first time, both countries will play for each other. And whatever funds are generated through this can be donated equally to the governments of India and Pakistan to fight this pandemic,” added the 44-year-old.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/akhtar-moots-india-pakistan-odi-series/article31294321.ece
09 April 2020||Paris,||2022 athletics Worlds from July 15||The World Athletics Championships, originally scheduled for next year in Eugene, USA, will take place from July 15 to 24, 2022, avoiding a potential clash with the Commonwealth Games in Birmingham. World Athletics last month shifted the event to 2022 to accommodate the rearranged Tokyo Olympics.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/2022-athletics-worlds-from-july-15/article31294324.ece
09 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Teen golfer Arjun sells trophies, raises Rs. 4.30 lakh||He may be just 15 but golfer Arjun Bhati has managed to raise Rs. 4.30 lakh to fight the COVID-19 pandemic by selling all his trophies, including three World junior golf championship titles and a National championship. The golfer from Greater Noida has donated the money to the PM-CARES Fund. “After coming to know about my contribution, my grandmother first cried and then said, ‘you are a real Arjun!,’” he tweeted in Hindi on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/teen-golfer-arjun-sells-trophies-raises-rs-430-lakh/article31294327.ece
09 April 2020||April 09 2020 09:10 IST,||Sudoku - April 9, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-april-9-2020/article31295312.ece
09 April 2020||April 09 2020 00:00 IST,||Knights in shining armour||Wellington is a miracle. At 32, this Rockhopper penguin, who calls the Shedd Aquarium in Chicago (USA) home, is no spring chicken, considering the average Rockhopper’s lifespan (in the wild) is only 10 years. Even with a few added years due to captive breeding, Wellington is the living embodiment of Ian Fleming’s vision that You Only Live Twice! A couple of weeks ago, a surge in the number of Coronavirus infections across the world caused most places of cultural and tourist significance to down shutters. And since the public were prohibited, Wellington’s caretakers decided to throw open the facility for him and friends. What followed next was a stream of captive animals debuting on Instagram in videos (like the Colchester Zoo in the UK) that show them watching in wonderment when they spot another species; such videos offering the proverbial silver lining to a human race wired to look for one in every debilitating situation. It takes a lot of work for the upkeep staff in such facilities to committedly offer care for captive animals. Case in point: it is already the nesting season for penguins, and animal care staff at the Shedd Aquarium noticed it when Rockhoppers and Magellanic penguins started collecting “sturdy twigs and stones”, and the zookeepers do their bit to help the penguins along by providing materials like “lavender sprigs, fig branches, grape vines and pebbles”, reads a social media post from Shedd. In case of a tourist or cultural site like a museum or a national park, or where the work is more hands-on, to continue to go about one’s business while still keeping in mind social distancing and watch over one’s own health can be taxing. An example of this is Jay Brewer of The Reptile Zoo in California (USA), for whom his interest in nocturnal species is only exceeded by his reputation as the “American Steve Irwin”. Jay is known for the dozens of videos that show him working with snake and reptilian eggs that make one squirm. With a razor blade in his hand, he slices them open and out pop baby snakes covered in goop, blood and gooey material. “... it’s kinda a new world we are living in. Hopefully, it will end soon somehow like it started. This is the week to stay home. We will see the curve flattened and fall,” writes Jay in one of his recent Instagram video posts, shot from on site, with very little staff around, even as he holds baby snakes fresh out of egg shells wearing a ‘Snake Dad’ T-shirt. But the recent case of a Malayan tiger named Nadia presumably contracting the Coronavirus from an asymptomatic zookeeper at the Bronx Zoo — the ripple effect of which saw tiger enclosures in Indian zoos in Mysuru and Kolkata, for instance, being sprayed with disinfectants — complicates things, and puts the nature of work for upkeep staff in such places, in the spotlight. Man management For instance, the National Park Service (NPS) in USA, which administers as many as 419 properties — 62 of which are designated national parks that attract a lot of tourists — and employs over 12,000 people, says that though there is no federal lockdown diktat, public buildings have been out of access since March 16. As such, maintenance services are operating at limited capacity but the outdoors are not inaccessible for the public. “Maintenance staff continue to collect trash, clean occupied spaces and monitor building systems, following the latest guidance from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention to prevent the spread of infectious diseases,” says Leslie Obleschuk, public affairs officer, Independence National Historical Park in Philadelphia. This 55-acre park with its centrepiece — the Independence Hall, where the United States’ Declaration of Independence and Constitution were both debated and adopted — attracted 4.53 million visitors in 2019, and has offered its maintenance crew personal protection equipment, while advising staff to observe social distancing guidelines. “ Our logistics and public health specialists are coordinating through a supply chain to keep our field staff equipped, safe and informed on the latest guidance from the CDC,” Obleschuk adds. Duty calls In Alberta, Canada, much like in the US, the provincial government, while declaring a public health emergency, has not imposed a lockdown. This allows for provincially-operated museums like Royal Tyrrell Museum of Palaeontology and other historic sites, which are classified as “essential services” for the sake of safety and care of Alberta’s prehistoric and historic collections, to remain functional (meaning critical research work is allowed to continue) although the facility remains out of bounds for Alberta’s residents. “All government employees are still working on site,” says Lisa Making, Director of Exhibits and Communications, Royal Tyrrell Museum of Palaeontology, adding that the staff have been following social distancing measures when on duty. “We are adhering to all measures outlined by Alberta’s Chief Medical Officer, and are making sure all areas of the museum are regularly disinfected.” In contrast, the six-storey, 36,000-square-metre facility that is the Museum of New Zealand Te Papa Tongarewa in Wellington, which houses several thousands of fossil collections, and, among others, a colossal squid that weighs nearly 500 kilograms, has opted to delegate maintenance activities to a skeletal staff keeping guard of the facility. “Our security team is looking after the building and the collections,” says Kate Camp, head of marketing and communications at Museum of New Zealand Te Papa Tongarewa. The museum, attracts at least 1.5 million visitors every year. The island nation entered lockdown midnight on March 25. “New Zealand’s lockdown is in place for at least three more weeks, but we are making plans now about how we will manage the flow of visitors in the building [once it is lifted],” Kate adds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/knights-in-shining-armour/article31294157.ece
09 April 2020||April 09 2020 00:00 IST,||Painted in solidarity||Chicago-based IT professional and artist Sujit Sudhi, who hails from Kochi, was due to return to the US, where he works, when he fell sick. By the time he recovered, the lockdown in India had begun. With airports closed, his journey has been indefinitely postponed. “Each time I stand at an immigration counter, I wonder about boundaries and how they are imposed. And now look... COVID-19 has proven that there are no boundaries,” Sujit says. In a show of solidarity with the world, Sujit is now painting landscapes of countries currently battling COVID-19: the United Kingdom, the US, Iran, Turkey, Italy, Spain, Switzerland, Turkey, France and Germany among others. This series of 24 paintings, of which 11 are done, demanded that he step out of his comfort zone as an artist. If earlier he shot a scene with his camera or sketched a view, this time he does not have the help of either. “I didn’t want to draw expected, iconic sights. For instance, Paris would inevitably mean the Eiffel Tower, but instead I painted a landscape – the Normandy Coast – that expresses the essence of the country. This was more restrictive.” His Iran shows a mountain, Sabalan, from one of its famed mountain ranges; the UK is represented by a barge moored by the Thames and so on. He intends to wrap up the series with India. Sujit has exhibited in Kochi, Hyderabad, Bengaluru, Goa and Pune and has also been part of shows in the US. “Artists — across genres — have responded to COVID-19 in different ways. I choose to draw beautiful, pleasing landscapes,” he adds. The works demand that he do his research online before he paints, research which inevitably includes keeping track of Coronavirus updates. “The process of painting these is deeply meditative,” he says. The sky in each work is different: some have rolling clouds, others are dark and thunderous... “It is said that the sky is integral to a landscape, they are the ‘eye of the landscape’. They are representative of the situation in the country. While in some the sky is clearing, in others it is not... but there is always that glimmer of hope,” he says. Sujit started painting a day after the lockdown, and completes a watercolour every day. He posted his first painting representative of the US — a lighthouse by the sea — on his Facebook page on March 28, tagging family and friends from the artist community in the US. Each subsequent painting is accompanied by a brief note of encouragement; for instance he exhorts Iran with “Iran - it’s time to show the world your valour! Let’s win this battle together.” Foreseeing a shortage of material, he had ordered online before the lockdown, but it wasn’t delivered to him in time. So now, he is painting on canvases that are 11x7.5 inches, which are half the size of the canvases he usually uses. “This means I will have supplies to last me twice the number of days. As it stands now I have enough water colour paper to last me a little more than a month but I am running out of paint,” he says. If stores don’t open and online delivery continues to be a challenge, he plans to complete his work with pencil or pen. After all, he says, “Colour is just a fancy robe you throw on top of a sturdy structure built on pencil.”  His works can be seen on Instagram (@sujit.sudhi)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/painted-in-solidarity/article31294125.ece
09 April 2020||April 09 2020 00:00 IST,||Word on a wing||It was yet another mundane Monday. Juliet (name changed), a teacher to autistic children, stepped out of her house feeling low and in dire need of encouragement. Her work had, for long, been undervalued by her family and peers. Just as she left the gate, a bundle of letters caught her eye. Little did she know, that these would change the way she felt. These were letters from complete strangers. Each appreciating her selfless work, and motivating her to carry on. They also had one thread in common: that of kindness. The letters to Juliet were sent by volunteers of The Goodwill Tribe, an organisation started in 2013 by Sonia Parekh and Chandni Sawlani, to inspire compassion and human interaction. “We are rooted in the belief that human connection driven by empathy for fellow human beings can indeed make this world a more connected place,” says Sonia. The Goodwill Tribe conducts activities focussing on the power of small acts of kindness to create change in the world. These include writing and posting letters of love to strangers (Letter Earthlings), charity drives, open-mic nights around themes of compassion and hope, and kindness missions among others. Their latest initiative is called Letters in the time of Corona, a digital version of their traditional letter writing format. The initiative was suggested by Nivendra Uduman, one of their volunteers from Sri Lanka. “We are delivering letters of love, hope, and support. If you know someone who is having it rough because of the pandemic, you can request a bundle of letters for them,” explains Sonia. This could be anyone who is anxious about the future, has lost their job, is finding it difficult to cope with social isolation, needs words of reassurance... In fact, one could request letters for themselves too. All one needs to do is fill up a form that is available on their Facebook and Instagram pages and share details about the person, their story and what they are going through. The team then writes a bunch (usually around three to five letters) of emails to the recipient. This exercise started last Saturday and the team has already received 100-plus requests for letters. There is also a form for those who wish to enrol as a volunteer and write these letters. Volunteers from each chapter then respond to requests sent from people across the world. Starting in Dubai, The Goodwill Tribe is now present in Mumbai, Bengaluru, Nagpur, Goa, Delhi, Sydney and Kuwait. Some of their members engage with them virtually from London, Germany and other parts of the world. “We let the volunteers read the stories and respond to those they connect with,” says Sonia. The letters being sent out are heartfelt, filled with positivity and love. They are encouraged not to make it religious or political. “The recipients are a mixed bag, really. There are students, children, senior citizens,” she says. Some of the recipients write back, some don’t. There is no rule though; no expectations, either. But sometimes the warm replies that the team receives makes them realise why it is important to keep adding value to people’s lives.  For details, log onto www.thegoodwilltribe.org   Write stuff Pen Pals gained prominence in the 1930s when the Student Letter Exchange started assisting in the matching of pen pals after a teacher decided that his students should connect with students in other countries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/word-on-a-wing/article31294133.ece
09 April 2020||April 09 2020 00:00 IST,||To the roof of the world||There are demons in my room or so it seems because they assume the forms of animals, objects and people at a whim. I open my eyes and they are gone and I realise that I have been hallucinating. It is a result of exhaustion, a lack of oxygen and the bitter cold. The demons have gone but a soft rhythmic bellowing persists. It is real! I pull open the drapes and outside my window is a yak that’s taken it upon itself to be my morning alarm. But beyond the boisterous bovine, its permanent snow shining in the early morning sun, stands Mount Everest. So close, so clear that I can see the pool-table-sized limestone summit that is the pinnacle of a mountaineer’s glory. Goosebumps break out because once again the realisation hits that here on a freezing morning in Southern Tibet I am seeing the very view that George Mallory first saw in 1921 — the North face of the tallest mountain in the world. I had heard about George Mallory, but ever since I read Jeffrey Archer’s Paths of Glory, this gifted mountaineer, who was so restricted by the rudimentary climbing equipment and gear of the 1920s, has fascinated me. So when the opportunity to ride from Kathmandu to the Everest Base Camp in Tibet presented itself, for me, as much as the thrill doled out and the fortitude required to ride over passes at 18,500 feet and in temperatures going down to -6 degrees Celsius, the attraction was also to stand where Mallory stood before he climbed Mount Everest. We had started off from Kathmandu, a disparate bunch of 11 riders, with five days to go. Nepal was preening green and pretty after its monsoon, but large sections of the road on our route were slushy and wet, with the consistency ranging from that of thick treacle syrup to viscous porridge. I was astride the Royal Enfield Himalayan developed for conditions like this and that saw me through without a single fall on the first two days and the entire trip. We were blessed because the monsoon had bid adieu, but the warmth and the humidity made me feel like I was in an open-air sauna as I cursed the heat-trapping capability of my riding gear. That is because we were still at terai altitude in the Nepal Himalayas and still below the tree line. But two days later, when we started off from Gyirong, which is the first town across the border in Tibet, the cold was bone-chilling. We were now at 8,900 feet above sea level. The roads in Tibet are Chinese-built, smooth and blemish-free. This meant we could hold high speeds on our motorcycles but it also meant that we ascended very quickly. Within three hours we were at the 17,200-foot pass that was the entrance to the Tibetan Plateau — quite correctly called ‘The Roof of the World’. For me, that was a test of fortitude. Not only was I battling temperatures that were hovering around freezing point, I was also tense with trepidation about whether Acute Mountain Sickness (AMS) would envelop me in its deadly embrace. I knew that to battle it, I had to consume a lot of water and keep calm so my breathing would be relaxed and deep. But I just couldn’t keep calm because I was riding through such spectacular scenery. In the horizon was the deep blue Lake Paiku and beyond that loomed the perennial snow-capped mountains, the Eight Thousanders, so called because their summits stood at over 8,000 metres high. Here at Lake Paiku, the most dominant one was the Shishapangma at 8,013 metres (26,290 feet). Our destination for that day was Tingri that is at an altitude of 14,265 feet. By the time we rolled into Tingri, AMS was rampant amongst us. When the oximeter clipped over my finger showed 65% oxygen, I was disappointed because there was a chance I would have to stay back at Tingri, because Rongbuk was at 16,340 feet. To give you an estimation of how high that is — my last skydive — where I jumped out of a plane — was from 15,000 feet! And, to get to Rongbuk, there was an 18,000-foot-high pass to be ridden across. But that evening, I took it easy, drank enough water to put a camel to shame, and the next morning, I was ready to ride. Unfortunately, two riders had to stay back in Tingri. That morning’s 140-kilometre ride was beyond spectacular, as we rode up to the pass where Mount Everest came into view. It was a beautiful blue-sky day and I remember marvelling at the view from the pass. The Everest at 8,848 metres (29,029 feet) stood taller than the Shishapangma, the Makalu, the Lhotse and the Cho Oyu that flanked it — all of them standing over 8,000 metres high. The road down the pass was so splendid with its 108 hairpin bends that I had to really keep my mind in check and not get carried away with excitement that would make me breathe harder. It was not an easy task because I was rediscovering the joy of motorcycling in the Himalayas after 16 years. That evening, as I stood at Rongbuk, watching the Everest go from white to golden with the last rays of the setting sun, I felt a sense of heady excitement just to be in its presence and I wasn’t even going to attempt to climb it. Just imagine what George Mallory must have felt as he stood right there looking at this eternal mountain in 1921.  All in the family Mallory’s grandson, also named George Mallory, reached the summit of Everest in 1995 via the North Ridge. He left a picture of his grandparents at the summit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/to-the-roof-of-the-world/article31294163.ece
09 April 2020||April 09 2020 00:00 IST,||No time to tarry||As the nib of Sir Cyril Radcliffe’s pen raced across the map to keep its tryst with destiny, sundering the Indian subcontinent into two in 1947, it resulted in an event saturated with violence. Trains filled with refugees, the coaches smeared with taunts, more often with blood, drew in at stations in Punjab and Bengal. Nearly 10 million were displaced and struggled to rebuild their lives in the cities they now called home. Partition’s echoes continue to haunt the political discourse in India, Pakistan and Bangladesh, but the stories of hardship, heartache and the robust optimism of its survivors are slowly fading into a sepia-tinted world. The 1947 Partition Archive, a non-profit organisation founded in 2010 by Indian-American Guneeta Singh Bhalla, uses its flagship oral history project as a tool to record these experiences. It has preserved the memories of 9,300 Partition witnesses speaking in more than 10 languages. The digital repository open to academics and lay people also has nearly 30,000 photographs, some of which are currently on display at the Mandi House Metro Station, Delhi. Primary information is collected by citizen historians — volunteers criss-crossing the globe interviewing survivors at their home in a race against time. With the COVID-19 pandemic now afoot, and the age profile of the survivors putting them at risk, the project has moved online to leave no story untold. Bhalla, executive director of the Archive, currently in Delhi where she recently recovered from the Coronavirus, says, “We have nearly 1,000 witnesses waiting to tell their stories in 19 countries across Asia, America and Europe.” “Earlier, volunteer oral historians signed up for our free live online workshops. They went out in the community and recorded an oral history and submitted it through our online portal. Volunteer archivists then reviewed each oral history according to quality of the interview and content. Once the interview is archived, the volunteers become certified citizen historians and receive a certificate making them eligible to be matched with more waiting Partition witnesses,” says Bhalla, who launched the project spurred by her grandmother’s story of fleeing Lahore’s mayhem. Across genres Among the notable voices over the years are writers Bapsi Sidhwa and Khushwant Singh, artist Nek Chand, and sporting icon Milkha Singh. The project has facilitated meetings between old neighbours, people who look back with fondness at the endless days of summer, the girls they loved; and with anger at the life-altering violence and the crushing despair they struggled with for years. The Archive’s global office is closed for the moment in California as mandated by the government; its second office is in Gurugram. “We don’t want these memories to be lost at a time like this. So, now interviews happen via webcam and some of the paperwork requires using a courier service rather than getting it done in person. We assist the interviewee remotely, but it is limiting because there are many elders who live alone and don’t have the right access to technology. In this case, we allow phone recordings, which isn’t ideal since their body language contains so much more information than their words alone. But, given that elders are particularly at risk with Coronavirus, we want to open up all possible avenues of recording, lest we lose our history,” says Bhalla. “Despite how complicated it was to switch to work-from-home, our team has a new sense of renewed energy and urgency. We know that we have a time bomb ticking.” Partition is a historical event for many, a family story for some. But, as these narratives show it is more than just a candid conversation from our past. It is about where we come from and where we are going as a nation. For details, 1947partitionarchive.org  We want to open up all possible avenues of recording, lest we lose our history||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/no-time-to-tarry/article31294147.ece
09 April 2020||April 09 2020 00:00 IST,||Friends across the fence||It is 20 minutes past six. Over a flowering flame tree, the evening sun is preparing for its dramatic exit. A 20-something year old and her sister are trying to emulate this scene on their drawing sheets, sitting on their terrace. They wave to a little girl zooming past them on a bicycle. In a corner, a six-year-old helps his mother pack dried rice vadagams into a container, and then offers to share them with the rest. Seventeen days into lockdown, neighbourhoods seem to have accepted badminton games on empty corridors, singing lessons on balconies and conversations across compound walls as the new normal. Faced with unfamiliar, and unsettling isolation, people are seeking comfort by finding ways to reconnect with their neighbours, even as they diligently try and follow personal distancing rules, whether they live in crowded neighbourhoods or gated communities. The Italians sing patriotic songs from their windows; the French exercise together watching a trainer from their balconies. In India, interactions currently involve passing freshly made batches of molagapodi and steaming samosas across windows. Previously detached neighbours now smile and wave at each other from their terraces, many communicating for the first time in years, as life slows down. Children yell and chat across roads. Neighbours help each other out with buying groceries and medicine. Apartments band together to look after their elderly inhabitants. Young people make offers on social media to check in on strangers’ parents and grandparents, from a safe distance. All underlining the importance of community, and how this lockdown is strengthening neighbourhoods in unexpected ways. Terrace socialisation Terraces seem to be the new clubs, as people wave at each other from rooftops across the city. Fifty-year-old K Ramachandran heads up every evening at 5.30 pm to do his stretches and yoga. Mid-stretch, he says, “Now that I can’t be doing this outside, I have adapted to the situation. It’s much more breezy here! I come up everyday and spend about an hour exercising.” He also smilingly admits to ignoring the possibilities of the space all these years. “It’s almost like a different world up here.” At Coimbatore’s Parsn Sesh Nestle apartment complex, a balcony safari, of sorts, is in progress. “The peacock went that way!” a little girl shouts to her neighbours, helpfully pointing right. She is standing in the balcony of her home on the second floor, calling out to everyone who passes by below. This has become her window to the world. Her best friend’s balcony is right next to hers, so they spend most of the day standing there discussing what they ate for dinner, how many peacocks they spotted that day, and what the moon looked like the previous night. Another parent in the same building has made cloth hammocks in their balcony for their two daughters, so they can lounge as they join in. Generosity in full bloom Meanwhile, as groceries continue to be a challenge, Sujitha Manu’s neighbours in Pothencode, on the outskirts of Thiruvananthapuram, have a steady supply thanks to her kitchen garden, which is in full bloom with red amaranthus, brinjal, snake gourd, tomato and more. “We used to have a weekly organic bazaar on Saturdays. That has been cancelled.So I give it to my neighbours and friends. Every day, they call me to find out what’s available and I share the harvest with them,” says the State award-winning kitchen gardener. In the same way, Ushakumari GS, a primary school teacher, and her husband, Suresh Kumar L, a retired Government employee, who live near Government Medical College in Thiruvananthapuram, share the produce of their kitchen garden which includes poultry and pisciculture, with their neighbours in Medical College East Residents’ Association. “We can’t consume all the vegetables we grow. At present, we are able to give our neighbours all kinds of vegetables. Patients from the Regional Cancer Centre nearby reach out to us for eggs, which we give free of cost,” says Usha. Stating that since the Chennai floods of 2015, Harsha Koda, secretary at Sabari Terrace, Chennai’s OMR says, “This, perhaps, is the longest time people have remained confined at home. If someone is out for a grocery run, a message is sent to the common WhatsApp group, and others can add to the list.” In Mumbai, restaurateur Gauri Devidayal, collates orders for bread from her apartment block so her restaurant, Mag St Bread Company can send everything in one order. Neighbours are also clubbing together to order basics like gas cylinders and water cans. And since many of the restaurants are doing less business, they are finding ways to be good neighbours: making meals for the policemen and other essential workers. If you’re lucky, you live next to a neighbour with fancy ingredients to spare, like Chennai-based Japtej Ahluwalia, best known for Double Roti, who posted a picture of a pizza he made with mozzarella cheese from their central kitchen, on Facebook. He announced that anyone who wants the cheese can DM him, and pick it up. A semblance of normalcy is what these unexpected connections are creating at this point. At a time when social media has become our window to the world, something as simple as a smile from across the balcony is enough to remind us that we are all in this together.   (With inputs from Akila   Kannadasan, Saraswathy Nagarajan and Shonali Muthalaly)   Meet-cutes in confinement Terrace romances have always been in vogue. But, in the lockdown season, some have found ingenious ways to make romance thrive in these unprecedented times.  A New York-based photographer asked his neighbour out on a date, after he saw her dancing in her balcony, by flying a drone up to her on which he taped his phone and pressed the record button in TikTok. In what became an instantly viral video across social media platforms, the couple shared their first date on their respective balconies via FaceTime. The second date saw him rolling over to her home inside a plastic bubble to take a walk side-by-side.  A Spanish couple, who had spent months planning their wedding, were disappointed on learning that their wedding ceremony would not see the light of day, but soon realised that nothing could stop them. Alba Diaz and Daniel Camino got married leaning out of their balcony, while their next-door neighbour led the ceremony. Several people came to their balconies to be witnesses. She even threw the bouquet to a friend who lived opposite her apartment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/friends-across-the-fence/article31294150.ece
09 April 2020||April 09 2020 00:00 IST,||Master checks in||“So, what do you want me to perform?” asked composer Anirudh to his legion of fans. The question was not met with cheers or whistles. But there were hundreds of comments that kept piling up, so fast that the young composer could not keep track of them. The scene was unfolding on YouTube, where Anirudh was performing a live web concert to make Tuesday evening a little extra special for his fans. “I’m very happy doing something like this in such tough times and entertaining you all,” said Anirudh, urging people to ‘stay home and be safe’ during this lockdown period. From his début flick 3 ( Moonu), to the upcoming Vijay-starrer Master, Anirudh took the Internet audience on a musical journey, as he dished out hit numbers like ‘Why This Kolaveri Di’, ‘Oh Penne’, ‘Aaluma Doluma’, ‘Marana Mass’ and ‘Kutti Story’ from his eight-year-long career. All he had was a small keyboard (”I cannot recreate all songs completely here, sorry about that.”) but once the composer took off, there was no stopping the ‘rockstar’, as he is popularly known in Kollywood. There was not a playlist that he had prior to the concert — he took requests from the comments and played them impromptu. The standouts from the concert were his rendition of ‘Aathi’ ( Kaththi ), the theme music of Kaththi, and ‘Vaathi Coming’, which had him showcasing his exemplary keyboard skills. ‘Yennai Maatrum Kadhale’ from Naanum Rowdy Dhaan was another highlight, for it saw ‘singer’ Anirudh reach the musical heights that Sid Sriram achieved in the song. The composer also ensured his Telugu fans were happy by dishing out two songs from his début Telugu film Agnyaathavaasi and Jersey. Master , which happens to be Anirudh’s latest release, got some special treatment as the composer entertained listeners by performing a few lines from all the songs. The ‘Anirudh Live’ was a unique experience, for it took place in the absence of chorus, crowds, cheers and the near-perfect acoustics that you usually associate with such performances. Lyrics went for a toss and some notes might have been off. But for that two-plus hours, Anirudh’s music spread smiles to thousands who are currently indoors, thanks to a virus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/master-checks-in/article31294152.ece
09 April 2020||April 09 2020 00:00 IST,||The man behind the ‘jubilee star’||The late actor Rajendra Kumar, fondly referred to as ‘Jubilee Kumar’, starred in a number of Hindi films that were silver jubilee hits in the 1960s — Dil Ek Mandir, Ayee Milan Ki Bela, Arzoo and Sangam , among others. He considered his sea-facing bungalow in the then Bombay as his lucky charm. But the actor willingly sold it in 1969 to Rajesh Khanna, when the latter requested him. In Seema Sonik Alimchand’s biography Jubilee Kumar (published by Hachette India) the author describes how Rajesh Khanna’s fortunes took a turn for the better, while Rajendra Kumar’s own stardom was on the wane in the following years. The book traces Rajendra Kumar’s early years after Partition, when he moved from Sialkot to Bombay, his initial struggles before he became an actor, his rise to stardom, friends in cinema and personal life. Edited excerpts from an e-mail interview with the author:  What was it about Rajendra Kumar’s life that prompted you to write a book? Of the superstars (especially romantic), in Indian films, Dilip Kumar, Rajendra Kumar, Rajesh Khanna and Shah Rukh Khan, it was Rajendra Kumar who had an additional title — the ‘Jubilee Star’. Yet, little is known about his life journey and his immense stardom is less acknowledged. When Rajendra Kumar’s daughter Dimple Patel invited me to write her father’s biography, I searched and found the gleam of a story within the simplicity of his life journey. RK’s struggle to get a foothold in the film industry became of prime importance. His resilience, readiness to work, gratitude, stardom, knack of recognising winners and his playing to the audience as the good son, good husband, the good doctor made for an inspiring biography. The music/songs of his films were reminiscent of the golden era of Hindi films. How forthcoming were his family, friends, acquaintances in the film industry to have candid conversations? The most important interviews were with the family. I chatted for hours with RK’s wife Shukla Kumar and she was very forthcoming. A strong lady with strong ideas, she spoke no holds barred, as did the children, Kumar Gaurav, Dimple and Kaajal. I got some fantastic information about RK’s days before marriage to Shukla ji , from his brother Virendra Tuli. People in the film industry too spoke about him with great respect. Did you stumble upon more details through Rajendra Kumar’s personal accounts than what emerged through other conversations? There were a series of videos (about 10 hours) recorded by Dimple during his last years, in which he himself related his life’s stories. It was like talking to him personally; his expressions and body language helped me read between the lines. Being a film buff since childhood, I had watched most of his films, and when I listened to the tapes, I could understand the person behind the star. With interviews done, and after getting the facts from RK himself through his recordings, I wove a story. I had to play with words so as to not spoon-feed, revealing the truths but not having anything defamatory. When it’s a life story, it must be humane, with the ups, downs, strengths and weaknesses. Then the reader connects. The family was concerned about not hurting the sentiments of their old-time and current film friends. What are some of the other interesting anecdotes that you stumbled upon that left you surprised and curious? Rajendra Kumar and Raj Kapoor’s friendship surprised me. I hadn’t known about it, and also the camaraderie they shared... the Sangam incident when Rajendra ji asked to speak [his own lines] after the song picturisation of ‘Dost Dost Na Raha’ and Raj ji agreed, and retained the dialogue in the film. The other revelation was how RK had helped so many actors and directors, his love for his family and his business acumen. As a writer, how did you look at the actor’s waning years in cinema? After struggling to achieve, then fighting for a position; after the highs of fame, money and the good life, it was the climactic decline that made the story even more interesting. Yes, it is the law of nature, but to grasp and storify the circumstances, the introspection, inner stability, the support system and the bouncing back as RK did, was truly gratifying for me to recognise, write and later read again.  THE international link Nobel Laureate Bertrand Russell appears in a cameo in Aman (1967) and the book describes how Rajendra Kumar took a chance and wrote to Russell, who reciprocated warmly. Aman also featured ghazal exponent Jagjit Singh as an actor, and the film marked the début of Naseeruddin Shah as a junior artiste. Seema Sonik Alimchand produced the album 100 Years of Hindi Film Music and has earlier authored The Warrior Within and Deedara aka Dara Singh , on Rajinikanth and Dara Singh respectively.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/the-man-behind-the-jubilee-star/article31294111.ece
09 April 2020||April 09 2020 00:00 IST,||Knights in shining armour||Wellington is a miracle. At 32, this Rockhopper penguin, who calls the Shedd Aquarium in Chicago (USA) home, is no spring chicken, considering the average Rockhopper’s lifespan (in the wild) is only 10 years. Even with a few added years due to captive breeding, Wellington is the living embodiment of Ian Fleming’s vision that You Only Live Twice! A couple of weeks ago, a surge in the number of Coronavirus infections across the world caused most places of cultural and tourist significance to down shutters. And since the public were prohibited, Wellington’s caretakers decided to throw open the facility for him and friends. What followed next was a stream of captive animals debuting on Instagram in videos (like the Colchester Zoo in the U.K.) that show them watching in wonderment when they spot another species; such videos offering the proverbial silver lining to a human race wired to look for one in every debilitating situation. It takes a lot of work for the upkeep staff in such facilities to committedly offer care for captive animals. Case in point: it is already the nesting season for penguins, and animal care staff at the Shedd Aquarium noticed it when Rockhoppers and Magellanic penguins started collecting “sturdy twigs and stones”, and the zookeepers do their bit to help the penguins along by providing materials like “lavender sprigs, fig branches, grape vines and pebbles”, reads a social media post from Shedd. In case of a tourist or cultural site like a museum or a national park, or where the work is more hands-on, to continue to go about one’s business while still keeping in mind social distancing and watch over one’s own health can be taxing. An example of this is Jay Brewer of The Reptile Zoo in California (USA), for whom his interest in nocturnal species is only exceeded by his reputation as the “American Steve Irwin”. Jay is known for the dozens of videos that show him working with snake and reptilian eggs that make one squirm. With a razor blade in his hand, he slices them open and out pop baby snakes covered in goop, blood and gooey material. “... it’s kinda a new world we are living in. Hopefully, it will end soon somehow like it started. This is the week to stay home. We will see the curve flattened and fall,” writes Jay in one of his recent Instagram video posts, shot from on site, with very little staff around, even as he holds baby snakes fresh out of egg shells wearing a ‘Snake Dad’ T-shirt. But the recent case of a Malayan tiger named Nadia presumably contracting the Coronavirus from an asymptomatic zookeeper at the Bronx Zoo — the ripple effect of which saw tiger enclosures in Indian zoos in Mysuru and Kolkata, for instance, being sprayed with disinfectants — complicates things, and puts the nature of work for upkeep staff in such places, in the spotlight. Man management For instance, the National Park Service (NPS) in USA, which administers as many as 419 properties — 62 of which are designated national parks that attract a lot of tourists — and employs over 12,000 people, says that though there is no federal lockdown diktat, public buildings have been out of access since March 16. As such, maintenance services are operating at limited capacity but the outdoors are not inaccessible for the public. “Maintenance staff continue to collect trash, clean occupied spaces and monitor building systems, following the latest guidance from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention to prevent the spread of infectious diseases,” says Leslie Obleschuk, public affairs officer, Independence National Historical Park in Philadelphia. This 55-acre park with its centrepiece — the Independence Hall, where the United States’ Declaration of Independence and Constitution were both debated and adopted — attracted 4.53 million visitors in 2019, and has offered its maintenance crew personal protection equipment, while advising staff to observe social distancing guidelines. “ Our logistics and public health specialists are coordinating through a supply chain to keep our field staff equipped, safe and informed on the latest guidance from the CDC,” Obleschuk adds. Duty calls In Alberta, Canada, much like in the U.S., the provincial government, while declaring a public health emergency, has not imposed a lockdown. This allows for provincially-operated museums like Royal Tyrrell Museum of Palaeontology and other historic sites, which are classified as “essential services” for the sake of safety and care of Alberta’s prehistoric and historic collections, to remain functional (meaning critical research work is allowed to continue) although the facility remains out of bounds for Alberta’s residents. “All government employees are still working on site,” says Lisa Making, Director of Exhibits and Communications, Royal Tyrrell Museum of Palaeontology, adding that the staff have been following social distancing measures when on duty. “We are adhering to all measures outlined by Alberta’s Chief Medical Officer, and are making sure all areas of the museum are regularly disinfected.” In contrast, the six-storey, 36,000-square-metre facility that is the Museum of New Zealand Te Papa Tongarewa in Wellington, which houses several thousands of fossil collections, and, among others, a colossal squid that weighs nearly 500 kilograms, has opted to delegate maintenance activities to a skeletal staff keeping guard of the facility. “Our security team is looking after the building and the collections,” says Kate Camp, head of marketing and communications at Museum of New Zealand Te Papa Tongarewa. The museum, attracts at least 1.5 million visitors every year. The island nation entered lockdown midnight on March 25. “New Zealand’s lockdown is in place for at least three more weeks, but we are making plans now about how we will manage the flow of visitors in the building [once it is lifted],” Kate adds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/knights-in-shining-armour/article31294516.ece
09 April 2020||April 09 2020 00:00 IST,||Embracing the lockdown||The Spirit Remains Unlocked is an online project launched on March 25th, the first day of the three week lockdown, by Gurugram-based art consultant and curator Lubna Sen. The commercial project initially had just 10 artists, but today has 30 from across the country. “Art has always been a cultural documentation of the time that it was produced. Through The Spirit Remains Unlocked we aim to create a snapshot of history through the life and work of these artists,” says Sen, who founded The Art Route, a platform that connects emerging artists with buyers.   Lockdown a rt   On each Facebook (The Art Route) post, Sen introduces an artist, with their picture, their work during the lockdown, the process of the work, and a thought from the artist, in the current context. “Faith is my boat, art is my activity,” says Nitasha Jaini, for instance. Her acrylic on canvas, titled Yellow Photo Work, shows a nude “looking into the far distance at some golden light, while the office going are busy as ever”. Mosaic artist Kanika Singh has created a Tapestry of Mosaic, three panels, 2x4 feet, of vitreous glass tiles, stained glass, beads, bubbles, mirror and ceramic tiles. “It is time for the dreamers, artists and creators to surface and showcase the true creative spirit,” says a post dedicated to her work. With galleries shut and major international fairs and exhibitions cancelled or postponed indefinitely, the art world is facing a financial crisis ahead. In these times of uncertainty, Sen says the brick and mortar gallery model will be under strain. “We will have to learn new ways to survive. The cancellation of all physical events like exhibitions and residencies mean that artists lose not only the opportunity to earn through sale, but also to showcase their works. Promotion of their work is vital for their survival,” says Sen. She used to be a management professional before she studied art history (at the National Museum Institute) and its promotion (at Sotheby’s, London; and the Museum Of Modern Art, New York) before setting up The Art Route in 2014.  Working with emotions  There are some artists who are hoping to capture their emtotions in their work. Pranjit Sarma, a printmaker in Bengaluru, says, “We as humans value social interactions. Due to this lockdown, we are all on our own. I often question myself during these times: Where is our spirit in the absence of social interactions now? Have we unlocked our spirit even today?” Sarma has not been able to visit his studio, but has recently picked up sketching. “As a printmaker, I have been doing research on the subject of motherhood since 2017. In this period of the lockdown, I realise how motherhood also plays a role in psychologically stabilising each individual. I have been trying to re-visit the essence of motherhood and identify the modification in a mother’s role in today’s times.” Similarly, A. Naveen Kumar, an inter-media artist living between Bengaluru and Palakkad, says his studio is a place where aesthetic practice is infused with personal beliefs, memories, identities and stories. His work Siege of Delhi was born during his many visits to the labyrinthine gallis (streets) of the Walled City of Delhi. “The studio space becomes a location where existential questions regarding self-identity and knowledge about the world is developed. I am now looking at how the studio table itself can become a work of art. Every single object in my studio started interacting with me,” he says. Once the lockdown opens, Sen will exhibit the work in a gallery in Delhi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/embracing-the-lockdown/article31294503.ece
09 April 2020||April 09 2020 00:00 IST,||Blowing in the wind||Every year, just when exam time was peaking and the school session coming to a close, I would see, along avenues, a leafless tree with vibrant clusters of red flowers. The child in me just reveled in their beauty, of the waxy, fallen leaves and bare ashen branches, and it was only much later, when my interest in nature was piqued that I started trying to identify trees in Delhi. At every nook and corner of the city, there lies a majestic tall dry deciduous tree popularly called the Semal (also called the silk cotton tree, the cotton tree, Bombax, Indian Kapok, Shembal). In February, the Semal bares most of its leaves and is filled with clusters of large red flowers with five petals on each of them. The tree has a silvery bark with the lower sections covered with conical prickles to perhaps deter animals from coming too close. It fashions compound leaves (a leaf consisting of several or many distinct leaflets joined to a single stem) with about five pointy leaflets (sometimes six or seven). Their fruits resemble woody capsules which ripen and split open in May, bursting open with the intense sun, to release silky fibres and seeds into the air, only to be propagated through wind pollination. These fibres, though beautiful, are not great for those who have asthma and other respiratory conditions. Semal is quite drought-hardy, and thrives in dry deciduous and moist areas, including the forests, across India, but not in arid zones. The silk cotton from fruits are often collected to stuff pillows and quilts and collecting rights from trees are often auctioned in Delhi. Semal is known for its ornamental value, but its bark and roots are sometimes used as a tonic and stimulant in traditional medicine practices. A gummy substance collected from the stem is said to be an aphrodisiac and also used to treat stomach disorders, says environmentalist Pradip Krishen, in his book Trees of Delhi . Ecologically, the tree plays an important role in attracting several creatures like birds, butterflies, bees, and spiders. The flowers are not only a hit amongst nectar-sipping creatures like the Purple Sunbird and bees, but also with frugivorous (fruit-eating) birds like the Coppersmith Barbet. The Indian Grey Hornbill sometimes uses the top branches of the tree as a perch to call out to mates. Since there are so many insects attracted to the flowers of the Semal, Crab Spiders camouflage themselves in the open petals, lying in wait to pounce on their unfortunate prey. In the early morning, a flock of Yellow-footed Green Pigeons may sit atop, to bask in the sun. These inter-dependencies make Nature what it is — a series of connections built over time. You can see the Semal in areas like Hauz Khas, Lodhi Road and several other parts of the city, sometimes dropping on cars and streets, covering them in a deep red mess. They face upwards, so they have a tendency of retaining rainwater fall with a heavy plop. These are the wonders of watching a tree unravel its magic. The writer is the founder of NINOX - Owl About Nature, a nature-awareness initiative. He is the Delhi-NCR reviewer for Ebird, a Cornell University initiative, monitoring rare sightings of birds. He formerly led a programme of WWF India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/blowing-in-the-wind/article31294499.ece
09 April 2020||April 09 2020 00:00 IST,||Married to the Mahatma||The world dealt with Gandhi the messiah; she dealt with the ordinariness. Married to an awkward teenager who grew up to be a successful barrister and a dhoti-clad demigod for the Indian masses yearning to breathe free, Kasturba, Mahatma Gandhi’s wife, spent most of her life in his shadow. While Gandhi has been the subject of numerous books and films and an inspiration to Martin Luther King and Nelson Mandela — Barack Obama even had the Mahatma’s portrait in his office when he first became Senator — not much emerges of Kasturba’s life. Yet Gandhi had said that but for her unfailing cooperation he might have been in the abyss. For nearly six decades, Kasturba played the good wife, the patriot and the suffering mother of her sons, whose own individuality was lost in the face of Gandhi’s persona. It is this Kasturba that B.M. Bhalla’s book (published by Roli Books) throws light on. The 85-year-old Delhi-based author says he has always been interested in Gandhi. “The more I read about him, the more I felt Kasturba’s story deserved to be told,” he says in a telephone interview. Bhalla brings to the book six years of research that includes ploughing through papers and an extensive bibliography. “It has been difficult to find material on Kasturba. I had even travelled to Ahmedabad, but there is little information on her,” he says. As a result, the 300-page book draws from multiple sources on Gandhi and is an amalgam of fact and fiction, the latter especially used when portraying Kasturba’s thoughts and emotions. “I recreated the past as a combination of imagination and the understanding of the historical forces that operated at that time. There were plenty of characters in the life of the Gandhis, but except for the stellar ones, not much is known of how the others contributed,” says Bhalla, who has had a distinguished career teaching at Delhi University, after education across India and America, with a focus on DH Lawrence, European drama and Indian literature. “Kasturba’s life should be read in terms of women’s struggle for emancipation, dignity and independence. Although not an independent woman herself as she was uneducated, confined to the ashram and with little opportunity to explore the world on her own, she reacted and took her own decisions when it came to the things that mattered, especially Gandhi’s close friendships with women like Millie Polak. Kasturba’s relationship with Gandhi was stormy from the beginning, but she took life’s knocks uncomplainingly, including the extreme sexual discourse in his life. She passionately drove him to the fruition of his dreams for India,” he says. The book traverses the linearity of Kasturba’s life, beginning with her birth into a Modh Bania family of means in Porbandar; marriage to Gandhi in 1883 that resulted in four sons; her schooling in the ways of the world by her mother-in-law Putli Bai; the death of her first born, a tragedy from which she never recovered; Gandhi’s change from a man of passion to one who manically suppressed all desires, a decision she accepted with grace; her private life in India and the one in South Africa and India in public gaze; her angst as the mother of the wayward Harilal. It concludes with her death at the Aga Khan Palace in Pune in 1944. Her youngest son Devdas described her ashes as “a literal handful of tiny motherly bones”. The language is lucid, as is expected from a translator of four languages — Bhalla is familiar with Urdu, Punjabi, Bengali and Hindi. His translation of Shiv Kumar Batalvi’s Luna won him the Sahitya Akademi Award Where the book scores is in its innate ability to tell the very private story of a very public woman who was, as Hermann Kallenbach, German architect and Gandhi’s friend, wrote in 1914, ‘...has both the devil and the divine in her in a most concentrated form’. DEEPA ALEXANDER||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/married-to-the-mahatma/article31294497.ece
09 April 2020||GURUGRAM,||Gurugram unit of U.S.-based firm sacks several employees||At least a hundred employees have been terminated by Fareportal, a New York-based global tech travel firm, in Gurugram amid the COVID-19 outbreak, without assigning any reason. The company laid off employees at its Pune firm as well. Many of those laid off had been working with the company for five to 10 years. Though there was no exact numbers, the sacked employees claimed that more than 800 people were laid off in total. The company’s Gurugram unit vice-president Vinay Kanchi disconnected the call when contacted by The Hindu to seek his reaction. He also did not respond to a text message also in this regard. ‘Illegal” termination The All India Central Council of Trade Unions has written to Haryana Chief Minister on the complaints received by them about the “illegal” termination of the employees in Fareportal. In its letter, the union said that it was a gross violation of all the laws, and dealt a heavy blow to the employees during the COVID-19 outbreak. Seeking necessary action, the letter further said that the governments had asked the employers to refrain from termination of employees and this act of the company further aggravated the chaotic situation. The union also wrote a similar letter to Maharashtra Chief Minister and the Minister of State (Independent Charge) Labour and Employment. Raju Prasad, a ticketing executive, working with the company for the past four years said that he and many of his colleagues received their termination letters through e-mail. Left in the lurch “In terms of the ‘termination’ clause of the Appointment Letter, company hereby, terminates your employment”, read the letter, without assigning any reason. He said that he was staying on rent in Delhi and had a family of three to support, including his ailing mother, and the sudden termination had left him in the lurch. “How will I pay rent for this month,” asked Mr. Prasad. He claimed that he was in contact with 134 colleagues, who had been sacked. “Many of those sacked had been working with the company for several years. A few of them were employed for more than 10 years,” said Mr. Prasad. He said that it was difficult for them to get a job in the current situation. He said the number of sacked employees in Gurugram alone could be around 500 and the same number of people were believed to have been sacked in Pune. Mr. Prasad said the management people did not respond to their repeated calls to ascertain the reason for sudden retrenchment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/gurugram-unit-of-us-based-firm-sacks-several-employees/article31294483.ece
09 April 2020||New Delhi,||20 areas sealed in Capital, 93 fresh COVID-19 cases reported||On Wednesday, 93 new COVID-19 cases were reported in Delhi, taking the total number of cases to 669, according to a daily health bulletin of the Delhi government. All of the 93 new COVID-19 positive cases are people from a centre run by Tablighi Jamaat in Nizamuddin, which was evacuated by the authorities. Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia on Wednesday said that the Delhi government has sealed 20 areas in the city and people will not be allowed to enter or exit these areas to control the spread of COVID-19 in the city. Residents will have to stay inside their houses in these areas and government will distribute essentials to people in these areas. “Total there are 20 areas in Delhi that have been sealed. People will not be allowed to enter or exit from these colonies, streets, or apartments,” Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia told the media. The areas, which have been termed as “containment zones” by the government, include “Markaz Masjid and Nizamuddin Basti”, Nizamuddin West (G and D Block), street near Gandhi Park in Malviya Nagar, Shahajahanabad society in Dwarka Sector 11, and J, K , L and H pockets of Dilshad Garden among other places. Delhi government on Wednesday also ordered to cordon off Bengali Market area near Mandi House after three people tested positive for COVID-19 in the area. “DCP, New Delhi District, to immediately cordon off the entire Bengali Market Area... to prevent the spread of COVID-19,” an order issued by Tanvi Garg, District Magistrate (New Delhi), on Wednesday read. The DM has also directed the DCP to take action against the owner of the Bengali Pasty Shop, where around 35 people were found in “highly unhygienic conditions”, compromising social distance measures. “Three people have been tested positive near Bengali Market — a man who runs a sweet shop at the market, his son and their domestic help. They have been shifted out of the area,” an official said. “Two workers with flu-like symptoms have been shifted to quarantine facilities. Rest of them [around 35] have been moved to night shelters,” the official said. “At a Moti Bagh slum, a person and his son have been tested positive. It has also been cordoned off,” the official added. A total of 426 people from the centre have tested positive for COVID-19 so far just in Delhi alone. No death was reported in the city due to the virus on Wednesday. Nine people have died due to COVID-19 in the city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/20-areas-sealed-in-capital-93-fresh-covid-19-cases-reported/article31294543.ece
09 April 2020||GURUGRAM,||Locals thrash workers, threaten them not to step out of rooms||Around two-dozen workers were beaten up by a gang of locals, armed with hockey sticks, in Aliyar village here on Wednesday at noon. They also threatened them not to venture out of their rooms. One of the workers, Krishna Kumar, sustained serious head injuries and was admitted to a hospital. The accused barged inside a 150-room chawl, mostly inhabited by workers employed in Maruti Suzuki, Honda Motorcycle and Scooter India Limited and Bellsonica Auto Components India Private Limited, and broke open the doors to beat them up. Barged into chawl Raj Kishor, an eye-witness, said that armed men barged into their chawl and openly threatened to beat them, thus panicking the workers who locked themselves up inside the rooms. “The accused kicked the doors and managed to break the doors to two rooms,” said Raj, a Bellsonica employee. Another worker, Neeraj, said the same men had allegedly thrashed a few workers and a vegetable vendor on Tuesday evening in the village and threatened to return again on Wednesday. “But we did not expect them to come to our chawl since we were a little away from the spot,” said Neeraj. He recollected that Krishna was having his meals when he was attacked. “They hit him on the head and there was blood all over [the place]. They got scared and fled,” said Neeraj, who works at Honda. Local patronage He claimed the locals, who enjoy the patronage of influential people in the village, had been threatening the workers, mostly migrants, to not to step out for even groceries and vegetables. It has become so routine that they are worried about their safety. “We request the administration to shift us to relief camps. We are not feeling safe here,” said Neeraj. Bellsonica employees association general-secretary Jasbir said that there were reports of similar incidents from many villages around Manesar Industrial Model Township. Deputy Commissioner of Police, Manesar, Deepak Saharan said a case was registered and a few people were rounded up.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/locals-thrash-workers-threaten-them-not-to-step-out-of-rooms/article31294481.ece
09 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||FIR registered against security guard for ‘spreading’ COVID-19||The Delhi Police has registered an FIR against a security guard of a house in South Delhi after three members of a family were tested positive for COVID-19, said a police officer on Wednesday. “The security guard was questioned and has been sent to quarantine. His medical reports are awaited,” said the officer. A senior police officer said that the three members of a family went to a hospital after they developed COVID-19 symptoms on April 3, and were tested positive. The reports of other family members are awaited. The family used to stay on the ground floor and the guard was the only outsider who used to visit the house to deliver grocery and other food items. Residents on other floors are fine. The police said that they received information that the family members were presently hospitalised. Not on duty The guard had not reported on duty after April 3, and after the complaint when the police reached his home he was found missing. He was later held from another house in the locality. After the family tested positive, they suspected the security guard because the entire family claimed that they were following lockdown guidelines seriously and no one stepped out, said a police officer. During investigation, when he was questioned over places he visit frequently, it is suspected that he had visited the Tablighi Jamaat centre in Nizamuddin. “We have registered an FIRThe accused used to stay in Okhla,” said the officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/fir-registered-against-security-guard-for-spreading-covid-19/article31294489.ece
09 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Press club staff cook, pack meals to stand by the needy||Cooks and service staff employed by the Press Club of India (PCI) who live in the vicinity of the club have decided to stand by the needy and feed the hungry during the ongoing lockdown imposed to contain the spread of COVID-19. The PCI management put together the logistics, the members contributed funds and the Delhi government stepped in to help distribute 600-700 meal per day. “Since March 30 we have packed and distributed over 600 meals everyday. Staff come in the morning and by lunch we have the meals packed and ready. A vehicle sent by the Delhi government comes to collect the packets. After we are done, civic body staff come and sanitise the entire area,” said Jitender Singh, Office Secretary of PCI. Mr. Singh added that after they took the initiative, press clubs in other parts of the country also took up same initiatives with contributions from journalists. Bhaskar, the cook heading the kitchen at the club, said that they have been cooking pulao, biryani or poori alu that is served with pickle and curd or a banana. “The food is very different from what we are used to cooking at the club but with limited rations, these are the items that we can cook on a large scale,” Mr. Bhaskar says. The club has been spending Rs. 12,000 a day to cook and pack the meals. “This is an initiative taken by our staff who have come forward to volunteer. So we are making it possible. We do not know when the lockdown will end and even after it does, if there will be restriction on gatherings. So we may not be able to hold press conferences and open the facilities of the club. These volunteers do not know what the future holds for them, but are coming forward to provide this service,” says Mr. Singh. Shyam and Manjeet, two other staff said that they have been maintaining social distancing and wearing gloves and masks while packing the food. “When we finish our work and the van from the Delhi government comes to pick up the food, we feel satisfied that someone who is hungry is getting a good meal,” they say.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/press-club-staff-cook-pack-meals-to-stand-by-the-needy/article31294548.ece
09 April 2020||New Delhi/Noida,||Residents flock to markets after video of strict lockdown surfaces||On Wednesday afternoon, after a video clip of Uttar Pradesh Chief Secretary R.K. Tiwari announcing that “affected areas” with “high load” of COVID-19 cases in 15 districts, including Noida and Ghaziabad, will be sealed till April 14 surfaced, several residents thronged the nearest markets. With no clear communication from bureaucrats in Lucknow, people came out in hordes in the two satellite cities of Delhi. Cars could be seen hurriedly backing out of their parking spaces in housing colonies as people rushed to petrol pumps, grocery and chemist shops, and departmental stores to stock up on essentials. ‘100% home delivery’ The Chief Secretary’s statement that mandis will not be allowed to open in the affected areas and officials would ensure “100% home delivery” added to the panic. By the time the authorities concerned took to social media to make appeals to residents not to engage in panic buying, queues were already formed. Deepak Laroiya, Omega-IV resident, said he got to know via WhatsApp that from Wednesday night there is going to be a “forced lockdown” and borders are going to be sealed. When asked if he was aware that the sealing order was only for specific areas, Mr. Laroiya said, “Nobody told us. There is a difference between what the government says and does.” At 4.19 p.m., Suhas L.Y., District Magistrate, Gautam BuddhNagar, tweeted: “Dear residents, no need for panic buying. Identified hotspots shall be sealed and home delivery of essential commodities and services shall be available at all places in the district. We shall take strict action against rumour mongerers/spreaders.” He shared the list of 22 hotspots in Noida and Greater Noida at 7.42 p.m. via Twitter. NOIDA Authority CEO Ritu Maheshwari, took to Twitter to state: “I request Noida residents not to panic or engage in panic buying during the strict implementation of lockdown in hotspots. All essential services shall be maintained as earlier including doorstep delivery of essentials.” By that time, however, the Alpha I commercial belt, which is among the list of 12 hotspots, was already teeming with shoppers lining up outside prominent grocery and departmental stores in the area. “I rushed here as soon as I heard the term hotspot,” said Sahil Gupta, a local. “Entry of outsiders to our area was the first to be restricted because there was apparently someone who was found COVID-19 positive. I don’t know whether that’s true. I am m sure it will be designated one of the hotspots,” he said. He was proved right a few hours later.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/residents-flock-to-markets-after-video-of-strict-lockdown-surfaces/article31294553.ece
09 April 2020||New Delhi,||Dormitories, hostels and shared bathrooms for nurses on COVID-19 duty||When Laila*, a nurse and mother of three children, started working at a COVID-19 ward of the LNJP Hospital in mid-March, she used to carry a bag with a few clothes and toiletries in the hope that the hospital would provide accommodation. It turned out to be a false hope. Naturally, she was disappointed. “I used to return home after work with the bag. I would go to the bathroom straight and wash my clothes in hot water so that my husband and children would be safe. Of course, we were scared for our families,” said the woman in her fifties, who has been working as a nurse at the LNJP hospital for the past two decades. The nurse, who lives in Mayur Vihar stated that other nurses too used to carry bags in the beginning and after repeated requests, the hospital gave them rooms about 10 days later. By March 26, the government gave them accommodation in a hostel on the hospital premises, which was shut. “Two people stay in a room. But around six have to share the bathroom,” she said. Home quarantine After her 14-day work period got over (Delhi has a 14-day work and 14-day quarantine plan for health workers and medical professionals who are on Coronavirus duty) she has quarantined herself at her house, due to ‘lack’ of facilities at the government facility. “My quarantine started on April 2 and for three-four days I stayed at the hostel. But on our floor, there are other nurses who are still working in COVID wards and we even have to share bathrooms with them. We go back after our shifts and sometimes wait for an hour to get the bathroom as everyone’s shift gets over at the same time and each one will be washing their clothes,” narrated Laila, who felt home was better. Even as the nurses are struggling, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal announced on March 30 that the government had arranged 100 individual rooms in The Lalit, a five-star hotel, for the doctors who are treating in COVID-19 wards. “We do not want any five-star rooms. We just need a proper room with an attached bathroom so that there is no exposure to the virus,” she said. All the same, she said that the hostel was better than the dormitories provided to the nurses, where a large “number of people” have to share the bathroom. “The government should treat everyone — doctors, nurses, nursing assistants and sanitation staff — at the same level if they want to fight the virus. The exposure is more for sanitation staff as they clean these spaces. They are less educated than us and the government should provide proper quarantine facilities for them too,” she said. The nurses’ association has been sending emails to the Chief Minister and Union Health Minister almost every day, but they are yet to act, she informed.  (*name changed to protect identity)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/dormitories-hostels-and-shared-bathrooms-for-nurses-on-covid-19-duty/article31294551.ece
09 April 2020||Ghaziabad,||People resort to panic buying in Ghaziabad||‘What if...’ was the catchphrase as people in Ghaziabad thronged streets for panic buying of essential items on Wednesday evening after the State government announced the sealing of 13 hotspots in Ghaziabad and 12 clusters in neighbouring Gautam Buddha Nagar. Though district magistrates of both the districts almost instantly clarified through video messages on Whatsapp groups that the entire districts were not being put under curfew and that only certain hotspots where COVID-19 cases have been reported would be sealed, a little delay in specifying the hotspots led people to speculate. Ghaziabad has registered 23 cases of COVID-19 so far. “What if the entire Vasundhara is put under curfew,” exclaimed Rajneesh Kumar while queuing up in front of a grocery store in Sector 9. On being reminded that no case has been found in the sector, Manish Mishra chipped in and said: “What if the place from where the grocery store gets its supply is sealed?” At the Sahibabad Mandi, Secretary Vishvendra Singh had a tough time controlling the crowd. “It is hard to convince the senior citizens,” said Mr. Singh. “I have been shouting for an hour that the mandi would open on usual time on Thursday and that retailer shops would remain open in colonies, but people are not listening.” Ultimately, he had to call the police as scores of cars were blocking the streets. It made things difficult for the vendors returning to the mandi as the constables were in no mood to pick and choose. Mr. Kumar said nobody was allowed to buy a couple of kilos of vegetables (retail shopping) from the wholesale market during the lockdown and that the process would continue. “There is no drop in supply and there is no need for panic buying,” he said. However, anxious buyers outside kept coming up with excuses. “What if the retailer in our colony comes from an area that is sealed?” asked one. Gaurav Jain, a software engineer who was standing in a queue in front of Sharma Medicos in Vasundhara said people had come to terms with lockdown, but this new order had forced them to come out. “I guess electronic news media is to blame. The news that they circulated created panic. You can’t blame the customer. My wife suffers from allergy in hands. She uses gloves while cooking. If the channel shows that the area could be sealed for a week, I will have to come out,” he countered. Senior Superintendent of Police (Ghaziabad) Kalanidhi Naithani said, “Ghaziabad has not been put under curfew. Only those areas where COVID-19 cases have been reported would be put under stringent lockdown. This is a containment exercise. In the areas, essential items would be provided by the district administration.” In Gautam Buddha Nagar where two more cases were reported on Wednesday, the district administration released a detailed list of 22 localities, including 12 clusters and 10 epicentres. “It is better to be safe than sorry. We will ensure that minimum discomfort is caused to people living in these localities,” said Suhas L.Y., District Magistrate, Gautam Buddha Nagar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/people-resort-to-panic-buying-in-ghaziabad/article31294555.ece
09 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Firm recalls termination letter of 13 employees||A day after the All India Central Council of Trade Unions sought government intervention over alleged termination of 50 employees by Capital Trust Ltd., as many as 13 of the employees have reportedly received e-mails from the company stating that the retrenchment letter “was recalled”. Some of the employees, who were among the ones to be handed out the termination letter on March 29, said that on Wednesday they got mails from the company stating that the former letter was sent “under business as usual environment”. “We would like to inform you that under the present circumstances, the letter stands withdrawn,” read the e-mail. The AICCTU had written to the Delhi government terming the alleged termination during the COVID-19 pandemic as “gross violation in law”. In response to The Hindu’s query, the company had on Tuesday said that some of the employees were issued a letter “under routine performance reviews”. However, Devendra Singh, one of the employees who was initially laid off and then given the “recall letter” said, “The company was trying to say that non-performers were laid off. But there was no kind of intimation from their side regarding this. It had just been a month that I was rehired in the company. There are several others who have still not received the recall notice yet.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/firm-recalls-termination-letter-of-13-employees/article31294491.ece
09 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Circular issued against Tablighi Jamaat leader||Tablighi Jamaat leader Maulana Saad Kandhalvi, who has been on the run after an FIR was registered against him for organising a religious congregation, has been traced in Zakir Nagar in southeast Delhi, sources said on Wednesday. Named in FIR Meanwhile, the Delhi Police have issued a Look Out Circular (LOC) against head of Tablighi Centre Maulana Saad and six others who were named in the FIR for violating lockdown orders and organising a religious gathering at Nizamuddin. His lawyer Tauseef Khan said Saad is under self-quarantine and the cleric will join investigation after his quarantine period is over. On March 31, Delhi Police’s Crime Branch lodged an FIR against seven people, including the cleric, on a complaint by station house officer Nizamuddin for holding a religious congregation here allegedly in violation of the lockdown orders and not maintaining social distancing to contain the spread of the virus. A day later, the Delhi Police’s Crime Branch wrote to Saad and others, seeking the details under Section 91 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. A second notice was also issued to him this week. In an audio message last week, Saad said he was exercising self-quarantine after tested positive for COVID-19. Visited by thousands last month, the Tablighi Jamaat’s Nizamudddin centre also turned out to be a hotspot for spread of COVID-19 in the country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/circular-issued-against-tablighi-jamaat-leader/article31294490.ece
09 April 2020||New Delhi,||Face masks compulsory while stepping out||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday said that people stepping out of their houses will have to compulsorily wear a face mask. “Wearing of facial masks can reduce the spread of coronavirus substantially. Therefore, it has been decided that facial masks will be compulsory for anyone stepping out of their house. Cloth mask shall be eligible too [sic.],” Mr. Kejriwal said in a tweet. Only salaries “All government departments have been instructed to stop all expenses except salary. Any expenditure other than corona and lockdown expenses will be done only with the permission of the Finance Department. Given the current state of revenue [collection], the government will have to cut its expenses drastically [sic.],” the CM tweeted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/face-masks-compulsory-while-stepping-out/article31294541.ece
09 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||DMC issues notice to police chief over 2 videos||The Delhi Minorities Commission has sent two notices to the Police Commissioner regarding two videos in which Muslim youth are being targeted. The first notice is regarding a video shot in Shastri Nagar on April 5, in which a group of people are seen holding a meeting on the street in violation of the COVID-19 restrictions and are planning to stop Muslims from entering their colony and asking people in other colonies to do the same. The second video it says has been circulating on social media since April 6 where a Muslim youth is being beaten by some people in a rural setting. The commission said its investigation has established that the incident pertains to a village named Harewali under PS Bawana Industrial Area where a person was not allowed to enter his village after attending a Tablighi conference in Bhopal. The DMC has sought a report from the commissioner within a week on the matters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/dmc-issues-notice-to-police-chief-over-2-videos/article31294486.ece
09 April 2020||New Delhi,||CM takes stock of situation||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal held a video-conference on Wednesday to address the situation during the lockdown and efforts to deal with the pandemic. Five Lok Sabha MPs — BJP’s Manoj Tiwari, Gautam Gambhir, Meenakshi Lekhi, Ramesh Bidhur and Parvesh Verma — and three Rajya Sabha MPs — Sanjay Singh, N.D, Gupta and Sushil Gupta — from Delhi were present at the videoconferencing meet. The CM explained to the MPs the work done by the Delhi government to fight Coronavirus. Suggestions from the MPs were also sought to fight the virus, sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/cm-takes-stock-of-situation/article31294549.ece
09 April 2020||New Delhi,||30 doctors, nurses at AIIMS advised quarantine||Around 30 healthcare workers, including doctors, nurses and technicians at AIIMS here have been advised to undergo quarantine after a 72-year-old man who visited the facility with neurological problem tested positive for COVID-19, sources said on Wednesday. The patient had reported to the emergency with brain stroke symptoms around two days back and was immediately shifted to the Neurology ward N-S5 for evaluation and treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/30-doctors-nurses-at-aiims-advised-quarantine/article31294556.ece
09 April 2020||NUH,||Nuh MLA offers party office for virus treatment||Haryana Congress Legislative Party deputy leader and Nuh MLA Aftab Ahmed has offered his residence, also party’s district office, for the treatment of COVID-19 patients. In a letter to Nuh Deputy Commissioner, Mr. Ahmed on Wednesday offered the party’s office to be used in the fight against COVID-19. This is the first such offer made in the State and was indicative of the constructive politics. Mr. Ahmed said prevention was the only cure for COVID-19. Nuh has 38 active COVID-19 patients, highest in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/nuh-mla-offers-party-office-for-virus-treatment/article31294484.ece
09 April 2020||New Delhi,||Traders’ body calls for lockdown extension||The Confederation of All India Traders (CAIT) on Wednesday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, calling for an extension of the lockdown till April 30, in view of “current troubled time of COVID-19”, it said in a statement. The union said that it had made the appeal following a survey of trade leaders across the country, in order to negate prospects of the further spread of virus. While small and medium-scale traders were being severely hit by the lockdown, the union said that they stood by the government in whatever decision it would take. The union has, however, written to the Finance Minister asking for a relief package.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/traders-body-calls-for-lockdown-extension/article31294487.ece
09 April 2020||April 09 2020 00:00 IST,||Prenatal yoga||Motherhood Hospital has launched online Lamaze , childbirth preparation classes for expecting mothers, and also prenatal yoga classes to fight anxiety and stress during the lockdown. Conducted by physiotherapist Shilpi Srivastava, an hour-long class will have basic yoga asanas suitable for pregnancy and like pranayama, breathing exercises. Venue:Motherhoodindia.com/noida Time:Tues, Thurs, Sat; 11 a.m. - 12 noon||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/prenatal-yoga/article31294505.ece
09 April 2020||April 09 2020 00:00 IST,||wine and spirit||Food consulting company All Things Nice has started conducting Wine & Spirits Online Masterclasses with sommelier Nikhil Agarwal. These are one-on-one or small group online classes conducted for an hour which can be tailormade as per your preference. The topics include the fundamentals of Scotch, Whisky, food, cheese and wine pairing. Venue:Call 98206 98883 Time:10 a.m. - 7 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/wine-and-spirit/article31294507.ece
09 April 2020||April 09 2020 00:00 IST,||Theatre||Theatre artistes, musicians, and other performers are all going online to perform live via online streaming websites. Music, storytelling, poetry, and monologues can all be enjoyed. Today’s programme features two events. The first, pop, rock and retro English songs played by Suchitra Pillai; the second is acoustic, indie and rock music by Suhaas Ahuja. Venue:In.bookmyshow.com Time:7 p.m. and 7:30 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/theatre/article31294509.ece
09 April 2020||April 09 2020 00:00 IST,||Digital conversation||HarperCollins India, in association with Algebra Club, presents #Reset, a live conversation every Wednesday morning with speakers from the publisher’s celebrated roster of authors across fields. On this digital interaction, a speaker or a panel of speakers will take the virtual stage on Zoom to address concerns which are both contemporary and timeless. Venue:Harpercollins.co.in Time:11:30 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/digital-conversation/article31294511.ece
09 April 2020||April 09 2020 00:00 IST,||Restorative Yoga||Delhi-based Om Yoga Shala is conducting live online Restorative Yin Yoga classes through Zoom. Conducted by Shikha Sud, the session will focus on releasing anxiety, tension, and stagnation by stimulating the body’s lymphatic system, using poses supported by props easily available at home. Registration and online payment is required to join this session. Venue:Call 9717085369 for the Zoom link Time:6:30 p.m. - 7:30 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/restorative-yoga/article31294513.ece
09 April 2020||New Delhi,||Delhi Sikh body offers 2 hospital buildings for treatment of coronavirus patients||The Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC) on Wednesday offered the city government a 50-bedded hospital and an unfurnished 500-bedded hospital building for treatment of Coronavirus patients. “We have no inhibition to offer you the hospitals,” said DSGMC president Manjinder Singh Sirsa in a letter to the CM.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/delhi-sikh-body-offers-2-hospital-buildings-for-treatment-of-coronavirus-patients/article31294544.ece
09 April 2020||New Delhi,||Man booked for spitting, misbehaving with medical team at quarantine centre in west Delhi’s Mundka||A case has been registered against a man, kept at Bakkarwala quarantine centre in west Delhi’s Mundka for suspected COVID-19 infection, for allegedly spitting and misbehaving with the medical team, police said on Wednesday. “On the complaint of SDM, Punjabi Bagh, a case was registered against the man at Mundka police station on Sunday,” a senior police officer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/man-booked-for-spitting-misbehaving-with-medical-team-at-quarantine-centre-in-west-delhis-mundka/article31294545.ece
09 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||saurabh - brf||A constable deployed at the Foreigner Regional Registration Office (FRRO) of the IGI Airport tested positive for COVID-19, said a senior officer on Wednesday. After the flight operation was suspended, the staffer was sent on home quarantine. On Sunday, he developed COVID-19 symptoms and got himself tested at a government hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/saurabh-brf/article31294557.ece
