20 April 2020||New Delhi,||E-commerce firms can’t supply non-essential goods, says govt.||The Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) on Sunday clarified that supply of non-essential goods by e-commerce companies will remain prohibited during the lockdown. The Ministry also issued guidelines for the movement of migrant labourers living in relief camps to their workplace, within the boundaries of a State, in areas where the lockdown will be relaxed from April 20. The Ministry asserted that there will be no inter-State movement of labourers. They will be registered, screened and those who are asymptomatic would be transported to their places of work by ensuring social distancing measures. The relaxations will not apply to hotspots or containment zones, and public transport will remain prohibited till May 3. On April 15, the MHA had revised its guidelines issued under the Disaster Management Act, 2005, to allow the States to decide on the additional public activities to be allowed from April 20 in non-hotspot zones. It said the additional facilities would have to be based on strict compliance with the existing guidelines on lockdown measures. As per the April 15 order, “e-commerce companies” and vehicles used by their operators had been allowed but it was not specified if it was applicable to items others than essentials. On Sunday, the MHA wrote to the States to exclude the e-commerce category from the revised guidelines. In another letter, Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla clarified that e-commerce firms would continue to operate for home delivery of essential goods, as earlier. Commerce and Railway Minister Piyush Goyal tweeted that he was grateful to Prime Minister Narendra Modi for the clarification that “e-commerce companies can only supply essential goods during the lockdown”. “This will create a level playing field for small retailers,” he added. The Confederation of All India Traders issued a statement claiming credit for the exclusion of e-commerce companies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/e-commerce-firms-cant-supply-non-essential-goods-says-govt/article31384658.ece
20 April 2020||HYDERABAD,||Lockdown to continue in Telangana till May 7||The Telangana government on Sunday extended the lockdown in the State to fight Coronavirus till May 7 as against the Centre’s decision to have it up to May 3. Also, going against the Centre’s relaxation of certain conditions of lockdown from April 20, the State government ruled out any such concessions here. The guidelines issued by the State government when the lockdown was initially imposed till April 30 will continue. Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao told a post-Cabinet press conference that the State government drew its powers to override the Centre’s decision from the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897. The powers of Centre and State were co-terminus as per the Act, he said and reminded that the Centre had also permitted the State governments to lay down their own norms if they felt stricter measures were required to contain the virus. He said the decision not to relax the lockdown was taken in a bid to check the spread of the virus after localising it. Airports closed He asked the air passengers not to book tickets to Hyderabad till May 7 as the airport will be closed. The airport authorities will be informed of the decision of the Cabinet. The Cabinet also decided to ban the online food delivery apps — Swiggy and Zomato — from Monday as non-home food was not found safe in this period. It was found that 69 % of people who consumed pizza tested positive for COVID-19 in New Delhi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/lockdown-to-continue-in-telangana-till-may-7/article31384936.ece
20 April 2020||BENGALURU,||Liquor outlets in Karnataka to be closed till May 3||Ending speculation over the opening of liquor outlets in the State, the Excise Department on Sunday notified a further closure of such outlets till May 3, even as the State government extended the current lockdown norms till the midnight of April 21. A separate order pertaining to relaxations to start limited economic activity, by maintaining social distance, will be issued before April 21 midnight. Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa last week said that the decision to open State-run MSIL liquor outlets will be taken soon after the Centre issues guidelines. Sunday’s order, by Excise Commissioner V. Yeshwanth, quotes the consolidated revised guidelines, issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs on April 15, to continue the closure of liquor outlets in the State from the early hours of April 21 to the midnight of May 3. Similarly, along with these outlets, those distilleries not producing alcohol-based sanitisers will remain closed till May 3. Though the public transport system will remain suspended till May 3, as part of the consolidated revised guidelines, the State-run BMTC on Sunday announced the rates for its fleet of buses that can be hired by those units that have been allowed to operate post April 20. The BMTC has offered its buses on contract for government departments, agencies, private factories and IT industries, among others that have been allowed to operate with strict social distancing norms. The BMTC said that each bus will carry only 30 to 40% of the seating capacity to maintain social distancing. Labour Minister A. Shivaram Hebbar, who visited several construction sites in Bengaluru, also announced that the State government would not allow a reduction in the salaries of workers. Meanwhile, Chief Secretary T.M. Vijay Bhaskar issued an order, under the Disaster Management Act, extending the lockdown till April 21 midnight. A statement from the Chief Minister’s Office sad that the present lockdown measures will continue up to April 21 midnight. “No new relaxations will be given till then. Before the midnight of April 21 order regarding new relaxations will be issued,” it said.  Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa last week said that the decision to open MSIL liquor outlets will be taken soon after Central guidelines||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/liquor-outlets-in-karnataka-to-be-closed-till-may-3/article31384704.ece
20 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||One more dead, 44 new cases emerge in State||In line with the increase in the number of samples being tested, more fresh cases of COVID-19 are emerging in the State by the day. In the past 24 hours, 44 new cases and one death was reported in six districts as a result of testing of 5,508 samples, the highest in a day, according to the health department bulletin on Sunday. The tally has gone up to 647 and toll reached 17. Kurnool , one of the most affected districts, has reported 26 new cases and one death. Krishna and East Godavari districts reported five new cases each while Guntur reported four new cases and Anantapur three new cases. Visakhapatnam reported one new case 13 days after it reported the 20th case. There are only five active cases in the city while 16 persons recovered and got discharged. On the other hand, the number of patients being discharged is going up by the day. 23 discharged Twenty-three patients – nine in W.G., six in Kadapa, three in Chittoor, three in Visakhapatnam and two in E.G. – have recovered and have been discharged during the past 24 hours. So far 65 patients have recovered and 17 patients succumbed to the disease. Currently there are 565 active cases. So far Kurnool reported 158 cases, followed by Guntur (129), Krishna (75), Nellore (67), Prakasam (44) and Kadapa (37).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/one-more-dead-44-new-cases-emerge-in-state/article31384651.ece
20 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||Spurt in cases puts officials on their toes||Police Commissioner Ch. Dwaraka Tirumala Rao on Sunday appealed to the people not to come out of their houses in the areas designated as red zones and cooperate with the police in preventing the spread of COVID-19. Mr. Tirumala Rao, along with additional Police Commissioner B. Srinivasulu, COVID-19 in-charge IG K. Satyanarayana, and Deputy Commissioners of Police Vikranth Patil and D. Koteswara Rao visited the Kummaripalem Centre in the city on Sunday and reviewed the situation in the red zone. “We are making announcements through the public address system with focus on the red and containment zones. Many people are seen moving around several times in the restricted zones. Stern action will be initiated against them if they continue to ignore our warnings being issued in their own interests,” Mr. Tirumala Rao said. 64 cases, six red zones Addressing the media, he said there were 64 positive cases in the Commissionerate limits. Six red zones were created in the Vidyadharapuram, Old Rajarajeswari Peta, Ranigarithota, Khuddus Nagar, Payakapuram and Sanathnagar areas. “The police are making efforts to prevent the spread of COVID-19 in the Two Town, Bhavanipuram, Krishnalanka, Satyanarayanapuram, Nunna and Penamaluru police stations limits. We are also monitoring the situation through drones,” said Mr. Tirumala Rao. Later, the police officers launched six special motorcycles and mobile vehicles and distributed personal protection equipment (PPE) to those discharging their duties in the red zones. Policemen too would wear the PPEs and move about on the motorcycles to enforce lockdown, the Police Commissioner said. Meanwhile, the police seized 411 two-wheelers and 25 autorickshaws during the day for violating the lockdown norms. As part of their efforts to check the spread of COVID-19, the municipal staff were sanitising the red zones regularly, besides appealing to the residents to maintain hygiene and social distancing. Arrangements were being made to distribute essential commodities, including vegetables, at the doorstep of the people residing in the red zones, the officials said. People were asked to wear masks and maintain social distancing at public places and at fair price shops.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/spurt-in-cases-puts-officials-on-their-toes/article31384654.ece
20 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Confusion over mismatch in Health Ministry, ICMR figures||A day ahead of a possible relaxation in lockdown curbs, confusion reigned on the actual number of COVID-19 cases in the country registered on Saturday. The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), which coordinates testing and is the central node of data regarding the daily infections, reported that 16,365 individuals had been confirmed positive. Of these 2,154 were confirmed on Saturday alone — the first time the daily case load breached the 2,000 mark. However, the Health Ministry, the point-Ministry for all information regarding COVID-19, reported only 14,792 cases and 957 new cases. On Sunday, the ICMR reported that 17,615 individuals have been confirmed positive. However, the Ministry, which updates figures twice daily, continued to report the lagged figures. At the daily afternoon briefing, Joint Secretary in the Health Ministry Lav Agarwal updated this to 15,712. By Sunday evening, this had crept up to 16,115 but still fell short of the ICMR’s Saturday numbers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/confusion-over-mismatch-in-health-ministry-icmr-figures/article31384661.ece
20 April 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,||Spare monkeys the virus, say biologists||Feeding monkeys during the COVID-19 pandemic could have profoundly negative effects in the long-term, such as helping the SARS-CoV-2 virus mutate and infect primates, biologists have said in a note, advising caution. Honnavalli M. Kumara, principal scientist at the Salim Ali Center for Ornithology and Natural History (SACON), said it was well documented that viruses and endoparasites could transmit between humans and primates. “The worst-case scenario is that SARS-CoV-2 mutates and infects other primate species. This could lead to many scenarios, such as the virus affecting the health of the affected animal populations or the animals serving as reservoirs or hosts and spreading the disease to other species or human populations,” another senior wildlife biologist from Tamil Nadu said. “It is a matter of common sense to limit interaction between humans and wildlife, especially primates,” he added. Feeding primates should be discouraged regardless of the pandemic, in order to prevent not just the spread of diseases but also to minimise problematic human-primate interaction. Ashni Dhawale, a researcher at the National Institute of Advanced Studies at Indian Institute of Science, Bengaluru, who is studying ecology and behaviour of the endangered lion-tailed macaque, said primates and humans share a complex relationship. A ‘provocation’ Monkey troops accustomed to being fed by people could view denial of food as a “provocation,” leading to hostile interactions. “Monkeys start associating humans with food, and when food is denied, can attack them,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/spare-monkeys-the-virus-say-biologists/article31384665.ece
20 April 2020||CHENNAI,||One death, 105 new cases in T.N.||A surgeon died and as many as 105 persons tested positive on Sunday, taking the total number of positive cases to 1,477 and the number of deaths in Tamil Nadu to 16. The neurosurgeon was admitted to a private hospital. His daughter, who was also admitted to the hospital, is stable. A cluster of 50 persons from Chennai tested positive for the COVID-19 infection. Of this, 10 were from primary sources, or people who had tested positive already, and 40 others were those who had been in contact with them. In Chengalpattu, three persons, all of whom had come into contact with positive persons, were diagnosed positive. Five from Coimbatore, and six from Cuddalore, contacts of positive persons, tested positive. Ten persons in Thanjavur, who had contact with positive persons, tested positive as did five from Tiruvarur. In Tirunelveli, two persons, who were in contact with positive persons, tested positive. In Dindigul, five persons, who had come into contact with positive patients, contracted the infection. In Kancheepuram, one person tested positive. Two from Madurai, three from Nagapattinam and four from Tenkasi, all of whom had come into contact with those who had tested positive, were infected. On Sunday, 5,840 samples were taken, taking the total samples to 40,876. Of these, 31,853 samples tested negative. Results awaited The testing of 2,411 samples is under process and 5,135 are repeat samples, health officials said. Of the 2,10,538 passengers, who were screened at various airports in the State, 1,04,936 were under home quarantine as of Saturday. Officials said 85,253 passengers had completed the 28-day follow-up.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/one-death-105-new-cases-in-tn/article31384791.ece
20 April 2020||Ghaziabad,||Meerut hospital’s ad kicks up a row||A private cancer hospital in Meerut has kicked up a controversy by issuing an advertisement in a Hindi daily, appealing to “Muslim patients” to come to the hospital only after getting themselves and the attendants tested for COVID-19. It said the rule will remain in practice till the pandemic subsides. In the 11-point circular, Valentis Cancer Hospital, which promotes itself as the only cancer speciality hospital in western U.P., held the religious congregation in Delhi responsible for the spread of the virus in the country. It also chastised a section of the community for misbehaving with health professionals. The quarter-page advertisement in Dainik Jagran , dated April 17, further said in case of emergency, the hospital will send the samples of the patient and the attendant for testing and will charge Rs. 4,500 each. The circular went on to say that the rule would not apply to Muslim doctors, paramedical staff, judges, police officers, Shia Muslims s and those Muslims who do not live in congested areas.  Clarification issued A day later, the hospital issued a clarification in the same paper, regretting if the circular had hurt the feelings of any community. People said the regret was directed towards the Hindu and Jain communities as one of the points in the advertisement described them as “miserly” and appealed to them to contribute to the PM Cares Fund. Haris Mehmood, who runs Saif Herbal Clinic in Meerut, said the discrimination was already happening. “Some doctors are looking at the name before treating a patient. It’s just that in this case, the doctor has openly talked about it,” he said. Chief Medical Officer Raj Kumar told The Hindu that he has issued a notice to the hospital. “The notice says that in a secular country such kind of discrimination cannot be accepted. If the hospital doesn’t give a credible response, further action could be initiated against it.” Senior Superintendent of Police Ajay Sahni said an FIR has been registered under Sections 188, 295-A and 503 (3) of the IPC against Ajay Jain, the proprietor of the hospital, for hurting the sentiments of a community. Dr. Jain did not to respond despite repeated attempts. “Please call me, later,” was his response through the evening.  A notice has been sent stating that in a secular country such discrimination cannot be accepted Dr. Raj Kumar Chief Medical Officer||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/meerut-hospitals-ad-kicks-up-a-row/article31384888.ece
20 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||State to ease lockdown from today||The State will gradually ease COVID-19 lockdown restrictions in at least seven of its 14 districts from Monday. Idukki and Kottayam, which are in the epidemic green zone, can expect a return to normality in some measure. However, the ban on inter-district travel will endure. Bars, shopping malls, cinema theatres, temples, places of worship, wedding halls, educational institutions, clubs, parks, gymnasiums, stadiums, and swimming pools will remain closed. The possibility that undetected asymptomatic carriers might cause new flare-ups in relatively safe zones had necessitated the continuance of the restrictions on inter-district and inter-State travel. Government offices will start functioning from April 21 with one-third staff. The district administrations in the green zone have imposed strict capacity limits on restaurants to ensure social distancing norms. Social life will take more time to return, if at all, to pre-COVID-19 levels. Odd, even numbers Vehicles with registration plates ending in odd numbers can take to the roads on Monday, Wednesday and Friday, and even numbers on Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday. The government has exempted vehicles used by those working in essential services from the limitation. The relaxed lockdown statutes are a little different but a tad stricter in districts classified as Orange (B) zone. They are Alappuzha, Thiruvananthapuram, Palakkad, Wayanad, and Thrissur. Masks in public places The police will insist on wearing masks in public places. Not more than five people will be allowed to gather in public places. However, hotels and retail business can open as usual but should close by 7 p.m. Public transport buses, autorickshaws and taxis will remain off the road. Pathanamthitta, Ernakulam, and Kollam, which fall in Orange (A) zone, will ease lockdown restrictions on April 24. However, the curfew will continue in high-risk Red zone districts of Kasaragod, Kannur, Kozhikode and Malappuram districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-to-ease-lockdown-from-today/article31384994.ece
20 April 2020||MUMBAI,||Pharma units still not able to operate freely||A week after the Department of Pharmaceuticals warned of an impending shortage of drugs if pharmaceutical units are not able to operate freely during the lockdown, there has only been a marginal improvement in their functioning, with employee movement, transport and raw material supplies still hampered, and courier services remaining non-functional. Most domestic pharmaceutical producers are operating at 30%-50% of capacity, while larger research-driven players say they have hit 40%-50%. On April 11, the Department of Pharmaceuticals told the Home Ministry that the industry was operating at just 20%-30% of capacity and called for immediate measures to bring the output back to the pre-lockdown level. The Department is co-ordinating with the Ministry of Civil Aviation to bring in raw materials, finished drugs and vaccines on special flights operated by Air India. The Department of Posts and the Railways have offered pharma producers their services to help reach products to the hinterland. “Manpower availability has improved a little, but people who have left the cities and gone back are hard to replace. Materials movement hasn’t improved much and packaging also remains difficult to procure,” said Daara Patel, secretary-general of the Indian Drug Manufacturers’ Association, which represents over 1,000 large, small and medium companies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/pharma-units-still-not-able-to-operate-freely/article31384659.ece
20 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||PM-CARES donations cut from govt. staff salaries||Employees from a number of government departments and agencies have donated a day’s salary toward the PM-CARES fund. While the donations, meant for COVID-19 relief, were said to be “voluntary”, government circulars show that the deductions were made directly from salaries. Those unwilling to donate were asked to submit their refusal in writing. Revenue Dept. notice On Friday, the Revenue Department in the Finance Ministry sent a circular to all officials, including those on the boards for direct and indirect tax. “It has been decided to appeal to all officers and staff to contribute their one day’s salary every month till March 2021 to the Prime Minister's Citizen Assistance and Relief in Emergency Situation (PM-CARES) Fund to aid the Government’s efforts to fight the coronavirus pandemic,” the circular read. ‘Objections in writing’ “Any officer or staff having objection to it [the donation] may intimate Drawing and Disbursing Officer (DDO) in writing mentioning his/her employee code latest by 20.04.2020,” the circular added. The communication come as a surprise to the officers and staff of the department as, they say, typically requests for such contributions come through the employees’ association. Further, employees were never asked to give it in writing if they did not want to donate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/pm-cares-donations-cut-from-govt-staff-salaries/article31384662.ece
20 April 2020||April 20 2020 00:00 IST,||Trainspotting||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/trainspotting/article31384702.ece
20 April 2020||April 20 2020 00:00 IST,||Goa is now COVID free||Goa on Sunday became the first zero COVID-19 State in the country with the last seven positive cases also turning negative. This makes Goa the first green State in the country with no case of coronavirus being reported since April 3. The State had a total of seven cases, of whom six had travel history and one was the brother of a positive patient.page 9||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/goa-is-now-covid-free/article31384644.ece
20 April 2020||April 20 2020 00:00 IST,||Centre stops flight bookings||The government on Sunday directed airlines to discontinue advance bookings for travel from May 4. “No decision to commence the operation of domestic/international flights with effect from May 4 has been taken yet. All airlines are hereby directed to refrain from booking tickets,” the Civil Aviation Ministry told domestic and foreign airlines.Page 10||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/centre-stops-flight-bookings/article31384645.ece
20 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Community tests spot 186 cases in Delhi’||A spike in the number of asymptomatic COVID-19 cases detected in the capital is due to the community sampling exercise being conducted in Delhi’s 77 containment zones, a State government official said on Sunday. Earlier in the day, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said all 186 patients who tested positive on Sunday were asymptomatic. He said of the 736 test results that came in on Saturday, 186 patients who tested positive showed no symptoms. This, he pointed out, was 25% of the total results that came in on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/community-tests-spot-186-cases-in-delhi/article31384655.ece
20 April 2020||April 20 2020 00:00 IST,||5 of family test positive||Five persons of a family tested positive for COVID-19 after another member of the family, a 28-year-old woman, was declared positive for the virus in East Godavari district on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/5-of-family-test-positive/article31384650.ece
20 April 2020||Coimbatore,||COVID-19: 10-day-old baby tests positive||Five persons, including a newborn, tested positive for COVID-19 in Coimbatore on Sunday. Of the five, three including a 10-day-old baby were from Pollachi while two other cases were from Sirumugai. Swab samples were collected from nearly 40 people in Pollachi and more than 20 persons from Sirumugai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/covid-19-10-day-old-baby-tests-positive/article31384833.ece
20 April 2020||Chennai,||Modi assures CM of supply of testing kits||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday assured Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami that an adequate quantity of rapid test kits will be allotted to Tamil Nadu. A press release stated that Mr. Modi spoke to Mr. Palaniswami over the phone.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/modi-assures-cm-of-supply-of-testing-kits/article31384835.ece
20 April 2020||MADURAI,||15 meat, fish stalls sealed||Fifteen meat and fish stalls were sealed in Madurai on Sunday. The stalls had a total of 385 kg of mutton and 255 kg of fish, Corporation Commissioner S. Visakan said in a statement. The action followed after sale of fish and meat continued for the third consecutive weekend despite a ban order. Small-scale vendors hired pushcarts and made their way through residential areas to sell them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/15-meat-fish-stalls-sealed/article31385064.ece
20 April 2020||Ghaziabad,||Pradhan held for beating Dalit youth in Meerut||A video of two Dalits being mercilessly beaten by the ‘pradhan’ of a Meerut village surfaced on Sunday. The police said the pradhan of Kaili village has since been arrested. In the video, the pradhan is seen beating the youths with a stick.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/pradhan-held-for-beating-dalit-youth-in-meerut/article31384887.ece
20 April 2020||GURUGRAM,||Longer wait for Gurugram industry||Though the Centre has allowed the States to permit select economic activities from Monday, the wait for Gurugram industries would be a little longer. Additional Chief Secretary V.S. Kundu said applications would be invited from industries and a committee would look into them and grant approval.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/longer-wait-for-gurugram-industry/article31384885.ece
20 April 2020||New Delhi,||Rumour of food shortage leads to near-stampede||A near-stampede ensued at a school in Jahangirpuri when locals rushed inside after a “rumour spread that food stock was over”. A local Congress leader said similar scenes are witnessed daily with 100 to 150 people left wanting for food.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/rumour-of-food-shortage-leads-to-near-stampede/article31384886.ece
20 April 2020||Bengaluru,||District milk unions slash procurement price||Several district cooperative milk unions in the State have reduced the milk procurement price provided to dairy farmers. The reduction in prices ranges between Rs. 1.5 per litre in Bengaluru and Belagavi unions and Rs. 2.5 per litre of milk in Mysuru union.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/district-milk-unions-slash-procurement-price/article31384708.ece
20 April 2020||Bengaluru,||Two women who tested positive on Sunday die||Two women in Karnataka who tested positive for COVID-19 on Sunday — both with Severe Acute Respiratory Illness (SARI) — died on the same day. With this, the total number of deaths in the State has increased to 16.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/two-women-who-tested-positive-on-sunday-die/article31384709.ece
20 April 2020||Bengaluru,||CET: Online crash course for students||The State government is all set to launch GetCETGo, an online crash course programme to help students prepare for KCET 2020 and NEET 2020. GetCETGo is a free programme that will be available to all students registered for KCET 2020.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cet-online-crash-course-for-students/article31384710.ece
20 April 2020||Belagavi,||Give proper info on virus, Muslim leaders told||Minister of State for Railways Suresh Angadi held a meeting with some representatives of Muslim organisations to clarify doubts about COVID-19 management in Belagavi on Sunday. He told the Muslim leaders to disseminate proper information about the virus and its spread. He asked them to appeal to the community to opt for voluntary tests and quarantine if they had travel history or if they were primary or secondary contacts of those who tested positive. He urged the community not to offer mass prayers in public places or mosques during Ramzan that starts in the third week of April. “All should pray at home. This message should be carried to all believers,” he said.  Karnataka State Minorities Development Corporation chairman Mukhtar Pathan, Deputy Commissioner S.B. Bommanahalli, Police Commissioner Lokesh Kumar and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/give-proper-info-on-virus-muslim-leaders-told/article31384919.ece
20 April 2020||CHENNAI,||HC halls to be sanitised after one tests positive||The Madras High Court on Sunday decided to close down all court halls for sanitisation and that judicial proceedings in extremely urgent cases shall henceforth be held only through video conferencing until further orders. The decision was taken after a staffer tested positive for SARS-CoV-2.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hc-halls-to-be-sanitised-after-one-tests-positive/article31384787.ece
20 April 2020||CHENNAI,||Protective gear must for policemen||In the wake of a 52-year-old sub-inspector being admitted to hospital for the COVID–19 confirmatory test, the police have advised all personnel involved in vehicle checks to compulsorily wear masks and gloves.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/protective-gear-must-for-policemen/article31384788.ece
20 April 2020||Tiruvannamalai,||Two Russians rescued from Annamalaiyar hills||Aided by drones, the police rescued two stranded Russian nationals from the Annamalaiyar hills on Sunday.They had gone to the hilltop on a “meditation mission”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/two-russians-rescued-from-annamalaiyar-hills/article31384789.ece
20 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||PM calls for unity in COVID-19 response||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday took to networking site LinkedIn to speak to young professionals that adapting to new technology in the times of COVID-19 can help create new business models and lead to the engagement of a large segment of Indians, including the poor, with technical solutions. “COVID-19 does not see race, religion, colour, caste, creed, language or border before striking. Our response and conduct, therefore, should attach primacy to unity and brotherhood,” said Mr. Modi, adding that this has to be so, since the virus has affected people across classes and communities. The Prime Minister said that he too had been adapting to changes in his working style and professional conduct. “Most meetings, be it with ministerial colleagues, officials and world leaders, are now via video-conferencing,” Mr. Modi wrote on LinkedIn. The need of the hour is to think of business and lifestyle models that are easily adaptable, he added. “Doing so would mean that even in a time of crisis, our offices, businesses and commerce could get moving faster, ensuring loss of life does not occur,” Mr Modi said. Today, the world is in pursuit of new business models, he said, adding that India, a youthful nation known for its innovative zeal, can take the lead in providing a new work culture. The most “transformational impact” of technology, he said, often happens in the lives of the poor. “It is technology that diminishes bureaucratic hierarchies, eliminated middlemen and accelerated welfare measures,” he said giving the example of his own government’s push, since 2014, of Jan Dhan Yojana, Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT) and Aadhar linkage. “This seemingly simple connection has not only stopped corruption and rent-seeking, which had been going on for decades, but also enabled the government to transfer money at the click of a button. India, with the right blend of the physical and the virtual, can emerge as the global nerve centre of complex modern multinational supply chains in the post COVID-19 world,” the Prime Minister said. Logistics were only seen from the prism of roads and highways, but these two can be worked out from the comfort of one’s home, Mr. Modi said. “Let us rise to that occasion and seize this opportunity,” he said. He stressed that efficiency, adaptability, inclusivity and universalism should be the watch words of the “vowels of the new normal.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pm-calls-for-unity-in-covid-19-response/article31384582.ece
20 April 2020||Mumbai,||Goa is first to turn virus-free||Goa on Sunday became the first zero COVID-19 State in the country with the last seven cases also testing negative. This makes Goa the first green State in the country with no case of COVID-19 being reported from April 3. The coastal State had a total of seven positive cases, of whom six had travel history and one was the brother of a patient. “Goa is now COVID-19-free, all seven patients have tested negative. They will be quarantined at government facility and later at home,” Chief Minister Pramod Sawant said. Goa has in all tested over 800 people of whom seven had come positive. Dr. Sawant said that though Goa was the first State to be free of any tested positive case and a happy moment for everyone, especially the frontline workers, it was important to realise that this was no time for complacence. The Chief Minister said that from April 20, the government would scrutinise reports of its three-day door-to-door citizens survey done last week and decide on testing people for COVID-19 wherever felt necessary. “We have to ensure that we remain a zero COVID-19 State. The lockdown will continue till the Central government decides. Our borders with Maharashtra and Karnataka will continue to remain sealed. Anyone entering the State under special circumstances will have to stay in a government quarantine centre,” he said. The Chief Minister said government offices would resume 100% work from Monday. “To ensure that we continue to remain a green zone State, social distancing will have to be maintained. State transport buses will ensure this while shifting government staff. Two-wheelers will have a single occupant and 1,000 thermal guns will be positioned at various places,” he said. Dr. Sawant announced that subject to permissions from designated officers, industrial units and private businesses would be allowed to start functioning. Seafarers issue On the issue of seafarers, the Chief Minister said the Centre would be announcing the repatriation mechanism any time. “Once the government makes the mechanism official, it will take about 3-4 days for the first lot of seafarers to return. Those already at Indian ports or closest to the coast will return first. For the rest, discussions are on whether it would be the sea route or air route that would be taken to get them back,” Dr. Sawant said. All these seafarers would be subjected to quarantine followed by home quarantine, he said. Goa has made available 8,000 rooms for Goan seafarers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/goa-is-first-to-turn-virus-free/article31384605.ece
20 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Centre stops airline bookings||The government on Sunday directed airlines to discontinue advance bookings for travel from May 4, following which Air India reversed its earlier decision to sell tickets. “It has been noticed that airlines have started booking tickets for journeys with effect from May 4. No decision to commence the operation of domestic/international flights with effect from May 4 has been taken yet. All airlines are hereby directed to refrain from booking tickets,” the Civil Aviation Ministry told domestic and foreign airlines. It said the airlines would be given sufficient notice for restarting flights. The order provides much-needed clarity to both airlines and passengers and follows an outcry over the manner in which airlines continued to amass passengers’ money, only to issue credit notes later when flights would be cancelled due to an extended lockdown. Air India immediately reversed its earlier decision. “The airline is currently not taking bookings.” Several other airlines like IndiGo and Vistara, which had announced their decision to open bookings post-May 3, are expected to fall in line. Following the Group of Ministers’ meeting on Saturday, Minister of State for Civil Aviation Hardeep Singh Puri said on Twitter: “So far no decision has been taken to open domestic or international operations. Airlines are advised to open their bookings only after a decision has been taken by the government.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/centre-stops-airline-bookings/article31384617.ece
20 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||COVID-19 may change election scene forever||The COVID-19 outbreak has put India’s electoral calendar on the back burner. The absence of a vaccine or therapeutic intervention against the disease has necessitated a long period of physical distancing and sanitary measures, all of which, say experts, will change the great Indian poll circus forever. Speaking to The Hindu , BJP general secretary Ram Madhav pointed to the recent national election in South Korea and said the conduct of elections should not be completely written off in India either. He did, however, caution that the manner of campaigning and polling must reflect the changed reality. “There seems to be no question whether big rallies of the past will be able to survive this disease. Without mass vaccination, organising big rallies would be a hazard. I see more digital campaigning, and micro, man-to-man marking gaining ground. With the digital, I also see a return of the print, that is, handbills and pamphlets which used to be distributed a lot in the past,” he said. Polling issues Congress MP and former Union Minister Manish Tewari agreed that much of the campaign would have to shift to the digital sphere, but expressed more concern over the polling part of the electoral exercise. “There has been much talk of developing software to hold polls digitally, and in the Atlantic Council (of which Mr. Tewari is a member), we did explore this, looking at the example of Estonia. The main question is never the technology, but the ways in which it can be subverted, and how to ensure the integrity of the process,” he said. Mr. Tewari also expressed concern over the fact that a notified election to the Rajya Sabha was postponed due to the COVID-19 outbreak by the Election Commission of India when only polling remained. Away from political parties, pollster Pradeep Gupta, who heads AXIS-My India, located the whole issue in two spheres: one is of campaign, which he said is not a huge issue as there are many ways of reaching out to the people, and the second is to devise technology to ensure that proximity is not a factor in polling. “Our voters list is not updated, we were hoping that the new census exercise with its extensive use of technology would lead to a better set of data. I feel that to a large extent the connection between the voters list, Aadhaar number and mobile phones should be attempted. It stands at barely 30% now and needs to be extended,” he said. New trends in elections Mr. Gupta also sees the acceleration of certain trends , which he has observed over the past few elections. “It is no longer enough to play the identity card, it is a trend for many elections now that delivery on welfare and development matters a lot. After the COVID-19 outbreak and the role of governments being assessed so closely, this trend will completely overshadow identity politics,” he said. The next big election in India is the Assembly election in Bihar due in October-November. If it takes place on time, it will be the precursor to just how a pandemic affects electoral democracy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/covid-19-may-change-election-scene-forever/article31384588.ece
20 April 2020||April 20 2020 00:00 IST,||‘If WHO has limitations, these have been imposed on it by nations’||As the World Health Organization (WHO) grapples with its greatest crisis, facing criticism over its initial response to the COVID-19 pandemic and a funding cut from the United States, Shashi Tharoor , a former Under Secretary General of the United Nations, says the situation is an indictment, not so much of the agency alone but of the member states that demand it remain beholden to them.  How unprecedented is the current challenge facing the WHO? The WHO was established in 1948 and there hasn’t been a worldwide pandemic with this kind of devastation that has come across its path. Something like this is calamitously challenging for the WHO. And then you have the decision of the United States [on April 15] to withhold funding at this peak time. The U.S. contributes something like 15% of the WHO budget. That is a pretty substantial sum of money that is going to disappear from the WHO’s kitty. All of that adds to the challenges it is facing. Is the U.S. criticism valid? I really think Mr. Trump is honestly trying to find a scapegoat for his own administration failing in preparing the U.S. sooner for what has turned out to be the biggest public health emergency they have ever had. The fact is, if you look at what the WHO did or didn’t do, one can certainly accept the charge that they were to willing to give China a free pass at the beginning of the crisis. I don’t think it’s easy to blame the WHO for it. One of the institutional challenges for any UN body is that it tends to be beholden to its most powerful member states. I am afraid the problem is if this was something that started in the U.S., they would have probably been deferential to the U.S. also. The difference is the U.S. being a democracy with a free press, they would have not found it easy to suppress the kind of details that are only now emerging from China. Is it the case that WHO and most UN agencies are reliant on the information they receive from member states? We have a constitutional problem with all UN agencies that the head of the agency who is elected after all with support of powerful member states, does not enjoy the independence and autonomy that should come with a position of that stature. If we were, for example, to adopt a policy of a single, non-renewable term for maybe six or seven years, rather than two terms of five which is normal practice, then you might actually give a leader authority to take certain independent actions. Nonetheless, don’t forget the UN is not larger or more powerful than its member states. The principal fault is with Beijing and not the WHO, which is still a body that is dependent on member states. India is a member of every UN body and every country knows how these bodies work. The governments of the world actually want UN agencies to be beholden to governments, for the most part. When they fail to assert enough independence and autonomy, the same governments start making these agencies a scapegoat. When I was at the UN, my then boss [Secretary General] Kofi Annan would often jokingly say about the initials SG by which we used to call him, ‘I know what that stands for – scapegoat!’ On one hand, we are seeing countries turning inward. On the other, the pandemic is bringing an awareness of the limitations of global institutions. Faced with two somewhat opposing impulses, which way will we go? The signs are indeed for a resurgence of national sovereignty. This suggests we will actually go in the wrong direction and likely throw up more barriers. I believe that is the wrong way to go. India must play a role in defying this impulse of closing countries off to the international community. We have to recognise if the WHO had limitations, these are limitations that governments have imposed upon it. If the world has to draw from this a conclusion that we actually need institutions of greater independence in all our collective interest, then maybe we can reform these institutions, to give them that independence. I hope a country like India will be a sane voice for this.  We actually need institutions of greater independence in all our collective interest||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/if-who-has-limitations-these-have-been-imposed-on-it-by-nations/article31384603.ece
20 April 2020||April 20 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Preventing food shortages is high priority for South Asia’||In a report released this month, the World Bank predicted a ‘dire’ situation for South Asia due to the economic impact of measures to counter the novel coronavirus pandemic, suggesting that the eight SAARC countries (Afghanistan, Bangladesh, Bhutan, India, Nepal, Pakistan, Maldives and Sri Lanka) will experience their worst economic performance in 40 years, with at least half of them falling into a deep recession. Hans Timmer , author of the report and the Bank’s Chief Economist for South Asia, says managing migrant returns, service sector revenue losses and ensuring food security for the poorest are major priorities for the region.  The forecast for the South Asian economy in the WB report, with an expected drop from 6.3% growth to 1.8% - 2.8%. is quite significant. Could the drop be even bigger, given that we don’t yet know when economic activity will be fully reopened? This forecast already includes many adverse impacts. The upper and lower bounds are based on two scenarios for advanced economies: one with a two-month lockdown of advanced economies, the other with a four-month lockdown of these economies. These scenarios translate for South Asia into sharp declines in exports, disruptions in global value chains, deterioration of investment sentiment, reversal of capital flows, and reduced remittances. Our upper and lower bound forecasts also assume sharp declines in domestic hospitality services. But the drop in growth can indeed be bigger. In the report we mention that we calculated what we call a “worst case scenario”, in which we assume a prolonged lockdown of South Asian economies: an extended lockdown for three months and a more partial lockdown in subsequent quarters. In that case, we ended up with negative growth for the region, a contraction of 1%. The World Bank has endorsed India’s strict 40-day lockdown, which other South Asian countries have followed in varying degrees. How well do you think this will work if extended, especially given the economic impact? I have been impressed by the reaction of the Indian government and other governments in South Asia. With limited health-care capacity, it is important to contain, or at least mitigate, the spread of COVID-19. But, with a high population density, this is a difficult task. Containment of the pandemic is especially challenging among slum dwellers, domestic migrant workers and refugees. An additional complication is that the lockdown deprives the most vulnerable people of their income. The conclusion is that the lockdown is necessary, but not sufficient. It has to be complemented with food distribution, temporary work programmes and a system of testing and tracing, which is needed to reopen the economy. The temporary work programme could focus on food delivery, production of protective equipment, disinfection of public spaces and on the testing and tracing system. It is commendable that the Indian government is rolling out a tracing system now. Most South Asian nations depend on migrant remittances. How much do you think layoffs abroad added to the domestic migrant labour crisis (in India, in particular), will change the labour market, and how should countries prepare for this? It is likely that migrant workers, especially in the Gulf countries, will return home, even if many are still stuck abroad at the moment. It is the consequence of the global recession and the sharp drop in oil prices. They will need to find work at home and will indeed compete with domestic migrant workers. That is why the government should create conditions under which the economy can be reopened and should play an active role in job creation. How does South Asia as a region compare with other regions in the world in terms of the impact of the novel coronavirus? There are studies suggesting the pandemic has grown more slowly in South Asia than in regions such as Europe, North America, East Asia... Fast containment action after detection of first COVID-19 cases may have helped, and evidence around the world shows that strict measures early on can help reduce contagion. Increase in testing will help guide future actions. How important is food security and releasing strategic food reserves at this point? How would you rate different countries in the region on their ability to ensure distribution to the most vulnerable? We have seen massive food lines, shortages in both India and Pakistan. This is one of the big concerns. Disruptions in the supply chain and panic buying can lead to price spikes. That, together with loss of income of many informal workers, can lead to food shortages for the most vulnerable. This is high priority. Releasing strategic reserves is one tool in the toolbox. Work programmes and food deliveries are other tools. Export bans will backfire as they will disrupt food supply chains in the region further. The WB report identifies the service sector as worst hit and tourism, for example in the Maldives as one of the biggest revenue losses. Can South Asia consider new ways to regenerate employment in these sectors, or will it have to look at other sectors? Probably both. Tourism will not return to normal till effective vaccines become widely available. There will be demand for safe tourism. That might be an opportunity for the Maldives that with its many atolls and high-end tourism has an opportunity to test tourists and keep them away from large crowds. There might be also more demand for digital services like remote learning or other remote services and for delivery of e-commerce sales. It is likely that more jobs outside the tourism industry can be created.  Government should create conditions under which the economy can be reopened and play an active role in job creation||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/preventing-food-shortages-is-high-priority-for-south-asia/article31384611.ece
20 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Address Kartarpur damage’||Pakistan should address the deficiencies that led to the toppling of certain structures in the holy Kartarpur Sahib complex during an afternoon storm on Saturday, sources said here. The comment came hours after India took up the matter with Pakistan as urgent repairs were carried out on the complex by the authorities in Pakistan. “India has urged Pakistan that in deference to the sentiments of the Sikh community, the deficiencies which led to the damage to the newly constructed structures be urgently rectified and remedied,” said a source on Sunday who maintained that damages to the structure caused “great consternation to the members of the Sikh community”. Hours later, Pakistan showed photographic evidence, saying the repairs to the toppled domes had been carried out. Kartarpur Sahib is in the midst of year long festivities associated with the 550th birth anniversary Guru Nanak, the founder of Sikhism, and has emerged as a major centre of Sikh pilgrimage in Pakistan over the last few months, after the corridor from India was operationalised.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/address-kartarpur-damage/article31384579.ece
20 April 2020||AHMEDABAD,||Gujarat cases up by 367 to 1,743, death toll mounts to 63||Gujarat’s COVID-19 curve is rising sharply with a steep increase in the number of cases. On Sunday, 367 new cases were reported, in the highest single-day increase, and 10 persons died. The total number of cases in the State went up to 1,743 and the total number of deaths to 63. On Saturday, the State recorded 277 cases and 12 deaths. So far, 105 patients have recovered, including 12 on Sunday. 14 patients on ventilator As on Sunday, 14 patients are on ventilator support and in a critical condition, and 1,561 patients are being treated at various hospitals. The State has so far tested 29,104 samples. According to the Health Department, testing has increased substantially, covering a large part of the State. There are 127 clusters that have been declared containment zones, with a total of 1,79,778 houses and a total population of 8,50,672. The pandemic has spread to 25 districts, but the worst affected is Ahmedabad, with 1,101 cases and 32 deaths. On Sunday, Ahmedabad reported 239 cases and 7 deaths. Another big cluster is Surat, where eight persons have died among 242 cases recorded so far. Officials in the Health Department and the civic bodies and medical experts believe that the State has entered the stage of community transmission, with nearly 75% of the total cases being asymptomatic. “With a higher percentage of asymptomatic cases, community transmission is occurring, which will make containment more difficult and challenging because you will never know the scale of the epidemic,” an infectious disease expert told The Hindu . According to him, the curve will continue to rise in the next week as aggressive testing has just started. “Ideally, there should be more than 5,000 tests a day, whereas the average as on Sunday is around 2,500-3,000,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/gujarat-cases-up-by-367-to-1743-death-toll-mounts-to-63/article31384596.ece
20 April 2020||Pune,||Over 550 new cases in Maharashtra in a day||Maharashtra reported a staggering surge of 552 new COVID-19 positive cases on Sunday — the State’s highest single-day surge yet — as its cumulative tally rose to 4,200 cases, while 12 more deaths were reported across the State, taking the death toll to 223. Six of these deaths were reported from Mumbai city, while four fatalities were reported from Malegaon in Nashik, which is fast emerging as north Maharashtra’s virus hotspot. One death each was reported from Solapur district (the city’s second death), and Karjat-Jamkhed in Ahmednagar district. “We have yet to receive information on whether the Malegaon fatalities had any comorbidities. Of six of the remaining eight deaths, 75% had high-risk co-morbidities such as diabetes, hypertension, asthma and heart disease,” informed State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate. A silver lining came in the form of the 142 patients who were discharged from hospitals today, taking the total discharged till date to 502. Mumbai city again reported the majority of new cases — as many as 456 — taking the city’s tally to 2,724 with 132 deaths.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/over-550-new-cases-in-maharashtra-in-a-day/article31384599.ece
20 April 2020||LUCKNOW,||Adityanath wants jobs for migrants who returned||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Sunday instructed officials to form a committee to provide employment opportunities to 5 lakh migrant workers who have returned to the State in the past 45 days because of the COVID-19 pandemic. The committee’s mandate will be to provide the migrant workers employment opportunities at the local level, which will strengthen rural economy, a government spokesperson said. The committee will be headed by the Commissioner, Agricultural Production, and will include the Principal Secretaries of the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprise, Rural Development, Panchayat Raj and Skill Development Departments. The committee has been tasked with ensuring employment generation under the One District One Product Programme aimed at encouraging indigenous and specialised products and crafts, organise job fairs and help small entrepreneurs avail themselves of loans on easy conditions, the government said. The committee will explore employment opportunities in micro, small and medium enterprises. Mr. Adityanath also instructed the district magistrates to ensure home quarantine of the 8,000 students who were brought back from Kota after they were stranded in the Rajasthan city. He asked the district magistrates to go by the local circumstances and decide on the relaxation of the curbs for business activities from April 20. The 19 most-sensitive districts with 10 or more cases have been asked to be more vigilant. But the relaxations won’t apply to hotspots.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/adityanath-wants-jobs-for-migrants-who-returned/article31384607.ece
20 April 2020||GUWAHATI,||He set the wheels of kindness in motion||An autorickshaw driver who donated all his cash despite not having enough to eat has helped the police in an Arunachal Pradesh district add wheels to a community kitchen concept that has become the template for others to follow. Sanjay Kumar Sain, the Superintendent of Police (SP) of Lower Dibang Valley, was touched when the elderly Ganesh Das stepped into his office on April 16 to hand over a bunch of notes totalling Rs. 1,000 for an initiative the district police had launched to feed the elderly, migrant labourers and other daily wagers. “He said it was his responsibility to give back to Roing for giving him so much all these years. He was apologetic for not being able to donate more,” Mr. Sain told The Hindu . Moved, the SP dropped him home along with 20 kg of rice and other essentials. Mr. Das is one of some 70 autorickshaw operators in Roing town. He came from Bihar in the 1980s and has been ferrying people to sustain his four-member family. His gesture made Mr. Sain turn his attention to autorickshaw drivers, who were among the hardest hit by the lockdown. Mr. Das and seven others were accordingly roped in for the district police’s community kitchen and ration delivery service. Praise from CM Chief Minister Pema Khandu had lauded the service and termed it a model worth replicating in other parts. Sushant Saurabh Jha, the nodal officer of the District Police COVID-19 Control Room, said the SP and some 300 police personnel, local MLAs and community leaders pooled in resources to start the community kitchen. A few of the SP’s batch-mates too contributed. “We have been feeding some 870 people daily,” Mr. Jha said. “From Monday, we will be using eight autos, including Mr. Das’s for the service,” he said. Each driver would be given a stipend, besides fuel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/he-set-the-wheels-of-kindness-in-motion/article31384619.ece
20 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Islamophobia is rising in India: OIC||Calling on the Indian government to take steps to protect Muslim minorities who are being “negatively profiled,” facing “discrimination and violence” amidst the COVID-19 crisis, the 57-member Organisation of Islamic Cooperation (OIC) has criticised what it called “growing Islamophobia” in India. “[We] urge the Indian Govt to take urgent steps to stop the growing tide of Islamophobia in India and protect the rights of its persecuted Muslim minority as per its obligations under international Human Rights law,” said a tweet issued by OIC’s Independent Permanent Human Rights Commission (OIC-IPHRC) on Sunday. PM’s call for unity The statement came on the same day Prime Minister Narendra Modi had clearly said that “unity and brotherhood” must be the response to the coronavirus, which does not see “race, religion, colour, caste, creed, language or borders before striking.” The Ministry of External Affairs declined to comment on the statement. Last week it had reacted sharply to two similar statements on religious “stigmatisation” of minorities in India by the U.S. Commission on International Religious Freedom (USCIRF). In one statement, the U.S. Commission criticised India, Pakistan and Cambodia for “failure to protect vulnerable religious communities” and “increased stigmatisation”. Patient ‘segregation’ In another specific statement, the USCIRF reacted to reports, which the government denied, that COVID-19 patients were religiously segregated at a hospital in Ahmedabad. On Saturday, it also held an expert hearing on “Religious Freedom on South Asia”, organised by the “Hindus for Human Rights”, “Indian-American Muslim Council” and “International Christian Concern,” ahead of its annual USCIRF report release on April 28, where India has been categorised as a “tier 2 country of particular concern.” Misguided reports: MEA “As if its peremptory commentary on religious freedom in India is not enough, the USCIRF is now spreading misguided reports on the professional medical protocols followed to deal with spread of COVID-19 in India,” the MEA spokesperson had said. Meanwhile, on March 30, the United Nations’ Office of The Commissioner for Human Rights had issued a more general statement against the “exploitation” of coronavirus-related fears by groups and politicians to “scapegoat minorities” in various countries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/islamophobia-is-rising-in-india-oic/article31384620.ece
20 April 2020||New Delhi,||Priyanka lauds U.P. govt. for transporting students||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra has lauded the Uttar Pradesh government for bringing back students stranded in Kota, Rajasthan, owing to lockdown, and sought help for migrant workers from the State stuck in various cities. In a video appeal, she requested the Yogi Adityanath government to set up a helpline and a control room to reach out to them. “These workers are our own. It is the responsibility of all of us to help them. We cannot leave them like this. We have to find a way out,” she said. Ms. Vadra said the workers with absolutely no resources at their end were holed up five to six in one room. It was only obvious that they would want to come back to their homes to be with their families. “… these migrant workers are also our own. They do not have anything to eat. Helping them is also the responsibility of the State government,” she said in her appeal. Earlier, Congress leader P. Chidambaram had tweeted: “There is overwhelming evidence that more and more people have run out of cash and are forced to stand in lines to collect free cooked food. Only a heartless government will stand by and do nothing,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/priyanka-lauds-up-govt-for-transporting-students/article31384573.ece
20 April 2020||Ghaziabad,||Pradhan held for beating Dalit youth in Meerut||A video of two Dalits being mercilessly beaten by the ‘pradhan’ of a Meerut village surfaced on social media on Sunday. The police said that the ‘pradhan’ of Kaili village has since been arrested. In the video, he was seen hitting the youth, making them squat and loop their arms behind the knees to grip the ears, and beating them with a stick. Some people were also seen standing alongside the pradhan. The audio suggests that the ‘pradhan’ was telling the youth that he was reprimanding them for catching chicken, which were also seen in the video, during the lockdown. Avinash Pandey, Superintendent of Police (Rural), Meerut, told The Hindu the incident happened on April 16 near the Kaili railway station, which falls under the Kharkhauda police station. The police had already taken note of the incident and sent the pradhan, Amit Tyagi, to jail. He said an FIR had been registered on the complaint of Ankit Kumar, a resident of village Naya Gaon Dhirkheda, under various sections of the IPC, the SC/ST Act and the IT Act. “Even if somebody is breaking norms during the lockdown, nobody has the right to take the law into his own hands. The police had taken action before the video surfaced on social media,” said Mr. Pandey.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pradhan-held-for-beating-dalit-youth-in-meerut/article31384577.ece
20 April 2020||April 20 2020 00:00 IST,||Non-essential goods not on supply list, says govt.||The standard operating procedures (SOPs) for stranded migrant labourers issued on Sunday said that due to the spread of COVlD-19, workers employed in industry, agriculture, construction and other sectors have moved from their places of work and are housed in relief camps run by the State governments. “Since additional new activities, outside the containment zones, have been permitted in the consolidated revised guidelines with effect from April 20, these workers could be engaged in industrial, manufacturing, construction, farming and MGNREGA works.” The MHA said that to facilitate their movement “within the State”, the migrant labourers residing in relief camps should be registered with the local authority and their skill mapping carried out to find out their suitability for various works. “In the event that a group of migrants who wish to return to their places of work within the State where they are located they would be screened and those who are asymptomatic would be transported to their respective places of work,” the MHA said. The Ministry said there would be no movement of labourers outside the State or the Union Territory where they are located. “During the journey by bus, it would be ensured that safe social distancing norms are followed and the buses used for transport are sanitised as per the guidelines of the health authorities... The local authorities shall also provide for food and water, etc., for the duration of their journey,” the MHA said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/non-essential-goods-not-on-supply-list-says-govt/article31384583.ece
20 April 2020||April 20 2020 00:00 IST,||Pharma units still not able to operate freely||The industry is hoping that things may start to improve from Monday, as parts of the country will relax the lockdown norms, and trucks carrying essential as well as non-essential goods have been allowed to move across State borders in the past week. “There is a very slight improvement in the operating capacities among our big and small members — 30% to a maximum of 50%,” said Mr. Patel, adding that raw material consignments were stuck at ports and airports for clearance, especially at the Jawaharlal Nehru Port (JNPT), the Mumbai airport and the Chennai port. K.G. Ananthakrishnan, Director-General of the Organisation of Pharmaceutical Producers of India (OPPI), said the congestion at the JNPT and the Mumbai airport should be eased to fast-track import as well as export orders. “Truck movement has improved, coming from a zero level (when the lockdown was initiated) to 40%-50%. Availability of cold chain services, critical for moving vaccines and insulin, are still at 30% of the pre-lockdown levels, and we have been alerting the government to this,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pharma-units-still-not-able-to-operate-freely/article31384584.ece
20 April 2020||April 20 2020 00:00 IST,||Confusion over mismatch in Ministry, ICMR figures||The discrepancy prompted several questions. “Numbers of positive cases put out today by the States, by ICMR and by Ministry of Health are conflicting and confusing,” former Finance Minister, P. Chidambaram, tweeted. “I rely on the dashboard jointly hosted by M/Health and ICMR. The difference between the dashboard number and ICMR’s number for April 18 is an astonishing 1,573. Will the M/Health and ICMR reconcile their reports from the States and report a uniform number every day?” he asked. A lag in the numbers reported by the States, the Health Ministry and the ICMR has been a constant since March, particularly after the lockdown. The Health Ministry put it down to it reporting numbers only after breaking it up by State- and-district and getting ground-level confirmation. This, Mr. Agrawal said, led to the “occasional lag.” The ICMR has also increased the number of labs and widened the pool of people it is testing. As of April 18 (Saturday), there were 194 government or state-funded labs and 82 private labs. All labs have varying capacity and this has contributed to delays in communicating data, said officials in charge of testing labs. “The very act of sorting out samples can take upto four hours as not all of them are uniformly labelled. It can take upto 6 hours to process a batch (and the number per batch varies too) and generate reports and send. So fluctuations in daily numbers can also be because of processing times,” Rakesh Mishra, Director, Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology, Hyderabad, told The Hindu . Fewer fresh cases All together 54 districts, spanning 23 states and Union Territories, have reported no fresh cases in 14 days and two — Mahe in Puducherry and Kodagu in Karnataka — have reported no cases in 28 days. The Health Ministry said the country will be graded as red, orange and green zones depending on the number of cases and hotspots, with the containment action and restrictions being most stringent in the red zones.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/confusion-over-mismatch-in-ministry-icmr-figures/article31384586.ece
20 April 2020||April 20 2020 00:00 IST,||Spare monkeys the virus, say biologists||“In States like Tamil Nadu, primate populations having negative interactions with humans are relocated to forests, causing other problems like spread of diseases and parasites to forest-dwelling monkey populations. When we relocate a population of monkeys, there is no screening done to identify the diseases or the parasites they carry,” said Dr. Kumara. Citing a 2019 study on the “Prevalence of gastrointestinal parasites in Lion-tailed macaques in the Central Western Ghats,” which he co-authored, Dr. Kumara pointed to conclusions drawn in the paper about rates of endoparasitic infections caused to lion-tailed macaques that were linked to human activity in forests and also due to relocation of bonnet macaques from conflict areas. If viruses like the SARS-CoV-2 do mutate and infect primates, they could decimate not just primate species but also other wildlife which prey on them, a senior biologist attached to the Tamil Nadu Forest Department said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/spare-monkeys-the-virus-say-biologists/article31384585.ece
20 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Pay cuts for PM-CARES leave staff uneasy||A number of central ministries have given the nod for salary deductions of staff towards the PM-CARES Fund. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh “approved a proposal” for the contribution of a day’s salary to the fund from all Ministry employees, including Army, Navy, Air Force and Defence Public Sector Units, according to an official statement issued days after the fund was launched. The Ministry estimated a collective donation of Rs. 500 crore, but added that “the employees’ contribution is voluntary and those desirous of opting out will be exempted”. ‘Tough on families’ Responding to a circular issued on Friday by the Revenue Department of the Finance Minister that a day’s salary will be deducted from all staff every month till March 2021, one joint secretary level official, who did not want to be named, said, “No one actually asks. And one day per month for a year is 12 days. That is 40% of a monthly salary... An average employee of the Government of India gets between Rs. 50,000 and Rs. 80,000 per month. That’s one salary and maybe three dependents. So it’s tough on them,” the official said. Earlier in the month, resident doctors from four government hospitals in the capital objected to the automatic deduction from their salary of the donation, demanding that it be made an opt-in system, so that only those who wished could choose to donate. Last week, both AIIMS and Safdarjung hospitals agreed to the demand.     (With inputs from   Manojit Saha)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pay-cuts-for-pm-cares-leave-staff-uneasy/article31384589.ece
20 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Delhi CM Kejriwal justifies extended lockdown||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday justified his decision to continue the lockdown imposed in the capital, pointing to the fact that all 186 patients who tested positive on Sunday were asymptomatic. He said that of the 736 test results that came in on Saturday, 186 who tested positive showed no symptoms. This was 25% of the total test results. “They [the positive persons] didn’t know they had the corona [virus] and were roaming here and there with the corona [virus]. This is very dangerous,” he said. Mr. Kejriwal, who on Saturday pointed to a clutch of cases in Jehangirpuri, said a volunteer who had been distributing food at a Delhi government centre had also tested positive. The government, he added, would be testing everyone who might have come in contact with this volunteer. The issue of asymptomatic patients in the country also came up at the Union Health Ministry’s media briefing. “A very small percentage of those who are asymptomatic are testing positive, as the historical data across the world is showing. However, we have to be aware of this challenge. Our strategy is to monitor those who are asymptomatic and high-risk and test them. Those who are contacts and asymptomatic are advised to be in home quarantine and those at high risk ought to be in facility quarantine,” Ministry spokesman Lav Agarwal said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/delhi-cm-kejriwal-justifies-extended-lockdown/article31384592.ece
20 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||SC switches to video mode||Amid a lockdown till May 3, the Supreme Court has informed that short category matters, death penalty and family law cases will be heard through video-conferencing, if parties consent. The SC said that such cases will be heard “subject to the availability of the Bench and with the prior approval of the Chief Justice of India.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-switches-to-video-mode/article31384593.ece
20 April 2020||Mumbai,||20 new cases in Dharavi||Dharavi reported 20 new cases on Sunday, taking the total to 138 cases, including 11 deaths. A majority are from areas that had earlier reported cases while a few are from new parts of Dharavi. As the BMC intensified screening in Dharavi, more and more cases are being reported from containment zones. More than 37,000 residents have been screened for symptoms. Of this, about 210 were referred for testing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/20-new-cases-in-dharavi/article31384601.ece
20 April 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Rain may hit wheat quality, say farmers||Untimely rain accompanied with hailstorms in a few parts in Punjab in the past 48 hours has triggered fear among farmers that the standing wheat crop’s quality will be affected and it will delay harvesting further causing heavy losses. Many parts of Punjab experienced light to moderate rain accompanied with hailstorms during the past 48 hours, according to the meteorological department. Besides, it has forecast another spell of rain in the coming week in the region that has left farmers worried. Punjab Agriculture department director Sutantra Kumar Airi on Sunday told The Hindu that fields in over half a dozen villages in Muktsar district were hit by hailstorm. “Wheat is at ripening stage now and hence rain spell could delay the harvesting by a few days,” he said. Harvesting has already started in Punjab, but it is yet to gain momentum. Punjab is expecting a bumper wheat production that could cross 182 lakh tonnes this year, according to the State Agriculture department. Bharatiya Kisan Union’s general secretary in Punjab, Jagmohan Singh, said, “The moisture content in the harvested produce will also increase due to overcast conditions.” He added that hailstorm and rain would also impact the quality (shine) of the crop.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rain-may-hit-wheat-quality-say-farmers/article31384889.ece
20 April 2020||new Delhi,||More officials to return to workplaces||Officers of the rank of Deputy Secretary and above will join office from Monday, after nearly a month of working from home due to the lockdown, a senior official said. Joint Secretaries, Additional Secretaries, Special Secretaries and Secretaries had joined Central government departments on April 13. In its revised guidelines related to the ongoing lockdown, the Home Ministry had on Wednesday said that “all the Ministries and departments and offices under their control are to function with 100% attendance of Deputy Secretary and levels above that. Remaining officers and staff to attend up to 33%.” All departments have been working with skeleton staff since March 25.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/more-officials-to-return-to-workplaces/article31384574.ece
20 April 2020||New Delhi,||‘Armed forces are adequately protected’||India has put in place a robust mechanism to insulate the three services and their strategic assets from the SARS-CoV-2 infection, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said on Sunday, adding that the military is fully prepared to defend the the country from “adversarial forces” though it was fighting the pandemic. He said the Army, Navy and the Indian Air Force are strictly adhering to instructions issued by the Prime Minister’s Office, the Health Ministry and their own medical bodies. “The fight against COVID-19 is possibly the biggest invisible war in our lifetime. A war against humanity and having various impact on health and economic security of the nation,” he said. “We as a nation are fighting the COVID-19 crisis on a war footing and all agencies of the government are working in close coordination. The armed forces are assisting the nation in its fight against COVID-19,” Mr. Singh added. Asked whether the pandemic has impacted operational aspects of the military, Mr. Singh said they are prepared for all contingencies and ready to defend India’s sovereignty from adversarial forces in all scenarios.  “The Indian armed forces are prepared for all contingencies and I can assure you that we are prepared to defend our sovereignty from adversarial forces in all scenarios,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/armed-forces-are-adequately-protected/article31384576.ece
20 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Dipankar Datta named Bombay CJ||The Supreme Court Collegium, led by Chief Justice of India Sharad A. Bobde, has recommended that Calcutta High Court judge Dipankar Datta be appointed as the Chief Justice of the Bombay High Court. Justice Datta is the brother-in-law of former Supreme Court judge Amitava Roy. Justice (retired) Roy was the puisne judge on the Bench that held former Tamil Nadu Chief Minister Jayalalithaa and her aide Sasikala Natarajan guilty in a disproportionate assets case. His father was also a former judge of the Calcutta High Court. Justice Datta was elevated to the Bench of the Calcutta High Court as a permanent judge on June 22, 2006.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/dipankar-datta-named-bombay-cj/article31384580.ece
20 April 2020||New Delhi,||‘Reduce prices of grains for relief work’||CPI (M) Polit Bureau member Brinda Karat, in a letter to Union Minister for Food and Public Distribution Ram Vilas Paswan, said the government should distribute its stock of foodgrains free of cost, with starvation haunting crores of families who are without any income or work due the lockdown. Flagging the government order allowing NGOs to buy directly from Food Corporation of India (FCI) godowns for relief work, Ms. Karat said the prices fixed by the government — Rs. 21.50 per kg for wheat and Rs. 22.50 per kg for rice — were “extremely high”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/reduce-prices-of-grains-for-relief-work/article31384590.ece
20 April 2020||LUCKNOW,||U.P. police say youth didn’t die of beating||The Uttar Pradesh police on Sunday termed “false and baseless” the charge that a 22-year-old daily wager died after he was thrashed by the police when he stepped out to buy food in Ambedkar Nagar district. Rizwan Ahmed’s family on Saturday said he died in a hospital three days after the police beat him up. Ambedkar Nagar SP Alok Priyadarshi said that going by the evidence collected so far, there was nothing to show that Rizwan was assaulted by the police with batons.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/up-police-say-youth-didnt-die-of-beating/article31384597.ece
20 April 2020||Ghaziabad,||Meerut cancer hospital’s ad kicks up a row||A private cancer hospital in Meerut has issued an advertisement in a Hindi daily appealing to Muslim patients to come for treatment only after getting themselves and their attendants tested for COVID-19. In the 11-point advertisement in Dainik Jagran last Friday, Valentis Cancer Hospital said if emergency attention was required, the hospital would send the samples of the patient and the attendant for testing and charge Rs. 4,500 each. It held the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Delhi responsible for the spread of the virus in the country. On Saturday, the hospital issued a clarification in the same paper expressing regret if it hurt the feelings of any community. People say the regret is directed at the Hindu and Jain communities as one of the points in the advertisement described them as miserly, and appealed to them to contribute handsomely to the PM Cares Fund. Chief Medical Officer Raj Kumar told The Hindu that he had issued a notice to the hospital. Senior Superintendent of Police Ajay Sahni told presspersons that an FIR had been registered against Ajay Jain, proprietor of the hospital, for hurting the sentiments of a community. Dr. Jain did not respond despite repeated attempts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/meerut-cancer-hospitals-ad-kicks-up-a-row/article31384623.ece
20 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Plea in SC wants migrant workers allowed to return home||Stranded migrant workers, who have forcibly been kept in relief camps and who have tested negative for COVID-19, should be allowed to return to their native places. The authorities should not stop them from going home to their loved ones, a petition in the Supreme Court has said. The petition was jointly filed by Jagdeep S. Chhokar, an ex-faculty member of the IIM (Ahmedabad), and Gaurav Jain, a Delhi-based advocate. The plea said the extension of lockdown is casting “unreasonable and heavier burden on the migrant workers stranded in cities.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/plea-in-sc-wants-migrant-workers-allowed-to-return-home/article31384594.ece
20 April 2020||Bhopal,||Police inspector battling COVID-19 dies in Indore||A police inspector in Indore died on Sunday morning while undergoing treatment for COVID-19. The official, who was admitted to a hospital on March 31 with complaints of breathlessness, was about to be discharged, after his condition improved in the past few days. But he succumbed to the disease on Sunday. Offering his condolences, the Chief Minister said on Twitter, “I pay tribute at his feet. In this moment of crisis, the entire State stands by him.” “We give Rs. 50 lakh as support to the family. His wife is being appointed as a sub-inspector in the department,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/police-inspector-battling-covid-19-dies-in-indore/article31384600.ece
20 April 2020||CHANDIGARH,||10 fresh cases in Punjab||Ten fresh cases of COVID-19 were reported in Punjab on Sunday, taking the total tally to 244. The State Health department said that out of the 10 cases, four are from SAS Nagar and six from Jalandhar. Till now, Punjab has seen 16 COVID-19 deaths, while 37 cures. Chief Minister Amarinder Singh, meanwhile, ruled out any relaxation in the curfew till May 3. He ordered strict enforcement of the curfew in all districts, with no relaxation or concessions whatsoever even during the Ramzan period beginning this week.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/10-fresh-cases-in-punjab/article31384609.ece
20 April 2020||Guwahati,||Wildlife hunting up in northeast||The lockdown has led to a spike in wildlife hunting and bushmeat consumption in parts of the northeast, officials said on the basis of videos on the social media. Villagers in Arunachal Pradesh, caught on camera with a dead king cobra, said they had been hunting as vegetables had become scarce. Officials are also probing a video that showed a few persons in Nagaland displaying carcasses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/wildlife-hunting-up-in-northeast/article31384622.ece
20 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Curbs will continue till CM makes an announcement||All the restrictions being imposed during the COVID-19 lockdown will continue “until an official announcement” (on the relaxation of norms) is made by the Chief Minister, based on the recommendations of the 21-member expert committee, the Tamil Nadu government said on Sunday. The panel is expected to submit its report to the CM on Monday. “The CM will examine the recommendations and take a decision accordingly,” an official press release said. It also cited the guidelines issued by the Centre on April 15, which had stated that the State governments were to announce which industries, commercial establishments and services would be allowed to function, with conditions, after April 20. A source in the Directorate of Information and Public Relations said, “There have been reports that some private firms have instructed their employees to report for duty on April 20, since the Centre’s guidelines had recommended a relaxation of lockdown measures after April 20.” Meanwhile, the Southern Railway has indefinitely postponed the reopening of administrative offices and workshops across the State. In a circular issued on Sunday, it said a decision on reopening the premises across its four divisions in the State would be taken based on the directives of the State government. Parcel services However, the Railway authorities have allowed the remaining two divisions, including Palghat and Thiruvananthapuram, to reopen the offices located in Kerala.  The Southern Railway has launched an exclusive website and a mobile app for booking parcel services during the lockdown. A senior railway official said the website will provide information on the routes for parcel services from the Chennai Central and Egmore stations, besides the contact numbers of the officials concerned for booking the service.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/curbs-will-continue-till-cm-makes-an-announcement/article31384831.ece
20 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Corpn. begins testing its staff||Chennai Corporation has started testing its front line workers, the police and mediapersons for coronavirus disease (COVID-19). The collection of samples has been taken up following reports of SARS-CoV-2 infection among those involved in fighting the pandemic. Corporation Commissioner G. Prakash said: “The entire city is considered a containment zone. The door-to-door survey of residents is under way. Areas that have reported positive cases are being monitored. Front line workers are creating awareness on social distancing. They play a key role in saving lives and helping residents during the lockdown.” Testing of front line workers was being done in centres such as Bharathi Women's College. On Monday, the testing is likely to be done at Omandurar Government Mulsti Specialty Hospital. The Corporation had been able to identify many residents with COVID-19 after testing centres were set up last week in various parts of the city. “We have tested 6,300 samples. We have identified 50 positive cases. The prevalence is 0.8%,” said Mr. Prakash. “Front line workers are tracing the contacts of the persons who tested positive. This is a very important data,” said Mr. Prakash. Chennai Corporation has created 85 containment zones in the city where positive cases had been reported in the past few weeks. The civic body had taken steps to prevent crowding in areas such as Koyambedu wholesale market where the risk of spread was high. The police had been allowing only traders holding passes issued by the Corporation and Chennai Metropolitan Development Authority into the market. “Direct sale to residents has stopped in Koyambedu wholesale market. The crowd has reduced. People are maintaining social distancing,” said Mr. Prakash. Pointing to the manpower shortage in various industries leading to reduction in supply of pulses and cooking oil in the city, Mr. Prakash said the problem would be solved immediately.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corpn-begins-testing-its-staff/article31384796.ece
20 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Doctors seek PPE kits for all healthcare workers||Three more doctors tested positive for the COVID-19 on Sunday at the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital. As of Sunday, 14 doctors have tested positive for the infection. With the number of affected doctors continuing to rise, the Federation of Government Doctors’ Association has written to Health Secretary Beela Rajesh urging the government to provide proper protection to healthcare providers. The federation has demanded that standard personal protection equipment (PPE) kit be adequately arranged for doctors, nurses and other healthcare workers handling COVID-19 patients. It has appealed to the doctors toundergo test for the infection. It demanded that doctors and nurses be put on COVID-19 duty only for six hours and provided 14 days of quarantine on completing week-long duty. They should be given accommodation away from the hospital to avoid spreading the infection to other staff, family and community. This was not being done currently, a doctor said. “A cardiology PG who tested positive in the RGGGH had contracted the infection after treating a patient in COVID-19 ward. He had fever two days later and by then the infection had spread across the ward,” a doctor said. At the Government Stanley Hospital, the nurses worked for a week in the ward and were given a week’s quarantine but stayed in the hostel, according to the officials. This was a cause for worry as the nurses who worked in the COVID-19 ward should be isolated. Prolonged exposure Doctors said nurses invariably worked longer, sometimes over eight hours and were therefore vulnerable to infection. They had been demanding that they be tested for the infection as they were in the front line. Although doctors and nurses had greater exposure to infection, they had not undergone tests. The federation wanted the government to keep a third of doctors as resreve. “Don’t bring all of them to hospital. With all elective surgeries put on hold, we can use the resources judiciously,” a doctor pointed out. The federation wanted the government to announce a compensation of Rs. 1 crore for the family of Jayamohan, a doctor in the Nilgiris, who died while on duty.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/doctors-seek-ppe-kits-for-all-healthcare-workers/article31384798.ece
20 April 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||HC nod for e-filing of cases||In a major relief to lawyers and litigants, the Madras High Court has decided to commence e-filing of cases from Wednesday. The High Court will be entertaining bail petitions alone through the electronic mode. According to court sources, Chief Justice Amreshwar Pratap Sahi has approved a decision taken by the High Court’s computer committee chaired by Justice T.S. Sivagnanam to introduce e-filing of legal papers in a phased manner. Sources said lawyers as well as litigants who want to argue their cases in person should register in the e-filing portal and obtain a user ID as well as password. Advocates must provide their photographs and identity proof at the time of registration and their phone numbers, e-mail ID as well as Bar Council registration number should match with the details available with the High Court.  Court fees After registration, they should fill the required fields, scan their case bundles and upload them on the portal. The court has decided to begin with bail applications alone because it does not require payment of court fees. Court fees must be paid for filing other cases such as writ petitions and civil suits. Since integration of e-payment portal with the e-filing portal will take some time, the High Court has decided to introduce e-filing of such cases at a later date. “After the integration, any person can file any case in the High Court even from government e-seva centres if just scanners alone are available at those centres. E-filing will be extended to district courts too,” an officer said. The officials clarified that filing of hard copies of case bundles will be entertained in the High Court until the lawyers as well as litigants get conversant with the procedures for e-filing which saves time and cost besides promoting paperless filing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-nod-for-e-filing-of-cases/article31385073.ece
20 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Cold-shouldering the Opposition in the midst of a pandemic||The AIADMK government’s handling of the crisis caused by the COVID-19 pandemic conveys too strong a political message to miss. Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami’s approach has been not to give an inch of space to the Opposition in strategising and implementing measures to deal with the problem. “Politically speaking, his approach appears to be a smart move as he wants to appropriate to his party the credit for all the steps being taken by the government,” says P. Ramajayam, Assistant Professor, Centre for Study of Social Exclusion and Inclusive Policy, Bharathidasan University, Tiruchi. But the academician and K. Jayakumar, Tiruvallur Member of Parliament and working president of the Tamil Nadu Congress Committee (TNCC), feel that in a democracy, it has been a well-established practice and convention for the ruling party to take the Opposition into confidence. “It is good for the ruling party and the people of the State that the government engages with the Opposition and civil society in times of a disaster or a calamity of any type,” Dr. Ramajayam points out. “It is not merely a health-related matter [as contended by the CM]. Most of it concerns the management of resources in times of a crisis. This is why we, in the Opposition, demand that the Chief Minister consult us. Does not the Prime Minister have a discussion with leaders of other parties? Why did the Chief Minister have a meeting of the Cabinet on the lockdown extension?” the TNCC working president asks. Though the government appears to be in no mood to accede to the demand for an all-party meeting, over the last one month or so, it has responded favourably in its own way to some of the demands of the Opposition. During the early stage of the COVID-19 pandemic, the DMK and the Congress had urged that the Assembly session, which was originally scheduled to go on till April 9, be brought to an end earlier than the revised date of March 31. The government, which initially rejected the request, subsequently got the session wrapped up by March 24. Taking a hard line Similarly, on the issue of letting political parties and others engage in the direct distribution of relief material and food to affected persons during the lockdown, the government appeared to take a hard line at one point in time, but then toned down its position following the Opposition’s strong criticism of its approach. More importantly, on the matter of extending the period of lockdown, despite the Opposition’s aggressive call for an extension, the government kept on referring to the Cabinet’s resolution on April 11 of preferring to go by what the Prime Minister decides. But less than 24 hours before Mr. Modi’s scheduled address on the morning of April 14, the Chief Minister announced his decision to extend the lockdown till March 31, which was later stretched further till May 3 in line with the Prime Minister’s announcement. Replying to criticism, Fisheries Minister D. Jayakumar says that from the angles of both public health and administration, the government has been following “right strategies and the right path. So, there is no need for a rethink”. Before its move to extend the lockdown, the government had consulted a host of public health and medical experts of eminence. As for the public administration, “where have we gone wrong”, the Minister wonders. “We have been implementing all the welfare measures and taking steps to lessen the pain of the common man, amid severe constraints,” he adds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cold-shouldering-the-opposition-in-the-midst-of-a-pandemic/article31384822.ece
20 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Protective gear a must for policemen checking vehicles||In the wake of a 52-year-old sub-inspector admitted to the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital for COVID–19 confirmatory test on Saturday, the police have advised all personnel involved in vehicle checks to compulsorily wear masks and gloves. The SI was in charge of a patrol team and is a resident of police quarters at Alandur. He was initially tested at the RGGGH and the result turned out to be positive for SARS-CoV-2. But he remained asymptomatic. He had been admitted to special ward for a confirmatory test, said police sources. Meanwhile, all his colleagues in the Esplanade police station and other residents of the police quarters at Alandur have been taken for tests. “The Esplanade station premises houses law and order, crime, traffic and even the office of the Assistant Commissioner. We will be testing all and quarantining those with symptoms,” said a senior police officer. Vehicles disinfected The health department has started disinfecting the patrol vehicles in the Esplanade station. “We are spraying disinfectant in the entire station and the quarters where he lived. All necessary precautions are being taken,” said the officer. He said that as on date each station had been provided with 15 personal protective equipment (PPE). “Those attached to the government hospitals have been provided more than 100 sets. These can be used only once and have to be disposed of safely after being worn,” said the officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/protective-gear-a-must-for-policemen-checking-vehicles/article31384803.ece
20 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HC to hold proceedings through videoconferencing||The Madras High Court on Sunday decided that it shall close down all its court halls for sanitisation and that judicial proceedings in extremely urgent cases shall henceforth be held only through videoconferencing until further orders. Chief Justice Amreshwar Pratap Sahi took the decision after a Law Office staff tested positive for COVID-19 after initial confusions over him having tested positive in the first test and negative in the confirmatory test. Employee tests positive Two judges and law officers, who were present in the court on Wednesday and Thursday, when the staff had come to court, were tested on Saturday. Steps have also been taken to get the court employees tested on Monday. A circular issued by Registrar General C. Kumarappan on Sunday read: “All judicial functioning by the respective honourable judges, as per the roster assigned, will take place only through video conferencing until further orders. “The court halls will not be accessible for any judicial function during the lockdown period to keep the court halls sanitised and hygienically fit for future use.” The court had already decided to extend till May 3 the restricted functioning of courts in the State. It was also decided that the summer vacation due next month for the High Court as well as all trial courts in Tamil Nadu and Puducherry would stand postponed sine die and that the courts would function in May too to compensate loss of work hours now. The Madras High Court has decided to commence e-filing of cases from Wednesday. It will be entertaining bail petitions alone through the electronic mode.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-to-hold-proceedings-through-videoconferencing/article31384812.ece
20 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Central govt. offers additional rice at Rs. 22 per kg to non-priority households||The Central government is offering to provide an additional 5 kg rice per person per month for the next three months to non-priority household (NPHH) cardholders in States and Union Territories. But the offer carries a cost. For NPHH cardholders, the rice will be provided at Rs. 22 per kg, whereas for priority household (PHH) cardholders, the Centre is providing 5 kg rice per person per month, free of cost, for three months — April, May and June — under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Ann Yojana (PMGKAY). The offer has been made to Tamil Nadu as well, and the State is considering the proposal. There is a view within the State government that the cost is on the higher side. Food Minister R. Kamaraj, at a video-conference session last week with Union Food Minister Ram Vilas Paswan, reminded the latter of the Chief Minister’s request to the Centre for the provision of free rice to around 85.99 lakh NPHH cardholders (covering a population of around 3.07 crore). As for the availability of rice in T.N., the Food Corporation of India’s godowns have a stock of 13.5 lakh tonnes, which can cater to the State’s requirements for four-and-a-half months, at the pre-COVID-19 level of three lakh tonnes a month. Since the imposition of the lockdown, T.N. has received around 2.6 lakh tonnes of grains by train from various States, including Telangana, Andhra Pradesh and Odisha. Besides, the Tamil Nadu Civil Supplies Corporation has its own stock. Free rice component Pointing out that the State government had lifted about 2.2 lakh tonnes of rice so far this month, R.D. Nazeem, Executive Director (South), Food Corporation of India, said the free rice component under the PMGKAY entailed around 1.78 lakh tonnes a month for Tamil Nadu. As for the latest offer, the State can get around 1.5 lakh tonnes. The Union government has also launched a scheme of supplying rice or wheat to registered charitable institutions or non-governmental organisations that are engaged in relief operations like providing cooked meals to the needy, including migrant labourers and other vulnerable groups. The cost of rice will be Rs. 22 per kg and wheat, Rs. 21 per kg.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/central-govt-offers-additional-rice-at-rs-22-per-kg-to-non-priority-households/article31384820.ece
20 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Muslim neighbours help Hindu man’s kin conduct his funeral||The COVID-19 lockdown may have had a disproportionate effect on different sections of society, but every affected family has struggled with grief, more so when having to deal with the unexpected death of a loved one. There have been instances of communal amity, notwithstanding the hatred spread by some sections of social media users. When 78-year-old Ramachandran died in Chennai a few days ago, many of his friends and relatives stayed put in their homes due to the lockdown. And when it was time to perform the last rites and the funeral, his family realised that they needed help. That’s when they approached their Muslim neighbours. K. Santhanakrishnan, Ramachandran’s brother, spoke of how glad he was to see that people had volunteered to help. “In the times that we are living in, it shows that humanity and kindness are the only things that matter at the end of the day. We all will help each other, and caste, creed or religion should never come in the way,” he said. Last rites Tamil Nadu Muslim Munnetra Kazhagam’s Anna Nagar unit secretary Saddam Hussain said Ramachandran’s family had said that as per tradition, six people needed to be there to lift the body. “Mohammed, Zakir Hussain, Saddam Hussain, Mohammed Ali and Nizamuddin helped the bereaved and shouldered the body until the last rites were performed,” he added. Mr. Ali said he had heard from his acquaintances that Ramachandran was a nice person, and was more than willing to help. “Though we didn’t know each other personally, I heard he was a generous and kind gentleman. He was holding a respectable post in the government till he retired, and did some great work. We were glad that we were able to help in whatever small way we could,” he added.  Though we didn’t know each other personally, I heard he [Ramachandran] was a generous and kind gentlemanMohammed AliNeighbour of deceased||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/muslim-neighbours-help-hindu-mans-kin-conduct-his-funeral/article31384823.ece
20 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Lockdown brings out the best in farmer producer organisations||The COVID-19 lockdown seems to have brought out the best in farmer producer organisations (FPOs), numbering 550 in Tamil Nadu. The FPOs, which had been functioning in a low-key manner over the last five years or so, broadly taking care of the “back-office” operations of the State’s farm sector, are now engaged in the supply of fruits, vegetables and other essentials to consumers during the lockdown, according to Principal Secretary (Agriculture) and Agricultural Production Commissioner Gagandeep Singh Bedi. As per official data, over 100 tonnes of fruits, 447 tonnes of vegetables and 116 tonnes of groceries were supplied by 90 FPOs through various marketing channels, including 65 farmers’ markets (Uzhavar Sandhai), 44 wholesale markets, 125 retail establishments and 45 mobile units. Giving select illustrations, Mr. Bedi said that several FPOs were also running 13 primary processing centres (PPCs), wherein packing and sale of the produce were taken up, along with processing. The Pochampalli PPC in Krishnagiri district, operated by the Theni Fruits and Vegetables Producers’ Group, an arm of the Tamil Nadu Banana Producers’ Company, supplies packed vegetables to the Tamil Nadu Horticulture Development Agency for the e-thottam online market. A few days ago, the group, along with Greeners Agro Products India, exported 12 tonnes of tomato to Maldives. “Today, Our Cumbum Western Ghats Banana Producer Group [another arm of the Producers’ Company], is engaged in exporting 30 tonnes of banana to Iran,” Mr. Bedi pointed out, adding that FPOs in Nilgiris were engaged in online sale through a tie-up with food aggregator Zomato. However, there is a different view about the role of FPOs. Arupathy Kalyanam, a leading farmer of Mayiladuthurai, said that though the concept of FPOs was laudable, such organisations in the Cauvery delta were yet to make a big impact. In the name of enlisting more farmers, such organisations may stretch beyond a cluster of three or four contiguously-located villages. “Such an approach may not serve the interests of farmers in the long-run, and should not be pursued,” Mr. Kalyanam cautioned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/lockdown-brings-out-the-best-in-farmer-producer-organisations/article31384826.ece
20 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Transgenders help in door-to-door survey||Ten transgenders had been rendering help to the Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC), as volunteers, in Thiruvanmiyur division to conduct door-to-door survey for coronavirus disease (COVID-19) and SARI symptoms. These transgenders have been roped in by the Tamil Nadu Corporation for Development of Women, under the Tamil Nadu National Urban Livelihood Mission (TNULM) scheme, to assist the GCC. “A few of them approached me as they did not have employment. Hence I approached the GCC and used them as volunteers. They have been collecting data from households for the past two weeks,” said S. Radha, community organiser, division 181 and 182, zone 13, Tamil Nadu Corporation for Development of Women M. Nila, 34, of Perumbakkam, a B. Pharma degree holder, has been running an NGO called PHARM Foundation for the education and empowerment of transgenders. “We cover 120 houses a day and have been doing it for the past two weeks. We check for symptoms. Till date the residents have been responding properly to our questions and have expressed concern about our safety during the pandemic,” said Ms. Nila All the 10 volunteers have been provided with masks, gloves and a coat. “We have identity cards. Some of the other volunteers are Rashika, Subashree and Afreen. We have to volunteer for three months and will be paid on a monthly basis,” she added. Ms. Radha said the transgenders had been working hard as they treated it as an important responsibility. “The stigma against transgenders should go. This is a first step towards it. While the government should provide more employment opportunity to their fraternity, companies should sponsor their education. This will help them come up in life,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/transgenders-help-in-door-to-door-survey/article31384793.ece
20 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Legal services authority to the rescue of pregnant woman||It is not just the State and its agencies but also the Tamil Nadu State Legal Services Authority (TNSLSA), led by Justice Vineet Kothari of the Madras High Court, which has been arranging food, groceries, medical help and travelling passes for people in the time of lockdown imposed to fight COVID-19. According to TNSLSA member-secretary K. Rajasekar, Justice Kothari received a frantic call from the family of a pregnant woman seeking assistance to reach their native place in Kerala. Steps were taken to get a travel pass to the family which managed to reach the border but got stranded there because of the blockade by Kerala police. “Immediately, Justice Kothari spoke to a Kerala High Court judge who in turn alerted the Chief Minister as well as Chief Secretary of Kerala. After intervention from the highest level, the family was allowed to enter Kerala and reach Palakkad on condition that all the members of the family must remain in home quarantine for 14 days. This also led to Kerala government issue fresh guidelines on permitting pregnant women enter the State despite lockdown. Food distributed Similarly, TNSLSA has arranged groceries and medical help for 30 aged farmers in Pattukottai taluk of Thanjavur district. It saved the life of an octogenarian woman in dire need of a feeding tube in Chengalpattu district,” he said. Further, the legal authority provided food to 20 Narikurava families at Salavakkam in Chengalpattu district and to 25 employees of a circus at Thottiyam in Tiruchi. It gave two ventilators to a government hospital in Tiruvallur with the assistance of a non-governmental organisation. It had obliged requests received regarding relief for migrant workers. “We received requests from West Bengal and Manipur State Legal Services Authorities for the safety of nearly 500 migrant labourers. Around 90% of those people were traced and provided with food and shelter. We are providing assistance to victims of domestic violence through WhatsAPP helpline in all 32 judicial districts,” Mr. Rajasekar added. The WhatAPP numbers are Chennai (9443244365) and Kancheepuram (9884040488).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/legal-services-authority-to-the-rescue-of-pregnant-woman/article31384804.ece
20 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Lockdown leaves electronics, home appliance retailers reeling||The COVID-19 lockdown has left retailers in the electronics and home appliances segment with loads of unsold inventory in their godowns. A few firms have indicated that their employees may have to take a pay cut for a few months, until the situation becomes stable. Retailers say the servicing segment has also taken a huge hit due to the lockdown. “As an industry, we have missed [out] on three big sales this year – the year-end sale that happens during the last week of March, the Tamil New Year sale and the summer sale. The stocks we have purchased from manufacturers are lying in godowns,” said Vijay Vasanth, CEO of Vasanth and Co. “Most consumer electronics dealers build up stock in January and February for the year-end and summer sales. The inventory includes air-conditioners and air coolers which can be sold only during the summer,” he added. March-May is a crucial period for these retailers, as 30-35% of their total sales happen during these months. Nitesh Giria, Director of Girias, said, “The government should permit us to operate in accordance with guidelines and social distancing norms. Otherwise, all our consignments will remain unsold for another year.” The lockdown has wiped out nearly 40% of his business this year. Summer-centric goods Vishal Bysani, Vice-President - Marketing, Viveks, said summer-centric products would remain idle for the next one year. “Our industry should be considered essential because for a housewife, buying a mixer, a grinder or a fan is essential,” he said. “Retailers will also stop expanding their stores for the next few quarters. On an average, they open three to five stores every three months,” he added. On salary cuts, retailers are evaluating their options. According to estimates, Tamil Nadu has over one lakh people employed in this segment. Industry representatives said that if the government allows them to resume operations post-April 20, they would get a breather. Some suggested that like e-commerce players, they could allow consumers to place orders online by visiting their website and get the products delivered to their doorstep. The industry is also seeking a reduction in GST rates to enhance affordability for consumers and profitability for retailers. According to an analysis of the Indian appliances and consumer electronics market by CARE Ratings, the industry is likely to suffer a considerable loss in sales going forward. It may be noted that even if the spread of the pandemic is curtailed, consumer sentiment is expected to remain unfavourable and demand, muted.  March-May is a crucial period for these retailers, as 30-35% of their total sales happen during these months||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/lockdown-leaves-electronics-home-appliance-retailers-reeling/article31384824.ece
20 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Simulator gives borrowers clue about additional interest||Wizi App, a Chennai-based start-up, has launched a simulator which helps borrowers find out how much additional interest they have to pay for loans if they opt for the EMI moratorium announced by the RBI. “We spoke to a few customers and understood that there is confusion with respect to how this will impact them. So, the extent to which the moratorium can benefit a customer was not clear,” Venkatesan Anandaraj, founder & CEO of Wizi App, said. The interest calculator for opting the moratorium gave an objective cost for availing the facility and could help the customer make a conscious and diligent decision, Mr. Anandaraj said. The customers can calculate the interest charges that will be additional by opting for a deferred payment of EMI by keying in loan parameters, such as the loan type, total tenure and pending tenure. Borrowers get the additional interest that they will be liable to pay by June 2020 as the output. The simulator can be accessed throughhttps:// wizi.app/moratorium.jsp All loan products are added to the calculator as interest rates and maximum tenure permitted across these products vary widely and the customer had to make a call depending on the loan ticket size and the ageing of tenure.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/simulator-gives-borrowers-clue-about-additional-interest/article31384807.ece
20 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Containment zones to end after 28 days||The State government has said that the coronavirus containment areas, classified as ‘hotspot districts' with large outbreaks, hotspot districts with clusters and non-hotspot districts will be deemed over “when there is no case reported in 28 days from an area after the last case tests negative.” Dr. Beela Rajesh, Secretary, Health and Family Welfare Department noted: “Hotspots (designated red zones) will be assumed to be taking effective containment activities, if no case is reported in the next 14 days (designated Orange zones) and will be deemed successful in containment, if no case is reported for next 28 days.” Identification of hotspots has to be done on a weekly basis (every Monday).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/containment-zones-to-end-after-28-days/article31384814.ece
20 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||PM assures CM of supply of testing kits||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday assured Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami that an adequate quantity of rapid test kits will be allotted to Tamil Nadu. An official press release stated that Mr. Modi spoke to Mr. Palaniswami over the phone and enquired about the efforts being made to combat COVID-19. The Chief Minister apprised Mr. Modi about the situation in Tamil Nadu. “The Chief Minister also urged the Prime Minister to allot more rapid test kits to Tamil Nadu, since more testing was to be done. The Prime Minister said he will,” the release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pm-assures-cm-of-supply-of-testing-kits/article31384828.ece
20 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Actor held for selling liquor||The city police on Sunday arrested a junior actor for hoarding liquor ahead of the lockdown and selling them at higher prices. Following a tip-off, a special team raided a house on Anna Main Road, MGR Nagar, and arrested Rizwan, 30. Rizwan has acted in a few films. He used to deliver liquor at the doorstep of customers. The police also arrested two persons, M. Devaraj, 40 and Pradeep, 31.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/actor-held-for-selling-liquor/article31384799.ece
20 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Tiruvallur PEW uses drone||The Prohibition Enforcement Wing of the Tiruvallur police has deployed drones to crack down on smuggling of illicit liquor from Andhra Pradesh through Tiruvallur district. Recently, the police nabbed a few persons bringing illicit liquor from the neighbouring State.  Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami has appreciated SP P. Aravindan on Twitter for his initiative.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tiruvallur-pew-uses-drone/article31384800.ece
20 April 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||TNAU designates scientists as nodal officers to work with Agri. Dept.||Tamil Nadu Agricultural University (TNAU) has designated scientists as nodal officers to work with Agriculture Department officers, across the State, said a University release detailing the steps it had taken to help farmers during the lockdown. The University had 39 research stations, 14 colleges and as many Krishi Vigyan Kendras spread across the State. It had identified and designated scientists in each of the districts and shared their list with the State government. The identified persons would work alongside the Agriculture Department officials there to help farmers overcome problems during the lockdown period. Quality seeds The release also said the University was also taking steps to ensure availability of quality seeds as the Indian Meteorological Department and the University had predicted normal South West Monsoon, which was just six weeks away. As the farmers would start preparation by June, the University, based on instructions from Vice-Chancellor N. Kumar and Director of Research K.S. Subramanian had asked its scientists to ensure availability of quality seeds, planting materials and bio-inoculants. After listing a few more steps the University had taken like giving RT-PCR machines to the Government Medical College and ESI Hospital, Coimbatore, and another hospital to be used in testing persons, the release said the University was yet to assess the impact of the lockdown on rural livelihood. It would take some more time for the assessment, it said and added that the issues that the farmers faced now were labour shortage, difficulty in hiring vehicles to transport produce or inputs and price of produce at farmgate. In a few cases, there were instances of farmers dumping produce as well, the release said and added that the University was doing all it could to help farmers, the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tnau-designates-scientists-as-nodal-officers-to-work-with-agri-dept/article31384847.ece
20 April 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Unauthorised sale of flowers continues in Coimbatore city||In the last couple of days, a few street vendors are seen selling flowers in different parts of the city though the flower market is closed because of the lockdown. According to one of the vendors, the market is closed and officials do not allow them to buy from the market or sell flowers on the roadsides. But, it is their livelihood and it is affected. A source in the market said that the city continued to receive flowers from Mettupalayam, Karamadai, Sathyamangalam and Salem. But most of the sales in the city is unauthorised. “Some unauthorised traders bring the flowers in trucks, stop the vehicles in different places and sell the flowers. This is also leading to mistrust between the farmers and the regular traders,” the source said. “The farmers feel we (regular traders) are not taking enough steps to continue sales. We do not know if they will supply flowers to us after the lockdown is lifted,” the source said. The market has about 150 shops and the shop owners plan to meet Collector K. Rajamani on Monday to seek alternative arrangements. “We are clueless on how we can continue sales. Probably if we are given a larger premises temporarily, we can maintain personal distancing,” the source said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/unauthorised-sale-of-flowers-continues-in-coimbatore-city/article31384841.ece
20 April 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||4.5 tonnes of protective equipment airlifted||A special flight lifted 4.5 tonnes of personal protection equipment from Coimbatore International Airport to Lucknow on Sunday. The consignment from Tiruppur was airlifted by a special flight of the Indian Air Force for the Uttar Pradesh Government. Since there are no domestic or international flights, the cargo flight was meeting the requirement initiated under the Central Government’s Lifeline Udan Network, according to the sources.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/45-tonnes-of-protective-equipment-airlifted/article31384855.ece
20 April 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Industry awaits Chief Minister’s announcements on relaxations||The industry here awaits the Chief Minister’s announcement regarding relaxation of norms to resume operation on Monday. About 250 industries here have already obtained special permission to take up maintenance works, meeting export needs, or to produce essential and healthcare products. Nearly 80 industries approach the district administration every day seeking permission. Most of it are for medical products, says an official. “Even if the government gives permission, we will have to look at the rules that will come with it,” said a small-scale industry owner. Even if the government permitted, the micro, small and medium-scale enterprises (MSMEs) needed certain protection so that action was not taken even if a worker was affected, the owner said. While a few large-scale industry plan to re-start operations when the announcements come, the MSMEs are reluctant. “We need to see what the announcement will be. Only then will we decide,” said another micro unit owner.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/industry-awaits-chief-ministers-announcements-on-relaxations/article31384842.ece
20 April 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Six-year-old boy dies of suspected torture||A six-year-old boy from Kovilmedu in Coimbatore died on Sunday following complications of suspected torture by his mother for his mischiefs. The boy’s body, with marks of physical torture, was shifted to mortuary at the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital (CMCH) for post-mortem. According to the police, preliminary investigation led them to suspect that the boy was beaten up by his mother on Saturday. The boy’s condition deteriorated on Sunday evening and he died while his parents tried to take him to CMCH. The police were questioning the parents and a few of their neighbours at the time of filing the report.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/six-year-old-boy-dies-of-suspected-torture/article31384848.ece
20 April 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||‘Elephant died of intestinal problems’||A female elephant that was found dead in Sirumugai forest range on Friday could have died of intestinal problems, according to Forest Department. A statement issued by the department said that intestinal lesions were found during the autopsy of the carcass. The carcass of the elephant aged around 35 was found at Pethikutai beat of Sirumugai forest range. The carcass was traced by frontline staff of the department who patrolled the area on Friday. They sensed foul smell emanated from the carcass. A herd of elephants was stationed near the carcass and they could not go close to it. The carcass was autopsied on Saturday and left in the wild for scavengers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/elephant-died-of-intestinal-problems/article31384849.ece
20 April 2020||DINDIGUL,TAMIL NADU||DMK opposes toll fee collection from today||The Central government should immediately withdraw its announcement on collection of toll fee from April 20, DMK MLA and party deputy general secretary I. Periyasamy said here on Sunday. In a press statement, he said that at a time when the national lock down was in force till May 3, the Centre’s announcement to relax certain segments from April 20 had given hope to industry. However, the directive to NHAI to re-start collection of toll fee from vehicle users had come as a big blow. For the last 30 to 45 days, the COVID-19 pandemic had brought normal activity in every segment to a standstill. Everything had to be rebuilt. Lives were lost. Industry was in bad shape. The work force had suddenly become jobless. Poor had become poorer. When this was the situation around the nation, the partial relaxation from April 20, with limited access and strict guidelines, was a great relief. However, the decision to restart collection of toll fee was unfortunate, Mr. Periyasamy said, adding freight operators had already expressed shock. Lorry owners, who had not had a single trip for the last 45 days, had to pay salaries to the crew and workers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmk-opposes-toll-fee-collection-from-today/article31385066.ece
20 April 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Sale of cotton masks picks up in Erode||With the district administration making it mandatory to wear mask, sale of mask, particularly cotton mask that can be washed and reused, has picked up here. As people are allowed to venture out of their homes to purchase essential commodities, their movement on roads has increased in the past one week. Hence, Collector C. Kathiravan urged them to wear mask while in public places. E.V. Jagadeeshwaran, who runs a garment manufacturing unit, said that sale of cotton and pine masks had picked up in the past one week and attributed the reason to the increase in the awareness level among people. Since these masks, each sold at Rs. 10, could be washed and reused, people preferred them, he said and added that pharmacies, wholesalers, traders and shopkeepers had placed bulk orders in the last two days. Also, the number of traders selling masks at markets and on arterial roads has gone up. A manufacturer said the cost of manufacturing a mask was less than Rs. 2 while it was sold at Rs. 10 to the public. “Some traders want to earn quick money,” he said and wanted the price brought down to make it affordable for the poor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sale-of-cotton-masks-picks-up-in-erode/article31384840.ece
20 April 2020||Karur,TAMIL NADU||900 rapid test kits allotted for Karur||The State government had allotted 900 rapid test kits for Karur district, M. R. Vijayabaskar, Transport Minister, said on Sunday. He told reporters after distributing assistance to the needy in Karur on behalf of the AIADMK that the kits had reached the Karur Government Medical College Hospital. It was sufficient for testing the patients for time being. The hospital would get the second batch of rapid test kits shortly. Mr. Vijayabaskar said that seven more patients, who had tested positive for COVID-19, had been discharged from the hospital on Sunday. With this, the number of discharged persons, who were treated for COVID-19, had gone up to 60. Multi-pronged strategies had been put in place to contain the virus as well as treating the patients. There was a special emphasis on restricting the people residing in containment areas. He said that 3,825 cases were filed for violating the curfew restrictions. A total of 2,905 vehicles, mostly two-wheelers, were seized from violators for venturing out on streets without valid reasons. More than 4,000 persons were arrested for curfew violation, and later released on bail.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/900-rapid-test-kits-allotted-for-karur/article31385128.ece
20 April 2020||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Palm jaggery producers in Krishnagiri see fall in prices||The lockdown and the resultant demand slowdown that hit the market for agricultural produce and the ancillary farm produce have duly hit palm jaggery producers as well in the palm jaggery producing pockets here, as the season will come to an end in a month. At Eachankadu village in Mathur, Kumaran and his father have been collecting palm sap diligently despite the lockdown and the fall in demand. The father and son climb over 80 trees twice daily, once at midnight and then at afternoon to collect the palm sap that would have collected into the earthen pot tied to the palmyra palm. “It is our daily work, and irrespective of the demand, we have to collect the sap. Or else, the tree gets spoiled,” says Kumaran. A healthy alternative to white sugar, palm jaggery too has seen fall in prices due to the movement restrictions and fall in overall demand. “The price of palm jaggery per 10 kg should be Rs. 2,000. But, traders are asking only for Rs. 1,500,” he says. But, they hope the prices will pick up once the lockdown ends, by when the season will end too. The farmers start climbing trees at 2 a.m. and finish collecting the sap by 9 a.m., and return once again at 2 p.m. to collect up to 5 p.m. The scotching sun and the fall in demand has not deterred them. “I can climb 80 trees a day, but my father can climb 120 trees,” says Kumaran.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/palm-jaggery-producers-in-krishnagiri-see-fall-in-prices/article31384837.ece
20 April 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||15 meat and fish stalls sealed||Fifteen meat and fish stalls were sealed in Madurai on Sunday. The stalls had a total of 385 kg of mutton and 255 kg of fish, Corporation Commissioner S. Visakan said in a statement. The action followed after sale of fish and meat continued for the third consecutive weekend. Small-scale vendors hired pushcarts and made their way through residential areas to sell them. Collector T. G. Vinay, in an order on Friday, said there would be no sale of fish and meat. Wholesalers, however, defied the order and sold them to vendors at Mattuthavani vegetable market on Saturday night. M. Vellaiammal, a vendor in Bethaniyapuram, said residents felt that their Sunday meal was incomplete without meat and fish. “It is an essential part of the diet. If our maximum sales happen on Sunday, how can we stop it suddenly?” she asks. N. Nagappan, who runs a shop in Jaihindpuram, said commercial establishments, including biryani and parotta stalls, required meat for preparation of gravy. “We deliver the meat to the shops to avoid trouble with the police,” he said. The sale of fish and meat, however, had reduced, said Rahat Ulillah, former secretary, Madurai Corporation Fish Vendors Association. “Not many people are lining up at shops except in a few places such as Tirupparankundram and Othakadai. This is because we have decided to go to the customer. Most retailers have stopped opening their shops.” A senior official from the Food Safety Department said most vendors packed up after police personnel asked them to clear off on Sunday morning. “There was no hassle,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/15-meat-and-fish-stalls-sealed/article31385078.ece
20 April 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||DLSA offers telephonic counselling||In an attempt to ensure that women, children and elderly people have access to mental healthcare during the lockdown, the District Legal Services Authority (DLSA), Madurai, is offering free telephonic counselling. DLSA secretary V. Deepa said women who faced domestic violence could file their grievances over the phone, and mental health experts would immediately offer counselling to them. “Similarly, children and the elderly can also lodge their grievances. Counselling sessions will be held for them and necessary legal action will also be taken against the offenders,” she said. Along with the DLSA, One Stop Centre and District Child Protection Unit are offering counselling to women and children. Ms. Deepa said based on the directive of Principal District Judge A. Naseema Banu, a Whatsapp group comprising officials from these wings had been formed to offer counselling. People could contact 9488237478/ 9486229149/ 9942656138/ 8300009991/ 8300071495 or 8300006625 for support. Virudhunagar Principal District Judge A. Muthusaratha has asked people to seek help from Virudhunagar DLSA secretary K. Mariappan through Whatsapp number 8754200202 for crimes against women and children. The One Stop Centre emergency number is 9994605844. They can reach the Government Children’s Home over 6380272960; District Child Protection Officer 9842835483, and police 9498104133 or 98433-90119.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dlsa-offers-telephonic-counselling/article31385067.ece
20 April 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||‘Toddy’ seized, four arrested||Madurai Rural District Police on Sunday arrested four persons on the charge of manufacturing fake toddy. Acting on a tip-off, Karuppayoorani police raided a den in Odaipatti and seized 25 bottles of ‘toddy.’ They nabbed three men identified as R. Ramkumar, 28, M. Sekar,42, and C. Manikandan, 55, all from Odaipatti. During interrogation, the trio revealed that they bought the bottles from another person in J.J. Nagar under Anna Nagar police station limits. More at home When the team raided his house, they found more containers including plastic pots. Inquiry revealed that K. Marippan, 33, was involved in making fake toddy using palm juice ( pathaneer ) along with some medicines and sugar. Meanwhile, the Prohibition Enforcement Wing of Madurai City Police on Saturday arrested three persons from the Sri Lankan refugees camp in Anaiyur for attempting to brew illicit arrack. Police identified them as P. Sivaraj, P. Lakshmikanthan, 29, and J. Jegan, 28. They were booked under the provisions of Tamil Nadu Prohibition Act and released on bail.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/toddy-seized-four-arrested/article31385075.ece
20 April 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Court grants bail to murder accused||Madurai District Court has granted bail to a man, accused of murdering a 70-year-old woman in Melur. The court took into account the fact that the accused had an ageing mother who was not keeping well. Principal District Judge A. Nazeema Banu granted bail to A. Muthukaruppan with conditions. The case of the prosecution was that the man, after murdering the woman, made away with her gold ornaments and cash after dumping the body in a bush. The court observed that a substantial part of the investigation would have been over by this stage and with the man in judicial custody for 72 days, it was inclined to grant bail on conditions, in the view of the emergent situation arisen on account of the COVID-19 pandemic. The petitioner was ordered to be enlarged on bail on executing own bond for Rs. 10,000 to the satisfaction of the Superintendent of Madurai Central Prison. The court directed him to surrender before the Judicial Magistrate after four weeks, to execute a fresh bond. Further, the court directed him to cooperate with the investigation and not to threaten witnesses in the case. If there was any violation of the conditions, the investigating officer could move the court seeking cancellation of bail, the court said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/court-grants-bail-to-murder-accused/article31385084.ece
20 April 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Good response to indoor contest||The winners of indoor competitions, an idea conceived by Madurai MP Su. Venkatesan to help children beat the lockdown boredom, were announced by film actor Vijay Sethupathi through social media on Saturday. Mr. Venkatesan said the competitions received an overwhelming response. “I am happy that the competitions helped the students in engaging them in a positive way during the lockdown. Over 12,000 children took part in various competitions such as story-writing, poetry, drawing, short films and standup comedy,” he said. Every day, 10 winners in each of the 12 categories were given a prize money of Rs. 250 between April 2 and 11. Among the winning entries, 14 best ones were selected. “Since the drawing competitions saw a huge number of entries, it was difficult to restrict the best entries to two and hence we chose four entries and a prize of Rs. 5,000 each was given to the winners. In other categories, the best two entries were given Rs. 10,000 each,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/good-response-to-indoor-contest/article31385085.ece
20 April 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||2 test positive in Madurai||Two patients from Madurai district tested positive for COVID-19 here on Sunday, taking the count to 46 in the district. Meanwhile, three patients were discharged from the COVID-19 speciality wing of Government Rajaji Hospital. The two patients who tested positive for the disease were asymptomatic. One of the patients, a 40-year-old woman from Chokkalingapuram in Kottampatti block, did not have any travel history or comorbidity. The second patient who tested positive was a 53-year-old man fromTirumangalam. Collector T. G. Vinay said that both the patients had come in contact with COVID-19 positive patients. Among those were discharged was a 11-year-old girl. The other two were aged 49 and 30 years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/2-test-positive/article31385080.ece
20 April 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Briefly||All India General Insurance Agents Association has appealed to the Central and State governments to direct insurance companies to give relief to the agents as COVID-19 pandemic had stalled their outdoor activities. In a release, it said the agents were unable to collect premium from customers and sell policies due to the curfew. They said until normalcy was restored, the insurance companies could credit a minimum of Rs. 10,000 to the accounts of each of the agents. This would be a big relief during the health emergency.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/briefly/article31385087.ece
20 April 2020||Nagapattinam,TAMIL NADU||Eighteen new positive cases||Eighteen people, all contacts of patients who had previously tested positive after travelling to the single source event in New Delhi in March, have tested positive for COVID-19 in the region. Of them, 10 belong to Thanjavur, three to Nagapattinam and five to Tiruvarur, official sources said. Three patients all adult men, hailing from Nagore, Nagapattinam town and Porayar are family members of those who had travelled to New Delhi and had been home quarantined have tested positive for the infection on Sunday. The patients are all stable and undergoing treatment at the District Headquarters Hospital here. The addition of new cases increases the total number of cases in the district to 43. Thanjavur Ten persons residing in the houses where COVID 19 patients were being quarantined to prevent the spread of COVID-19 virus in Thanjavur district tested positive on Sunday. Of them, one person belonged to a household in Papanasam where an inmate had tested positive on return from Malaysia, according to official sources. The nine others were contacts of those who had taken part in the Tablighi Jamaat conference in New Delhi. While six contacts of New Delhi returnees belonged to Adhiramapattinam, one each were from Kumbakonam, Orathanadu and Vallam. Ariyalur Test results for 12 individuals who have been home quarantined in the district are under process. Throat swabs have been lifted from the patients and have been sent to the K.A.P Viswanatham Government Medical College in Tiruchi for testing and results are awaited. Meanwhile, 1,959 of the 2,022 patients who were asked to be home quarantined after travelling to other States or abroad have completed their 28-day period of isolation.  Tiruvarur Five persons who were kept in house quarantine in Tiruvarur district tested positive on Sunday. Official sources said two each in Kovilvenni and Thiruthuraipoondi and one in Koothanallur were in home quarantine after getting into contact with COVID-19 positive patients. They tested positive in the swab tests conducted after 14-days of home quarantine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/eighteen-new-positive-cases/article31385131.ece
20 April 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Merchant navy engineer in troubled waters||An Easter greeting with a photo of a Santa snowman on the deck of a ship on the Arctic Ocean landed recently on the WhatsApp number of the family of a merchant navy engineer in the city. The electronics engineer is among the thousands of seafarers of different nationalities stuck on the high seas and unable to return home due to the COVID-19 lockdown. As COVID-19 laws have gotten tighter across the globe in recent weeks, thousands of seafarers are stuck on their vessels with no idea when they will reunite with their family. “We are virtually like castaways with no clear idea of when it will be possible to return home,” said Upendra (name changed on request), who has not set foot on land for well over a month. And because of the COVID-19 situation, there were hassles dropping cargo at Rafnes, Norway and Skagen, Denmark, he said. He had left the city on March 4 and flew out from Chennai to Houston via Doha where he joined the LNG container ship. The loading port was in the US and the discharging ports included Norway, Denmark and Scotland. “I should have been home with my wife and one-and-a-half-year-old son in normal course. But, now I am lucky if I am even able to speak to them on phone,” said Upendra. “For three weeks, I survived on bread, peanut butter and cornflakes, as I don't eat pork or beef,” he said. Among the 18 crew are Russians, Chinese, Sri Lankan, Romanian and Ukranian besides two other Indian seafarers. Flooded with calls  According to the Indian chapter of the International Seafarers Welfare and Assistance Network (ISWAN), UK, the number of seafarers stranded in the seas in the lockdown could be between 30,000 and 40,000. Many have had their contracts extended as they are unable to sign off. “Our 24/7 helpline is flooded with calls from seafarers reporting high stress levels and anxiety about their loved ones,” said Chirag Bahri, Director of Regions, ISWAN, Noida. Many face uncertainty over when they would be able to sign off. Given the nature of trans-national navigation associated with the occupation, it is best for seafarers to stay put on the ship and to follow guidelines of respective countries until restrictions ease along a swathe of regions for a viable route home to materialise, he said. ISWAN has submitted a memorandum to the Shipping Ministry highlighting the need for ensuring a safe corridor for seafarers to return home once the lockdown lifts and also to provide financial assistance to seafarers who have been stuck at home in this period.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/merchant-navy-engineer-in-troubled-waters/article31384819.ece
20 April 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Notification extending lockdown issued||The territorial administration on Sunday issued a notification extending the lockdown till May 3 while giving relaxation to medical, fisheries, agricultural and industrial sectors. Public transport will remain suspended. Educational institutions, cinema halls, malls, shopping complexes, gymnasiums, sports complexes, bars, theatres, assembly halls and similar places will also remain closed till May 3, said an order issued by District Collector T. Arun. Hotels, homestays and lodges which are accommodating tourists and persons stranded due to lockdown, medical emergency staff, sea and air crew are allowed to operate, the order said. All social gatherings in public, private places and religious activities will also remain suspended. In case of funerals, congregation of more than 20 persons will not be permitted. Works under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Guarantee Act (MGNREGA) will be allowed from Monday if social distancing is implemented. He said industries would also be allowed to start operations subject to conditions. A separate cell has been opened at the Collectorate to grant permission to industries. The department will check the stock balance in all outlets and stringent action will be initiated if any deviation was found, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/notification-extending-lockdown-issued/article31384813.ece
20 April 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Public advised not to feed monkeys along ghat road||The Forest Department has advised the public not to feed monkeys and other animals along Yercaud Ghat Road. The department has been discouraging the public from throwing food packets and fruits to monkeys and other animals along the ghat road. Following lockdown, the department noticed that a few persons were distributing fruits to monkeys along ghat road. District Forest Officer A.Periasamy said that though it seemed like a kind gesture, feeding wild animals could lead to road kills, and affected their health. He said that feeding monkeys also affected their basic habit of foraging for food. During lockdown, as the public movement was less on ghat road, these animals would return to forests in search of food and it would rehabilitate. Mr. Periasamy said that caution needed during this period to ensure that animals did not get affected by COVID-19. “If the person providing food has contracted the virus and if its spreads to animals, it will lead to a dangerous situation. Also, the public should not get affected with any zoonotic diseases,” he said. Mr. Periasamy said that awareness boards would be placed along ghat road.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/public-advised-not-to-feed-monkeys-along-ghat-road/article31384846.ece
20 April 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Case registered against DMK functionaries||The Salem District Police have registered a case against the DMK functionaries for violating the guidelines of the High Court while distributing relief materials. Gengavalli police registered a case against five DMK functionaries and a few others, including former Mayor Rekha Priyadarshini, on Saturday for violating the guidelines and distributing grocery kits and safety gadgets to sanitary workers in five panchayats. The case has been registered under Sec. 143, 269 and 188 of IPC and 188 r/w 3 of Epidemic Disease Act and 51( I) (1-b) of Disaster Management Act 2005.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/case-registered-against-dmk-functionaries/article31384857.ece
20 April 2020||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Organisations offer assistance to workers||Various organisations have offered assistance to frontline workers during the lockdown period. According to a release, the Live Grand Hotels and Grand Estancia and Radisson have come together to provide all three meals to doctors and healthcare workers. The hotels also provided meals for police personnel. Similarly, JSW Group under its Corporate Responsibility Scheme, donated five ventilators worth Rs. 25 lakh to Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital. B.N.S. Prakash Rao, Chief Officer of Salem Plant, handed over the equipment to R. Balajinathan, Dean of the hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/organisations-offer-assistance-to-workers/article31384844.ece
20 April 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Grocery kits distributed||Salem Corporation Commissioner R. Sadheesh distributed grocery kits containing 20 different essential materials to 350 sanitary workers under the Corporation using CSR funds here. According to Corporation officials, the kits have been provided to 1,413 sanitary workers till date and similar kits would be soon provided to 1,048 more sanitary workers. According to a release, health check ups are conducted once in three days for the sanitary workers and they are also provided with eggs along with breakfast and lunch.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/grocery-kits-distributed/article31384843.ece
20 April 2020||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||5 more discharged in Thoothukudi||Five more persons who underwent treatment for COVID-19 were discharged on Sunday. Cheering the patients, senior doctors, officials from the health and revenue, police and civic departments appealed to them to stay indoors for the next 14 days. Out of the 26 persons, who tested positive for COVID-19, 20 are getting treatment here, while five in Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital. While a woman patient died, the doctors had discharged two persons earlier and five more persons on Sunday. The remaining patients were stable and responding to the treatment well, doctors said. Earlier, at a review meeting, State government appointed Special Monitoring Officer M Karunakaran, accompanied by ADGP Mahesh Kumar Aggarwal, Collector Sandeep Nanduri, SP Arun Balagopalan, Dean Thiruvasagamani, RMO Sylus Jeyamani and others presented a comprehensive report on the present conditions. The action-taken report and the measures to contain the COVID-19 virus among other issues figured during the meeting, officials said. Expressing satisfaction, Dr. Karunakaran said that with the cooperation of the people, the government had to overcome the challenge posed by the virus. He urged the frontline workers to follow the guidelines given by the health department. The officials inspected a few of the containment zones and the arrangements made for movement of the duty staff in the common areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/5-more-discharged-in-thoothukudi/article31385068.ece
20 April 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Two areas in Perambalur turn into containment zones||V. Kalathur and Kurumbalurpalayam in Perambalur district have turned into containment zones after three people, including a policeman and a boy tested positive for COVID-19. Entry and exit of public has been barred by police personnel deployed at the containment zones. Health Department officials are sanitising the two places by spraying disinfectants and surveillance has been mounted. Police sources said samples of 34 police personnel attached to V. Kalathur police station, nine Home Guards, eight volunteers, five members of public and 34 family members of the police personnel were taken for testing. Samples of 38 persons turned out to be negative. However, they would continue to be in quarantine, said police sources Superintendent of Police, Perambalur Nisha Parthiban on Sunday said that V. Kalathur police station was being sanitised regularly after a policeman attached to it tested positive. A make-shift arrangement had been made for running the V. Kalathur police station close to the existing one. A vehicle has been deployed at the makeshift place with skeletal police strength deployed to keep a watch. Police personnel from other stations such as Mangalamedu have been deployed at V. Kalathur. Police personnel deployed for frontline duty to enforce prohibitory orders across the Tiruchi Range encompassing Tiruchi Rural, Perambalur, Ariyalur, Karur and Pudukottai districts have been sensitised again to maintain personal distancing, wear masks and gloves and sanitise their hands frequently in the wake of the Perambalur incident, said Deputy Inspector General of Police, Tiruchi Range, V. Balakrishnan. Samples of police personnel deployed in the containment zones across Tiruchi district were being taken as a precautionary measure for the past few days. Thuvarankurichi, Puthanatham, Somarasampet, Pulivalam and Manachanallur were among the areas which have been made containment zones, said the Superintendent of Police, Tiruchi Ziaul Haque.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-areas-in-perambalur-turn-into-containment-zones/article31385134.ece
20 April 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Focus shifts to counselling patients and distressed public||The District Mental Health Programme and the Department of Psychiatry at the Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital (MGMGH) have come together to guide and counsel COVID-19 patients and distressed citizens whose mental health has been affected by the lockdown. Speaking to The Hindu , District Mental Health Programme Officer P. T. Krishnamoorthy said that in the last few days, the helpline number has received several calls. “Some want to know when this lockdown will end, while others express their fears as they have cough or some existing ailments like diabetes or hypertension,” he says. The number receives about five calls a day from the district, he says. The doctors who attend the call usually guide them to their nearest Primary Healthcare Centre. “When the lockdown began, some distressed callers expressed anxiety and fear, however, now it is phobia of the condition itself,” he said. Citizens can call the DMHP helpline number – 9498859825 or the DMHP Psychiatrist on 9486814513. At the Department of Psychiatry in the MGMGH, a team of five to six doctors take at least 30 calls a day. The calls are to patients who have been admitted at the GH, positive patients, recovered patients and those with suspected COVID-19. “We call positive patients thrice a week. Similarly, we also call patients who have been discharged as a follow-up thrice a week”, a psychiatrist who is part of the team said. The calls address three important things – anxiety, phobia and loneliness. “A patient is anxious about whether their family members, like old parents would contract the virus from them or whether they will be stigmatised in their neighbourhood. Their sleep cycle and appetite are also affected because of it,” he said. “Some patients are worried that they will suffer a lot, and might even die from the disease,” he said. “Loneliness is inevitable. It is difficult for anybody to stay in a room on their own, not see their family members for at least a month,” he says. The doctors also explain the importance of the 28-day period of quarantine and why a patient requires it. The work is done in coordination with general physicians and specialists at the isolation wards. “We convey any physical distress to the doctors and they in turn let us know if any patient requires help,” the psychiatrist said. To reach the Department of Psychiatry, citizens can call 0431 – 2771465 with the extension number 714.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/focus-shifts-to-counselling-patients-and-distressed-public/article31385126.ece
20 April 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Police stations ensure personal distancing||The Tiruchi City Police have intensified sanitising of police stations in its limits, as a precautionary measure in the wake of spread of COVID-19 pandemic. About 1,000 kilograms of bleaching powder and 50 litres of Lysol had been procured for this purpose to spray them at police stations and police quarters. As another precautionary measure, benches have been placed in front of every police station falling within the city limits to ensure personal distancing between the approaching petitioners and the police personnel on duty and thereby avoiding close contact. The City Police has also procured about 500 cotton gloves for use by the personnel deployed at the check posts and those posted in the containment zones. Another 1,000 cotton gloves would be procured soon. Commissioner of Police, Tiruchi V. Varadharaju told The Hindu on Sunday that the police personnel were being advised every day to maintain personal hygiene, ensure personal distancing while on duty and keep a safe distance at the work spot. Mr. Varadharaju, Inspector General of Police, said a group of policemen would be tested on Monday using the Rapid Test Kit as a precautionary measure.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-stations-ensure-personal-distancing/article31385123.ece
20 April 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Sale of packaged water sees a sharp slump||Despite sultry conditions, sale of packaged drinking water has slumped by more than 50% during lockdown as commercial establishments that constitute the major customer base for distributors have been shut, sellers say. N. Hemanthan, Secretary, Packaged Drinking Water Supply Workers’ Association (PDWSWA) said that since March 23, suppliers are distributing only 20% of the usual extent of packaged water. “On an average, we distribute 65,000 cans a month, and during the lockdown period, distribution of only 15,000 cans could be made,” he says. Mr. Hemanthan cites the closure of companies, banks and even tea shops as the prime reason. “We would give at least five to six cans once in two days to some banks, and some big corporate companies. Now, residents are our only source of business. They too, however, are rationing their use despite the harshness of summer,” he says. A distributor requires a minimum of five people to supply drinking water cans. However, some of the workers are unable to come out due to fear of contracting the virus, Mr. Hemanthan says. “I cannot force them to come to work also. It is also difficult to make them come and return home before 1 p.m.,” he says. The shops and department stores which stocked packaged drinking water are also unable to make sufficient sales. “On an average we would send out 10 cans a day, but we would require a delivery boy, and a vehicle to do so. Nowadays we focus more on counter sales, as we must shut shop by afternoon,” a salesperson at a department store in Thillai Nagar said. The travel restrictions have also affected business, Mr. Hemanthan insists. In fact, water is more essential than milk. However, sometimes, policemen stop our delivery boys from distributing water after 1 p.m., he says. “Some of our two-wheelers were seized, too. We had to use our mini-autos to distribute water for a while,” he said. The association has approached the District Collector and has petitioned him to allow them to function until 5 p.m. Meanwhile, proper precautions are being taken during distribution. The distributors have informed residents that the cans would be left at the doorsteps. They also request them to sanitise the cans properly before using them and washing them properly while returning them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sale-of-packaged-water-sees-a-sharp-slump/article31385130.ece
20 April 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Lockdown throws up interesting statistics on death rate||Though surprising, the extended curfew in force to contain the spread of COVID-19 virus has reflected in notable decline in usual death occurrences. According to the official data available with the Tiruchi Corporation, which registers birth and death in its jurisdiction, 79 deaths have been reported in K. Abishekapuram zone up to April 18 from March 24 as against 139 deaths during the corresponding period in 2019. Thus revealing that the death rate is down by 44%. Similarly, the number of dead bodies being brought to Karumandapam gassifier crematorium, the second busiest crematorium next to the Oyamari crematorium in the city, has also come down drastically. A total of 16 dead bodies were burnt from March 24 to April 18 except for eight days from March 27 to April 3, when the crematorium was closed temporarily due to technical issues.. It was 39 bodies during the corresponding period in 2019. K. Abishekapuram zone comprises more than 70% of geographical areas of erstwhile Tiruchi municipality. Thillai Nagar, Cantonment, Puthur, Kumaran Nagar, Woraiyur and others come under K. Abishekapuram zone. Besides a number of residential localities, the zone accounts for many hospitals. “It is an interesting statistics. We are really surprised to note down the drastic decline in number of deaths in the city. It is undoubtedly a major positive aspect of the lockdown,” S. Sivasubramanian, Commissioner, Tiruchi Corporation, told The Hindu . Citing a field report, he said that patients visiting the hospitals too had come down drastically. Most of the hospitals in the city had restricted their functioning since the start of the curfew period. The sharp decline in overall death rate would throw up a number of questions on figuring out the reasons. M.A. Aleem, former Vice Principal, K.A.P. Viswanatham Medical College, Tiruchi, said both communicable and non-communicable diseases had come down significantly. It could be mainly because of positive and welcome lifestyle modifications by the people during curfew. The people were confined to their homes, thereby protecting themselves from communicable diseases. Moreover, they had been forced to eat home-made food. It meant that they ate food prepared in a better hygienic manner without unwanted ingredients. “Patients seeking medical help have come down during the lockdown period. Some have begun to manage with minimum medical help and medicines,” Dr. Aleem added.  We are surprised to note the drastic decline in number of deaths. It is undoubtedly a major positive aspect of the lockdown S. Sivasubramanian Commissioner, Tiruchi Corporation||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/lockdown-throws-up-interesting-statistics-on-death-rate/article31385127.ece
20 April 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Railway workshop designs prototype of low-cost non-invasive ventilator||A prototype of a low-cost non-invasive ventilator for COVID-19 patients has been designed and developed by the Golden Rock Railway Workshop here. The design for the ventilator was finalised by a team of technical personnel of the workshop after holding detailed discussions with medical professionals, anaesthesiologists and subject experts. Developed under ‘Project SWAAS’, the ventilator could control Breath Per Minute (BPM), Tidal Volume (TiV) and Inspiration to ExpirationTime ratio. In-house 3 D modelling was utilised for testing the design. Clinical parameters and functionality were obtained from doctors at the Railway Hospital at Perambur, Golden Rock and Madurai besides doctors from the Government Medical College Kottayam and AIIMS, New Delhi, Chief Workshop Manager Shyamadhar Ram said. The doctors were consulted online in view of the current lockdown. A team of six supervisors from production and diesel shops besides a couple of works managers all led by Deputy Chief Mechanical Engineer (Production) Jithin Nelson developed the ventilator in a span of about 10 days, Mr. Shyamadhar Ram further said. Final trials were done by a Senior Divisional Medical Officer – Anaesthesia from the Railway Hospital, Tiruchi, a couple of days ago. The cost involved in developing the ventilator prototype was around Rs. 25,000. The system has a buzzer alert in case of emergency with emergency switch off provision. Mr. Shyamadhar Ram said the workshop had taken up this initiative on its own to join hands with the nation in the fight against COVID-19 pandemic spread. The workshop would approach the Indian Council of Medical Research to seek its approval prior to going in for production.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/railway-workshop-designs-prototype-of-low-cost-non-invasive-ventilator/article31385133.ece
20 April 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||NIT-T initiates teaching-learning through online mode||National Institute of Technology - Tiruchi (NIT-T) has initiated teaching-learning through online mode. The study materials such as Power Point presentations and lecture notes have been uploaded in the institute portal (studymaterial.nitt.edu). Students are accessing the study materials using their official email ID credentials from various parts of the country and abroad. Students have also been recommended appropriate online courses in SWAYAM portal for cross references, NIT-T Director Mini Shaji Thomas said. Alongside, the faculty members are conducting online lectures through video conferencing. Since good broadband connectivity is not available everywhere, recorded online lectures through video conferencing are also being sent to the students. Faculty have also used other platforms such as google drive, google classroom, Email and Whatsapp. Students are encouraged to clear their doubts from the faculty concerned through any electronic mode. The students are submitting online assignments which are considered as internal assessments, Prof. Mini Shaji Thomas said. As online study modules are not sufficient for laboratory and project work, there will be some contact classes after the institution opens post the nationwide lockdown with a modified academic calendar. The remaining laboratory experiments and project works would be carried out then. The institute will also explore the possibility to conduct online exams, if the lockdown period is extended further. “The faculty members have been asked to develop innovative methods to engage students through the online teaching-learning process for purposeful utilisation of time,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nit-t-initiates-teaching-learning-through-online-mode/article31385124.ece
20 April 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Inspector, husband suspended for taking bribe||A woman Inspector of Police and her husband, a head constable, who had acted in tandem and allegedly took bribe from commercial establishments, have been placed under suspension following a departmental enquiry. Sripriya, Inspector of Sirkazhi All Women Police Station, and her husband Somasundaram, a head constable attached to Eravancheri station in neighbouring Tiruvarur district, had allegedly demanded and accepted bribes from shopkeepers in Tiruvenkadu area near Sirkazhi where the woman official was deployed for enforcement of prohibitory orders for containment of novel coronavirus. Based on complaints lodged by the representatives of commercial establishments with the Deputy Superintendent of Police, a departmental enquiry was conducted and the veracity was established. The suspension orders were issued on Saturday, police sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/inspector-husband-suspended-for-taking-bribe/article31385135.ece
20 April 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Mettur level||The water level in Mettur dam stood at 100.9 feet on Sunday against its full level of 120 feet. The inflow was 455 cusecs and the was discharge 999 cusecs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mettur-level/article31385137.ece
20 April 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||1,000 mobile rapid test kits arrive in Tirunelveli||The district administration has received 1000 rapid test kits with which any person can be diagnosed whether he or she tested positive or negative to COVID-19 virus within about 15 minutes, said Collector Shilpa Prabhakar Satish here on Sunday. Speaking to reporters at the Melapalayam zone office of Tirunelveli Corporation, she said that the rapid-anti-body test kit would be very useful to detect in large areas, especially in containment zones. “Once the test was complete, we can have an idea on who all required to be tested for a detailed examination. The kit would indicate whether a person (symptomatic or asymptomatic) tested negative or positive to the COVID-19 virus. If he or she tested positive, we have to examine further. In the event of testing negative, he or she can be informed about it at once,” she said. With the arrival of these test kits, the health authorities would be able to screen more number of persons, including the frontline health workers and among others, who were deployed in containment zones. The Collector said that there were nine containment zones in the district — Valliyoor, Krishnapuram, Pathamadai, Kalakad, KTC Nagar, Pettai Sivan Kovil, Darling Nagar, Kodiswaran Nagar and Melapalayam. All safety protocols laid out by the Department of Health and Family Welfare were being adhered to by the authorities. As for the COVID-19 patients undergoing treatment at the Medical College Hospital here, she said that out of 60 persons, 23 were discharged and were in home quarantine for 14 days. Only after conducting the exit test, they would be permitted to move out of their dwellings. There were about 3,500 persons under home quarantine for different reasons upon whom, medical teams continued to keep a watch through video call. The Collector said that persons coming from other districts/States who visited the district here were screened and only then allowed entry. The plan of the district was to screen every resident in each dwelling. After examining the modalities, it would be executed, she added. On the reported relaxation of curfew for some sections from April 20, Ms. Shilpa said that only after the Chief Minister announced, they would be given effect. Until then, the curfew would stand in force, she clarified.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/1000-mobile-rapid-test-kits-arrive-in-tirunelveli/article31385071.ece
20 April 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Nine more recover in Tiruppur||As many as nine patients from Tiruppur district who recovered from COVID-19 were discharged on Saturday, District Collector K. Vijayakarthikeyan said on Sunday. This brings the total number of patients from Tiruppur discharged from Coimbatore’s ESI Hospital to 10, he told mediapersons. As of Sunday, Tiruppur district saw the confirmation of 108 COVID-19 positive cases. Strict action will be taken against those who disclose and spread personal details of COVID-19 positive patients on social media, Mr. Vijayakarthikeyan warned. “We have stepped up the sample collection in the district,” he added. With the recent introduction of the mobile sample collection vehicle, samples are being collected in the containment zones to minimise people with COVID-19 symptoms visiting the Tiruppur Government Hospital for sample collection. Out of nearly 1.3 lakh migrant workers in the district, nearly 66,000 are staying in the premises of their workplaces during the lockdown. Among the rest who stay outside, dry rations have been supplied to nearly 12,000 workers and the rest will be covered soon, Mr. Vijayakarthikeyan said. The Collector inspected the temporary vegetable market set up at Nanjappa Municipal Boys Higher Secondary School and fish markets at CTC Corner, Kangeyam Road, on Sunday morning. On Sunday, 22 persons left for their homes from ESI Hospital in Coimbatore after recovering from the disease. Of this, 18 were from Coimbatore and four were from Tiruppur, said hospital Medical Superintendent T. Ravikumar. Already, 51 persons including those from other districts had recovered from the disease and left the hospital for their homes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nine-more-recover-in-tiruppur/article31384852.ece
20 April 2020||TIRUVANNAMALAI,TAMIL NADU||Two Russians rescued from hills||Aided by drones, the Tiruvannamalai police rescued two Russian nationals who were stranded on Annamalaiyar hills on Sunday. Superintendent of Police M.R. Sibi Chakravarthi said law enforcement officers had been conducting checks on the hills to prevent unlawful activities during the lockdown period. During one such check, a team spotted two people there. They were brought down from the hills and, following an inquiry, were identified as Victor, 29, and his wife Tatiana. They had reached Tiruvannamalai for a “spiritual tour” a month ago. They were here on a tourist visa and had earlier been staying in a lodging house. After exhausting all their money, they had gone to the hilltop on a “meditation mission”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-russians-rescued-from-hills/article31384832.ece
20 April 2020||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Two more test positive in Virudhunagar district||Virudhunagar district officials are perplexed over a college girl contracting COVID-19 infection as they are not able to establish the source of her infection in the small village near here. Besides, a 33-year-old engineer, who had returned from Guinea in West Africa on March 23, too has been tested positive. “The man has come through Addis Ababa in Ethiopia and has been in home quarantine at Sedapatti since then. His samples were tested as part of the routine testing of persons under home quarantine. He should have completed his home quarantine on Sunday,” Collector R. Kannan said. The man has remained asymptomatic till he was tested positive. The girl, who was a hosteller in a college in Virudhunagar, had returned to her village, Kumarapuram after the colleges were closed on March 17. She had only gone to her grandmother’s house in a nearby village. “After she complained of fever and cold, her samples were taken at the Primary Health Centre in Kanniseripudur on March 15,” he added. The officials had started tracing the contacts of both the positive cases and already eight villages around Kanniseripudur had been brought under containment zone, Mr. Kannan said. Stating that disinfection was carried out in all these villages, he said that samples of 50 contacts each of both the fresh positive cases had been collected on Sunday. With this, the total number of positive cases in Virudhunagar district has gone up to 19. However, eight positive patients have been discharged so far.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-more-test-positive-in-virudhunagar-district/article31385072.ece
20 April 2020||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Help centres for farmers||Department of Agriculture has taken up various steps to ensure uninterrupted activities of farmers and farm hands. If they faced any inconvenience, they could approach officials of nearby agricultural extension centres, Assistant Agricultural Officer, Agricultural Officer, Assistant Director (Agriculture) in person or through phone to get their problems solved, said Personal Assistant (Agriculture) to Collector Sankar S. Narayanan. People can call Assistant Directors (Agriculture) — Rajapalayam – 94883-00459; Srivilliputtur- 99941-31049 and Watrap- 82480-41337. Other ADs — Sattur- 94420-56696; Sivakasi – 94425-05439 and Vembakottai – 94869-77893. People can also call ADs: Virudhunagar – 94433-05902; Aruppukottai – 94431-48716 and Kariyapatti- 94862-68234. Mr. Narayanan said that farmers who were member of Farmers’ Producers Companies had been taking up varied activities during the lockdown like supplying vegetables, fruits and grocery items. Besides, the companies were using the agricultural equipment for disinfection in public places.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/help-centres-for-farmers/article31385065.ece
20 April 2020||April 20 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19: 10-day-old baby tests positive||Five persons, including a newborn, tested positive for COVID-19 in Coimbatore on Sunday. Of the five persons, three including a 10-day-old baby were from Pollachi while two other cases were from Sirumugai. Health Department had collected swab samples from nearly 40 people from Pollachi and more than 20 persons from Sirumugai and results of five persons returned positive. Neighbour The two persons from Sirumugai who tested positive contracted the disease through a neighbour, who had returned from Delhi after attending a religious conference last month. Similarly, a six-year-old boy from Pollachi who tested positive for COVID-19 on Saturday also contracted the disease through a neighbour who attended the religious conference. The boy had visited the neighbour’s house before and after he tested positive for the disease. Swab samples were collected from several post-graduate medical students and house surgeons of the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital. This was after two PG students of the hospital, who did duty in the CIOVID-19 ward at the Government Medical College and ESI Hospital, Coimbatore, tested positive for the disease last week.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/covid-19-10-day-old-baby-tests-positive/article31384866.ece
20 April 2020||April 20 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Salem Corporation resumes works under Smart Cities Mission||The Salem Corporation has begun construction works of projects under the Smart Cities Mission. According to Corporation officials, the works have been resumed ensuring less number of workers at the work sites and following necessary precautionary measures. Following the extension of lockdown, the Central government offered relaxation for various sectors for resuming work, including construction works, in municipal areas where labourers are available at site. The Corporation has currently resumed projects under Smart Cities Mission like construction of two-tier bus stand at old bus stand area and underground drainage works in Second Agraharam. The projects are being carried out at a cost of Rs. 92.13 crore and a temporary bus stand was also constructed in Bose Maidan. Corporation officials said that necessary precautionary measures have been taken at the sites for workers. Officials said that earlier 70-80 persons were usually employed for work, now only 30 persons were employed. Officials said that precautionary measures have been taken and necessary tests were conducted. At Second Agraharam, where underground works are progressing, since most of the works are machine-based, five persons are at the site instead of 10, they added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/salem-corporation-resumes-works-under-smart-cities-mission/article31384859.ece
20 April 2020||April 20 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Over 600 kg meat seized||Zonal sanitary officers and sanitary inspectors of the Coimbatore Corporation on Sunday seized over 600 kg mutton, chicken, fish and beef from over 200 shops after the owners opened the establishments in violation of the COVID-19-induced lockdown order. The officials also sealed five shops. Sources in the civic body said the officials seized 665.50 kg mutton, chicken and beef from 236 shops in East, North and Central zones and in the process also sealed three shops in East Zone and two in Central Zone. The Corporation’s action on Sunday followed the Coimbatore district administration initiating action against a chicken stall in Masakalipalayam on Saturday. The sources said that the civic body had to initiate action against the shops because the owners opened them for business, in violation of the lockdown order the administration had issued on April 11. The sources said that the sanitary officers and inspectors poured phenoyl or sprinkled bleaching powder on the seized goods before burying them locally or taking them to the Corporation’s dump yard in Vellalore for burying there. The sources said that among those against whom the Corporation officials had initiated action included four persons who sold fish off their two-wheelers. The Corporation authorities seized the goods and then alerted the police station concerned for further action. The police had registered cases against the four, they added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/over-600-kg-meat-seized/article31384867.ece
20 April 2020||April 20 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Flyover works restart on Trichy Road||Workers and machinery were back at the flyover construction site on Trichy Road on Sunday, after a gap of nearly a month. With the district administration giving its nod, construction work restarted for the Trichy Road flyover. An official in the Highways Department (National Highways wing) said, nearly 60 workers who were engaged in the work were staying at the construction company’s camp. Personal distancing Most of them were north Indian workers. With the Union Government giving guidelines to re-start highway projects from April 20, the department had approached the district administration for approval and had said the workers should maintain personal distancing. About 20 workers will stay at the concrete mixing plant, another 20 at the yard near Ondipudur, and 20 more will be at the construction site. The supervisors and officials of the Department will oversee the works, the official said. The Department will also start works on the flyover under construction on Mettupalayam road and road strengthening between Sundarapuram and Eachanari. Nearly eight km will be strengthened between Sundarapuram and Eachanari and a short distance was completed before the lockdown. “We need to get the entire set of workers - those who drive the vehicles, supervisors, labourers - to re-start the works. We will also stop if there is any complaint from any segment regarding the works,” the official said. “In a way re-starting the works is fine as there is hardly any traffic now. The department should plan to complete works where there is a need to stop the vehicle movement. But, all precautions should be taken,” said K. Kathirmathiyon, secretary of Coimbatore Consumer Cause.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/flyover-works-restart-on-trichy-road/article31384854.ece
20 April 2020||April 20 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Salem GH scales up testing facilities for COVID-19||Authorities have scaled up facilities at the Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital here to increase the pace of testing and provide results of COVID-19 test samples at the earliest. Govt. approved lab The viral research and diagnostic laboratory at the Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital is one of the Government laboratories in the State approved to conduct Reverse Transcription-Polymerase Chain Reaction tests on COVID-19 samples. Capacity increased R. Balajinathan, Dean of the hospital said, “the capacity of the lab here has been increased three-fold. The equipment required for conducting the tests has been doubled and thrice the strength has been deployed for conducting the tests here. The lab, which was earlier conducting testing of 150 samples can now test up to 540 samples. Also, under a professor and assistant professor, 18 post-graduate students and 24 lab technicians have been posted at the lab and they would be working across three shifts here. “Through this, we would be able to know results of RT-PCR tests in six-eight hours,” he said. According to authorities, as on Saturday, 2,760 samples have been tested here.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/salem-gh-scales-up-testing-facilities-for-covid-19/article31384860.ece
20 April 2020||April 20 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘How I fought COVID-19 and won!’||As a doctor posted at the Apollo Emergency Clinic at the Chennai Airport, I was worried about the exposure to the SARS-CoV-2 virus while on duty. However, I continued to work until passenger operations stopped as part of the national lockdown, taking precautions such as wearing a mask and washing hands regularly. My tryst with COVID-19 began on March 31 when I started to get a fever and a sore feeling in my throat. It was okay with paracetamol for a day or two but then the symptoms increased in intensity — a high fever accompanied by chills, headache, and sore throat. The headache stood out in its severity. I had never experienced such a severe headache in my life. The fever went up to 102 degrees and left me feeling exhausted. Keeping in view the situation and the fact that I had been working at the airport with the potential risk of exposure to the virus from any infected passengers, I decided to get my COVID-19 testing done immediately. I had already isolated myself in my room and was taking all precautions to avoid contact with others. I waited anxiously for the test results, which came back positive for COVID-19. I right away informed the head of my department at Apollo Hospitals, who advised me to go to our hospital at Vanagaram that had been converted into a COVID-19 speciality hospital. Taking due care, I reached the hospital in Vanagaram, where I was immediately admitted to the isolation ward on 4th April. I underwent a complete medical check by a team of senior consultants across specialities, with various tests for any other existing co-morbidities. There was no other serious problem and I was glad for my healthy lifestyle at 40 years of age. Confirmatory test The confirmatory test also came back as positive for COVID-19 and my treatment began. I was prescribed hydroxychloroquine and other medicines for my symptoms as per the guidelines. The medical staff took the utmost care of me. My condition was monitored continuously. A team of doctors visited me every day and gave updates about my health. Even though they used to be dressed up in PPE with faces hidden behind masks, their visits helped me a lot, as being in isolation is not easy. With no other visitors and only a television for company, I looked forward to the doctors’ visits. The staff nurses sincerely attended to me, giving me my diet, and medications administered on time without delay. The housekeeping staff ensured that my room and the surroundings were clean and tidy. I was fortunate that my symptoms did not include any respiratory complaint and there were no other complications. I began to feel better. The fever subsided and the medication stopped after the course was completed. On 13th April, I was re-tested for COVID-19 and to my great relief, the result was negative. The test was repeated after 24 hours as per the protocol and guidelines from WHO and when that too came negative; I was discharged on 15th April, after being successfully treated for COVID-19. It was while I was walking out of the hospital that the realisation struck! I had been one of the over two million patients around the world who were confirmed cases of COVID-19. I had been successfully treated for this infection and discharged after a full recovery. I raised a silent prayer of thanks from my heart to the doctors, nurses, lab technicians, housekeeping staff and others who took care of me. I wish them and the thousands of doctors working round the clock all the best to continue their noble job and keep saving lives! I also look forward to joining my duties again soon!  (The author works in Apollo Emergency Clinic, Apollo Hospitals Group)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/how-i-fought-covid-19-and-won/article31384817.ece
20 April 2020||April 20 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Now, an app to find vehicles and ferry farm produce||Agriculture Department officials have urged farmers and traders to download and use ‘Kisan Rath’ app to search for vehicles to ferry their agricultural and horticultural produce during the lockdown. Joint Director of Agriculture T. Vivekanandan said that farmer producer groups and traders could place their requirement for transportation on the app and details of the trucker would be sent to them after which they can directly negotiate with the trucker and finalise the freight rates. The app can be used to transport produce from farms to mandis and warehouses within the locality. Vehicles can also be booked to transport agricultural produce to other States. Though the government announced that there must be no restriction in transporting agricultural produce, the traders are still facing difficulties in transporting the produce to other States, according to T. Perumal, national secretary of Bharatiya Kisan Sangh. “This discourages the traders to procure the produce from farmers, who are ultimately affected,” he said. But this app will provide some respite and officials have also issued helpline numbers to be contacted in case of any problem, said Mr. Perumal. The application can be downloaded from Google Play store.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/now-an-app-to-find-vehicles-and-ferry-farm-produce/article31385074.ece
20 April 2020||April 20 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Work on to check community transmission in Pollachi||Officials from the Department of Public Health in Pollachi Revenue Division were working on to trace the community transmission of COVID-19, if any, and arrest the spread, the district administration said here in a release issued on Sunday. The release, issued after Collector K. Rajamani held a meeting in Pollachi to take stock of the mechanism in place to contain the spread of the SARS-CoV-2 virus, said so far three persons in the division had tested positive. The department workers were working to trace the persons who had come in contact with them. They were spraying disinfectants with support from the local bodies there. Appealing to the people to stay indoors and abide by the lockdown order, the release said the district stood second in the State with over 90 cases. So far, 127 persons had tested positive. This was more important as the administration was working with the motto of ensuring zero positive cases in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/work-on-to-check-community-transmission-in-pollachi/article31384864.ece
20 April 2020||April 20 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||799 persons held for violations||As many as 799 persons were arrested in Coimbatore on Saturday on charges of violating the prohibitory order issued as part of lockdown. A total of 630 vehicles were seized from them. While Coimbatore city police registered 365 cases and arrested 368 persons, the rural police arrested 431 persons in 373 cases. City police arrested 72 persons, who were found in public places without wearing mask. All the arrested persons were released on bail. Coimbatore rural police said that they had started to enforce colour coding of vehicles. They had marked vehicles spotted in public places with colour codes for a week. The police marked colours namely red (Sunday), white (Monday), brown (Tuesday), purple (Wednesday), yellow (Thursday), blue (Friday) and green (Saturday) on vehicles stopped at check points. This was to reduce the frequency in the use of vehicles. A police officer said that owners of vehicles will be booked if the colour code in the vehicles does not match with the colour code of a particular day. 98 cases in Namakkal Namakkal police registered 98 cases and seized 47 vehicles. Salem City police registered 49 cases and seized 40 vehicles for violating prohibitory orders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/799-persons-held-for-violations/article31384865.ece
20 April 2020||April 20 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||On a mission||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/on-a-mission/article31384863.ece
20 April 2020||April 20 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Scorching lockdown||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/scorching-lockdown/article31385140.ece
20 April 2020||April 20 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||DLSA launches free online counselling||The District Legal Services Authority is offering free online counselling and has offered helpline numbers for women, children and senior citizens to report their complaints. In Salem, public can contact Secretary, DLSA at 9364200591. public can also contact 9894957867, women helpline numbers 181 and 9789040682 and Additional District Superintendent of Police in number 9498103700. In Namakkal, public contact secretary, DLSA in 9787841777 and in helpline number 9655652896. Public can also contact social welfare officer in 9865623237 and district child protection officer at 9715310135. Officials said that immediate action would be taken on complaints received.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dlsa-launches-free-online-counselling/article31384850.ece
20 April 2020||April 20 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Reader’s Mail - April 20, 2020||The announcement by the government that Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act works will resume after April 20 will be a big relief to many people in rural areas as they are left with money after the nationwide lockdown came into force. It is imperative that they are provided with safety paraphernalia like masks and hand sanitisers. Workers face the additional burden of finding transport to arrive at work and withdraw their money (wages). The authorities must direct local bodies to pay the workers at the working sites every day so that they can meet their day-to-day requirements. This will also help decongest the crowd thronging banks. Sainithii. M,  Madurai    The Tamil Nadu government has banned distribution of relief materials by anybody other than the government itself. Non-governmental organisations like Red Cross, Rotary and Lions clubs and philanthropists are doing an excellent job at this critical hour by distributing relief materials to those in need. The government should encourage such humanitarian service. No other State government has come out with such a ban. I appeal to the Chief Minister to allow distribution of relief to the needy. Asmabagh Anvardeen,  Ramanathapuram    To mitigate the economic devastation of the poor, a partial lifting of restrictions imposed during the COVID-19 lockdown is essential. A few restrictions can, of course, remain until a vaccine or cure is found. Farmers, fishermen, electricians, plumbers, auto drivers and construction workers must be allowed to work by rigidly enforcing the physical distancing norms. Reopening of shops providing materials for workers is needed. Elected local body leaders of villages and towns must be empowered to take such decisions on relaxation of the lockdownt. G. Stanley Jeyasingh, Nagercoil||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/readers-mail-april-20-2020/article31385079.ece
20 April 2020||April 20 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Readers Mail||The dilapidated condition of the bridge at Omandur near Thuraiyur town warrants replacement. The bridge constructed three decades ago bears the weight of numerous school buses and other large vehicles. The public in Puthanampatti expect the district administration to act fast on their various petitions seeking construction of a new bridge. Saravanan Natesan Puthanampatti   Students and teachers of Karattampatti primary school near Thuraiyur are in fear because of the damaged condition of the roof. The presence of a withered peepul tree close by is causing them anxious moments. The administration must step in by removing the damaged tree, setting right the dilapidated roof and raising new trees. M. Periyamalaiyan Karattampatti    Heap of waste materials at the entrance of Warners Road is a breeding ground for mosquitoes and other insects. The waste in the heart of the city could lead to outbreak of illness. The authorities have to take steps on a war footing to clear the dump yard and restore hygiene. S. Raghavan Cantonment    Medical professionals battling coronavirus deserve special appreciation. At a time when Intensive Care Units are utilised solely for COVID-19 patients, attention must also be accorded in hospitals for handling other serious ailments like heart attacks and kidney disorder. Though corona needs most of our attention, we cannot afford to ignore other patients with other kinds of serious ailments. The State government must support medical professionals who continue to spend their time and energy to save lives of patients with other serious ailments. J. Eden Alexander Thanjavur    A need has arisen for Aavin officials to revisit quality control procedures at its plant as long-time customers find the fat content to be lesser than the extent promised on the cover. Also, the solid content seems to be in excess of the accepted level. The variation is noticeable in the milk supplied during this month. While there is customer satisfaction over the Aavin milk conforming to ISO standards and the taste of milk and curd, a scrutiny of the processing section will be desirable. T.M. Ranganathan Srirangam    A better distribution system for the bags of assorted vegetables and fruits distributed at a reasonable price by the City Corporation will be appreciated. Particularly during weekends when temporary markets are kept closed, the vegetable bags are not distributed in the Cantonment area, though it is located closest to the Corporation Office. M. Raja Tiruchi    Employees of software companies working from home look for the intervention of the Ministry of Labour and Employment as higher workload is causing mental stress. The employees are unable to regulate the working time and face difficulties in taking care of the family members. P. Aravindha Tiruchi    The country is in a tough position of choosing between lives and livelihood. Social distancing for prevention of coronavirus is a challenge in a populous country like ours where a majority of people live in crowded places. In this context, public send-offs for patients who have successfully recovered from the disease, that too in the presence of large number of officials, medical staff and the media persons, mocks at the idea of social distancing. It also raises questions about the privacy of patients, as they and their families are likely to be discriminated against by some sections of the society. Those who are at the forefront in the fight against Covid-19 are duty bound to set the right example for others. K. Ananth Karur    The announcement of partial reopening of the economy from COVID-19 lockdown will warm the cockles of the migrant workers and farmers, and give a boost to the economy. As there can be no real individual freedom in the absence of economic security, the country has a responsibility to bring about revival in phases by exercising caution. While the Prime Minister is leaving no stone unturned to save the lives of the people on the one hand and by taking all possible measures to set the economy in order, there must be no room for political chicanery at this critical juncture. R. Pichumani Thippirajapuram    Since examination for standard X is vital for students to decide on their future areas of interest, the public examination is a necessity. Leaders of political parties that clamour for abolition of the public exam and declaring all pass need to realise that the Standard X is different from the other classes. S. Krishnan Thippirajapuram||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/readers-mail/article31385121.ece
20 April 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||18 bank branches to be closed in Belagavi dist.||As many as 18 branches of 12 banks that are functioning in villages or towns from where coronavirus positive cases have been reported will be closed. In a letter to Deputy Commissioner S.B. Bommanahalli, district lead bank manager has said that branches in the military camp area in Belagavi, Bilgundi, Hire Bagewadi, Kudchi, Peeranwadi, Halaga, Sankeshwar and Yallur will be closed. The district administration has identified and declared these areas as sensitive due to the tracing of positive cases. The police are asking us to close down the branches as crowd control can be a problem, he said. Automated Teller Machines (ATMs) in these areas have been replenished with cash, he said. However, this has not gone down well with the residents. “Cash flow is a necessity during lockdown. We will face serious problems if the banks don’t function,’’ said Sambhaji Birajdar, a resident of Bilgundi. Bank staff, however, are apprehensive of going to their branches, say bank officers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/18-bank-branches-to-be-closed-in-belagavi-dist/article31384933.ece
20 April 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Writer Chandrakanth Kusnoor passes away||Veteran writer and translator Chandrakanth Kusnoor died of age-related illnesses in Belagavi on Saturday night. He was 90. His last rites were conducted in the early hours of Sunday. A multi-faceted personality,he earned fame as a writer, translator, novelist, poet, playwright, painter, art critic, and institution builder. He was among the few artistes to have won awards from the Karnataka Nataka Academy, Karnataka Lalitha Kala Academy, and Karnataka Sahitya Academy. Man of many talents A polyglot, he worked as a cross-translator between Kannada, Marathi, Hindi, and Urdu. His translations of the works of U.R. Ananthamurthy and Srikrishna Alanahalli into Hindi were well-received. He is hailed by literary historians as the first person to introduce the Haiku format of poetry into Kannada. He was also among the pioneering abstract writers in Kannada. His plays such as Dindi , Vidushaka , Ratto Ratto Rayara Magale , and Ani Bantu Ondu Ani were widely performed. His biographical novel Gohar Jan chronicles the growth of professional theatre music tradition. He was also an abstract painter and had converted his home in Channamma Nagar into a mini-art gallery. He continued to paint till the very end, said artist Balu Sadalage. He hailed from Kalaburagi, where he worked as a college professor for some years. He settled in Belagavi after his retirement as theDeputy Director of Kannada and Culture. Along with friends, he founded the Ranga Madhyama in Kalaburagi and the Gulmohar Belgaum Arts Group in Belagavi. The State government honoured him with the Karnataka Rajyotsava award.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/writer-chandrakanth-kusnoor-passes-away/article31384774.ece
20 April 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Apprehensions over keeping all primary contacts in single hall during quarantine||Is the State government’s practice of isolation and quarantine among the reasons for the fast spread of COVID 19? This is the question being debated among doctors and officials in Belagavi district. As per standard practice, the government is placing all primary contacts in a single hall till the end of the quarantine period. Their throat swabs are collected every 12 days and tested. If anyone tests positive, he is removed to a different isolation ward. Alternatively, if any of the inmates develops symptoms related to coronavirus infection, he is placed in isolation and tested for the presence of the virus. Relatives of affected patients fear that this practice is flawed and could spread the virus from those affected to non-affected. “The government is tracing all primary contacts and secondary contacts of all positive cases. Then, it is putting all suspected cases in the same hall. We suspect that this is leading to a situation where even the non-positive cases are becoming positive,” said Mohmmad Naqui Abbas, whose relative has been quarantined for being a primary contact of a positive person. Some doctors too have expressed concern over this practice. “Let us take the case of the patient from Sankeshwar. He tested negative twice in 14 days. But his third test proved to be positive. This raises suspicion that he developed the infection in the quarantine hall, said a doctor who has been working with the district administration in COVID-19 management. The district administration is working without a proper plan, say some doctors. “Last week, the district administration officers told us they would bring 10 suspected cases for quarantine in the district designated hospital. We had made arrangements and the shift staff went home. But in the middle of the night, the officers brought 30 cases. We had to rearrange some beds and accommodate 15 each in two halls,” said another doctor. A para-medical worker complained that the district administration officers had asked her to stay in a lodge in which some suspected cases were accommodated. “I refused to do that as I didn’t want to be exposed to infection. We are using personal protection equipment (PPE) and other kits in the hospital. But in the hotel, there is no such thing. That is why, I have shifted to a friend’s house which was vacant,” she said.  PPE kits Other doctors who spoke to The Hindu also complained about the inadequate number of PPE kits and a lower number of ventilators. Officers say that they are following the recommended protocol but, at the same time, express helplessness over the lack of infrastructure and resources. “We are forced to keep all primary contacts or secondary contacts in the same hall. We cannot put one person in an individual room. We have over 2,040 persons under observation in the district. Of these, only 326 are quarantined at home. The rest are all in institutional quarantine in government schools and private hotels and lodges. Over 700 have completed 14 days in quarantine and 960 have completed 28 days in quarantine. We have sent 749 samples for tests of which 534 came negative and 42 tested positive. As you can see the numbers we are handling are huge. We are trying to quarantine them in private hotels, but such efforts have faced strong resistance from local residents. That is why we are forced to keep the people under observation in single halls, albeit in different buildings,” said a senior officer who is a member of the district COVID-19 management committee. “When we put them in a single hall, the social distancing of six feet is maintained between two beds. We can’t put barricades between the beds. It is the responsibility of inmates to maintain the necessary distance. But if they mingle, sit on the same bed or sit near each other and chat, they cannot blame us,” the officer said. Deputy Commissioner S.B. Bommanahalli has defended the practice. “We are following the State-mandated protocol. This is what is followed in all districts,” he said. “We are ordering more PPE kits and ventilators,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/apprehensions-over-keeping-all-primary-contacts-in-single-hall-during-quarantine/article31384922.ece
20 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Security guards enforce social distancing in city apartments||Security guards in their uniforms stationed at the entrance of apartment complexes and buildings have become crucial gatekeepers for residents. They ensure that tradesmen and delivery agents do not enter the premises. “They play a critical role in enforcing the lockdown and social distancing in large residential colonies and even on the streets to some extent,” said a senior police officer. Most security guards have families in other parts of the State and country. Their lives, too, have been disrupted by the lockdown with the lack of public transport and inadequate facilities such as food. Several of them are also facing the prospect of no pay during the lockdown. Bishnu Prasad, a security guard posted at an apartment in Vidyaranyapura, said he used to earlier travel to a room he had rented, but ever since the lockdown was imposed he has been staying in a room in the apartment itself. “The residents have been kind to provide me food,” he said. He had to shift as he travelled nearly 10 km every day to work by a BMTC bus, which is now off the road. Several other guards face the same issue as buses have gone off the road. Flt. Lt. K.P. Nagesh, mentor, Karnataka Security Services Association, said agencies usually post guards in the same area they live. “A small percentage of them travel long distances. Most of our guards travel on cycles as they live nearby,” he said, adding that those on the rolls, who lived far from the buildings they were assigned to, have either been shifted to places closer to their residence or given time off. In most apartments, security guards are now given the task of enforcing social distancing, as the associations have imposed several restrictions on movement of residents in the common areas and are levying fine on violators. This is turning out to be tricky for the guards. Many said night shifts were becoming more difficult. Selva Kumar, a security guard, wishes he had his daily dose of tea and cigarettes to keep him awake. “Usually, we smoke and drink several cups of tea to keep ourselves awake but we don’t have the luxury now,” he said, and added that stray dogs, most of them starving, have become more aggressive, but they seem to be keeping mischief makers also at bay,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/security-guards-enforce-social-distancing-in-city-apartments/article31384723.ece
20 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Two women who tested positive on Sunday die; death toll rises to 16||Two women in Karnataka who tested positive for COVID-19 on Sunday — both with Severe Acute Respiratory Illness (SARI) — died on the same day. With this, the total number of deaths in the State has increased to 16. According to a media bulletin by the Department of Health and Family Welfare, a 65-year-woman, who was a resident of Bengaluru, passed away in the city. The death of a 50-year-old woman, a resident of Bantwal, was also reported in Dakshina Kannada district. Meanwhile, six new positive cases were reported from across the State, taking the total number to 390. This includes 16 deaths and 111 patients who have been discharged. While four of the new cases were from Mysuru, two were reported from Dakshina Kannada. Of the Mysuru cases, two had a travel history to Delhi and the other two belonged to the cluster in Nanjangud, where a pharmaceutical company employee first tested positive last month. The cluster has reported over 50 positive cases so far. In Dakshina Kannada, while one patient has died, the other is a primary contact of a patient who tested positive last week. Meanwhile, an analysis of 20 districts with positive cases shows that in four districts, all the patients admitted have been discharged, while seven districts do not have a single patient discharged. Three districts have less than 25% patients being discharged; two have between 26 and 49%; two have between 50 and 75%, and two districts have a discharge rate between 75 and 99%. The highest number of cases have been reported in Bengaluru Urban with 89 positive cases and 49% of the patients have been discharged. Meanwhile, Mysuru, which has 84 positive cases, has a discharge rate of 28%. Discharge rate Officials in the department pointed out that in some districts, the discharge rate is higher as the cases were reported earlier. “Districts with low discharge rates are the ones where newer cases are reported,” the official added. As of Sunday, 10 out of the 30 districts in Karnataka have not reported a single COVID-19 positive case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/two-women-who-tested-positive-on-sunday-die-death-toll-rises-to-16/article31384757.ece
20 April 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Direct sales in Bengaluru help growers in distress||The timely intervention of the alumni association of the University of Agricultural Sciences, Bengaluru (UAS-B) has helped in rescuing growers of premium varieties of grapes in south Karnataka’s grape-growing belt of Chickballapur and Devanahalli during the lockdown. Farmers who cultivate premium varieties of grapes such as Red Globe, Sharad, Krishna and Sonalika have now been facilitated by the alumni association to sell their produce directly to consumers in Bengaluru. When traders started taking advantage of COVID-19 and started bargaining to buy at throwaway prices like Rs. 15 to Rs. 25 a kg, the association helped growers bring the produce to different areas in Bengaluru, where a mechanism was set up to sell directly to consumers with the involvement of local residents’ welfare associations. “We began sales in Bengaluru on April 7. We have been able to sell nearly 320 tonnes of premium grape produce in 13 days,” said K. Narayana Gowda, president of the alumni association. Consumers could buy Sharad/Krishna and Sonalika varieties for Rs. 60 a kg, as against Rs. 150 in supermarkets, and Red Globe for Rs. 90, as against Rs. 200 at private shops. “We now want to increase these prices to Rs. 70 and Rs. 100, respectively,” Dr. Gowda said. This initiative has helped in stabilising the market for premium varieties as the middlemen themselves have started quoting a farm gate price of Rs. 60 for them, said some farmers. “I have been growing grapes for 30 years. But this is the first time we are getting money in hand, soon after the sale of our produce. The middlemen, who used to buy our produce earlier, would pay us in instalments over a period of time,” said Krishnappa, a grower of Red Globe variety of grape from Harohalli in Devanahalli. Nandagopal, another grape farmer from Harohalli, profusely thanked the consumers in Bengaluru. “Some of the consumers even sat with us and carried out the work of weighing the produce. They gave us moral support, gave their mobile numbers, and assured us of spreading the word about the quality of our grapes among their friends,” he said. The association is now thinking of fine-tuning the direct sales mechanism and making permanent arrangements for carrying out such activities from next year. Associations interested may place orders with Gopal, an alumni association executive committee member, through WhatsApp, SMS or call on 81979 77076 or 92424 11611. Alternatively, contact the manager on 97316 51925 or via email: alumniuasb83@gmail.com.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/direct-sales-in-bengaluru-help-growers-in-distress/article31384769.ece
20 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||IISc., TIFR researchers model post-lockdown scenarios in cities||What will major cities look like once the lockdown is lifted on May 3? How will COVID-19 evolve post the restrictions? Researchers at the Indian Institute of Science (IISc.) and Tata Institute of Fundamental Research (TIFR) have carried out city-scale simulation experiments and modelled the outcomes of post-lockdown scenarios to answer these questions in a working paper that aims to provide useful insights for public health officials and policymakers. According to the researchers, unless we continue to aggressively trace and isolate cases, and prevent the influx of new infections, there is likely to be a second wave of infections and the public health threat will continue to persist. According to an IISc. release, the team simulated the infection spread in Bengaluru and Mumbai using an agent-based model, which builds a fine-grained replica of a city and mimics various interaction spaces such as households, schools, and workplaces. The model also takes into account population densities, age distribution, household size distribution, and commute distances, among others. The researchers ‘seeded’ infections in the simulated cities and tested how the epidemic would spread under different scenarios when restrictions are phased out. For example, one scenario is a return to normal activity on May 4, but with ‘case isolation’ continuing. Another considers an ‘odd-even’ strategy between April 20 and May 3, where half the workforce returns to their offices, along with other restrictions in place. Yet another scenario looks at a complete lockdown for an indefinite period. In all of these, the researchers assumed that cases would continue to be isolated with 90% compliance. The model forecasts that in a city like Bengaluru, if the lockdown is lifted on April 20, and normal activity resumes, the number of direct COVID-19 fatalities might increase to levels under a no intervention scenario, but with some delay. Similarly, the model also forecasts an increase in COVID-19 fatalities if the lockdown is lifted from April 20 to May 3 in the following phases: case isolation, home quarantine, social distancing of those 65 years and older, closure of schools and colleges, and thereafter normal activity resumes but with case isolation. On the other hand, if the lockdown were to continue indefinitely, the number of direct COVID-19 fatalities in Bengaluru will likely be much smaller than in the no intervention scenario, the model predicts. The researchers have added a caveat that their study only looks at the public health outcomes of interventions and their relaxations and not economic or ethical issues, or aggressive contact tracing, testing, and isolation which can change the course of the epidemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/iisc-tifr-researchers-model-post-lockdown-scenarios-in-cities/article31384729.ece
20 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||No pay, but happy to pitch in money||Around 148 gravediggers and electric crematorium assistants have pledged their one month’s salary to the city’s civic body to fight COVID-19 pandemic, adding up to Rs. 20.72 lakh. Ironically, the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) has not paid most of them for three months and in some cases, even for more than six months. Traditionally, they used to depend solely on the alms given by the families of the deceased and are being paid a salary of Rs. 14,000 a month only from January 2018. But the payment has been irregular. “We have asked the civic body to deduct a month’s salary and pay us our dues,” said Anthony D., State president of the Burial Grounds and Electric Crematoriums Workers’ Union, who has salary arrears from December 2018 is pending. “Not that we do not have problems. But none is comfortable in the time of the pandemic. We will also adjust and share some of the burden of society,” said Mr. Anthony. The food and ration situation at these crematoriums is also precarious. The ration kits being supplied by the civic body has reached the crematoriums only in R.R. Nagar Zone. Even those that reached the crematoriums in R.R. Nagar zone are over by now. “The ration kits lasted less than a week and there has been no refill,” said N. Ravi, who works at Sumanahalli crematorium. Most of days, they wait for cooked food NGOs have been serving the poor across the city. “We collect the rice that the family of the deceased use for rituals during the last rites. It comes in handy when the meals don’t come by,” said Souriraju who works at Kalpalli crematorium.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/no-pay-but-happy-to-pitch-in-money/article31384724.ece
20 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||GetCETGo for an online crash course for students||Coaching for the Karnataka Common Entrance Test (KCET) and the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) will soon be accessible on the click of a button, for free. The State government is all set to launch GetCETGo, an online crash course to help students prepare for KCET 2020 and NEET 2020. A release issued on Sunday said the lockdown has had an impact on regular modes of coaching, as many centres have been closed. The Department of Higher Education, taking cognisance of the situation, decided to introduce GetCETGo to help students crack the competitive exams. GetCETGo is a free programme that will be available to all students registered for KCET 2020. The release stated that the content is available to students in two formats — access through the web portal (www.getcetgo.in) or through an Android app called GetCETGo, available on Google Play. The app is expected to go live in three or four days. It is a comprehensive platform for the crash course, with videos, synopsis and interactive tests, and is touted as the a first such initiative in any State. Comprehensive study material in the form of synopsis, practice questions, chapter-wise tests, mock tests, and revision videos are available. The revision videos are hosted on the GetCETGo channel on YouTube. The web portal and the app, along with the content for the course, have been developed by Sinchu Infotech and Deeksha Online. The release stated that GetCETGo was initiated by Deputy Chief Minister C.N. Ashwath Narayan, who is also Minister for Higher Education. ‘Stop using Zoom’ Meanwhile, the Department of Technical Education has directed all government, aided and private engineering and polytechnic institutions in the State to stop using the Zoom app for online classes. The app was recently deemed unsafe by the Ministry of Home Affairs. In a circular, the department directed principals to submit a compliance report periodically. That apart, institutions have been asked to use the app ‘TCS iON Digital Class Room — a virtual learning platform at free of cost’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/getcetgo-for-an-online-crash-course-for-students/article31384772.ece
20 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Space constraint pushes online budget session out of BBMP zonal offices||In a first, the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike’s (BBMP) budget, for 2020-21, will be presented on Monday through videoconference. Though the State government had permitted the BBMP to present the much-delayed budget online, and the budget session was to be streamed live from the head office to all the eight zonal offices, owing to space constraints, a few zonal offices have hired conference halls in hotels where the budget will be screened live. According to senior officials, apart from the councillors and nominated councillors, city MLAs, MLCs, and Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha members are members of the BBMP and can attend the budget session. “Accommodating all the councillors of wards coming under a particular zone, along with the nominated members, MLAs, MLCs, MPs, zonal officials, and mediapersons, while ensuring social distance is difficult. That apart, we have to ensure that the video that is streamed live is visible to all and the audio is clear. It was owing to such technical difficulties that the budget session has been shifted to hotels and auditorium for five zones,” said an official. The budget session forthree zones – Dasarahalli, Rajarajeshwarinagar and Bommanahalli – will be held in the respective zonal offices, while other locations have been chosen for the remaining zones.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/space-constraint-pushes-online-budget-session-out-of-bbmp-zonal-offices/article31384727.ece
20 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||2 held for creating ruckus on road in Bengaluru||The HAL police were on the lookout for and later arrested a woman, Madhumita Natarajan, 29, a resident of Vivek Nagar, and her accomplice Shakti Nayar, 33. Allegedly inebriated, they drove a car in violation of the lockdown and behaved rudely with the police who stopped them on HAL Airport Road on Sunday. Madhumita allegedly started hurling abuses at the police who asked for her emergency pass. The police said that when they asked for the document, she went back to the driver’s seat, started the engine and tried to run over the police team. The police jumped to safety following which she sped away, they said. The police noted the registration number of the vehicle and reported the matter before filing a complaint with a video recording of the incident. S.D. Sharanappa, DCP East division, said the incident would be dealt with seriously. Strict action would be initiated against the accused. The police have seized the car and booked the two on charges of assaulting government servants while on duty and under the National Disaster Management Act. They were remanded to judicial custody. The duo not only misbehaved with the police on duty but also misused emergency passes, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/2-held-for-creating-ruckus-on-road-in-bengaluru/article31384741.ece
20 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Rumours over quarantine fuels violence at Padarayanapura||Late on Sunday night, some youth allegedly tried to clear the barricades put up at Padarayanapura, which has been sealed by the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) to contain the spread of the novel coronavirus, triggering violence. The youth were spurred by rumours of people being taken away from the area for quarantine. BBMP officials told The Hindu that secondary contacts have been identified in Padarayanapura that has already been sealed by the civic body. Civic officials had shifted one batch of the secondary contacts to the hotels identified for quarantine purpose. “While one batch was shifted, shifting of the second batch got delayed. The residents expressed apprehension and later agreed to be shifted on Monday morning,” the official said. The official added that usually the secondary contacts are put on home-based quarantine. “However, considering that the area is densely populated and taking into account that the secondary contacts may not follow the home-based quarantine rules strictly, it was decided to shift them to hotels,” the official added. Additional police personnel were posted in the area to enforce law and order. The local councillor, Imran Pasha, was unavailable for comment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rumours-over-quarantine-fuels-violence-at-padarayanapura/article31384725.ece
20 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Infosys Foundation to help daily wagers in film industry||Infosys Foundation initiated a programme to distribute ration kits complete with essential items to those daily wage labourers currently employed in the Kannada film industry on Sunday. They distributed kits to thousands of workers at Banashankari. The programme is expected to continue to reach out to others in need from the sector.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/infosys-foundation-to-help-daily-wagers-in-film-industry/article31384738.ece
20 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Govt. yet to decide on free milk scheme||The Karnataka Milk Federation is keeping its fingers crossed as it is yet to hear from the State government on continuation of the scheme to supply over 7 lakh litres of milk to poor people for free. So far, the government committed amount to KMF towards supply of free milk has been around Rs. 44 crore. “The Government Order is to supply milk till April 21. The free supply of milk will not only help poorer sections, but also milk unions and in turn milk farmers. If the scheme is discontinued, it means an additional 7 lakh litres have to be converted into SMP,” a KMF Director said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/govt-yet-to-decide-on-free-milk-scheme/article31384760.ece
20 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||What’s the real total?||The lack of coordination between officials and elected representatives once again came to the forefront when Chief Minister B.S. Yediyu-rappa on Sunday announced that the State had reported 410 COVID-19 positive cases. The media bulletin issued late in the evening, however, pointed out that the number of cases in Karnataka stood at 390 as of 5 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/whats-the-real-total/article31384775.ece
20 April 2020||Bengaluru/Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Three liquor shops burgled||Three liquors shops were burgled in two days in the city and bottles worth thousands of rupees were stolen, the police said. They suspect that habitual offenders were targeting these stores as liquor is in great demand during lockdown. In Magadi Road police station limits, burglars broke open the storeroom of Manjunath Bar and Restaurant, which was sealed by the Excise Department during lockdown. The accused gained entry by breaking open the back door and made away with 264 bottles. In a similar incident, Century Bar and Restaurant was burgled and liquor bottles worth Rs. 16 lakh stolen. Based on a complaint filed by Govindaraja, owner of the restaurant, the Rajgopal Nagar police are investigating. In another incident, a wine shop at Munireddy Layout in Rammurthy Nagar was burgled and liquor worth Rs. 40,000 stolen. The police suspect that someone aware of the demography of the establishment committed the crime. However, speaking in Athani, Minister for Water Resources Ramesh Jarkiholi said on Sunday: “Drunkards are not looting liquor shops. It is the shop owners who are organising the thefts in their own shops, getting the materials out and selling them for higher profits.” He alleged that these are times of scarcity and great demand. “Liquor traders are making heavy profits by selling them through illegal means,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/three-liquor-shops-burgled/article31384755.ece
20 April 2020||DHARWAD,KARNATAKA||Govt. mulling conditional permit for construction activities, says Shettar||The State government is mulling over granting conditional permission for construction of buildings, roads, bridges and other such works after April 20, Large and Medium Industries Minister Jagadish Shettar has said. Chairing a meeting of officials here recently, Mr. Shettar said that lockdown should not come in the way of development works and the construction workers should not suffer from loss of income. However, no such works should be taken up in the containment areas, he added. The contractors who have bagged the tender for these works should set up camps for labour and provide staying and food facilities to them. However, the workforce will not be allowed to travel to their native places every day. The development works which have been stalled for the last one month can be restarted but only after taking permission. The responsibility will be on the contractor to ensure the safety of workers. Apart from construction labour, this relaxation is available for plumbers and mechanics too. The development works in rural areas too can continue hassle-free and priority should be given for drinking water projects without violating the lockdown orders, he said. Deputy Commissioner M. Deepa said that under the NDRF, 436 migrant workers are being provided shelter and food facility at various hostels in the district. As many as 3,000 food packets have been delivered so far to brick kiln workers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/govt-mulling-conditional-permit-for-construction-activities-says-shettar/article31384929.ece
20 April 2020||DHARWAD,KARNATAKA||Cabinet meet to discuss industry problems today||Large and Medium Industries Minister Jagadish Shettar said that the Cabinet meeting to be held on Monday would discuss the problems faced by industrialists and workers in the backdrop of the lockdown, and find a possible solution. Speaking at an industrialists meeting here, Mr. Shettar said that as the second phase of lockdown is in force, all industrial activities have come to a standstill. Keeping in view the possible impact on economy and job sector, there is a thought that some relaxation be given to industries. “Today, we are living in a complex situation due to coronavirus. The major problem in the future days is economic stability and creation of jobs. The Centre, after evaluating this, has sought suggestions from the State governments with an aim to giving some relaxation to industries after Monday. A majority of industries have paid March salary to their workers. The Centre wants to know whether industries are financially healthy to provide ESI and PF to their employees in the coming months, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cabinet-meet-to-discuss-industry-problems-today/article31384927.ece
20 April 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Barricades removed||Residents of Hassan enjoyed free movement here on Sunday as the police had removed barricades at some locations and did not restrict vehicular movement. Hassan Police removed barricades from several traffic junctions and put them up at the entry points. The district administration has tightened security at district entry points. The officers have decided to put all those who enter the district in quarantine. So far, no confirmed case of COVID-19 has been reported in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/barricades-removed/article31384934.ece
20 April 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Eight discharged from Naval Hospital ship||Eight COVID-19 positive patients have been discharged so far from the Indian Naval Hospital Ship Patanjali in Karwar, the first armed forces hospital to be treating civilian COVID-19 patients. The Naval Hospital ship began receiving civilian patients from March 28 based on a request from the Uttara Kannada district administration. A team of three doctors, nine medical staff and nine support staff ensured 24x7 care to the nine COVID-19 positive patients admitted to the hospital. One more patient At present, only patient is being treated at the hospital. He was admitted here on April 16 and is responding favourably to treatment, a release from the naval base said. As per medical safety norms, those treating the patients, including the medical, paramedical and nursing staff, have been residing on the hospital premises. The naval authorities have also created a set up for safe disposal of biomedical waste generated on the hospital premises in consultation with the district administration. Meanwhile, in view of this additional responsibility, INS Patanjali has also made alternative arrangements for routine medical attention to the large population of service personnel and families dependent on the hospital, the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/eight-discharged-from-naval-hospital-ship/article31384759.ece
20 April 2020||Hyderabad,KARNATAKA||Cadets at TSPA are made to cook, clean toilets||Cadets at RBVRR Telangana State Police Academy are worried a lot these days, as their training continues without any break, with no regard for social distancing or health precautions during the coronavirus pandemic. On the other hand, these trainees are having to fetch groceries from mandi in Mehdipatnam and other places and even cook, as the absence of their regular cooking staff has made things worse. A few trainee sub-inspectors told The Hindu that there was no restriction on entry/exit on the campus, and most officers live outside of it and come and go any time, without there being any check or restriction for masks or social distancing in place. And the fear of infections reaching and spreading in the police academy keeps young cadets on the edge, as there is no restriction on the movement of faculty and other senior officers coming to the campus every day. “In addition to not restricting their movement, the officers are making us go out and get vegetables. All top rank faculty, including the director, deputy directors and additional directors live outside the campus and come every day, making our lives more vulnerable to the virus,” a trainee sub-inspector said. Apart from cooking, washing utensils, and maintenance of campus, the cadets are forced to clean the bathrooms and toilets, another trainee SI said. He said that when they requested the staff for masks and sanitisers due to rapid spread of the virus, a senior officer in an internal WhatsApp group threatened them with a criminal case and termination from training.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cadets-at-tspa-are-made-to-cook-clean-toilets/article31384740.ece
20 April 2020||KARIMNAGAR,KARNATAKA||Unseasonal rain damages paddy stock||Sudden unseasonal rains caused extensive damage to the paddy which was harvested and bought to various procurement centres in Karimnagar and Rajanna-Sircilla districts in the early hours of Sunday. Several farmers bought their produce to the procurement centres at IKP and primary agricultural cooperative societies in various villages. As there was a delay in the procurement of paddy due to inadequate labour, shortage of gunny bags etc, the paddy was lying in the open at the procurement centres. Sudden rains early in the morning came as a rude shock to the farmers as the paddy kept at the procurement centres was badly damaged and in some parts, it was also washed away. The paddy was damaged as it was not protected with tarpaulins etc. The standing crop which was ready for harvesting was also damaged in the sudden rains in both the districts. Rajanna-Sircilla District Collector D Krishna Bhaskar toured various villages of Veernapalli mandal where the crop was damaged extensively and interacted with the farmers. He also inspected the fields to see the damages caused to the standing crop ready for harvesting. Choppadandi legislator Sunke Ravishankar toured the villages affected by rains in Choppadandi, Ramadugu and Gangadhara mandals. He assured the farmers community that the State government would procure the damaged paddy and asked the farmers to dry the crop for some more days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/unseasonal-rain-damages-paddy-stock/article31384747.ece
20 April 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||First COVID-19 death in coastal dists.||Coastal Karnataka reported its first COVID-19 death on Sunday. A 50-year-old woman from Bantwal in Dakshina Kannada district who was down with Severe Acute Respiratory Illness (SARI) died at the Government Wenlock Hospital here. After being diagnosed of SARI, the woman was admitted to the Wenlock Hospital on April 18. She was being treated in the ICU in the hospital. Her throat swab test confirmed the disease later in the day after her death at 9.15 a.m. Her last rites will be performed as per protocol, a release from Deputy Commissioner Sindhu B. Rupesh said. In a tweet, Mangaluru City North MLA and co-ordinator for COVID-19 cases in Dakshina Kannada Bharat Shetty said: “It is sad news for Dakshina Kannada. First COVID-19 positive death reported in the district.” The woman’s father and her son have been quarantined. Bantwal Market and other adjoining areas have been declared as Containment Zone and these areas have been completely sealed. Meanwhile, a 30-year-old woman from Uppinangady tested positive on Sunday. She is the wife of a 39-year-old Uppinagandy resident who has a travel history of visiting Delhi and who tested positive for COVID-19 on April 17. The couple are under treatment in the Government Wenlock Hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/first-covid-19-death-in-coastal-dists/article31384932.ece
20 April 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||In a second such case, elderly woman walks 12 km for medicine||In a second incident of a senior citizen from a rural area of Dakshina Kannada being forced to walk a long distance to purchase medicine, a 65-year-old woman is said to have covered 12 km on foot from Uppinangady to Puttur last week to buy her medicine. According to the police, the woman walked from Nekkilady, near Uppinangady, to a pharmacy in Puttur to buy her regular medicine on April 12. Puttur Town Police Inspector Thimmappa Naika who was on patrol duty noticed the woman while she was walking back home at noon and questioned her. When he realised that she had walked all the way from Nekkilady, the inspector dropped her back home in his vehicle. On April 9, a 65-year-old woman walked 17 km from Gadikallu, near Kollamogaru, to Guthigar in Sullia taluk to purchase her medicine. After a gram panchayat team noticed her, she was dropped back home in an autorickshaw. In yet another unrelated incident on April 17, Civil Police Constable Basavaraj Patil, who came to know from Moodbidri Blood Donors Helpline about the need for blood for a woman undergoing operation at Alva’s Hospital, rushed to the hospital and donated “O” positive blood.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/in-a-second-such-case-elderly-woman-walks-12-km-for-medicine/article31384930.ece
20 April 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Chamarajanagar is COVID-19-free thanks to rigorous border checks from the start||Rigorous screening at check-posts set up on the borders with Kerala and Tamil Nadu, and relatively low exposure to the outer world, has helped Chamarajanagar district, one of the backward regions of the State, remain free of COVID-19 cases as on Saturday. The institutional quarantine facility in Chamarajanagar is empty. There are no mask-clad officials or doctors. The rooms are empty and row after row of beds meant for COVID-19 patients have been rolled up and the premises spruced and sanitised. The 36 paramedical staff and 92 doctors deployed on duty are a relaxed lot and there is no buzz of an ambulance. “We brought in stringent regulations at the check-posts on borders with the neighbouring States, and even at the check-posts with Mysuru after the Nanjangud factory incident. These check-posts were manned by police, Revenue Department and medical personnel, and every vehicle was sanitised and the passengers screened,” said Deputy Commissioner M.R. Ravi. The screening commencedon January 31, a day after Kerala reported the country’s first COVID-19 case. There were also surprise midnight checks by the Deputy Commissioner and the Superintendent of Police. Gundlupet and Chamarajanagar towns have a high degree of trade and commerce with Kerala and Tamil Nadu, with hundreds of trucks moving in both directions daily. “Even the empty trucks coming in from Kerala and Tamil Nadu to procure vegetables directly from farmers were not spared and were thoroughly sanitised as preventing the infection from entering the district was the priority,” Mr. Ravi explained. In another departure from conventional methods, the district administration did not allow the luxury of home quarantine for any suspects, lest they violate the norms, as has been frequently reported across the State and country. Fortunately for the authorities, out of the 212 people who underwent institutional quarantine in the district, no one tested positive. This included 47 employees of the Nanjangud pharma company who were from Gundlupet and Chamarajanagar. Furthermore, there were nearly a dozen individuals with foreign travel history, and they were shifted from their homes to the institutional quarantine facility for 14 days despite showing no symptoms. More tests Last Thursday, the pharmacompany employees were brought back to the quarantine centre for another round of swab collection and tests to ensure that they had not developed any symptoms. Their results are awaited. But the vigil is far from over. An army of Accredited Social Health Activists (ASHAs) and anganwadi workers — 750 in all — is scouring the district and conducting a door-to-door survey of nearly 2.5 lakh households, comprising around 11 lakh people. This is to check for SARI and ILI (Severe Acute Respiratory Infection and Influenza-like Illness, respectively). The survey was launched on April 15 to assess if there has been any COVID-19 community transmission. It will be completed on Monday. As on Saturday, there were two SARI cases and 50 ILI cases in the district, and the patients are being constantly monitored.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/chamarajanagar-is-covid-19-free-thanks-to-rigorous-border-checks-from-the-start/article31384771.ece
20 April 2020||Tumakuru,KARNATAKA||Disbursal of pension delayed||Revenue Minister R. Ashok on Sunday admitted that there was a delay in delivering old-age pension through post offices. He told reporters that post offices were not responsible for the delay, but banks were not depositing the amount to the post offices due to lack of staff. He said old-age pension, pension for physically challenged persons, and widows will be delivered to their doorstep within 10-12 days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/disbursal-of-pension-delayed/article31384762.ece
20 April 2020||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Samples of those from Mumbai sent for test||Health Department officials, who conducted health check on 30 people who returned from Mumbai on April 18, have found that 15 of them have symptoms fever. Therefore, they collected samples from them and sent for them for test. As many as 20 people who returned from Bengaluru and completed the quarantine period were discharged on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/samples-of-those-from-mumbai-sent-for-test/article31384925.ece
20 April 2020||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Action taken to reach grain to card holders||Necessary action has been taken to reach foodgrains under “One Nation and One Ration Card” scheme to card holders from Yadgir who are now staying in other States, Deputy Commissioner M. Kurma Rao has said in a release on Sunday. Mr. Rao said that a majority of migrant labour have been unable to return to their native places and are stuck in their working places in other States due to lockdown. Such people should get foodgrains under the scheme where they are residing and therefore, action has been taken to provide foodgrains to them, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/action-taken-to-reach-grain-to-card-holders/article31384926.ece
20 April 2020||April 20 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Gravediggers contributing to the fight against coronavirus||Theirs is an unenviable job during usual times too. But during a pandemic, gravediggers and electric crematorium assistants are among the frontline workers pitching in despite risk to themselves and their families. Apart from old battles concerning payment of salaries, among others, many are now living in fear of contracting COVID-19 infection. It was only on Friday — after nearly a month since the first COVID-19 case was reported in the city — that all the electric crematoriums in the city were supplied with four Personal Protection Equipment (PPE) suits each to protect those assisting the final rites of COVID-19 victims from contracting the infection. Safety protocols stipulate that a COVID-19 victim be buried in a grave at least 10 ft depth, which needs an earthmover to dig. But graveyards in the city have no space for an earthmover to come in and this has resulted in the bodies of COVID-19 victims being cremated electrically. Families who are particular about burying the victims can do so only in private land. There are other fears among workers. “We will wear PPE suits for the final rites of those who have succumbed to COVID-19, but what about deaths of persons who have gone undetected? We do not have enough PPE suits to wear for all the final rites, irrespective of whether they are confirmed COVID-19 cases or not,” said Souriraju who works at Kalpalli crematorium in the city and who recently conducted the last rites of a COVID-19 victim. The Burial Grounds and Electric Crematoriums Workers’ Union has now sought surgical gowns, masks, and gloves to be supplied to all the crematoriums and burial grounds in the city. Those working at the crematoriums and even those who reside with families outside the burial grounds have now returned to stay on site away from their families. “It has been over a month since I went home. I now stay in a small room in the crematorium. Twice I went home to see my children, after taking utmost precaution. But I did not go in; I met them only at the gate,” said N. Ravi, who works at Sumanahalli crematorium. He has two daughters aged 13 and 10. Those working at Kengeri and Peenya crematoriums also come to Sumanahalli and a total of 11 persons working at crematoriums stay together. “We follow social distancing and use masks and sanitisers the government has given us,” Mr. Ravi was quick to add. Several families working at burial grounds and crematoriums have traditionally been living at the site and their safety is also a concern now.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/gravediggers-contributing-to-the-fight-against-coronavirus/article31384737.ece
20 April 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||Directives issued to plantation sector||The district administration has issued directives to the plantation sector to be followed from Tuesday when the sector opens for work. The managements should ensure the availability of sanitisers and water, and only 50% of the manpower should be utilised. Workers from outside the State will not be allowed and those working should have medical certificates. There should be a point for the staff to enter the factories. All those working should wear masks. The district administration has identified the panchayat wards sharing border with Tamil Nadu and there will be vigil on movements of people across the border. In Munnar, the curbs on public movement will continue and markets will be allowed only on Mondays, Tuesdays, Thursdays and Saturdays. There will be thermal screening, and the customers will be allowed to spend only an hour inside the market. Cardamom auction A meeting will be held at the Collectorate on Monday to restart cardamom e-auction at the Spices Park in Puttady. The representatives of plantations, traders, auctioneers, and Spices Board of India officials would attend it, said a release here.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/directives-issued-to-plantation-sector/article31385059.ece
20 April 2020||KANNUR,KERALA||Paramilitary forces to meet migrant workers||The Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF), Border Security Force (BSF), and Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) personnel will now act as interpreters and assist the Kerala Police in communicating with migrant labourers and understanding their requirements better. In the wake of COVID-19 outbreak, the State government has been taking care of the migrant workers, numbering around 4 lakh. They are accommodated in 12,992 camps. However, the police have been struggling to communicate with them. Request by police The Kerala Police had requested the service of CRPF, BSF, and ITBP personnel who will visit migrant labourers’ camps and speak to them in Assamese, Odia, and Bengali. The forces immediately deputed over 100 people. Sudesh Kumar, Additional Director General of Police, the nodal officer in this regard, said the personnel would closely work with the police. M.J. Vijay, Deputy Inspector General of RTC, CRPF, Peringome, said 40 personnel from Peringome camp alone were serving as interpreters at camps in Kasaragod, Kannur, Kozhikode, Malappuram, Wayanad and Palakkad. “The personnel can help bridge the communication gap between the State government and migrant workers,” he said. BSF DIG Baby Joseph said upon receiving the request from the Kerala Police they had prepared a list of personnel to be deployed in the camps. “We have around 45 personnel who can speak these languages,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/paramilitary-forces-to-meet-migrant-workers/article31385014.ece
20 April 2020||KASARAGOD,KERALA||Megalithic rock-cut chambers unearthed||Four rock-cut chambers from the megalithic period were unearthed from Peralam at Beemanadi village in West Eleri panchayat, Kasaragod. It was the discovery of a rock-cut chamber while clearing the bushes and digging the land led to unearthing three others from different areas in the panchayat. O.V. Rathnakaran, a sales manager in a private company, first stumbled upon the chamber while digging the land. However, on further digging the chamber was clearly visible and it was found to be more than 1,500-year-old and constructed during the megalithic period, said N.V. Sajith, a neighbour of Mr. Rathnakaran and researcher at the Kerala Central University. He immediately contacted Nandakumar Koroth, professor, History department, and ascertained the facts. Similar structures “There were similar structures in other places, and with the help of a few other friends we decided to dig the land,” Mr. Sajith said. They found three more chambers from the megalithic period from the land belonging to Raghavan Kunnumil, Mathew Kanichikuzhiyil and Babu Orithayil, in the adjoining region in the panchayat. Prof. Nandakumar said so far 20 such laterite chambers had been found from Thalayadukkam, Umichi Poyil, Malappacheri, Parappa, Banam, Bengalam, Thimiri, Panangad, Chandravayal and Cheemeni in Hosdurg taluk. The discovery of four chambers showed that there were settlements of people in the megalithic period, Prof. Nandakumar said. The chambers had one rectangular entrance and a well-carved circle hole on the top, he said. The entrance was carved by using hard implements, he added. He said even though people believe such chambers were constructed by the sages for the purpose of penance, the monuments which look like rock-cut chambers, umbrella stones and capstones were built by megalithic people as part of the burial system for more than 1,500 years ago, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/megalithic-rock-cut-chambers-unearthed/article31385023.ece
20 April 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Rigorous infection-control in hospitals pays off||For Kerala, when COVID-19 struck, it was not a last-minute crash course on dealing with a contagious microbe. The learning was on right from 2017, when the State had rolled out the Anti Microbial Resistance programme, in which infection prevention and control (IPC) was a strategic point. The Nipah outbreak in Kozhikode in 2018 was perhaps the first major test of the lessons learned. And Kerala did emerge victorious in the battle, but lost nurse Lini Puthussery. This time, Health Minister K.K. Shylaja had given a mandate to health-care workers — that there should be no casualties among them. So far, a nurse at the Kottayam medical college and two field workers in Ernakulam have been affected by COVID-19. All have recovered. A lot of credit for the performance must go to the infection control programmes being practised in medical colleges and other government hospitals. A hand-washing initiative was launched at the Ernakulam General Hospital, and a thousand new mothers were trained. Earlier, this programme was not assigned importance by many, but it is now the most effective tool in the fight against COVID-19, said A. Anitha, Superintendent of Ernakulam GH. While the State’s target of zero infections in health-care workers has been compromised, protection for health-care workers is being provided by adhering to norms, according to Ernakulam DMO N.K. Kuttappan. IPC has been an ongoing programme with daily training sessions. The State has created master trainers among nurses and link nurses to take the classes. It is not just the doctors and nurses who need to be watchful of infection control, but every person who works in the hospital, down to ambulance drivers and the cleaning staff, are important players in keeping infections at bay. Many things have to be taken care when preparing COVID care centres as it is a droplet infection. Engineering controls are crucial, especially in maintaining air-conditioning and checking its airflow. It is with such knowledge that other areas are set up in relation to the isolation wards — the donning and doffing area of personal protection equipment included. Rajaram K.K., Superintendent of General Hospital, Kasaragod, which has reported about 90 COVID-19 patients so far, said at the hospital, which was converted into a COVID treatment centre, cleaning constantly touched surfaces was given prominence. Every two hours, the isolation wards, including their windows, were cleaned with 1% bleaching powder solution. Floor was cleaned every four hours. Working in four-hour shifts, the hospital required 240 to 300 PPE every day, he added. Nothing went out of the isolation wards, not even the case sheets.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rigorous-infection-control-in-hospitals-pays-off/article31385021.ece
20 April 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Move to update homestead biodiversity||Look for homestead biodiversity during the lockdown period and photo-document it to improve a key biodiversity document of the State. The Kerala State Biodiversity Board (KSBB) is making use of the COVID-19 lockdown period for updating the People’s Biodiversity Registry (PBR) in the State with information gathered from the households of the State. Pictures One can click the pictures of plants, animals, insects and all living things inside and outside the homes and send them to the KSBB. Moths, ants, fungi, creepers, orchids, night flies, grasshoppers... From parasite plants to ferns and huge trees, the life forms around and inside every home are endless. The data thus generated will be used to update the PBR in their respective local bodies. It’s not just the pictures that the board is seeking from the residents but traditional knowledge attached with every life form could also be sent to the repository. The data generated by children shall be validated by the elders. Separate entries shall be sent regarding the plant and animal diversity of each region with a brief note on the locality where they are found. The geographical location of the find and the contact details of the persons who have photographed the diversity shall also be included. The data thus gathered shall be send to the email id ksbbentries2020@gmail.com on or before May 15, 2020. Updation Though PBRs have been prepared for all the 1,034 village panchayats of the State, the documents need to be put in order and updated. The Board has begun the mammoth exercise of giving a unified form and updating the information base in the registers. Little is known about the homestead biodiversity though a large number of insects and animals live in our houses. “The data generated from the homestead project would go to the updation of the PBR in each region,” said S.C. Joshy, chairman, State Biodiversity Board. Prizes The best three entries from each district would be awarded prizes. Even while preparing the document, the health guidelines issued by the State Health authorities and the State Disaster Management Authority shall be strictly followed, Mr. Joshy said.  One can click the pictures of plants, animals, insects inside and outside the homes and send them to KSBB||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/move-to-update-homestead-biodiversity/article31385015.ece
20 April 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||That’s a tippler’s pipe dream||Tipplers in the district were sold a pipe dream after some unscrupulous elements made a fake post in the social media claiming that the premium liquor outlet of the Kerala State Co-operative Consumers’ Federation Ltd, also known as Consumerfed, in the city will deliver all liquor brands at doorstep. The post, which was widely shared in the social media, bore a profile by the name ‘Consumerfed Foreign Liquor Shop Kochi’ forcing the agency to come up with a clarification that there was no such move and that the news was indeed fake. The post even claimed to accept round-the-clock online payment and carried a contact number. “The fake post came to our notice on Friday and we lodged a complaint with the Kadavanthra police on Saturday. We were told that the number was traced to Rajasthan,” said Consumerfed Managing Director Mohammed Rafique. The police registered a case invoking among other IPC Section 471 (fraudulently or dishonestly uses as genuine any document which he knows or has reason to believe to be a forged document) and relevant sections of the IT Act. “So far, no one has complained of getting cheated after making online payment. We are trying to trace whether the fraud had any local links since the number was traced to Rajasthan,” said Sabuji Mas, Station House Officer, Kadavanthra. All liquor outlets, including that of Consumerfed, have been remaining closed since March 25 on account of the nationwide lockdown.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/thats-a-tipplers-pipe-dream/article31385010.ece
20 April 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Footwear makers keep their fingers crossed||With Malappuram and Kozhikode districts, the major footwear production centres in the State, falling within the COVID-19 red zone, industrialists are keeping their fingers crossed about the possibility of reopening the units during the lockdown. Meeting with Minister Industry sources said here that representatives of the All India Footwear Makers Union had interacted with Union Minister for Small Industries Nitin Gadkari on Saturday and conveyed their worries about the industry’s future and the way to go about during the lockdown. While the unit owners are eager to begin work at the earliest, there are apprehensions that with everything else at a standstill on account of the pandemic that does not look completely under control, operating the footwear units alone would not be of much help. There are 115 footwear units and 400-odd auxiliary units depending on these units across the State. But most of them are concentrated in Kozhikode and Malappuram districts. These districts fall within the red zone and normal life is expected to be back only after the end of the lockdown. Traders’ concern A.V. Sunilnath, Kozhikode district president of the Kerala State Small Industries Association, said that the unit owners too were in a dilemma about following the social distancing norms even if the units are allowed to open up before the end of the lockdown. Public transport The functioning of the units can be normal only with the restoration of public transport, that will allow free movement of goods and people, he added. It is estimated that around 25,000 people work in footwear units that also provide indirect employment to thousands of others in the State. These units account for a total business of around Rs. 3,500 crore annually.  Around 25,000 people work in footwear units that also provide indirect employment to thousands of others in the State. The units account for a total business of around Rs. 3,500 crore annually||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/footwear-makers-keep-their-fingers-crossed/article31385000.ece
20 April 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||CIFT for use of reefer containers to store fish||The city-based Central Institute of Fisheries Technology (CIFT) under the Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) has suggested the use of reefer container-based system of fish storage at a time when there are not enough buyers for the catch. The institute had provided all technical details and would supervise the setting up and maintenance of the facilities, said a communication from CIFT here. The CIFT suggestion came in the wake of a request from the State government for guidance on the issue. The institute has also made some of its equipment available to the State government in its fight against the spread of COVID-19. The institute has made an assessment of the impact of COVID-19 on the harvest and post-harvest sectors in consultation with stakeholders such as fishermen, processors, exporters and development agencies. A rapid survey is being conducted involving respondents from fishing and processing sectors. The information will be analysed for arriving at a quick estimate of losses to the sector. Impact assessment of COVID-19 and the lockdown, specific to States, is also being prepared. In the wake of complaints about large-scale adulteration of fish, CIFT is planning to start production of test kits for distribution among food safety inspectors, exporters and State governments. It is also providing technical support to the Kerala State Food Safety Commissionerate to address issues of quality and safety of fish sold in the State. The institute will start testing of fish and shellfish samples from seafood exporters as they face lack of analytical facilities in the private sector.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cift-for-use-of-reefer-containers-to-store-fish/article31384999.ece
20 April 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Steps to ensure food safety sought||Contaminated fish consignments from neighbouring States are reportedly making a comeback in the district over a week after 1,800 kg of stale fish was seized from Champakkara. Stale and contaminated fish were once again making their entry into markets, despite most markets having health inspectors posted by local bodies, said a fish seller from Champakkara. Aam Aadmi Party district leader Foji John said enforcement agencies must step up vigil at check-posts and harbours so that inferior quality food items do not enter the State. An official in the Food Safety Department said special squads were deployed in markets, stalls and harbours to prevent sale of inferior quality fish. Surveillance had been stepped up at check-posts too. “Much of the fish coming to Kerala now is prawn meant for processing and export,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/steps-to-ensure-food-safety-sought/article31384998.ece
20 April 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Courts to function||Courts in districts that come under the green and orange zones will start functioning on April 21 and 27 respectively. Hearing of cases, however, will be conducted through videoconferencing, said an order issued by the High Court Registrar General. In Kollam, Pathanamthitta and Ernakulam, which come under Orange-A, restrictions will be relaxed after April 24 while the restrictions in Thiruvananthapuram, Alappuzha, Thrissur, Palakkad, and Wayanad, which come under the Orange Zone-B, will be eased partially after April 20. The districts in the green zone — Kottayam and Idukki — will also see relaxation of the restrictions after April 20.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/courts-to-function/article31385034.ece
20 April 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Fishing by small boats to be permitted||As part of the partial relaxation of COVID-19 restrictions from April 20, small boats will be permitted to venture into the sea, Fisheries Minister J. Mercykutty Amma has said. Boats with engine capacity of upto 20 HP and length below 32 feet would be allowed to resume fishing in the first phase, she said at a press meet here on Sunday.  Functional With this Neendakara and Shaktikulangara harbours would be functional, said the Minister after attending the Harbour Management Committee meeting at Kollam Collectorate. Auctions will not be held and the price will be decided by the society. All the boats that will be venturing into the sea are instructed to register with the Fisheries Department and all the vehicles arriving at the harbour to buy fish also require registration. “Special provision will be arranged for women vendors to get fish and all amenities will be provided to carry out activities related to fishing. But following the directions and maintaining social distancing will be mandatory,” she said. District Collector B.Abdul Nasar, Fisheries Deputy Director P.Geethakumari, ACP A.Pradeep Kumar and Matsyafed district manager Manirajan Paillai were also present on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fishing-by-small-boats-to-be-permitted/article31385049.ece
20 April 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Kollam all set to receive expatriates||The district administration and Health Department have made elaborate arrangements to monitor expatriates when they return from various countries. Though those arriving at Thiruvananathapuram airport will be shifted to corona care centres in the capital initially, they will be sent to the neighbouring district of Kollam in the next phase. To ensure their safety and comfort, the district administration will be taking over hotels, hostels, hospitals, ashrams and other institutions with the required amenities. According to officials, these centres for quarantine will function in a hospital-like system. Currently, the district has 173 corona care centres along with special provisions for individual treatment. “At present 4,557 rooms have been arranged to quarantine the expatriates arriving in Kollam. In case of emergencies, 20 firstline treatment centres capable of accommodating around 1,000 persons at a time will be ready. As the expatriates start coming back, more centres will be identified. As of now we can accommodate over 10,000 persons,” said District Collector B. Abdul Nasar. The district, which is in the orange zone, hasn’t reported a single COVID-19 case in last 10 days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kollam-all-set-to-receive-expatriates/article31385047.ece
20 April 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Kottayam gets ready to ease lockdown||Having decided to ease the lockdown restrictions in Kottayam from Tuesday onwards, authorities have come up with an elaborate plan to make sure that the relaxations do not affect the region’s defence against the viral outbreak. To begin with, check posts will be opened at 14 major entry points to the district so as to regulate inter-district and inter-State travels. Monitor movement The check posts, to be operated by a joint team of police, Health, Revenue and Motor Vehicle Department, will strictly monitor the movement of people to and from the district. As per the decision, the check points will come up at Idinjillam (MC Road), Payippadu, Kidangara, and Nedungadapally in Changanassery Taluk; Poothota, Neerappara, and Ambika Market in Vaikom Taluk; Mundakayam, Plachery, Kanamala Bridge (Sabarimala Road) in Kanjirappally Taluk; Nellappara, Muttam – Kanjiram junction, Puthuveli bridge Junction, and Vagamon Vazhikkadavu in Meenachil Taluk. District Collector P.K. Sudheer Babu has also issued strict directions to the inspection teams to send persons with symptoms of COVID-19 disease to the nearest government hospital for further examination. Those who come to Kottayam with special permission from other States or hot-spot districts should report at the Corona Control Room (Phone-1057) and remain under surveillance for 14 days. Forest routes Besides, police personnel will be deployed along the forest routes and other avenues to regulate the inter-district movement of people through alternative routes. At the same time, there will be no restrictions on the movement of private vehicles within the district. “The degree of relaxations will be subject to daily review, based on which updates or additions to the conditions will be made,” said an official. Meanwhile, prohibitory orders issued under section 144 of the CrPC will remain in Paippad and Erattupetta as a precautionary move. While the district administration considers Paippad as a sensitive area following the public protest staged by the inter-State migrant workers, Erattupetta has reported recurring instances of lockdown violations. According to officials, inter-district travel will be permitted for some special categories including medical, pregnancy, marriage etc. Power to give permission “The Collector, as the chairman of the District Disaster Management Authority, has the discretionary powers to give permission for inter-district travels in certain circumstances. As per the present understanding between the district administrations, travel between the districts will be allowed only with a special pass issued by the Collector of the originating district,” they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kottayam-gets-ready-to-ease-lockdown/article31385051.ece
20 April 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||‘Irrational’ demurrage charges put importers in a fix||The practice of charging demurrage and ground rent on importers by the container freight station at the Vallarpadam International Container Transshipment Terminal (ICTT) in violation of a Union government advisory during the lockdown has almost doubled the financial burden of operators from north Kerala. Several importers have received bills to the tune of Rs. 5,000 to Rs. 2 lakh. It is at a time when major ports in the country are refraining from levying any such charge in compliance with the directives of the Ministry of Shipping. According to representatives of importers’ forum in Malabar, ground rent or demurrage is not being charged in Mumbai and Chennai ports. The service provider at Vallarpadam is levying the charge, claiming that the facility is under the private sector, they alleged. Munshid Ali, an importer from Kozhikode and a functionary of the Calicut Chamber of Commerce and Industry, said container movement by road had been stalled in the State. “There is no way to clear containers that have already arrived. It was in such a context that the Shipping Ministry came up with a specific order in support of exporters and importers,” he pointed out. Complaint raised The Federation of Freight Forwarders’ Associations has already raised a complaint about reckless charging of demurrage and ground rent with the Union Commerce and Industry Minister Piyush Goyal. Traders’ forums are also planning to take up the matter with other government agencies for quick action. Exemption Meanwhile, representatives of various importers’ forums said that the exemption from payment of demurrage and ground rent was in accordance with an order issued under Section 111 of the Major Port Trusts Act, 1963. The order also makes it clear that the container freight station is an extended arm of the port, and that it functions as the dock. Hence, all service providers are liable to comply with the order and waive service charges, they pointed out.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/irrational-demurrage-charges-put-importers-in-a-fix/article31385009.ece
20 April 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Ice scarcity a cause for fish contamination||Food safety officials have their job cut out in fish markets these days. Whenever they carry out an inspection, quintals of contaminated fish are destroyed. With more than 3.5 tonnes of contaminated fish getting destroyed in Kozhikode district alone over the past few weeks, officials are hard-pressed to find an effective solution to avoid the contamination of fish. Scarcity of industrial ice is the major reason for the contamination of fish. Only a few ice factories are functioning in the district due to the lockdown. Though fresh fish has to be stored in sub-zero temperatures until it reaches consumers, vendors are finding it difficult to adhere to norms due to the scarcity of ice. “Fish needs to be stored in equal amounts of ice at the storage centre, during transportation, and in retail shops. Otherwise, it will lead to contamination,” said P.K. Aleyamma, Assistant Food Safety Commissioner in Kozhikode. Because of the high demand for fish even during the lockdown period, vendors are hell-bent on making it available in the market. However, there are concerns over the quality of fish available now. “The public should be aware of the fact that there will be problems with fish in this situation, since we don’t have much fishing happening here. We need to restrict our fish intake for the time being,” Ms. Aleyamma added.  Fish needs to be stored in equal amounts of ice at the storage centre, during transportation, and in retail shops. Otherwise, it will lead to contamination P.K. Aleyamma Assistant Food Safety Commissioner||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ice-scarcity-a-cause-for-fish-contamination/article31385011.ece
20 April 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Forest squads step up surveillance||With Forest squads having been roped in for efforts to prevent the spread of COVID-19, poachers have begun targeting unguarded stretches of the Malabar Wildlife Sanctuary in Kozhikode district. Forest Department squads have stepped up surveillance in interior areas under Thamarassery, Kuttiyadi and Peruvannamoozhi Forest Ranges to track suspects, after country-made guns and bullets were seized from a gang recently. The accused and convicted in various poaching cases reported under these sections are also under the scanner of the squads. The support of local residents and informers has been sought for intensifying action and surveillance in vulnerable forest areas. The presence of watchers has been strengthened in areas where forest fires were reported earlier. Patrol squads under the Wayanad Wildlife Sanctuary too have stepped up vigil. In the preliminary investigation, it was found that poachers were working hand in glove with those engaged in illicit brewing of liquor in the uphill areas of Kozhikode. With the support of the local police, efforts are on to search all suspected areas using high-end drones. Excise squads also are in action in areas which were earlier havens of illicit liquor traders. Officials with the Thamarassery Range office said they had detained two persons who allegedly led poachers during Easter-Vishu celebrations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/forest-squads-step-up-surveillance/article31384997.ece
20 April 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Nothing wrong in deal, says Balan||Minister for Welfare of Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes and Backward Classes A.K. Balan said here on Sunday that the Opposition was trying to insult Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan in the name of the Sprinklr deal. Addressing the media, Mr. Balan said that there was nothing wrong in giving the deal to Sprinklr. The deal did not require the permission of the Law Department and that it was the prerogative of the Information Technology (IT) Department, he said. Security of data The Minister, who is in charge of Palakkad district, said that the IT Department had ensured the security of the data. “Let those having complaints approach the court,” he said. He said that there was nothing wrong in accepting a service given free of cost. The government had no objection to the decision of the IT Department, he said. Mr. Balan said that there was no need for the Law Department to examine all the files. It would be the sole responsibility of the IT Department even if the deal ran into rough weather, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/nothing-wrong-in-deal-says-balan/article31385041.ece
20 April 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Six more leave isolation wards in Pathanamthitta||A total of six persons admitted to the hospital isolation wards here got discharged on Sunday, leaving only seven persons at the hospitals in the district as on Sunday evening. According to an official medical bulletin released by the district administration here on Sunday evening, no fresh case of COVID-19 has been reported from any part of the district for the seventh consecutive day on Sunday. Moreover, the surveillance teams of the Health Department could not identify any primary or secondary contacts of the infected persons in the district on Sunday too. So far, a total of 156 persons, that included 11 persons who were cured of COVID-19, have got discharged from the isolation wards of various hospitals in the district. Presently, six persons have been admitted to the isolation ward at Pathanamthitta General Hospital and another one at the District Hospital in Kozhenchery, the bulletin said. District Collector P.B. Noohu and District Medical Officer A.L.Sheeja said no throat swab sample has been sent from the district to the Virology Laboratory in Alappuzha for clinical examination on Sunday. Throat swabs They said, so far, a total of 17 throat swab samples collected from various persons in the district were tested positive while 2,779 samples tested negative for the virus infection. The Collector said a total of 1,710 persons have been quarantined at their homes in different parts of the district as on Sunday evening. Of them, 92 persons were those who have come from various foreign countries and 1,456 others were those who came from various other States. As many as 142 primary and secondary contacts of the infected persons have also been placed under home quarantine. The Collector said the 146 surveillance teams deployed at 14 border points of the district have screened a total of 5,599 persons for fever and the like symptoms of COVID-19 on Sunday. However, none among them was found to be having any symptom of the viral disease, he said. According to the DMO, the condition of all those who have been quarantined at the hospital isolation wards in the district continues to be stable.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/six-more-leave-isolation-wards-in-pathanamthitta/article31385052.ece
20 April 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Staff union seeks funds for TDB||The Travancore Devaswom Board Employees Front (TDBEF) has demanded that the government release immediate relief worth Rs. 200 crore to the TDB to tide over the lockdown-induced financial crisis faced by the State-sponsored temple administrative body. The front’s general secretary G. Baiju said the TDB revenue had been badly affected as devotees were denied entry to temples because of the 21-day lockdown to prevent the spread of COVID-19. The board was facing the worst financial crisis in its history. Earlier, its coffers were badly hit in the deluge of 2018, followed by the unrest caused by the controversial issue of women’s entry to Sabarimala and certain Hindu organisations’ protest call for ‘kanicka challenge’ asking devotees not to make any monetary offerings at TDB temples, he said. He said revenue from Sabarimala had been the mainstay of the TDB. The 10-day annual temple festival at Sabarimala had to be postponed this year owing to the lockdown. Devotees had been denied entry even for the annual Vishu festival at Sabarimala, another major revenue-earner for the board. Though the government had announced a Rs. 100-crore package for the TDB, including it in the State’s annual budget, the board had received only Rs. 30 crore, he alleged. Mr. Baiju alleged that the TDB had received only Rs. 40 lakh from the government towards annuity against the Rs. 80 lakh annuity in the previous financial year. The financial crisis was so acute that the TDB had not been able to disburse even the pension benefits of around 80 employees who had retired this year, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/employees-union-seeks-funds-for-tdb/article31385016.ece
20 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||As Sprinklr controversy rages, CPI(M) begins firefighting||The Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)] leadership has set in motion a political process for unravelling the mystery alleged over Information Technology Department’s decision to engage a U.S. company for processing the COVID-19 patients’ data. Well before the CPI(M) State secretariat meets to discuss the issue on Tuesday, party Polit Bureau member S. Ramachandran Pillai has put the party stance in perspective by stating that an exigency warrants instant responses and decisions, and the pact in question need not be construed as a dilution of the party’s stated position on crucial issues concerning individual privacy and data sanctity. The party leadership seems to be conscious of a move to misinterpret the bureaucratic decision to rope in Sprinklr company for processing the patients’ data as a deviation from its declared stance on all issues pertaining to data and the Opposition United Democratic Front’s (UDF) move to use it for scoring brownie points with an eye on the ensuing local body as well as Assembly elections. Discretionary powers Arresting the wanton spread of the COVID-19 virus and executing Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan’s brief to ensure that no life gets sniffed out by any lapse in containment becoming imperative, an officer used his discretionary powers to ink the pact giving the official procedures a go by. The State’s administration is familiar to such decisions too, sources say. Given the lethal nature of the virus and the lack of experience of the State in managing a crisis of such mammoth proportion, the government was forced to explore all options to restrict the impact of the viral attack. The government’s endeavours not only yielded optimum results, but also won international accolades. With Mr. Pillai clarifying that slips, if any, could be evaluated and corrected post COVID-19 is seen as a move to put a lid on the row and rob the sheen off the government’s achievements in managing the crisis. In support The party leadership may go into a more vigorous campaign against the bid to put the Chief Minister in the dock and run a smear campaign in the days ahead. Law Minister A.K. Balan and Left Democratic Front (LDF) convener A. Vijayaraghavan had warned against such attempts and it had become almost clear that the Sprinklr row would keep on smouldering till the elections were over.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/as-sprinklr-controversy-rages-cpim-begins-firefighting/article31385036.ece
20 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Septage collection system completes a year||On the completion of a year since the city Corporation introduced a licensing system for private vehicles collecting septage, as much as 4.5 crore litres of septage waste has been collected through the system. A total revenue of Rs. 3 crore has been generated through this, out of which the Corporation’s revenue is Rs. 71 lakhs. The septage collection system has continued uninterrupted even during the lockdown. Although there was no need for septage collection from commercial establishments, the demand for collection continued from flats and residential areas. “The system has come as a boon for the private operators too as they used to operate clandestinely before, dumping septage in water bodies and other secluded areas.  Steady income Now they can function without any fear of a crackdown from the authorities. They are also assured of a steady income, as the calls from customers are routed equally to all the operators,” says a health official of the city Corporation. The civic body currently has 19 septage collection vehicles, out of which 14 are being run by private operators while the rest are owned by the Corporation. Bookings are carried out through the Smart Trivandrum mobile application or through calls to the control room, which functions round the clock. Muttathara STP  The septage collected from across the city is now taken to the sewerage treatment plant (STP) at Muttathara. Each truck runs at least 3-4 trips daily. A call centre is functioning from 7 a.m. to 7 p.m on all days to coordinate the activities and to help out those who are not familiar with online booking. (Ph: 9496434488)  Bookings are carried out through the Smart Trivandrum mobile application or through calls to the control room||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/septage-collection-system-completes-a-year/article31385057.ece
20 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Breaking the chain with music||Music has been holding out the message of hope and cheer in these troubling times. From big names to the man on the street, music has become a great unifier as people try to come to terms with how a virus has upended their world. At the start of the lockdown in the State, Kanal Inspires, the creative wing of Kanal, a non-governmental organisation that conducts awareness programmes at schools and colleges and opens reading spaces in rural areas, launched a campaign ‘Break the Chain with Music’. The idea was to bring out cover versions of 50 popular songs, both old and new, to help beat the lockdown blues. Earlier, Kanal Inspires had put mood tapes of original songs sung again by singers they knew on Instagram. The ‘Break the Chain with Music’ campaign was built on the foundation of the mood tapes so that people could embrace positivity and resilience while staying inside their homes and put the time they unexpectedly had on their hands to good use by posting cover versions of songs. Soothing videos The project was inspired by mood tapes series of Ron Roy who pioneered the use of sounds of nature to make soothing videos and audio collectibles, says the Kanal team. They planned to post five songs each day, beginning April 3, on their Facebook page and YouTube. Most of the videos were sent by their acquaintances. The songs had minimum background music and, if needed, nature sounds were added to them. Visuals, again mostly that of nature, accompanied the songs. The cover versions posted, mostly melodies, include Devanganangal, Lag Jaa Gale, Thaniye Mizhikal, Thira nurayum churul mudiyil, Ekla Cholo Re, and so on. Composer Jassie Gift and singer Mridula Warrier have sent videos supporting the initiative. After they reached the target within 10 days, Kanal Inspires decided to carry on the campaign with one song a day as the pandemic has not yet gone away. And, the songs keep coming.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/breaking-the-chain-with-music/article31385054.ece
20 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Varsities make up for lost classes via e-platform||Laying a platform for web-based higher education, State universities are adopting virtual classrooms to overcome the disruption of academic year due to the COVID-19 pandemic. The government-sponsored Additional Skill Acquisition Programme (ASAP) has provided impetus to the endeavour by creating a platform for webinars that has evoked enthusiasm among students. Following a recent discussion that Higher Education Minister K.T. Jaleel had with the Vice Chancellors of the universities, ASAP commenced webcasting classes from 8.30 a.m. to 9.30 p.m. on April 15. Thrust is provided to those subjects that could not be completed due to the lockdown. Own platforms While A.P.J. Abdul Kalam Technological University and the University of Kerala have advised affiliated colleges to utilise the facility, other universities are expected to follow suit. Various universities have also commenced steps to develop virtual classroom platforms on their own. Web portal Nineteen sessions on engineering, polytechnic, science, arts and commerce courses have been conducted on the ASAP web-portal (www.skillparkkerala.in/online-classes). Each session comprises two 10-minute Q&A slots interspersed with two 20-minute lecture slots, with sufficient time for clearing doubts. 1,300 viewers The initial response of students has been encouraging with a few sessions attracting over 1,300 viewers. However, fewer than 300 students had registered for certain live classes, sources said. Since students might not able to attend the classes owing to various reasons, including lack of internet connectivity, ASAP will archive lecture sessions to enable future viewing in its YouTube channel. Academicians’ response Academicians have voiced their support for the endeavour. However, some have cautioned against a rigid framework for conducting classes in various disciplines. “For instance, it would not be feasible to cover all modules of engineering subjects through webinars, considering the technical aspects of various streams. Virtual classrooms must not be designed to replace the actual ones, but supplement them,” an academician said.  For students who miss the sessions, ASAP will archive lecture sessions to enable future viewing in its YouTube channel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/varsities-make-up-for-lost-classes-via-e-platform/article31385026.ece
20 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Two test positive, 13 recover in State||The State put 13 more persons on the COVID-19 recovery list on Sunday, while two more persons tested newly positive for the disease. Both positive cases were imported cases of infection, in persons who had returned from Dubai. One case is located at Kannur, the person having returned from Abu Dhabi while the other case is of a person who had returned to Kasaragod from Dubai. The State’s total COVID-19 tally so far is 401 now. It could put 270 patients on the recovery list. At present, 129 persons are undergoing treatment in various hospitals. The number of people under surveillance in the State now stands at 55,590. Of these, 55,129 persons are on home quarantine, while 461 are in isolation in various hospitals. New hospital admissions on Sunday was 72. Till date, the samples of 19,351 persons were sent for COVID 19 testing and the results of 18,547 were negative. Plea to public In a statement, Health Minister K. K. Shylaja said that even though the lockdown norms were being relaxed in many districts, people should continue the vigil and strictly follow the social distancing norms. She added that everyone should strictly follow the directions of the Health Department and that people with fever or cough or any respiratory symptoms should avoid going out of their homes. Ms. Shylaja also said that anyone going out of their homes should wear masks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/two-test-positive-13-recover-in-state/article31385024.ece
20 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||A long road to recovery for real estate sector in State||Although the State government has decided to go in for a phased opening up of the construction sector as part of easing the COVID-19 restrictions, the post-lockdown revival of the real estate scene could be cumbersome. The sector faces multiple hurdles — financially weakened buyers, labour-related issues and the disrupted supply chain to list a few. Industry sources believe it could take, at the very minimum, a year before the sector can acquire some stability in Kerala. On the strength of an April 17 State government order, developers have decided to resume work to the extent possible, S. Krishnakumar, chairman, Kerala chapter, Confederation of Real Estate Developers’ Associations of India (CREDAI - Kerala), said. Halted projects Between 300 and 400 apartment projects were halted due to the COVID-19 pandemic and the consequent lockdown, as per an assessment by CREDAI - Kerala. The list grows bigger if the other big and small construction projects in the public and private sectors are added. Keralites in 65 countries, including several hit hard by the pandemic, have booked apartments in the State, Mr. Krishnakumar said. Jeopardised jobs and salaries are prompting many of them to seek extensions to payment schedules. “It is evident that many buyers are reeling under the economic impact of the pandemic. Several have lost their jobs or been forced to take salary cuts. They are seeking an extension of payment schedules, and rightly so. It is a force majeure situation,” he said. Supply factor Another problem is the lockdown-induced disruption in the supply chain. With restrictions in place on interstate transportation, sourcing construction materials is difficult. For example, tiles are sourced from Gujarat, sanitary fittings from Maharashtra and Gujarat, and cement from Tamil Nadu. High-end fittings and even good quality clay are imported from abroad. Builders are seeking government intervention to prevent manufacturers from hiking the price of materials including cement. On the labour front, a different set of challenges awaits. Re-launching work without flouting social distancing norms, for instance, is fraught with problems. Besides, large numbers of migrant workers are expected to return, at least temporarily, to their home States once the lockdown is lifted. One option, say builders, is replacing them with the Keralite workforce returning from abroad. But how far, and by when, this would work out is a matter of conjecture. Registration deadline Meanwhile, the deadline for registration of ongoing real estate projects in the State under the Real Estate (Regulation and Development) Act in 2016 is likely to be extended further. In early January, the Kerala Real Estate Regulatory Authority (K-RERA) had ordered all ongoing real estate projects to be registered by March 31. Following the COVID-19 outbreak, this has been extended to May 15. “We may have to extend it even further,” K-RERA Chairman P.H. Kurien said.  A large number of migrant workers are expected to return, at least temporarily, to their home States once the lockdown is lifted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-long-road-to-recovery-for-real-estate-sector-in-state/article31385032.ece
20 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Development works to take a beating||With Railways, National Highways Authority of India, Public Works Department and other agencies gearing up to resume the stalled development works from April 20, procurement of materials and arranging labour are going to be a major challenge. Social distancing norms to be followed in the work sites; lack of manpower; shortage of materials; and the hassles in transporting construction materials from other districts will hamper the pace of works even as the agencies are trying to finish them before summer ends. Although relaxations have been provided for the inter-State and intra-State movement of trucks and goods vehicles, curbs on the functioning of quarries and the excavation of earth will be a major hurdle. “The return of the migrant workers is impossible during the next 41 days and the works are likely to get in full swing only in December after the two monsoons,” a top railway official told The Hindu . Collector’s nod Railways have decided to take up the work of the doubling of the 18-km rail corridor from Ettumanur to Chingavanam from Monday as the contractor has 30 labourers at his disposal. Kottayam District Collector has also given the nod for the work. Laying the pile foundation of the Kodoor bridge, rock blasting at Muttambalam and signalling and cabling works will be taken up. Social distancing norms would be followed and only 10 labourers would be at work in a shift, the official said. Subway plans Railways are planning to resume the construction of the subway and regrading work of the existing track to commission the 18.1-km Ambalappuzha-Haripad stretch from April 24. But, the contractor who has taken up the work will have to arrange labour to start the work. The NHAI has also decided to resume the suspended national highway development works. The Reach II of the NH-66 bypass from Mukkola to Karode would begin and the EPC (Engineering, Procurement, Construction) contractor had been given the directive, a top NHAI official said. Procurement of materials will not be a problem as granite is being sourced from Tamil Nadu. The PWD has already secured exemption from the Centre for the resurfacing of the 20.6-km Mangalapuram-Kadambattukonam corridor in the capital, the Kottapuram-Munambam stretch in Ernakulam and Thrissur district, Kaprikaud-Edakazhiyoor road and the Koprakalam-Chandapura jucntion. The works on the NH 66 four-laning from Pravachambalam to Kodinada will also resume. Uncertainty prevails over the Vizhinjam International multipurpose deepwater seaport. Only 700 m of the 3.1-km breakwater, the critical component of the seaport, has been completed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/development-works-to-take-a-beating/article31385018.ece
20 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||88 local bodies on State’s hotspot list||The Health Department has issued orders declaring the COVID-19 hotspots in the State. Eighty-eight local self-government bodies (including Corporations, Municipalities and panchayats) have been declared as hotspots on the basis of the number of positive cases, primary contacts and secondary contacts in each region. Can change As disease transmission pattern changes, these hotspots would be re-assigned. However, a place would be dropped from the hotspot list only after weekly data analysis, a statement issued by the Health Minister, said. Three in capital Thiruvananthapuram has three hotspots, including city Corporation, Varkala municipality and Malayinkeezh panchayat. Kollam has five, Alappuzha (3), Pathanamthitta (7), Kottayam (1), Idukki (6), Ernakulam (2), Thrissur (3), Palakkad (4), Malappuram (13), Kozhikode (6), Wayanad (2), Kannur (19) and Kasaragod (14)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/88-local-bodies-on-states-hotspot-list/article31385025.ece
20 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||88 quarantined in capital district on Sunday||The district administration quarantined 88 people as part of the COVID-19 containment efforts on Sunday. As many as 129 people completed the mandated 28-day quarantine period. Currently, there were 1,770 people placed under surveillance in the district. These include 1,604 who were quarantined at homes. . Two persons remain under treatment after being tested positive for COVID-19. As many as 65 samples were sent for tests while 72 others returned negative. The Thiruvananthapuram City police arrested 69 people and confiscated 38 vehicles for violating the guidelines of the lockdown. The Thiruvananthapuram Rural police registered 320 cases and arrested 319 people while seizing 230 vehicles. The police arrested two persons in separate cases reported in Chavadimukku and Kattakada for manufacturing spurious liquor. One-and-a-half litres of arrack and 70 litres of ‘koda’ were also seized in the cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/88-quarantined-in-capital-district-on-sunday/article31385056.ece
20 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Excise officials hurt in gang attack||At least six Excise officials were injured when a gang of suspected illicit hooch brewers waylaid them at Amboori in Vellarada police station limits here on Sunday. The police said the attack occurred around 10 p.m. when the Excise team was returning from an anti-hooch raid in the locality. The assailants freed two of their alleged associates taken into custody by the Excise. They also smashed the department’s vehicles and stole the 20 litres of seized arrack.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/excise-officials-hurt-in-gang-attack/article31385053.ece
20 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Support for parents of special kids||A psycho-social support team of the State government will extend support to parents to help manage children with special needs during this challenging time. Kiran P.S, State Nodal Officer, State Mental Health Programme, said the team, comprising psychiatrists, clinical psychologists, counsellors/therapists, and social workers, gathers details of parents from special schools and provides them therapy. A total of 1,064 personnel are providing support to parents.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/support-for-parents-of-special-kids/article31385017.ece
20 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Cartridge found abandoned||The Nemom police have begun investigation into the recovery of an abandoned live firearm cartridge at Karumam on Sunday. The bullet, which is used for .303 rifles that are used by the Kerala Police, was found lying along the road in a residential area by a youth around 9 a.m. . The police have roped in the assistance of ballistic experts as part of the ongoing probe. A case has been registered. The incident comes against the backdrop of a report by the Comptroller and Auditor General of India that flagged the purported absence of rifles and live cartridges from the State police armoury, the subsequent rebuttal of the findings by the police, and the recovery of 14 bullets that were found abandoned at Kulathupuzha in Kollam two months ago.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cartridge-found-abandoned/article31385027.ece
20 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||150th birth anniversary of Lenin||Communist Party of India (CPI) State secretary Kanam Rajendran has urged party offices to observe the 150th birth anniversary of Lenin on April 22. There was every need to uphold the Communist-socialist ideas popularised by Lenin at a time when the world was battling new challenges, Mr. Rajendran said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/150th-birth-anniversary-of-lenin/article31385058.ece
20 April 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||Cong. opposes move to resume toll collection||Protesting against the move to resume toll collection at Paliyekkara toll plaza on National Highway 544 from April 20 onwards, the Congress has demanded that the government should postpone toll collection until the lifting of the lockdown. The Ministry of Road Transport and Highways has permitted the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) to resume toll collection on highways from April 20 following the relaxation of norms for inter-State and intra-State movement of trucks and other goods carrier vehicles. The government had suspended collection of toll on March 25 in the wake of COVID-19 outbreak. In his petition to the Thrissur District Collector, DCC vice president Joseph Tajet demanded that toll collection should be resumed only after the lockdown ends on May 3. Emergency services “Public transport will resume only after May 3. People in emergency situations will use the highways now. Toll collection during this period will be difficult for emergency services. We cannot ignore the chances of disease spread at the toll plaza,” he said. A majority of vehicles did not have FASTag and the queue for non-FASTag vehicles at the toll plaza would be long, said Youth Congress leader Sunil Lalur, while demanding the postponement of the move to resume toll collection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cong-opposes-move-to-resume-toll-collection/article31385001.ece
20 April 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||Aswini Hospital founder dead||Sankaran Namboodiri, founder of Aswini Hospital, Thrissur, died in Bengaluru on Sunday. He was 95. A former Deputy Director in the Agriculture Department, he had also worked as a schoolteacher and at the State Bank of India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/aswini-hospital-founder-dead/article31385003.ece
20 April 2020||April 20 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Kannur, Kasaragod report one case each||One more person tested positive for COVID-19 in Kasaragod district on Sunday. The 48-year-old man from Thekkil at Chemmanad came from Dubai on March 16. Eight patients were discharged from hospitals after they recovered. District Medical Officer A.V. Ramdas said the number of COVID-19 patients had come down to 46. As many as 5,194 people are under observation. In Kannur One more COVID-19 case was confirmed in Kannur on Sunday, taking the total number of patients to 88 in the district. District Collector T.V. Subhash said the new patient was a 29-year-old man from Chendayad, Kunnothuparambu, who arrived at the Karipur airport from Abu Dhabi on March 22. He was in home quarantine and the sample was collected at Thalassery General Hospital on April 17. Three recovered patients were discharged from Thalassery General Hospital on Sunday. There are now 5,987 people under observation. In Kozhikode As many as 1,584 persons completed their observation cycle for COVID-19 in Kozhikode on Sunday even as no new SARS-CoV-2 positive cases were reported from the district. A release by District Medical Officer V. Jayasree said the number of people under surveillance had come down to 8,428. Twenty-eight persons are at the Government Medical College Hospital. Five were discharged on the day. Of the 710 samples of suspected patients sent for lab tests, 647 were negative. The results of another 39 are awaited. So far, 20 persons from Kozhikode and two each from Kannur and Kozhikode were tested positive for the virus here. The district panchayat has allocated Rs. 10 lakh to take up disease prevention measures using Ayurvedic drugs. In Ernakulam Twenty-seven persons were placed in home quarantine on Sunday, while 175 were removed from the list, bringing down the total number of home-quarantined in the district to 210. Two persons were moved to hospital isolation on Sunday. There were no positive cases in the results of 16 samples received on Sunday. Six samples were sent for testing. Results of 47 are awaited.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kannur-kasaragod-report-one-case-each/article31385013.ece
20 April 2020||April 20 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Lockdown blues||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/lockdown-blues/article31385005.ece
20 April 2020||April 20 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||On alert||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/on-alert/article31385007.ece
20 April 2020||April 20 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Waiting for their turn||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/waiting-for-their-turn/article31385061.ece
20 April 2020||April 20 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||The next best option||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/the-next-best-option/article31385029.ece
20 April 2020||April 20 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Cool solutions||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cool-solutions/article31385044.ece
20 April 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Lack of drugs worrisome for high-risk HIV patients||The COVID-19 lockdown in the country has put a small group of people at a great risk due to lack of availability of some specific drugs. A very few among the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) positive persons survive on a special combination of third-line of treatment provided by the State government in the form of Darunavir/r, Raltegravir, or Dolutegravir and Zidovudine, Abacavir Lamivudine, or Tenofovir. Due to their non-availability, around 20 persons depending on the third-line treatment in the district have been affected. The medicines are generally supplied from the Centre of Excellence in Vijayawada. Six of them have requested Additional DMHO C.R. Rama Subbarao to intervene and get their supplies early. The second line of standard antiretroviral therapy (ART) consists of the combination of antiretroviral (ARV) drugs (Tenofovir + Lamivudine + Efavirenz [TLE] and Zidovudine + Lamivudine + Nevirapine [ZLN]) to suppress the HIV virus and stop the progression of HIV disease. There are 13,713 HIV positive persons in the district using first line of drugs and 1,011 using second line of drugs. All the patients using first and second line of drugs were given their supplies for three months just after the lockdown was imposed and some who could not come to the ART Centre here, got them delivered at their doorstep. Those who do not respond to these two treatments are registered for the third line of therapy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/lack-of-drugs-worrisome-for-high-risk-hiv-patients/article31384667.ece
20 April 2020||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Congress urges Karnataka CM to step up COVID-19 testing||ACongress delegation that met Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Sunday urged him to increase testing for COVID-19 as per the World Health Organisation (WHO) protocols and provide salaries to frontline workers on time. The delegation said that testing of 10,000 per 10 lakh population, as per the WHO guidelines, has to be done in the State. It also urged the government to meet the losses incurred by farmers unable to bring their produce to the markets. The delegation, which included Leader of the Opposition in the Assembly Siddaramaiah, KPCC president-designate D.K. Shivakumar, and former Ministers R.V. Deshpande, G. Parameshwara, and Dinesh Gundu Rao, also highlighted the targeting of a particular community as responsible for spreading of virus. They said that a few BJP MPs and MLAs have issued derogatory statements. The leaders also drew the Chief Minister’s attention to politicians pasting their photographs on relief materials issued by the government. “The government cannot keep quiet despite the poor financial condition of the State. The Congress, as an Opposition party, will cooperate with the State government,” said Mr. Siddaramaiah. He referred to the alleged discrepancies in relief works. “Just about Rs. 30 crore has been released from the Construction Workers’ Welfare Board and so far, only one lakh workers have received dry ration kits in Bengaluru. There are lakhs of workers who do not have income and are not getting relief from the government. Announce a package to safeguard them,” he said. They submitted a memorandum urging the State government to disburse the salaries of doctors, nurses, paramedical staff, anganwadi and ASHAs, who are rendering dedicated service risking their lives. They also said such workers should be provided with a special pay. Furthermore, they also said that under the COVID-19 scare, hospitals and clinics were not performing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/congress-urges-karnataka-cm-to-step-up-covid-19-testing/article31384628.ece
20 April 2020||BENGALURU,ANDHRA PRADESH||It’s Bangalore Blue for Karnataka’s grape farmers||Just a month ago, there was a festive mood in the household of 60-year-old Sonnappa, a farmer from Hoovegal village of Chickballapur district, as he was hopeful of earning a handsome income from the Bangalore Blue variety of grape grown on his 1.5-acre vineyard. The farmer, who had sold his crop the previous year for Rs. 3.8 lakh to some middlemen without making proper market enquiries, was optimistic of getting better returns this time. But his hopes came crashing down when the COVID-19 lockdown came into force. That, coupled with several other issues, meant there were no takers for his crop. “I have standing crop of 15 to 20 tonnes. But so far, not even a single buyer has made enquiries or even visited my farm for purchase,” he said. “I heard that some middlemen are quoting a throwaway price of Rs. 2 a kg. But even such people have not visited our farm,” he said “I have spent Rs. 1.5 lakh per acre. Forget about getting some income, I now need to spend about Rs. 25,000 on labour to pluck the dried grape branches,” said Mr. Sonnappa, whose crops are now drying up. He may have to borrow from private moneylenders to take care of his family. The farmer is particularly disappointed as his farming activity had gained momentum after his two sons joined him in agriculture despite engineering and polytechnic diploma degrees. He also harvests about 60 kg of roses a day from a one-acre farm, but the rose market too has shut down. His sons burnt their fingers in vegetable cultivation too as they had to sell their standing carrot crop at just one-third of the regular rates. Mr. Sonnappa’s is not an isolated case; almost all growers of Bangalore Blue grapes are in dire straits as their crops have started drying up with no takers. Demand hit Nearly 3,500 tonnes of Bangalore Blue variety still remains unharvested in the fields. This variety is mostly used for making juice and wine/spirit. While juice centres are closed, wineries too have stopped operations, said N. Narayanaswamy, a grape trader in southern Karnataka. This variety is generally sent to Kerala, Andhra Pradesh and Odisha for juice-making, apart from Maharasthra for wineries. According to him, the only way to bail out growers is to either start spirit-making units or reopen three of the private spirit-making units that have been closed in the State. “It is possible to make spirit out of Bangalore Blue grapes. The spirit, which is used for liquor production, can be stored for five years,” said Mr. Narayanaswamy. He, however, maintained that it would not be possible to clear the entire standing crop through wineries, which cannot match distilleries in terms of procurement. But the problem is that such measures would have to be implemented within a week or two, as the entire remaining crop may dry up soon, said K. Narayana Gowda, president of the alumni association of the University of Agricultural Sciences, Bengaluru. Farmers are upset as they feel the government did not act ina swift manner to safeguard their interests. Meanwhile, about 8,000 to 10,000 tonnes of Dilkush variety of seeded green grapes too remains unharvested as it has become difficult to transport them to their regular markets in Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Odisha, and North India. The growers are finding some solace in a few traders buying the produce at Rs. 8 to Rs. 10 a kg, as against the normal price of Rs. 25 to Rs. 30.  I have standing crop of 15 to 20 tonnes. But so far, not even a single buyer has made enquiries or even visited my far. I heard that some middlemen are quoting a throwaway price of Rs. 2 a kg. But even such people have not visited our farm Sonnappa, grape farmer from Hoovegal village in Chickballapur district||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/its-bangalore-blue-for-karnatakas-grape-farmers/article31384625.ece
20 April 2020||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||District milk unions slash procurement price||Staring at losses, several district cooperative milk unions in the State have reduced the milk procurement price provided to dairy farmers. The reduction in prices ranges between Rs. 1.5 per litre in Bengaluru and Belagavi unions and Rs. 2.5 per litre of milk in Mysuru union. Besides the three unions, Karnataka Milk Federation (KMF) sources said that the procurement price has been reduced in different quantum in Mandya, Chamarajanagar, Hassan, Shivamogga, and Belagavi, affecting the dairy farmers, KMF sources said. It is likely that Tumakuru and Kolar unions will also announce the reduction shortly, sources added. KMF Chairman Balachandra Jarkiholi had earlier indicated that the unions could reduce the procurement price due to the ongoing COVID-19 crisis. There are around two million farmer families in the State that supply milk to KMF through village-level societies, and farmers get between Rs. 29 and Rs. 31 per litre, besides Rs. 5 given as incentive by the State government. In January, when KMF increased the sale price of milk by Rs. 2 per litre, it had transferred more than one rupee to farmers, who had seen their input cost go up. The reduction effected over the last one week comes in the light of several factors that have besieged KMF, the apex body of dairy farmers in the State. While in the last fortnight, the procurement by KMF increased from about 63 lakh litres a day to around 68 lakh litres a day now, the sale of milk continues to be restricted to liquid milk, which remains less than 35 lakh litres a day. The sale of milk itself has come down by about 10 lakh litres daily due to closure of hotels, tea stalls and hostels besides the return of labour and employees of factories. In big cities such as Bengaluru and Mangaluru, the daily sale of milk has reduced by about 1.5 lakh litres and about 70,000 litres, respectively. “Most unions distributed the profits among the farmers till March 31, which otherwise would have attracted income tax at the rate of 30%. In most cases, the additional profits have been withdrawn,” a KMF Director told The Hindu . The reduction in procurement price is temporary, and the unions will have to manage with whatever income they get till the end of lockdown, he said, adding, “Profitability of the unions have taken a hit as value added products are not being produced and sale of milk itself has come down.” If the milk unions are getting milk from dairy farmers who would otherwise supply to private dairies, good rainfall in major milk producing districts in South Karnataka has increased the procurement. “We are expecting the milk procurement to increase in the coming weeks with availability of green fodder and our sales could remain almost the same. In such a scenario, milk has to be converted into Skimmed Milk Powder (SMP), which has seen price drop from Rs. 338 per kg in 2019 to Rs. 220 now,” a senior official explained. “The more we convert milk into SMP, the more it will affect our financial condition. Even at a reduced price, there are not many takers for SMP. In nearly one month of the lockdown, KMF has produced about 3,000 tonnes of SMP, which is in addition to similar stock it had earlier,” the official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/covid-19-impact-district-milk-unions-slash-procurement-price/article31384761.ece
20 April 2020||Bengaluru/Vijayawada/Thiruvananthapuram,ANDHRA PRADESH||Six die of virus in southern States||In Andhra Pradesh, Kurnool, one of the most affected districts, recorded one death and 26 fresh cases of COVID-19 on Sunday. In the 24-hour period till Sunday, 44 new cases and one death were reported in six districts, a State bulletin said. The case tally had gone up to 647 and the toll touched 17. Besides Kurnool’s 26, Krishna and East Godavari districts had five new cases each while Guntur reported four cases and Anantapur three cases. Visakhapatnam reported one. There were five active cases in the city. The current active case tally stood at 565, who were being treated in various COVID-19 hospitals. Telangana reported 18 new positive cases on Sunday taking the total to 858. Three more deaths were reported since Saturday, taking the total casualties to 21. Chennai cluster In Tamil Nadu, 105 persons tested positive on Sunday, taking the total number of cases to 1,477. Chennai had a cluster of 50 persons who tested positive. Of this, 10 were from primary sources, or people who had tested positive already, and 40 others were their contacts. In Chengalpattu, three persons, who had come into contact with positive persons, were diagnosed positive. There were five cases from Coimbatore, and six from Cuddalore, who were contacts of positive persons.  2 cases in Kerala Kerala recorded two more cases of COVID-19, while adding 13 persons to the list of those who had recovered, on Sunday. Both individuals had travel histories. One was in Kannur, with travel from Abu Dhabi, and the other from Dubai to Kasaragod. The State’s COVID-19 tally so far was 401. It had put 270 patients on the recovery list and 129 persons were undergoing treatment in hospital. The number of people under surveillance stood at 55,590. Of these, 55,129 were on home quarantine, while 461 were in isolation in various hospitals. There were 72 new hospital admissions on Sunday. Till date, the samples of 19,351 persons were sent for COVID-19 testing and the results of 18,547 persons were negative. In a statement, the Health Minister, K. K. Shylaja, said that even though the lockdown norms were being relaxed in many districts, people should continue the vigil and strictly follow social distancing norms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/six-die-of-virus-in-southern-states/article31384640.ece
20 April 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||ID liquor dens raided, 6 arrested||The police raided the illicitly distilled (ID) liquor dens at the forest locations in Valmikipuram mandal in Chittoor district on Sunday, and destroyed 2,000 litres of ID liquor and 200 litres of fermented jaggery, utensils, distilling equipment and cans. According to information, the Valmikipuram police led by Circle-Inspector Siva Bhaskar, Sub-Inspectors Venkateswarulu and Ravi Prakash Reddy raided two locations at Eguva Mekalavaripalle and Diguva Mekalavaripalle villages abutting a forest location. Seeing the police at dawn, several persons had escaped, while six were arrested from the spots. The police said that fearing police raids, those involved in ID liquor trade are creating secure dens in forest locations and atop the hillocks. Restrictions on the wine shops and movement of people due to the COVID-19 lockdown prompted the ID liquor makers to become active during the four weeks. Special parties were formed to detect the clandestine operations of these gangs. The villagers were also sought to inform the police and the excise staff as and when they find any suspicious activity at the forest locations. The Chittoor police have mounted vigil at several hamlets vulnerable to brewing of country arrack. Keeping in view of the earlier incidents of attacks on Excise personnel, special parties were formed to inspect the rural side, including Rasnapalle and Siddampalle, abutting the Tamil Nadu border. Meanwhile, the Kuppam rural police had intensified surveillance at the forested hamlets after detecting the ID liquor dens, leading to destroying of about 2,000 litres and arrest of nine persons there. The clandestine trade has regular clientèle in several villages on the Chittoor-T.N. border.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/id-liquor-dens-raided-6-arrested/article31384669.ece
20 April 2020||Hyderabad,ANDHRA PRADESH||Lockdown in Telangana extended till May 7||Telangana Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao on Sunday announced that the ongoing lockdown in the State has been extended till May 7. Briefing presspersons after a State cabinet meeting, he said the lockdown would be implemented in a tough manner in the State. He also said food delivery apps would not be allowed to operate in the State from Monday. The Chief Minister said the containment measures initiated by the government has brought down the doubling rate significantly. Against the national average doubling rate of less than eight days, doubling rate in the State was more than 10 days and the death rate too was significantly lower at 2.44 per cent compared to the national average of 3.22 per cent with 507 deaths reported across the country. The State has far surpassed the national average in the recovery rate which stood at 22 per cent as compared to 14 per cent across the country. Tests per million population in the State stood at 375 as compared to the national average of 254. Four districts – Warangal Rural, Yadadri Bhuvanagiri, Wanaparthy and Siddipet reported zero COVID-19 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/lockdown-in-telangana-extended-to-may-7/article31384643.ece
20 April 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Five of a family test positive in E.G.||Five persons of a family tested positive for COVID-19 after another member of the family, a 28-year-old woman, was declared positive for the virus on Saturday. The family resides in the Mangalavarampeta area under Rajamahendravaram Municipal Corporation (RMC) limits in East Godavari district. “One of the five persons is a Delhi returnee. The remaining four had travelled to places such as Kolkata, Hyderabad, Kurnool, and Karimnagar before March 21,” RMC Commissioner Abhishikt Kishore told The Hindu . “All of them had dinner with another Delhi returnee who tested positive earlier in Rajamahendravaram,” Mr. Abhishikt said. “Of the five, one is a woman, one an 11-year-old girl and three men in the 32 to 40 age-group,” RMC Health Officer M.V.R. Murthy said. As per a release issued by district Collector D. Muralidhar Reddy, the number of COVID-19 positive cases reached 24 as of Sunday. Eight discharged Earlier in the day, eight persons were discharged from hospital following their recovery. “The district has witnessed positive cases only in the urban areas such as Kakinada, Peddapuram, and Rajamahendravaram. All the 24 cases have been reported from the 13 habitations in which 32,000 families are under surveillance,” Mr. Muralidhar said. Lab results of 1,469 samples were yet to be received, he said, and added that 169 persons were in quarantine centres in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/five-of-a-family-test-positive-in-eg/article31385145.ece
20 April 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||NHRC takes notice of ‘assault on tribal people by forest staff’||The National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) has taken cognizance of a complaint on the alleged physical assault of Gutti Koya tribal families by the Kunavaram Forest Range emplyees in East Godavari district. According to a complaint lodged by Rights Watch (Andhra Pradesh) president Balu Akkisa, a 15-member forest team led by Kunavaram Ranger P. Mohini Vijaya Lakshmi had allegedly physically assaulted the Gutti Koya tribal families before demolishing three thatched huts and setting fire to two other huts belonging to them at Kotha Kotturu village in Chintooru mandal on April 13 evening. The NHRC was urged to provide compensation and entitlement over the piece of land for the tribal families and legal action against the forest staff. Video clip In a video clip of the purported incident, a copy of which is with The Hindu , the forest staff led by Ms. Mohini Vijaya Lakshmi were seen physically assaulting a tribal woman. The victims also claimed in the video that they have been living on the same site for over two decades. The mud-walled huts demolished with machinery belonged to the families of Madakam Devaiah, M. Iramaiah and P. Aidayya. The two huts that were allegedly set afire belonged to Kovvasi Muvvayya and Madakam Aidayya families. “The way the forest officials behaved with the Gutti Koya tribals is inhuman. The families are entitled to a right over the piece of land on which they had built houses and have been living for more than two decades, as per the Scheduled Tribe and Other Traditional Forest Dwellers (Recognition of Forest Rights-RoFR) Act, 2006,” according to Mr. Akkisa. The Chintooru police have registered a case against the forest staff and investigation is on. Deepening conflict Ganjivaram Srinivas, a Visakhapatnam-based tribal rights’ activist, said, “This incident is a clear case of deepening of the conflict over the right over forest land for habitation between the Forest Department and tribals, despite RoFR being in force since 2006 to solve such conflicts.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/nhrc-takes-note-of-assault-on-tribal-people-by-forest-staff/article31384666.ece
20 April 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Don’t force students to pay fees: JNTU-K V-C||Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University, (JNTU-Kakinada) Vice-Chancellor M. Ramalinga Raju has asked all affiliated colleges not to pester the students to pay the course fee at the end of the academic year in the wake of the health emergency. In a video-conference with the principals of all affiliated colleges offering engineering, pharmacy and management in the Coastal A.P, Prof. Raju said, “The college authorities should not force students to pay the fee immediately . The managements of the academic institutions affiliated to the JNTU-K are also advised not to lay off the staff. The employees must be paid their full salary during the lockdown period.” ‘No impact on teaching’ Prof. Raju said half of the syllabus of all engineering courses for the first year has been completed on online mode while there was no impact of the lockdown with respect to the students of the second, third and final years. He inquired about the measures being taken to check the spread of the virus in the colleges . JNTU-K Rector G.V.R. Prasada Rao and Registrar Ch. Satyanarayana were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/dont-force-students-to-pay-fees-jntu-k-v-c/article31385159.ece
20 April 2020||KURNOOL / ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||No relaxation in 27 red zones in Kurnool dist. till May 3: Collector||There will be no relaxation in the 27 red zones in the Kurnool district till May 3 and the lockdown should be implemented strictly with the help of police personnel, District Collector G. Veerapandian told Tehsildars, MPDOs and other Medical and Health Department officials on Sunday. With 26 new positive cases emerging from the district and a 78-year-old person of Medari Street in Kurnool dying on Sunday at the Government General Hospital, the lockdown was being implemented strictly with the district administration taking stringent measures against the violators. The District Collector said out of 26 new positive cases on Sunday 16 were Delhi returnees and already quarantined, while one was from Gadwal in Telangana. The details of others were being collected. Superintendent of Police Fakeerappa Kaginelli visited the toll plazas on the National Highway at the Inter-State border at Panchalingala with Telangana and inter-district border with Anantapur district at Pullur to drive home the seriousness of implementing the lockdown in its true spirit among people and the department officers. In Anantapur district, a person from Hindupur, who died in the early hours of Saturday, tested positive and the son of another woman from Hindupur, who had turned positive earlier, was also diagnosed as COVID-19 positive and shifted to the hospital. The district currently has 29 positive cases with three deaths, two discharges and 24 patients being treated in hospitals. District Collector Gandham Chandrudu and the SP B. Satya Yesu Babu and their counterparts in Kurnool in a release said certain green zone mandals will get relaxations from Monday with regard to cottage industry and agriculture operations by maintaining proper social distancing, as directed by the Central government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/no-relaxation-in-27-red-zones-in-kurnool-dist-till-may-3-collector/article31384672.ece
20 April 2020||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man dies after drinking sanitiser||A 29-year-old man died after he allegedly drank sanitiser to satiate his craving for alcohol, at D.C. Palli village near Marripadu in SPSR Nellore district, early on Sunday. A preliminary investigation by the police revealed that the deceased, N. Naresh, was desperate for alcohol and allegedly drank the alochol-based disinfectant, Marripadu Sub-Inspector P. Veeranarayana said. Police recovered an empty sanitiser bottle from Naresh’s house, who was learnt to have parted ways with his wife. His parents were away when the incident occurred. The body of the man was shifted to the Government Hospital at Atmakur for post-mortem.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/man-dies-after-drinking-sanitiser/article31385146.ece
20 April 2020||ONGOLE/NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Remote village sealed after RMP tests positive||The Prakasam district administration has unveiled a containment action plan at Ravinuthala village in Korisapadu mandal in the wake of one medical practitioner (RMP) from the village testing positive for coronavirus. The health workers under the overall supervision of District Collector Pola Bhaskar identified over 40 primary contacts of the RMP who is now under treatment in the Narayana Medical College Hospital in Nellore and shifted them to quarantine centres. All roads leading to the remote village, near Korisapadu, were sealed. The Collector asked the secondary contacts to either move to quarantine centres or be in home isolation. Health workers conducted a survey in the cluster. Meanwhile, much to the relief of the district administration, all the 12 test reports received on Sunday turned out to be negative. As many as 43 persons, including 26 from Ongole, were under treatment. The test results of 1,094 persons, including 212 samples sent on Sunday, were awaited, said COVID-19 Nodal Officer J. Richards. Prakasam Superintendent of Police Siddharth Kaushal ventured into the narrow lanes of Chirala, including the Perala Mosque centre, Salamon centre and Nawabpeta on a motorcycle to strictly enforce the lockdown. Five persons who had returned from New Delhi had tested positive in the handloom town. Nellore SP’s warning In Nellore, District Collector M.V. Seshagiri Babu along with Superintendent of Police Bhaskar Bhushan and Municipal Commissioner P.V.V.S. Murthy visited the Stonehousepeta area on Sunday to monitor the lockdown as the number of active cases in the district touched a high of 64. While two persons died, one person had recovered in the district. The SP warned of stern action, including registering of criminal cases, against those stepping out of homes without any valid reason.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/remote-village-sealed-after-rmp-tests-positive/article31384674.ece
20 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sharp rise in volunteer force enrolment||The ongoing COVID-19 relief efforts in the State have buttressed the government’s efforts to cultivate a volunteer force that can be deployed to assist law enforcement agencies during exigencies. A clarion call by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan to the public to become active partners in the State’s efforts to contain the pandemic has seen the Samoohika Sannadha Sena (community volunteer force) rapidly nearing its enrolment target of 3.4 lakh volunteers. The Sena was launched in January. After the plea by Mr. Vijayan on March 26, people in the age group of 20-40 years enrolled in large numbers. Till then, the registrations had hovered around 12,000. The Sena is a 2.92-lakh strong force as on Sunday. How they work Sena director Amit Meena said the force has ensured that welfare measures of the government trickle down to all strata of society. The group, a mixed bag ranging from techies, health workers, engineers, sportspersons and autorickshaw drivers, has manned community kitchens and call-centres, delivered commodities, including food, medicines, essential supplies, seeds and fertilizers to doorsteps, ensured social distancing norms outside retail outlets, and organised blood donation camps during the lockdown. Mr. Meena said their operation was decentralised, with local bodies empowered to engage volunteers so as to utilise their expertise to the maximum extent. Training by experts Amith M.S., a coordinator, said 700 master trainers had been identified from various departments to train the volunteers. The scheme, which will enrol people aged from 16 to 65 years following the COVID-19 crisis, is expected to attract students. The government is mulling over a way to assign academic credits for enabling youngsters who volunteer for assigned activities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sharp-rise-in-volunteer-force-enrolment/article31384626.ece
20 April 2020||Thrissur,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Opposition trying to get political gain’||By raising unnecessary controversies, including the Sprinklr deal, the Opposition in Kerala is trying to seek political gain when the State is waging a war against the COVID-19 pandemic, LDF convener A. Vijayaraghavan said on Sunday. The Opposition, by criticising Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, who had been leading the State successfully in the prevention of the pandemic, was demeaning the State and its people, Mr. Vijayaraghavan told reporters here. “The Opposition is not interested in people’s protection from COVID-19. They are raising controversies to make political gain and are seeking the resignation of the Chief Minister.” The world, health experts and social scientists were admiring the excellence of the State in fighting COVID-19, he said. “But the Opposition has been intolerant towards the successful model of the State. They were not able to tolerate the way the LDF managed to build the people’s unity against the epidemics like Nipah and COVID-19 and natural disasters like floods and Okhi,” Mr. Vijayaraghavan said. The Opposition was dragging even the family of the Chief Minster into the controversy. They should not forget about the last UDF tenure, which was rocked by the solar controversy, he said. Even at the peak of the solar controversy, the families of UDF leaders were not brought into the issue. “People will realise the intolerance of the Opposition. Sprinkler deal was part of effort to utilise the state-of-the-art technology available in the world. There is no corruption or leakage of data.” People should understand the strategy of the Opposition and co-operate with the government, he said. ‘Insulting the CM’ Meanwhile, Minister for Welfare of Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes and Backward Classes A.K. Balan said here on Sunday that the Opposition was trying to insult the Chief Minister in the name of the Sprinklr deal. Mr. Balan said that there was nothing wrong in giving the deal to Sprinklr. The deal did not require the permission of the Law Department and that it was the prerogative of the Information Technology (IT) Department, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/opposition-trying-to-get-political-gain/article31384630.ece
20 April 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||TTD’s Ayurvedic products to get licence in December||The five corona-specific ayurvedic medicines developed by the Ayurvedic wing of Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) are all set to get licenses by December 2020. For this, the temple management got a word of appreciation from none other than the union Department of AYUSH (Ayurveda Yoga and Naturopathy, Unani, Siddha and Homeopathy (AYUSH). Immediately after the outbreak of COVID-19, TTD’s Joint Executive Officer P. Basant Kumar gave the go-ahead to the Ayurvedic Pharmacy to prepare medicines that can specifically handle such pandemics. It may be recalled that during the lockdown period, the Sri Venkateswara Ayurvedic College brought out five medicines including dhoop sticks, disinfectant to kill bacteria, nasal drops, gargling liquid and hand-washing sanitisers, all using native herbs. The surveys and opinion polls conducted by the officers and researchers on the effectiveness of the medicines yielded encouraging feedback from the TTD employees and canteen workers, who formed the major sample size. User-friendly solutions Buoyed by the response, the administrators are keen on user-friendly and aesthetic solutions by adding more effective ayurvedic herbs. Research is currently on to make available the disinfectant vapour in the form of candles and make the sanitisers free of alcohol. Similarly, the nasal drops and strong antibiotic medicine ‘Amruta’ will be made more vibrant. Now that the process of licensing for these five formulations has been set in motion, their mass production is expected to start by December.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ttds-ayurvedic-products-to-get-licence-in-december/article31384675.ece
20 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Test all those identified in door-to-door survey’||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has asked officials to focus their attention on the 32,000 people who have been identified in the door-to-door survey and conduct COVID-19 tests on them. Kurnool, Guntur, Krishna and Nellore districts needed special attention, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said at a review meeting on Sunday. The CM further asked the officials to initiate steps to provide insurance to the ward / village volunteers, ASHA and sanitary workers. “All the frontline employees should have insurance coverage,” he added. Stressing the need for maintaining cleanliness in the hospitals, Mr. Jagan asked the officials to conduct a special drive once in two days to keep them tidy. The CM used a mask made by DWCRA groups under the supervision of the Mission for Elimination of Poverty in Municipal Areas. Distribution of masks The officials told the CM that they were distributing three masks per person in the red zones on priority basis. They also informed him that 539 tests per million had been conducted without using the rapid kits. The State stood second in the country after Rajasthan in COVID-19 tests performed.“The number of tests will rise in the next few days. Arrangements have been made to conduct 17,500 tests per day,” officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/test-all-those-identified-in-door-to-door-survey/article31385149.ece
20 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Some industries exempted from lockdown||The State government has issued guidelines for the operation of certain industries and activities with reasonable safeguards outside containment zones to ensure that essential supplies are not affected during the lockdown and to mitigate its impact on casual and migrant workers. As per G.O. Rt.No. 88 dated April 18, industries, both government and private, involved in manufacture of 25 essential items have been allowed to operate by duly following health guidelines and social distancing norms. The exempted units are all types of rice and oil mills, dal mills, roller flour mills, dairy, reverse osmosis and distilled water plants / packaged drinking water, food products like vermicelli, biscuits, fruit juice/ pulp, sugar, bulk drugs, IV sets and other medical equipment like suction machines and pipes for oxygen supply, PPE gear, surgical equipment, gauge and bandage cloth, pharmaceutical formulations and R&D, liquid soaps, detergents, phenyl, floor cleaners, bleaching powder etc., masks and bodysuits, paper napkins, diapers / sanitary napkins, oxygen for domestic gas cylinders, cold storages, warehousing, logistics, agro-based industries like chilli, turmeric, salt and spices, bakery and confectioneries, ice plants, fish feed, poultry feed, cattle feed etc., all types of power generations including solar, ayurvedic and homeopathic medicine manufacturing units, packaging industries, effluent treatment plants, seed processing units, e-commerce companies such as Walmart, Amazon and Flipkart, cold storage and warehousing services including at ports, airports, railway stations, container depots, individual units and other links in the logistics chain, transportation related to essential services and A.P MedTech zone manufacturing COVID-19 kits, ventilators and other medical devices. Other units Other exempted units are industries operating outside municipal corporations and municipalities and manufacturing and other industrial establishments with access control in SEZs, export-oriented units (EOUs), industrial estates and industrial townships, manufacturing of IT hardware, coal production, mines, construction of medical/ health infrastructure including the manufacture of ambulances, movement (inter and intra State, including by air) of all medical and veterinary personnel, scientists, nurses, paramedical staff, lab technicians, midwives and other hospital support services, custom hiring centres related to farm machinery, processing, packaging, sale and marketing of tea, coffee, rubber and cashew with maximum 50% workers, collection, processing, distribution and sale of milk and milk products, construction activities, IT and IT-enabled services including with up to 50% strength (data and call centres restricted to government activities), courier services etc.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/some-industries-exempted-from-lockdown/article31385153.ece
20 April 2020||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||APSRTC swings into action to keep supply chain intact||In view of the COVID-19 pandemic, the buses belonging to the fleet of the Andhra Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation (APSRTC) have remained off the road to facilitate strict implementation of the lockdown. Now, some of these buses have been brought out of the depots and given a makeover. A few have been converted into mobile rythu bazars (farmers’markets) and a few others, into mobile super markets, taking vegetables and groceries to the doorsteps of the residents in areas identified as red zones. The public transport carrier is rising to the occasion in this hour of crisis by deploying its vehicles for different services in Vijayawada, Visakhapatnam, Kakinada and Tirupati. “RTC buses are being used to shift people from quarantine centres, as mobile rythu bazaars and super markets and also to cater to the transport needs of the employees of the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD), whose duties change every week,” says the corporation’s Executive Director (Operations) K.S. Brahmananda Reddy. From March 22, the RTC has pressed into service 400-odd vehicles to assist in the relief works in progress in the wake of the pandemic and the subsequent lockdown. Besides, services of the APSRTC staff (now shifted to the Public Transport Department) are also being used in the relief works undertaken by the law enforcement wing across the State. The RTC conductors, drivers, maintenance staff and at some place, the supervisors, have joined the foot soldiers reaching out to the poor and needy with help. Employees above 50 years of age and women staff have, however, been exempted from the COVID-19 duties. “We are here to serve the government in every possible way in these testing times. Any requisition will have to come from the government for us to respond immediately,” says Mr. Reddy, explaining how the corporation has been turning down requests from private organisations and persons for help to shift groups of people from one place to the other.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/apsrtc-swings-into-action-to-keep-supply-chain-intact/article31384634.ece
20 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. plans to rope in SHGs to produce masks||The State Government has roped in Self-Help Groups (SHGs) to produce masks to be distributed in the State. As many as 40,000 tailors were identified through the SHGs. The government would incur an expenditure of Rs. 3.50 per each mask. Each woman will earn Rs. 500 per day through the programme. By Sunday afternoon, 7,28,201 masks were produced, and 30 lakh masks would be ready in four days4-5 days. The real time data of stitching, distribution etc details would be made available online. The government plans to produce 16 crore masks to be distributed across the State, for which 1.50 crore metres of cloth is required. Over 20 lakh metres of cloth has already been procured from Andhra Pradesh State Handloom Weavers Cooperative Society.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govt-plans-to-rope-in-shgs-to-produce-masks/article31384676.ece
20 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Govt. fudging figures’||TDP politburo member Yanamala Ramakrishnudu on Sunday disputed the government’s claims on the expenditure incurred on measures initiated to contain the spread of coronavirus. Mr. Ramakrishnudu alleged that the government was fudging statistics to hush up its failures during the last fiscal. It was a blatant lie to say that the State suffered a loss of over Rs. 13,000 crore due to the pandemic, he observed. “The impact of lockdown will be felt in the current fiscal. In the 2019-20 financial year, its severity will be for a mere nine days. The total loss of revenue due to the Janata Curfew and lockdown in the last nine days of the previous fiscal will be Rs. 1,440 crore going by the claims made by the ruling party that the loss per day is Rs. 160 crore,” Mr. Ramakrishnudu said. The excise income was Rs. 6,536 crore during 2019-20 against Rs. 6,220 crore in 2018-19, he said. “Further, the government is yet to tell what it has been doing with the funds saved by discontinuing programmes of the TDP government. The State government is misusing these funds,” Mr. Ramakrishnudu alleged. To say that Rs. 4,000 crore was spent on containment measures was a lie, he said, adding that South Korea had spent much less (Rs. 870 crore in Indian currency) despite conducting over four lakh tests.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govt-fudging-figures/article31385150.ece
20 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘State did a great job in controlling COVID-19’||The Andhra Pradesh Government’s special representative in North America, Pandugayala Rathnakar, said that the State government has done commendable work in controlling the spread of coronavirus. “The State Government has done a great job in controlling the spread of the COVID-19 pandemic, which has taken the lives of thousands of people in countries which have expert doctors and top-class healthcare infrastructure,” Mr. Rathnakar said on Sunday. Snipe at Naidu The special representative took a snipe at N. Chandrababu Naidu, asserting that while Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy was doing his best to battle the pandemic, the TDP chief was trying to scuttle the government’s efforts by resorting to petty politics. “The manner in which the CM has managed the crisis has won him acclaim, whereas Mr. Naidu has deliberately cast aspersions on the government. Mr. Naidu has not learnt his lessons despite suffering a humiliating defeat,” he said. The special representative appealed to the Telugu diaspora to stay indoors and prevent further transmission of the coronavirus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/state-did-a-great-job-in-controlling-covid-19/article31385155.ece
20 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Policeman on COVID-19 duty dies in Anantapur||An Assistant Sub-Inspector (ASI) of Police, S. Habibullah (51), who was on COVID-19 duty in Parigi police station limits in Anantapur district, died due to ill health. He is survived by his wife, son and daughter. The State Government announced an ex gratia of Rs. 50 lakh to the bereaved family on Sunday. The ASI, a resident of Hindupur, was posted at Parigi police station for several years. He fell ill 20 days ago and the officials advised him complete rest. However, Habibullah, joined duty a few days back and was posted at the Konapuram picket. On April 16, the ASI again fell ill and his family shifted him to the Government Headquarters Hospital at Hindupur, and later to KIMS Savera COVID-19 Hospital, where he tested negative for coronavirus. He died while being shifted to Bengaluru for better treatment the next day. Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy and Director General of Police D. Gautam Sawang expressed their condolences to Habibullah’s family members. Mr. Jagan announced an ex gratia of Rs. 50 lakh to Habibullah’s family.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/policeman-on-covid-19-duty-dies-in-anantapur/article31385158.ece
20 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. denies buying testing kits at excess price||The State government has condemned the allegations of overpriced purchase of COVID-19 rapid testing kits from a South Korean firm and stated that only the lowest price would be paid to the company as per a provision in the deal. Deputy Chief Minister and Minister for Health Alla Kali Krishna Srinivas, in a release, said that the deal with Sandor Medicaids Pvt. Ltd. was made only after a proper discussion over the price and time of delivery. The initial price was fixed at Rs. 730 per kit but considering the likelihood of an increase in demand and decrease in the price of the product the State has mentioned in the purchase order that it would only pay the lowest price as per deals made with any other governments in future. The difference of amount would also be settled in the final payment, he said. Health and Family Welfare Commissioner Katamneni Bhaskar said, “By the time A.P. placed an order for the testing kits the company in India had no permission. So, we had to get them from South Korea. As per the clause in the purchase agreement, we would pay only Rs. 337 per kit as offered to the Chhattisgarh government or further lower price if the firm offers it to any other party.”  Community transmission  Mr.  Bhaskar said that the source of transmission in about 40 COVID-19 infections could not be established in the State and efforts are still on in that direction.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govt-denies-buying-testing-kits-at-excess-price/article31385143.ece
20 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Spare temples, State BJP chief urges Chief Secretary||BJP State president Kanna Lakshminarayana on Sunday wrote a letter to Chief Secretary Nilam Sawhney, requesting her to instruct Collectors not to set up quarantine centres at the choultries of Hindu temples lest it vitiate religious harmony. Mr. Lakshminarayana cited the instance of the Peddapuram RDO in East Godavari district writing a letter to the Executive Officer of the Sri Veera Venkata Satyanarayana Swamy temple at Annavaram for setting up a quarantine centre at ‘Harihara Sadan’ as per the oral instructions of the Collector. Setting up a quarantine centre in the buildings belonging to the temple would hurt the sentiments of the Hindus, he stated. Policeman accused of abusing priests Staff Reporter in Chittoor writes: Two priests of a temple at Punganur were abused and forcibly taken to the police station allegedly by the Circle Inspector on Friday. The incident came to light on Sunday. The priests were reportedly going home after performing pre-dawn rituals in “ekantham” when CI Gangi Reddy allegedly picked up an argument with them stating they had allowed devotees to worship in the temple in violation of the COVID-19 lockdown guidelines. Reacting to the allegations, Mr. Gangi Reddy told The Hindu that the priests were taken to the police station for counselling, he said, and denied having abused the priests. Mr. Lakshminarayana urged DGP D. Goutham Sawang to order an inquiry and initiate action against the CI.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/spare-temples-state-bjp-chief-urges-chief-secretary/article31385154.ece
20 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tamil Nadu woman tests positive in Vizag, total cases go up to 21||After a gap of 13 days, one more COVID-19 positive case was reported from the Visakhapatnam Urban limits on Sunday, taking the total count to 21. According to officials, the new patient is a 55-year-old woman from Tamil Nadu, who was a close contact of the two positive cases from Narsipatnam. The officials said that the patient was among the five women who were the part of 10 persons from Tamil Nadu who went to Delhi in March and returned to the city by train. Owing to the lockdown, they were stranded in the city. After information, all the 10 persons were shifted to an isolation facility and tests were conducted, after which two women were confirmed positive. “After the reports of eight persons resulted negative, we shifted them to a quarantine facility at Sheela Nagar and kept them under observation. On Saturday, we conducted tests again, and samples of the woman was confirmed positive. She has been shifted to the GITAM Institute of Medical Sciences and Research (GIMSR) for treatment,” said Sub-Collector S. Venkateswar. He also said that there would be no further surveys in the area as the patient was was under strict quarantine in special rooms. 3 patients discharged Meanwhile, thee COVID-19 patients who were being treated at the GIMSR were discharged on Saturday (April 18), a health bulletin released on Sunday said. Among the three, two women are from Thatichetlapalem and one man from Gajuwaka. With this, the total number of discharges stand at 16 and active cases are five. According to health officials, four more patients are likely to be discharged in the next few days. 5,000 testing kits Meanwhile, around 5,000 COVID-19 testing kits that have been imported from South Korea will be used in Visakhapatnam. YSRCP Rajya Sabha member V. Vijaya Sai Reddy on Sunday said that one lakh testing kits had been brought from Sought Korea to the State and of the total, 5,000 were being brought to Visakhapatnam for use.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tamil-nadu-woman-tests-positive-in-vizag-total-cases-go-up-to-21/article31384809.ece
20 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vijaya Sai lashes out at Naidu||YSR Congress Party national general secretary V. Vijaya Sai Reddy on Sunday wondered whether TDP president and Leader of Opposition N. Chandrababu Naidu was experiencing lockdown or lock-up. During a press conference here, he alleged that Mr. Naidu’s son N. Lokesh, due to imminent fear of losing his post after the State government’s decision to scrap the State Legislative Council, was exerting pressure on Mr. Naidu to hand over the party leadership to him. Referring to a video tweeted by him on Saturday which showed Mr. Lokesh riding a bicycle on a deserted street during the lockdown, he said the TDP was now faced with an internecine family feud over leadership. “Mr. Lokesh knew it very well that neither could he get elected to any post nor nominated as a Rajya Sabha member. Hence, he wants his dad to hand over the party’s leadership to him.” ‘Cheap politics’ Wishing Mr. Naidu a happy birthday as he turns 71 on Monday, Mr. Reddy found fault with him for ‘making cheap politics’ at a time when the world was reeling under the impact of COVID-19. Instead of appreciating the apt handling of the situation by Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy, Mr. Naidu was making baseless allegations, he said. Mr. Reddy said there was no shortage of masks or protective gear and the government was fully geared up to face the challenge. He said at a time when both Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Mr. Jagan were taking timely steps, Mr. Naidu was indulging in mudslinging. Flays Kanna Mr. Reddy found fault with Mr. Naidu’s oft-repeated claim that he had been advising the Prime Minister on how to tackle the pandemic. To a question, he also said only BJP State president Kanna Lakshminarayana was dancing to his tunes and making sweeping allegations against the government without the approval of the party central leadership due to some deal struck with BJP MP Y. Satyanarayana Chowdary (known as Sujana Chowdary).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vijaya-sai-lashes-out-at-naidu/article31385157.ece
20 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Social distancing goes for a toss at meat, fish stalls||Social distancing norms at meat shops and fish stalls went for a toss in the city on Sunday, as people thronged these shops, without even wearing masks. Fish markets and temporary stalls at many places including MVP Colony, Arilova, Gajuwaka, Yendada, Peda Gantyada, Pendurthi, Adarsh Nagar, Madhurwada and a few other areas witnessed a mad rush. At many stalls, people were seen jostling with each other, without maintaining the minimum distance and negotiating prices of the sea food with fishermen. Similarly, several chicken and mutton shops were yet to mark the circles for their customers to implement the social distancing norms. ‘Officials should act’ Expressing concern over the issue, a few citizens from Gajuwaka, 104 area reported the issue by posting pictures on social media platforms. “Despite such a crisis, not many were seen wearing masks while coming to buy sea foods. The officials should ensure all markets and temporary stalls should have circles,” said N. Raja Rao from MVP Colony.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/social-distancing-goes-for-a-toss-at-meat-fish-stalls/article31385164.ece
20 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Liver patients need extra care, says expert||People suffering from liver ailments such as hepatitis, cirrhosis or those who have undergone liver transplantation need to be in touch with their doctors by telemedicine facility to ensure regular monitoring of their health and continue treatment, says Chalapathi Rao Achanta, liver specialist of KIMS ICON Hospital on the occasion of World Liver Day on Sunday. He advised the patients to continue their prescribed drugs without any apprehensions, but to avoid any over-the-counter drugs. “Liver patients need to take extra precautions to prevent exposure from the COVID-19 infected patients by maintaining social distancing, proper hand hygiene, avoiding touching face, nose and eyes. COVID-19 infection doesn’t cause liver failure but it can worsen the pre-existing liver diseases. These patients should go for vaccinations against pneumococcus and influenza to prevent infections,” he said. Patients have also been advised to follow a healthy and balanced diet. They are encouraged to consume milk, fish, eggs, high protein diet and consider taking supplements containing multivitamins, trace elements and anti-oxidants to improve immunity. Advisory for cancer patients Meanwhile, the government has exempted hospitals and the vehicles carrying cancer patients from the lockdown norms, says Voonna Muralikrishna, MD of Mahatma Gandhi Cancer Hospital.  “We have taken the issue to the notice of District Collectors, City Police Commissioner and the SPs of Visakhapatnam, Vizianagaram and Srikakulam districts. They have assured that such vehicles will not be stopped. We are calling our patients and asking them to come for treatments, but they seem to have their own apprehensions,” he said. Dr. Muralikrishna says that in view of the social distancing norms, OP cases are being entertained on alternate days to prevent overcrowding. All curative and palliative therapies will be continued, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/liver-patients-need-extra-care-says-expert/article31385160.ece
20 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Minister denies fudging COVID-19 figures||TDP president N. Chandrababu Naidu should resign from the post of the Leader of Opposition, if he fails to prove his claims that the State government had tried to hide the number ofCOVID-19 cases, Tourism Minister Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao has said. Addressing the media here on Sunday, the Minister said that he was ready to resign from the Cabinet, if Mr. Naidu proved any lapses when it came to recording the details of COVID-19 patients. After a review meeting, he said that around 2500 patients with suspected symptoms have been tested in Visakhapatnam in the last one month, of which 2,153 were found to be negative. The reports of 303 samples were awaited. He said Mr. Naidu was politicising everything at a time when the State was fighting the virus. “There is no scope for fudging the figures as they are being put online. Even after relaxation of the lockdown norms, the exemption for buying essentials will be allowed between 6 a.m. and 11 a.m. in the city, Bheemili, Narsipatnam and other areas,” he said.  ‘No shortage of masks’ He denied allegations of shortage of masks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/minister-denies-fudging-covid-19-figures/article31385165.ece
20 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||CIFT issues advisory for fishing community||The ICAR-CIFT has issued mitigation advisories for the fishing industry in view of the COVID-10 pandemic. The advisories are meant for fishing harbours and fish landing centres, seafood processing units, fish markets and the fishermen. Scientist in-charge of Visakhapatnam centre of ICAR-CIFT R. Raghu Prakash said the advisories include screening, restricted entry, social distancing, disinfecting workspaces.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cift-issues-advisory-for-fishing-community/article31385166.ece
20 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||GVMC sets up helpline numbers for the needy||In an attempt to provide food or essential commodities to the needy, the Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) has set up two helpline numbers 7032017389 and 8247231403. People in need of food or essential commodities can dial these numbers to approach the GVMC Command and Control Centre, GVMC Urban Community Development Project Director Y. Srinivasa Rao said on Sunday. “Around 2,600 persons comprising homeless, destitute and migrant labourers from various States have been accommodated in 28 shelters. The labourers are mostly natives of Odisha, Bihar, Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh and Uttar Pradesh. Their needs are being taken care of by the Central Command Control Centre set up at Swarnabharati Indoor stadium,” said Mr. Srinivasa Rao. Besides, another 225 families from various States are living at various places and they are being provided essential commodities, medicines and other things by the GVMC. Donations Those who wish to donate for the cause can deposit cheque or DDs in the SBI branch at GVMC office in account number 39265318229, IFSC Code SBIN0020721, COVID-19, CSR .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/gvmc-sets-up-helpline-numbers-for-the-needy/article31384635.ece
20 April 2020||April 20 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Online, takeaway liquor sale put on hold in Kerala||The State government will need to overcome the Centre’s ban on the sale of legal liquor if it has to allow retail outlets and bars to open before May 3. It is unlikely to appeal against the Centre’s embargo on liquor retail before the national COVID-19 lockdown ends. For now, the government has put on hold the proposal to buy liquor from bars as takeaways and permit consumers to purchase alcohol from State-run outlets by ordering online. With social distancing measures likely to be in place well beyond May 3, the government might also introduce limitations for the on-premise retail and consumption of alcohol. Officials say the non-availability of legal alcohol has spawned black markets and illicit supply chains centred around shuttered bar hotels. On Sunday, law enforcers booked bar hotels in Thrissur, Ernakulam and Idukki for retailing liquor in bulk to black marketeers.  Seal removed In Idukki, they found bar management had sold a black marketeer hundreds of bottles after removing the seal of the Excise Commissioner to mask the provenance of the hoard. The cases detected so far were just the tip of the ice-berg. Agents charged extortionate rates for liquor sourced slyly from bars. The Excise Department had not enumerated and sealed liquor stocks in bars after the announcement of the lockdown on March 21. It has now begun the process. Home-made? The emergence of domestically distilled hooch as a substitute for legal liquor is worrying enforcers. The distillation is done in jury-rigged stills inside homes, making detection difficult. However, they say liquor deaths from consumption of home-distilled hooch were few and far between when compared to that caused by drinking spurious spirit. Officials say commercial level distillation of hooch has resurged in several localities. There is also a corresponding increase in the demand for jaggery, sugar and yeast to make a fermented wash for distillation.  Case against bar hotels in Thrissur, Ernakulam and Idukki for retailing liquor in bulk to black marketeers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/online-takeaway-liquor-sale-put-on-hold-in-kerala/article31384631.ece
20 April 2020||April 20 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Coordinated effort||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/coordinated-effort/article31384680.ece
20 April 2020||April 20 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Risky game||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/risky-game/article31385168.ece
20 April 2020||April 20 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Under the sun||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/under-the-sun/article31384637.ece
20 April 2020||ADILABAD,TELANGANA||Suspect who threatened suicide tests negative||A COVID-19 suspect who threatened to end his life at the Asifabad Hospital quarantine centre in Kumram Bheem Asifabad district on April 18 has tested negative on Sunday. He has been shifted to Goleti quarantine centre in Rebbena mandal subsequently. According to hospital superintendent Dr. Katyayani Devi, the person who belonged to Goleti had shown symptoms of depression and wanted to be shifted to the isolation centre in his home town. Meanwhile, the test report of his sample was negative for the infection and a vehicle was arranged for him to be shifted as per his wish, she added. It may be recalled that the suspect had given anxious moments to all concerned when he tried to hand himself with a piece of cloth from the fan above his bed in the quarantine ward. He is reported to have demanded shifting alleging that a COVID-19 positive patient was also lodged in the same wards.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/suspect-who-threatened-suicide-tests-negative/article31384970.ece
20 April 2020||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||Week-long anti-poaching walk concludes||Ahead of harsh summer, the Forest Department has scaled up efforts to quench the thirst of wild animals thereby preventing straying of wild animals into human habitations and also curbing poaching. The tribal dominated district’s forest area, including wildlife and non-wildlife areas, stands at around 10 lakh acres, which is roughly 17 % of the total forest area of the State, according to sources. Spanning across 635.41 sq km mostly in Palvancha mandal, the Kinnerasani wildlife sanctuary shelters an array of wild animals such as spotted deer and gaurs (Indian bison). The Forest Department personnel, split into several small teams, conducted a week long “anti-poaching walk” across all divisions and ranges in the district that concluded on Sunday. The special drive was conducted under the supervision of District Forest Officer Laxman Ranjit Naik in conformity to the social distancing guidelines and the coronavirus lockdown norms, Forest Department sources said. Apart from taking stock of available water sources, the forest staff have constructed about 10 artificial water holes with a provision to draw water from solar powered pumpsets and dug up saucer pits at vantage points in the core forest areas to make drinking water available to wild animals during the ensuing peak summer, sources added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/week-long-anti-poaching-walk-concludes/article31384988.ece
20 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Sans Aadhaar, no ration for migrants||Scores of migrant labourers without entry in the UID registry are a disheartened lot, as they are not eligible for the ration and financial aid announced by the State government. Aadhaar identity is a mandatory requirement, which the migrant labourers must provide, to get the benefit of 12 kg rice and Rs. 500 cash per person. The State government has announced the relief for migrant labourers to compensate for the present lockdown and loss of wages precipitated by the spread of COVID-19. Rajaram Pandit is one such stranded labourer who eagerly arrived at the distribution location at a government school in Chaderghat. All he had was an electoral photo identity card to show that he was a migrant labourer from Bihar. Officials from Revenue department, who were checking the credentials of the long line of expectant labourers, shooed him away, saying the ID proof was not enough to obtain the benefit. “I had my Aadhaar card, but lost it somewhere. I didn’t know how to obtain a new card, and did not think it was that important,” said Mr.Pandit. Revenue officials at the location informed that every day, scores of labourers are sent away for the want of Aadhaar card. “At least 20 to 30 people have been sent away. We cannot process the request without Aadhaar card, as the software developed for this purpose identifies the migrants only through their unique ID. We are accepting the entry even if they show their Aadhaar on phone,” said an official. Verification process The process involves checking the credentials, and entering the details in the online app developed by the Telangana Revenue department for migrant workers’ relief. After this, the beneficiary’s forefinger is marked with indelible ink in proof of receipt of ration, and their picture taken with Rs. 500 currency note in hand, to be uploaded online. Insufficient grains Several labourers with Aadhaar proof were also sent away from the gates, as there were not enough grains to provide to all. Dheeraj Jadhav was one such hotel worker, also from Bihar, who was driven away from the distribution point. “I have come here after being driven away from another distribution point in Amberpet. I have no clue whom to approach,” he rued. Jahangir Khan from Odisha, who works in the construction field, said he belonged to the same locality, but still did not get the ration. “My family lives in Odisha, and I stay alone here along with ten others from my home State. For two days, some people distributed free cooked food for people like us. Now, we have nothing to eat, nor money to buy supplies,” he said. An enquiry with Revenue officials revealed that the list available with them had names of beneficiaries from Azampura and Sultanpura alone, and was prepared in consultation with local leaders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/sans-aadhaar-no-ration-for-migrants/article31384944.ece
20 April 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||COVID-positive baby boy succumbs||The 45-day-old baby boy from Narayanpet district who tested positive for COVID-19, died on Sunday. The infant was suffering from pneumonia and had compromised immunity since birth. Officials from the district who were hit by the tragic news are still trying to find the source of infection. The task became tough as the health officials said that the family members did not step out of the village till April 13, on which the baby’s mother and uncle took him to Mahabubnagar government hospital and from there shifted him to a private hospital in Hyderabad and later to Niloufer Hospital. The infant was shifted to Gandhi Hospital after he tested positive for the virus, where he succumbed on Sunday. The samples of parents and 16 primary contacts of the baby tested negative, said Narayanpet Collector Harichandana Dasari. “A total of 22 samples of those who came in contact with the baby since April 1, have been collected and results of 10 more samples are awaited,” she said. The District collector said that they have contained the entire Abhangapur village, which has a population of over 700 people and essentials are being supplied to the villagers. The 22 primary contacts of the child have been sent to the government quarantine centre. The task is on to trace the secondary contacts. ‘No travel history’ “Now, we have to trace out on how the virus was transmitted to the child, as both the parents tested negative and have no travel history,” Ms.Harichandana told The Hindu . She said that they are spraying disinfectants in the entire village. “He is the first COVID-19 case from the district. The infant’s parents, family members and others said that they did not step out of the village. None of them have symptoms of the infectious disease. Samples have been collected from whoever has come in contact with the baby,” said N Shailaja, Narayanpet District Medical and Health Officer (DMHO). Officials are also going through the list of people who have come from other districts to the village. Staff quarantined Doctors, nurses and Class-IV staff who worked in Emergency Service Room of Niloufer Hospital where the baby underwent treatment were asked to be go into quarantine. Superintendent of the hospital V Murali Krishna said that it is a routine procedure. As per protocol, staff maintains five-days of quarantine after 10-days work. Similarly, a nurse and Class-IV employee from Nizam’s Institute of Medical Sciences (NIMS) tested positive. The institute’s superintendent N. Satynarayana said that the nurse did not attend duties from past one-month. However, the Class-IV employee was one among the staff who got exposed to a constable admitted at NIMS around 20 days ago. He was sent to Gandhi Hospital after developing symptoms and tested positive. “Doctors, staff who got exposed to the patient were sent to quarantine. The Class-IV employee was one among them. Others will be allowed to resume duties if they test negative thrice,” Satyanarayana said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/covid-positive-baby-boy-succumbs/article31384967.ece
20 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||18 more test COVID-19 positive in TS||The State reported 18 new coronavirus (COVID-19) positive cases on Sunday taking the total number of affected persons to 858. Three more deaths were reported since Saturday, taking the total number of casualties since the outbreak of the virus to 21. In all, 186 persons had been discharged from different hospitals after being treated/cured. Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao said the containment measures initiated by the government has brought down the doubling rate significantly. Against the national average doubling rate of less than eight days, doubling rate in the State was more than 10 days and the death rate too was significantly lower at 2.44 per cent compared to the national average of 3.22 per cent with 507 deaths reported across the country. Recovery rate The State has far surpassed the national average in the recovery rate which stood at 22 per cent as compared to 14 per cent across the country. Tests per million population in the State stood at 375 as compared to the national average of 254. Four districts – Warangal Rural, Yadadri Bhuvanagiri, Wanaparthy and Siddipet reported zero COVID-19 cases. The State set up 127 quarantines including five in the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) limits and total of 1,818 persons including 183 in the GHMC limits were quarantined so far. As many as 292 containment zones including 151 in the GHMC limits and 87 in other urban local bodies had been declared and 138 of the zones would complete the 14-day containment period by Monday, 36 by April 25, 61 by April 30 and 57 by May 57. Nine laboratories with testing capacity of 1,560 were working full time and total number of 14,962 samples had been collected and sent for analysis to them. Of these, 858 had been tested positive and 14,104 negative while results of 768 samples were under process. Hospitals in the State were equipped with 11,000 COVID-19 isolation beds in addition to 836 ICU beds and 564 beds with ventilators, taking the total to 12,400. Steps had also been taken to position key items like personal protection kits and N95 masks. There were 3.04 lakh PPE kits and 3.53 lakh N95 masks were available as of now in addition to 36.5 lakh three-ply masks, 61,119 sample collection kits and 21,366 testing kits. Adequate quantity of hydroxychloroquine (12.35 lakh) had been kept in position, with 50,807 staff taking HCQs till date. Other services In addition, other important services like immunisation (94.4%) were continuing. Steps were taken to conduct deliveries with total number of 29,991 deliveries conducted during the lockdown period. Services like dialysis (5,050 patients), chemotherapy (1,507 patients) were continuing uninterrupted and a total of 580 Thalassemia patients had been serviced so far.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/18-more-test-covid-19-positive-in-ts/article31384979.ece
20 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||More companies to make hand sanitisers||The number of companies which manufacture hand sanitisers could increase as demand for the product is expected to rise as industries resume operations. Officials in the Health department said that the Ministry of Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution has passed directions to augment availability of hand sanitisers during and after lockdown. Around 88 companies in the State were permitted to manufacture the product. Officials at Drugs Control Administration (DCA) said they pro-actively asked some pharmaceutical companies to take up production of alcohol-based hand rubs in the past month. The communication from the Ministry of Consumer Affairs states that the demand for hand sanitisers will increase manifold when many industries open after Tuesday. It cites revised guidelines issued by Ministry of Home Affairs, which lists out some activities which would be allowed with effect from April 20 subject to strict compliance of existing guidelines on lock down measures. However, Telangana Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has made it clear than the lockdown norms will not be relaxed even after that date. “As the demand for sanitisers would increase from April 20 with the opening of various sectors, the State Governments and UT Administrations are requested to take appropriate measures to ensure the adequate production or availability of Ethyl Alcohol or Ethanol or ENA to the manufacturers of hand sanitiser, an essential material in the fight against coronavirus or COVID-19,” the communication states. DCA officials said they have already granted permission to 80 companies in the past one month. “The permissions are granted, provided they comply with the World Health Organisation norms. We cross-check by visiting the facilities,” an official said. The facility, equipment available and work conditions are checked before according permission. “The firms inform us daily the number of hand rubs they have manufactured. Currently, we have sufficient stock and they are waiting for orders to be placed. In fact, after due clearances, a company from here supplied the products to neighbouring States,” said another official from the DCA.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/more-companies-to-make-hand-sanitisers/article31384946.ece
20 April 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Ex-MLAs pitch in to help those in distress||The coronavirus pandemic has brought great hardships to people but it has also put to test the people-skills of leaders from various political parties. Those with good connections at the ground level are leaving no stone unturned to reach out to their constituencies. Responsibility factor Former MLAs are particularly very active in their constituencies as they see it as an opportunity to gain back the confidence of their voters. Though the help being extended by them may not be directly related to their political ambitions as of now, they feel it is their responsibility. Former Khairatabad MLA Chintala Ramachandra Reddy has taken up the task of distributing 1.87 lakh kg rice to 37,500 households, 150 families each in 250 booths of Khairatabad constituency, which was the biggest constituency before the delimitation in united AP. “In the spirit of the clarion call given by Prime Minister Narendra Modi to reach out to the most needed sections, I have taken up this task, which would be one of the biggest efforts in the country. The rice packets apart, people here will be given essential commodities like rice, pulses, oil and even masks and sanitisers,” he said. Former Uppal MLA from BJP NVSS Prabhakar too has joined the effort in his constituency that has a huge number of migrants from north India. Every day he is out with his team identifying people and reaching out to them. “Most of North Indian families here don’t have ration cards and they are the most vulnerable,” he said. Former Medchal MLA K. Laxma Reddy, known for his philanthropic activities, isn’t behind. “Food distribution is our top priority,” said his close aide and president of Ghatkesar Municipality Congress Kommidi Raghav Reddy. “We are also educating people on the dangers of COVID-19 as many aren’t serious about its spread. But, our help should be viewed from a humane angle and not from a political perspective,” he said. Candidates who contested unsuccessfully in the last Parliament elections too aren’t taking it easy. Marri Rajashekar Reddy, the TRS candidate from Malkajgiri constituency in the last LS elections, has reached out to orphanages and migrant workers. “Food for orphanages and old age homes is in short supply and we are reaching out to them. So far, more than 10,000 people have been given essential commodities and it will continue till the lockdown is lifted.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ex-mlas-pitch-in-to-help-those-in-distress/article31384959.ece
20 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Another constable tests positive||One more constable working in Hyderabad Commissionerate tested positive for COVID-19 on Sunday. The 35-year-old victim was among the five other police officers who were sent to Sarojini Devi Eye Hospital government quarantine facility, after one of their colleagues tested positive. The constable performed vehicle checking duty at Domalguda check post from April 1 to 5 with another constable, who was tested positive on Saturday. “He had no symptoms, but was tested positive,” a senior police officer said. He said that the officer might have come in contact with a coronavirus symptomatic person while performing the duty at the check post. His wife, their two children and four more constables were sent to government quarantine. Meanwhile, a man working as a delivery partner for a food delivery aggregator reportedly tested positive for coronavirus. Sources said that the delivery partner, a resident of Nampally, is associated with Swiggy. One of his family members reportedly visited the Banglewaali Masjid Markaz at Nizamuddin. After being tested, the delivery partner’s relative tested positive and the family was quarantined. Describing the development as ‘unfortunate’, Swiggy confirmed the development and stated that the delivery partner has not made deliveries since March 21, before the lockdown began. The company is in contact with him and local authorities. “We are committed to supporting delivery partners through these difficult times. He and his family members were quarantined as soon as he was diagnosed with COVID-19,” a statement released to the media reads. Swiggy said that several measures are being taken for the safety of stakeholders and delivery partners, including access to free medical consultation in case they self-identify COVID-19 like symptoms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/another-constable-tests-positive/article31384962.ece
20 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Workers’ welfare board to share relief expenses||The Building and Other Construction Workers’ (BOCW) Welfare Board has resolved to share the expenditure incurred by the government for providing Rs. 1,500 cash and 12 kg rice to white ration cardholders across the State as a relief measure during the lockdown imposed to contain COVID-19. The Board has decided to bear the expenditure incurred by the government on providing relief to the families of workers registered with it. After deliberating on the issue threadbare and assessing the finances available with it, the Board has decided to give Rs. 300 crore to the Civil Supplies department as its contribution to the scheme. The development follows Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao’s announcement of providing 12 kg rice to each member of the 87.5 lakh families with white ration cards across the State and Rs. 1,500 cash each enabling them to purchase other essentials like pulses during the lockdown period. The BOCW has over 14.5 lakh workers registered with it and it was accordingly decided to treat each family holding white ration card as a unit irrespective of the number of registered workers in each family. “There are families with three or four members registered and other with single members registered with the board. The decision to treat family holding white ration card as a unit had been taken to ensure that there is uniformity in extending the relief,” a senior official said. In respect of workers without a ration card, it was for the government to bear the expenditure. The welfare board has in funds to the tune of over Rs. 1,200 crore raised in the form of BOCW cess collected by the government under the BOCW Workers’ Welfare Cess Act, 1996. The Board has decided to route the funds through the government to the Civil Supplies department enabling it to provide relief to the families of registered workers who are facing hardship in finding jobs. “The Labour department which administers the fund accumulated through the cess has limited resources to reach out the benefit. It has, therefore, been decided to hand over the responsibility to the Civil Supplies department which has vast network of fair price shop dealers across the State,” the official told The Hindu .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/workers-welfare-board-to-share-relief-expenses/article31384949.ece
20 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||NHAI toll plazas open today||Having suffered a revenue loss of around Rs. 100 crore in the last 26 days due to nationwide lockdown due to COVID-19, the National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) is to resume toll collection across its plazas in the State from Monday, duly following the strict guidelines issued by the Centre on social distancing to avoid coronavirus. All the 17 toll plazas on NH-44 (Adilabad to Jogulamba Gadwal district stretch on Hyderabad-Bengaluru highway), NH-65 (Hyderabad to Suryapet district stretch on Vijayawada highway), NH-163 (Hyderabad-Bhongir-Warangal) will start collecting toll from tomorrow. “We have been issued specific instructions that all User Fee Collection Agencies, BOT.OMT concessionaire should resume collection by ensuring social distancing, sanitisation, frequent washing of hands, putting up masks and gloves and other preventive measures to contain spread of COVID-19,” Krishna Prasad, Regional Officer, NHAI, Telangana, told The Hindu on Sunday. He said with partial exemptions being given by the Centre, there will be increase in commercial vehicles from Monday. “To begin with, we will open two booths on each side of toll plazas and hope most of the transactions will be in electronic mode,” he said. Depending on the flow of traffic, more booths would be opened, he said. The lockdown announced from March 23 had a cascading effect on the revenue of the NHAI. Toll collection was stopped from March 25. With close to 1.80 lakh vehicles passing through the 17 toll plazas, NHAI was raking in Rs. 3.1 crore on an average every day. Raikal on NH-44 (Hyderabad-Bengaluru) and Korlapahad on NH-65 (Hyderabad-Vijayawada route) are the main revenue earners for the NHAI. Till the first three weeks of March before the lockdown was announced, NHAI in Telangana earned Rs. 62 crore as user fee charges. In February this year, the revenue generated was Rs. 90.66 lakh, according to Mr. Krishna Prasad. Rising to the occasion The NHAI and the concessionaires handling the toll plazas rose to the occasion feeding the pedestrians, migrant labourers walking back to their native places and the toll plaza staff too. Lorry drivers stranded on the highways and those reaching the lorry parking bays set by NHAI are being provided food every day. Special camps were opened by concessionaires on NH-65 at Panthangi, Manoharabad, Soan and Raikal toll plazas on NH-44 and Gudur plaza on Hyderabad-Bhongir-Warangal highway.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/nhai-toll-plazas-open-today/article31384990.ece
20 April 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Technical glitches depriving people of 22 lakh ration cards: Congress||Telangana Congress leaders alleged that the State government has denied rice and financial assistance to lakhs of poor people across the State citing technical issues, while promoting itself as the saviour of all. In an open letter to Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao here, the Congress leaders said Mr. Rao announced on March 22 that 12 kg rice per person and Rs. 1,500 would be given to 87.59 lakh white ration card holders in the State. “However, the assistance was denied to lakhs of people citing cancellation of their cards or pending of applications. About 18 lakh applications for ration cards are pending while about 4.5 lakh people neither have cards or their applications are pending. All such cards should be immediately restored and rice supplied to them,” demanded TPCC president N. Uttam Kumar Reddy, CLP leader Bhatti Vikramarka and TPCC COVID-19 Task Force chairman Marri Shashidhar Reddy said in their letter to Mr. Rao.  Further, Mr. Uttam Kumar Reddy said that in the PM Relief Package, 5-kg rice and 1-kg dal was promised to all ration card holders for three months in addition to the subsidised ration already being given. However, rice and dal promised by the Centre has not been distributed to the beneficiaries in Telangana so far though the Centre had already dispatched it as per its claims. “Let the CM give some clarity on the issue,” he said. He said the PM Relief Package includes supply of one gas cylinder per month for three months totally free of cost to the ‘Ujwala’ beneficiaries. “While there are only about 10.75 lakh Ujwala beneficiaries in State, there are about 104 lakh Deepam beneficiaries who are not getting this benefit and the State government should provide and claim the same from the Centre later,” he said. With regard to the disbursement of Rs. 1,500 to every white ration card holder, the TPCC chief said although the announcement was made on March 22, the amount was transferred only after 24 days due to pressure from the public and political parties.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/technical-glitches-depriving-people-of-22-lakh-ration-cards-congress/article31384982.ece
20 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Plea to remove chaff before weighing paddy||Paddy procurement centres in the State are being told to remove chaff from the grain stocks being brought by farmers before weighing it so that they are not put to loss in the name of deduction in grain weight both for chaff and other wastage. Responding to a report published in the columns of The Hindu , chairman of Rythu Bandhu Samithi (RBS) Palla Rajeshwar Reddy said that although paddy was being harvested with the help of machines the chaff and other wastage was coming into the grain since blowers would not remove the entire wastage. Stating that deduction of 4 to 6 kg per quintal of paddy in the name of chaff or other wastage was wrong, the RBS chairman said as the millers were putting the sample grain collected from paddy bags in water and removing the weight of wastage and chaff before accepting the stock from the procurement centres, the farmers themselves were asking the procurement staff to deduct the weight of chaff.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/plea-to-remove-chaff-before-weighing-paddy/article31384975.ece
20 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Confusion over Niloufer Hospital quarantine order||Confusion prevailed at Niloufer Hospital after an ‘office order’ instructing health workers and class IV employees of the Emergency Service Room (ESR), who worked from April 15 night to April 17, to quarantine themselves immediately. The circular was issued on the day the 45-day-old boy from Narayanpet district, who was admitted to the hospital, tested positive. However, hospital superintendent V. Murali Krishna said that it was a routine order. Giving a clarification about the order, he said, “As per protocol, every staff member is given five-days’ quarantine after 10-days’ work. This is a routine order being followed while deciding the duty roster of Niloufer staff. All the staff are provided PPE kits and N95 masks round the clock.” Now, questions were raised on why the order was issued if it was a routine protocol. However, Telangana Junior Doctors’ Association (TJUDA) said PPEs provided to them are of low quality.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/confusion-over-niloufer-hospital-quarantine-order/article31384974.ece
20 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Whisky-making on hold as distilleries turn to hand rubs||Distilleries which manufactured alcoholic beverages such as whisky are now manufacturing sanitisers. Around 13 distilleries in Telangana which have Ethanol or Extra Neutral Alcohol (ENA) at their disposal were ordered to manufacture hand sanitisers to be supplied to the government. After the lockdown was announced, officials of the Drugs Control Administration (DCA) officials granted permission to distilleries registered with Telangana Prohibition and Excise department to manufacture the product. The permission lasts 30 days, unless extended. “The manufacturer will supply to government or government institutions in the State of Telangana only, and no part of it shall be supplied outside the State without any suitable permission from government of Telangana,” read the conditions. Excise officials said the distilleries are not manufacturing alcoholic beverages.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/whisky-making-on-hold-as-distilleries-turn-to-hand-rubs/article31384953.ece
20 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Waqf Board warns against congregations in mosques||The Telangana State Waqf Board (TSWB) has warned mosque managing committees and mutawallis of stern action if Taraweeh prayers in Ramzan are performed in congregation at mosques.  ‘Pray at home’ The TSWB invoked a recent letter of the Islamic seminary Jamia Nizamia which directed Muslims not to offer the prayers in congregation in Ramzan in mosques and instead, pray at home. The Board directed managing committees and mutawallis to follow the instruction of the Jamia Nizamia. In case of any violation, action would be taken per the Waqf Act of 1995, it stated. The holy month of Ramzan is less than a week away and is expected to commence on April 24. Id-ul-fitr is celebrated when the new moon is sighted after 30 days of fasting during the austere month.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/waqf-board-warns-against-congregations-in-mosques/article31384955.ece
20 April 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Woman, 11-month-old son found dead||Unable to bear the harassment by her husband and in-laws, a 23-year-old woman committed suicide after killing her 11-month-old son at Kodurumalla in Vikarabad on Saturday. The victims were identified as N. Mallika, wife of N Srinivas, and their son N. Satvik. The couple used to work at a shopping mall in Punjagutta here and went to Kodurumalla, the native village of Srinivas. “On Saturday evening, Mallika throttled her son to death, before hanging herself,” Doulthabad SI Vishwajan said.  (There is always someone to listen at: +914066202000 in case of any emotional breakdown at this Hyderabad-based suicide intervention centre, Roshni.)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/woman-11-month-old-son-found-dead/article31384964.ece
20 April 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Plea to ban e-classes for schoolchildren||Balala Hakkula Sangham has objected to the usage of unsafe Zoom app by schools in the name of e-classes though they completed the syllabus long ago. In a statement here, Achyuta Rao, honorary president, alleged that corporate schools were forcing children to study online just to make money even during this crisis. He reminded that the Zoom app was unsafe and any one can peep into this app affecting the privacy of the children. Girls particularly are vulnerable, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/plea-to-ban-e-classes-for-schoolchildren/article31384950.ece
20 April 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||KTR inspects steel bridge work||Minister for Municipal Administration and Urban Development K.T. Rama Rao has directed the agency undertaking construction of the steel bridge at Punjagutta to utilise the lockdown period to expedite works. During his visit on Sunday to inspect the steel bridge and road widening works, he expressed satisfaction at the progress and asked the agency to ensure its completion in one month. More men and advanced technology should be deployed, he instructed. He was accompanied by legislator D. Nagender, Mayor Bonthu Ram Mohan and principal secretary Arvind Kumar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ktr-inspects-steel-bridge-work/article31384969.ece
20 April 2020||KARIMNAGAR,TELANGANA||Karimnagar man tests negative, released from hospital||The Karimnagar district administration has heaved a sigh of relief with one more person, undergoing treatment at Gandhi Hospital in Secunderabad, being discharged after his test reports came negative on Sunday. The district authorities shifted the man, who returned from the Markaz meeting in Delhi and tested COVID-19 positive a fortnight ago, to Gandhi Hospital. He would however, be put under home quarantine for another 14 days, according to DM&HO G. Sujatha. Now, among the 19 positive cases, 16 have been discharged for testing negative, including the 10 Indonesians. Currently, two persons from Karimnagar and one from Huzurabad are still undergoing treatment at Gandhi Hospital. In the meantime, the district medical and health officials are inquiring about the health conditions of 93 persons, who were home quarantined in Karimnagar and Huzurabad towns.  The Karimnagar Commissionerate of Police, which is strictly enforcing the lockdown and curfew in the district, has now decided to focus on maintaining social distancing at all shops, mainly vegetable markets. Special police teams were formed on Sunday to ensure that people keep safe distance from each other at mutton, chicken and fish markets. Police have also asked every buyer and seller to wear masks. Additional DCP (Administration) Chandramohan, Town ACP P. Ashok and other policemen visited various markets to ensure implementation of social distancing norms. They also asked people to not travel more than three kilometres to buy essentials and stay indoors during the lockdown period.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/karimnagar-man-tests-negative-released-from-hospital/article31384961.ece
20 April 2020||M. Rajeev,TELANGANA||State to mobilise another Rs. 2,000 crore||The State government has decided to mobilise Rs. 2,000 crore open market borrowing on April 21 through the auction of the government securities to meet its immediate requirements as it is faced with fund crunch due to the ongoing nationwide lockdown. The government proposed to raise Rs. 1,000 crore through auction of securities with a tenure of six years and another Rs. 1,000 crore with tenure of eight years as part of the proceedings. A proposal to this effect has been submitted to the RBI which, in turn, announced that competitive and non-competitive bids for the auction should be submitted in electronic format on its Core Banking Solution (E-Kuber) on Tuesday. Interestingly, the government had submitted an indicative calendar to the RBI for raising Rs. 9,000 crore during the first quarter of the current financial year in March and Rs. 2,000 crore had already been raised few days ago as part of the schedule. The borrowing forms part of the indicative calendar submitted to the RBI through which the government planned to raise Rs. 2,000 crore on April 13, Rs. 1,000 crore on April 28, Rs. 2,000 crore on May 12, Rs. 1,000 crore on May 26, Rs. 2,000 crore on June 9 and another Rs. 1,000 crore on June 30. The Department of Expenditure (DoE) of the Union Finance Ministry had fixed the net borrowing ceiling of the State government for the first nine months of the current fiscal at Rs. 15,051 crore. There is, however, no indication on whether the proposed market borrowing is over and above the indicative calendar submitted by the government. The RBI said that the actual amount of borrowings would depend on the requirement of the State governments, approval from the Central government and the market conditions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/state-to-mobilise-another-rs-2000-crore/article31384976.ece
20 April 2020||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||COVID-19 suspect dies, tests negative||The health officials at Nalgonda District Hospital had some solace on Sunday when the youth in his mid-twenties, who was put on ventilator support on Saturday but did not survive, tested negative. The youth was taken to ICU just when the staff were changing shifts on Saturday afternoon. Within minutes, all doctors, nurses and patient care workers were evacuated. At least 10 critical patients were also shifted to another acute medical care unit. The body was packed off carefully and kept in a deep freezer at the mortuary. By 3 p.m., the ICU was sanitised and sealed. According to sources, the youth was an alcoholic and a second contact of a COVID-19 patient from Miryalaguda. On Saturday, an assistant professor-cum-doctor set off the alarm bells after he panicked over the patient’s situation and moved him from the COVID-19 isolation ward to ICU. According to doctors who spoke to The Hindu on condition of anonymity, the two ventilators allotted to the isolation ward were never installed, and that was the only reason, the doctor pressed the panic button. District Hospital Superintendent Narsimha said that the patient was taken to the isolation ward as he was continuously coughing and had alcohol withdrawal symptoms. “He died before he was taken to the ICU. The staff would have definitely put him on ventilator if there was a need. The ICU and isolation ward are close by,” he replied. Dr. Narsimha evaded questions related to ventilators at the isolation ward.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/covid-19-suspect-dies-tests-negative/article31384957.ece
20 April 2020||NIZAMABAD,TELANGANA||Stranded and longing to reach home||Migrant labour who have lost their livelihood to the outbreak of COVID-19 are in distress as they are not been able to reach their native places because of the continuing lockdown. Some 300 migrant workers from Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal and Maharashtra are put up at Rajiv Gandhi Auditorium. Since they were caught unawares most of them are left with only one pair of clothes. These workers who are mainly employed in zari work and construction and some others as hamalis, are normally provided accommodation at their place of work and as a result they neither have beds nor utensils for cooking. Some, belonging to nearby places like Deglur, Dharmabad, Nanded and Latur in Maharashtra and physically fit set out on foot and have already reached home. However, those who belong to distant States along with women and children are staying put at the temporary accommodation. There are some 220 people aged between 5 and 70, including 80 women. Madhav Margavi, 45, from Deglur said he did not have money to get back home on the day after the Janata Curfew. “Had I expected the situation I would have managed to go somehow. Now I am waiting for the lifting of lockdown,” he said fighting back tears. Though the Food Bank, Nizamabad, IRCS and philanthropists have come to their rescue and providing food three times a day the migrant workers are struggling as the place lacks basic amenities. Ordeals of women are indescribable as there are no adequate facilities for bath or to attend nature’s call. “Some of us did not have bath for 10 to 15 days. We are sleeping on cardboards. Some are giving food three times a day and we are indebted to them. However, we are very much worried about our families at home,” says Sachin Sudhakar Patil, 35, a mason from Latur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/stranded-and-longing-to-reach-home/article31384952.ece
20 April 2020||NIZAMABAD/suryapet,TELANGANA||No fresh case in Nizamabad||The district administration and health staff heaved a sigh of relief on Sunday with no fresh COVID-19 case registered in the last two days. All the 49 samples tested before came out negative on Saturday, said Collector C. Narayana Reddy. However, as the district recorded the second highest number of positive cases after GHMC, the situation is still alarming and the authorities are on high alert. Disinfectants are being sprayed in all areas reporting a large number of positive cases and arrangements made to deliver essential commodities at residents’ doorsteps. Also, ASHA are conducting medical tests by going to each house. If the body temperature of a person is more than normal, he or she is being referred to the Government General Hospital. Mr. Reddy and MCN Commissioner Jitesh V. Patil are regularly monitoring the situation. Meanwhile, about 3,400 foreign returnees were identified and of them, 1,800 were sent to home quarantine. The number of cases is likely to increase in the next couple of days as reports of 105 samples sent for testing to Gandhi Hospital are awaited. No fresh COVID-19 case was being reported from Suryapet for the second consecutive day on Sunday. The health bulletin released by the district authorities shows that the results of 205 samples, 40 more than Saturday, were awaited, and a total of 713 samples have been collected. Yadadri-Bhuvanagiri district did not record any COVID-19 positive cases till date. However, the results of four samples are awaited.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/no-fresh-case-in-nizamabad/article31384971.ece
20 April 2020||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||Two youths sleeping under lorry run over||Two labourers were killed on the spot when a lorry driver started the vehicle without observing that two persons were sleeping under it. According to Husnabad police, P Lakshman (21) and A Vijay (17) were sleeping under a lorry at Nagapur village in Cheriyal late Saturday night. They worked for a borewell machine which was brought in the same lorry and slept under it. Not knowing about that, the driver moved the lorry resulting in the accident. Cheriyal police registered a case and are investigating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/two-youths-sleeping-under-lorry-run-over/article31384986.ece
20 April 2020||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||Farmer struck by lightning, dies||Matta Buchi Reddy (40), a farmer of Chellapur village in Dubbak mandal died when lightning hit him. The incident took place on Sunday morning. According to sources, heavy rain took place forcing Buchi Reddy to take shelter under a tree as there there was no other shelter. At the same time lightning hit him killing him on the spot.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/farmer-struck-by-lightning-dies/article31384985.ece
20 April 2020||April 20 2020 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Genuine news misinterpreted, turns ‘fake’ news||It’s quite common that politicians, particularly those in power, search for various viable options for stimulation of the economy in times of recession including the ones caused by the present coronavirus pandemic. Referring to one such options recently, Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao suggested the Centre to make RBI inject “helicopter money” to put the economy battered by lockdown back on rails. Picking it up as a news peg, unfortunately in literal terms, a popular Kannada news channel ran a news story along with scrolling that the Centre has plans to distribute money free, not as loan and without any interest, to every village by air dropping it with the help of helicopters. The Press Information Bureau, however, jumped into the picture to stop the spread of misinformation and termed it as “fake news” with a clarification that the Central government was not going to drop money from helicopters. It is understood that the same news channel had also run a story during demonetisation stating that the Rs. 2,000 denomination currency notes introduced by the RBI then would have a GPS-enabled chip embedded in it!       In the fight to protect human beings from coronavirus, the welfare of animals has been forgotten. Nonetheless, there is happy news from Nehru Zoological Park in Hyderabad where the animals are apparently having a jolly time in the absence of visitors due to lockdown. Also, a yellow Royal Bengal tiger gave birth to triplets, an Asiatic lion to twins, a golden jackal to six puppies, a blue gold macaw to two chicks and an ostrich to three chicks. The zoo authorities are also keeping a close eye to ensure that coronavirus does not infect the animals like it happened to a tiger and a couple of other big cats in Bronx Zoo, one of the biggest zoos in United States. About 120 animal keepers are working overtime to run coolers and sprinklers in the enclosures of animals. The staff were alerted to monitor the symptoms of cold and nasal discharge of animals, particularly tiger and primates.      The TRS MP P. Ramulu was pinned down by police for not wearing a mask on his face when he drove up to a check-post at Pahadishareef on Hyderabad outskirts. The missing mask on road users has caught the attention of every policeman on duty as they questioned the violators of lockdown. In the case of motorcyclists, they were even questioned for not wearing helmets. The MP ran into the police party after his son was stopped at the checkpost and pulled up by personnel for blaring the siren of his car while travelling. His contention that he was the son of a MP and the member of a Zilla Parishad Territorial Constituency himself fell on deaf ears. To top it all, he was travelling with four others in the car in violation of social distancing norms. When the altercation between the MP and the police took place, he made no secret of his long tenure in public life to throw his weight. He said he was a three-time MLA, a Minister and now an MP.      The Telangana police have adopted double standards on seizure and releasing of vehicles from violators of lockdown rules. While in Hyderabad the vehicles are being released within a day of seizure, the police in adjoining Cyberabad Commissionerate told the violators that the vehicles will be in their custody till the lockdown is lifted. Similarly, such double standard practices are being adopted in the districts as well. This invited sharp criticism from AIMIM Chief and Hyderabad’s Member of Parliament Asaduddin Owaisi a few days ago. The legislator took to twitter and asked DGP M Mahender Reddy and Police Commissioners of Hyderabad and Cyberabad to frame a policy to release the vehicle. “Sir @TelanganaDGP @CPHydCity@cpcybd pls frame a policy ,&vehicles are released poor need them Breaking] Kerala HC Directs Release Of All Vehicles Seized For Lockdown Violations On Personal Bond Of Owner,” he Tweeted. B. Chandrashekhar, N. Rahul, M. Rajeev, and Abhinay Deshpande||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/genuine-news-misinterpreted-turns-fake-news/article31384981.ece
20 April 2020||GURUGRAM,||Longer wait for Gurugram industry||Though the Central government has allowed the States to permit select additional economic activities from Monday with adherence to the lockdown measures, the wait for industries and companies here would be a little longer. Additional Chief Secretary V.S. Kundu, supervisory officer for COVID-19 preparations in Gurugram, told The Hindu that the district administration was in the process of preparing standard precautions for the industry to put in place to resume operations. Applications invited He said applications would be invited from the industries interested in resuming operations and a committee would look into them before granting them approval. “The committee would look into the capability of the industry to implement the measures to ensure the safety of the workers and prevent the spread of COVID-19,” said Mr. Kundu. He added that there could not be any time frame for grant of permission. Mr. Kundu said “minimal” relaxation would be granted in Gurugram and he could not “forsee” any company resuming its operations on April 20. “The Union government has said that relaxation can be allowed from April 20, and not that it must come into force from tomorrow [on Monday],” he said. Mr. Kundu said that a lot of industries had approached them and the district administration would determine its own mechanism to grant permission in a “fair and transparent way” and there would be no “blanket permissions”. “The categories of industries mentioned in the Home Ministry order will only be allowed. We are in the process of enlisting the industries working in the district and approaching us. We have a mechanism in place for them to start applying from today [Sunday]. We will prescribe a format with the minimum information to be given to the administration. The permission will be granted in a gradual manner with full precautions,” said the officer, also Chief Executive Officer, Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority. He said that only hardcore Information Technology companies and those assisting the essential services companies would be allowed. He ruled out permission to all call centres and BPOs. Mr. Kundu said that big industries had also approached them, but they too would be allowed with full measures in place. Sectors willing to work Manesar Industries Welfare Association vice-president Manmohan Gaind said that around 200 MSMEs in Manesar Industrial Model Township were willing to resume operations and “raring to go”, but the State government and the local administration had been slow in granting the permission. “When the Union government has given a go-ahead and the entire district is not in containment zone, what purpose is achieved in delaying the process,” said Mr. Gaind. He added that the industrialist wanted the economic activity to resume so that revenue could be generated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/longer-wait-for-gurugram-industry/article31384905.ece
20 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Capital reports 110 new COVID-19 cases, 2 deaths||The Capital on Sunday reported 110 new COVID-19 cases and two deaths, taking the total number of cases to 2,003 and deaths to 45. On Sunday, 83 people recovered, taking the total number of people who have recovered to 290.  Meanwhile, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said as COVID-19 was still spreading in the Capital, the government has decided not to provide any relaxation to the ongoing lockdown. ‘Review after a week’ “All 11 districts in the city have COVID-19 cases and therefore the lockdown needs to continue. The government along with experts will review the situation after a week to see if it is possible to provide relaxation in restrictions depending on the number of active cases.” Mr. Kejriwal said. He added that currently, Delhi has the second-highest number of cases after Maharashtra and that in the last few days, there has been a considerable rise in the number of COVID-19 cases. “Even though Delhi accounts for 2% of India’s population, the cases account for 12% of the total cases in the country. Delhi has 78 containment zones that have been sealed to control the spread of the disease,” he said. Mr. Kejriwal in his digital press conference assured Delhiites that although the virus is spreading, the situation is under control and that there is no need to panic. “If the lockdown had not been imposed, we would be on par with other nations where the numbers are quite high. What if 3,000 people would require the ICUs and 2,500 people ventilators? We have observed a similar pattern in Italy, Spain and the U.S. where the ICUs, ventilators and the entire healthcare system were not sufficient in treating all the patients. Our country would be suffering from a similar fate if the lockdown had not been imposed,” he said. Random testing: CM The Chief Minister urged people to be patient and strictly follow the rules of the lockdown. “We did random testing in the containment zones and it was observed that no cases were reported in the areas where rules were strictly followed. However, a surge in cases was observed where the protocol was not followed and people defied the norms of social distancing and lockdown,” he concluded.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/capital-reports-110-new-covid-19-cases-2-deaths/article31384911.ece
20 April 2020||New Delhi,||Rumour of food running out at school leads to near-stampede||A near-stampede ensued at a school, currently acting as a food distribution centre, in Jahangirpuri on Friday when locals rushed inside its gates after a “rumour spread that food had run out”. Ashwini Bagadi, a local Congress leader, said similar situations take place daily with around 100 to 150 people left wanting food. ‘No shortage of food’ However, a senior government official rejected the claim and said there has never been a shortage of food or staff at the location. He also said nearly 500 to 600 people are fed daily at the centre. ‘Anti-social element’ The official said the chaos took place because an “anti-social element” had spread a rumour that food had run out at the centre. Additionally, the school’s principal had shut the compound’s gate as people were regularly queuing up three hours prior to dinner, which is served at 6 p.m.. A video of the incidentshows people in masks or cloth tied around their faces racing towards the food distribution point soon after the gates opened. People are seen pushing against each other, falling over, and rushing despite the chaos, to get in line. Social distancing Later, they can be seen maintaining social distancing. The official said a local, who had allegedly spread the rumour, had earlier complained about the location of the centre. A police complaint has been registered against the accused, the official said. Apart from this, the gate would remain open from now on and the locals have been requested to queue up only at 5 p.m.  A local, who had allegedly spread the rumour, had earlier complained about the location of the centre. Also, the school gate would remain open from now on and the locals have been requested to queue up only at 5 p.m. Senior govt. official||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/rumour-of-food-running-out-at-school-leads-to-near-stampede/article31384916.ece
20 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Delhi govt. runs trial of rapid antibody kits||The Delhi government on Sunday started using the over 42,000 rapid antibody test kits received from the Central government with a trial run being conducted at Lok Nayak Hospital, Health Minister Satyendar Jain said. The new test kits will be used across the Capital, especially in the containment zones and hotspots, from tomorrow, he said. “There is no point in doing random testing. Only those who are showing some symptoms of the virus will be tested as it is not a confirmatory test. In rapid antibody test, the result will be positive only if the antibodies have been generated. We will then send the samples for a reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) which is a laboratory to confirm. We plan to use the kits within the span of a week, he added. Mobile van Nidhi Srivastava, District Magistrate, Central district, launched a COVID-19 testing-on-wheels initiative in the district to make testing more accessible and at the same time ensuring safety of health workers. The fabricated vehicle will be able to cater to narrow lanes, larger and dense areas of the district, increasing the number of samples collected in a day. “The mobile van can collect two samples at a time. It will take both nasopharyngeal and oropharyngeal swabs, seal them tight in double packing and transfer the sample to the testing facility. It will not only save time but also the people who are collecting the samples. The person who will collect the sample will be in the enclosure, so will not have to wear scarce PPE,” the DM said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/delhi-govt-runs-trial-of-rapid-antibody-kits/article31384908.ece
20 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Constable tests positive for COVID-19||A Delhi Police constable has tested positive for COVID-19, said a senior officer said on Sunday. The constable, posted in the west district of the city, was immediately quarantined and asked not to visit home, the officer added. “His test was conducted on April 17 at the DDU dispensary and he tested positive on April 18,” the officer said. His family members and his colleagues who came in contact with him have been asked to isolate themselves at home. The constable is “fine and doing well”, said the officer. Eight personnel so far So far, at least eight police personnel have tested positive for COVID-19 and one of them has recovered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/constable-tests-positive-for-covid-19/article31384914.ece
20 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||AIIMS doctors seek Minister’s help in gender, caste bias case||All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) Resident Doctors’ Association (RDA) has written to the Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan over the alleged inaction of administration over caste and gender-based harassment of doctors at the institute. “...Despite multiple letters, there has been no adequate action taken to address this issue of grave concern and eventually leading a resident to the edge after losing hope of justice in this prestigious institute,” the letter read. The RDA stated that she had also written to Women’s Grievance Cell and SC-ST Welfare Cell at AIIMS and National SC/ST Commission, but no action was taken. “We appeal to the administration and Ministries concerned to expedite the process and address this injustice,” it noted.  Suicide prevention helpline: Sanjivini, Society for Mental Health, 011-4076 9002, Monday-Saturday (10 a.m.-7.30 p.m.)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/aiims-doctors-seek-ministers-help-in-gender-caste-bias-case/article31384906.ece
20 April 2020||New Delhi,||10 people found strolling in park, FIRs registered||The Delhi Police has registered FIRs against 10 people who were found strolling in a park in south Delhi amid lockdown, officials said on Sunday. The police have advised people to stay home and follow the lockdown rules. However, on Saturday evening during a checking at Siri Fort Park, the police found 10 people strolling in the park following which cases were registered against all of them under Section 188 (for disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of Indian Penal Code and other Sections of Disaster Management Act, a senior police officer said. In another incident, a man claiming to be suffering from COVID-19 threatened to jump off the third floor of Safdarjung Hospital on Sunday. He was rescued by the fire department.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/10-people-found-strolling-in-park-firs-registered/article31384913.ece
20 April 2020||New Delhi,||HC refuses to interfere with Centre, Air India||The Delhi High Court has refused to interfere with the Centre and Air India’s decision to operate chartered flights to repatriate foreign nationals to their respective countries during the COVID-19 pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/hc-refuses-to-interfere-with-centre-air-india/article31384902.ece
20 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||jaideep- brief 2||To mitigate the spread of negative emotions among the youth due to the COVID-19 lockdown, IP University is organissing online workshop on “mental and emotional well-being for personality grooming of youth in the pandemic period”, the institute said. The workshop will start on April 20 via online tool — Web Ex. It is scheduled to end on April 25, the university said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/jaideep-brief-2/article31384917.ece
20 April 2020||BERHAMPUR,||Man stranded in U.S., watches father’s funeral on video call||Stranded abroad and unable to reach home even for the funeral of parents following COVID-19 restrictions, young technocrats have no other means except video calls to have glimpses of last rites of the deceased. An example of this sad situation occurred in Odisha’s Berhampur on Saturday. K. Narasimha Subdhi (70) died of a heart attack at his residence at Kapileswarpeta Street of Berhampur. His only son K.Sudip, a software engineer, is working in the U.S. for the past one year. He had planned to visit home in April, but COVID-19 had shattered his plans. Even after receiving information about his father’s death, there was no way Mr. Sudip could reach Berhampur to perform the last rites. According to the family members, Mr. Sudip had spoken with his father only half an hour before he suffered the fatal heart attack. Friends and relatives then decided to perform the funeral of the deceased in absence of his son. His pyre was lit by Mr. Sudip’s brother-in-law. As a last resort, Mr. Sudip watched the funeral rituals and last rites of his father at Nilakantheswar cremation ground in Berhampur through live video call. A similar incident was reported from Laikera in Jharsuguda district of Odisha in March. An elderly person with two sons had passed away on March 17. His elder son, working in Mumbai, had managed to return home and the funeral was conducted two days after the death. But the younger son, Ranjan Nayak, who stays abroad with his wife and daughter, could not return. Here also video call was the only mean through which the son could remain in contact with bereaved family during the funeral process.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/man-stranded-in-us-watches-fathers-funeral-on-video-call/article31384901.ece
20 April 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Overcoming fear key to fight COVID-19, says Punjab patient||It has been 13 days since 48-year-old Harpal Singh, the sarpanch of Pathlawa village in Punjab’s Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar (SBS) district was declared COVID-19 free. But he stayed on till Sunday in the quarantine ward of the district hospital in Nawanshahr because his 72-year-old mother had also tested positive and was admitted to the hospital. A very relieved Mr. Singh is all set to return home with his mother, who has also recovered from the infection. The mother and son are among 19 COVID-19 cases from SBS Nagar district. Punjab’s first death due to the virus — of a 70-year-old man on March 18 — was also recorded from Pathlawa. No fresh case has been reported from the district since March 26 and 17 of the 19 infected persons have been treated and discharged. Only a 15-year-old remains under treatment at the district hospital. ‘Combat fear’ “I was admitted on March 22 after my samples tested positive and was discharged on April 7, but I didn’t want to go without my mother. I decided to stay at the quarantine ward of the hospital. Today, I am happy that my mother has also been cured and we will both go back home,” Mr. Harpal said. Thanking the hospital staff for their dedicated service, Mr. Harpal said people need to stay clam and overcome their fears if they test positive for COVID-19. “Doctors and other staff at the hospital counselled me and kept motivating me, it helped me a lot. It may not be easy but one should overcome his/her fear. Practising hygiene and taking precautions are the important things to be kept in mind,” he said. “In case there’s any symptom of coronavirus, one should immediately get the treatment. The earlier the treatment starts, the better it is,” Mr. Harpal emphasised. “Also, I believe that a patient’s family should stay in touch to keep up the morale. Loneliness is devastating. I kept listening to Gurbani (hymns from the Granth Sahib),” he said. Successful strategy Deputy Commissioner Vinay Bublani said as soon as the first COVID-19 death was reported from SBS Nagar district, the administration initiated a strategy to geographically tag affected areas. “In this process 15 affected villages were sealed and the containment plan was strictly implemented,” he said.  In case there’s any symptom of coronavirus, one should immediately get the treatment. The earlier the treatment starts, the better it is Harpal Singh Sarpanch, Pathlawa village||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/overcoming-fear-key-to-fight-covid-19-says-punjab-patient/article31384891.ece
20 April 2020||CHANDIGARH,||18 new cases reported in Haryana||Eighteen fresh cases of COVID-19 surfaced in Haryana on Sunday, taking the total tally to 250 in the State, according to a government statement. State health department said out of total 250 confirmed cases, 24 are foreign nationals. J.S. Punia, Chief Medical Officer, Gurugram, said a jail warder at Bhondsi Jail has been tested positive for COVID-19. “He was absent from the duty since April 9 and returned to work two days ago. But he was asked to get his test done and was not allowed to join. His result came on Saturday. He was found to be infected with the virus. Since he had not joined duty, the staff and inmates at the jail did not come in contact with him,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/18-new-cases-reported-in-haryana/article31384893.ece
20 April 2020||Ghaziabad,||Woman tests positive in Ghaziabad||A 25-year-old woman who gave birth to a baby boy at a private hospital in Nandgram area of Ghaziabad on Thursday tested positive for COVID-19 on Saturday evening, an official release said. The baby has also been tested for the virus and the report is awaited. Both of them have been shifted to an isolation ward. The doctor, who conducted the C-section on the woman, visited two more hospitals and conducted similar procedures on two more women. The doctor and the other medical staff have been quarantined. The woman hails from Kaila Bhatta, a densely populated area of Ghaziabad. “Seven members of her family have been quarantined,” said Dr. N.K. Gupta, Chief Medical Officer, Ghaziabad. “The woman and the baby have been put in isolation separately. The doctor who conducted the operation told us that the women had a temperature and other flu-like symptoms. So he told the hospital to get her tested for COVID 19 after the operation,” he added. On Sunday, three more persons tested positive in Ghaziabad. Two New cases were also reported in Gautam Buddh Nagar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/woman-tests-positive-in-ghaziabad/article31384894.ece
20 April 2020||GUWAHATI,||‘Use of Chinese PPE kits after doctors nod’||The Assam government has decided to use the Chinese personal protective equipment (PPE) kits only after doctors are satisfied with their quality in view of the controversy over having allegedly imported them by bending rules. Health Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma had last week said Assam was the first State in the country to directly order 50,000 PPEs from China. He also said the Centre, which had earlier imported such kits separately, had been kept in the loop. The PPEs had come directly in a cargo flight from Guangzhou to Guwahati on April 15 evening. However, reports that the Defence Research and Development Organisation had trashed the PPEs have made the State government decide not to use them for now. Mr. Sarma said he checked with the DRDO, which denied having rejected the kits||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/use-of-chinese-ppe-kits-after-doctors-nod/article31384892.ece
20 April 2020||JAIPUR,||Farmer’s family spends all for the poor||A farmer’s family in Osian town of Rajasthan’s Jodhpur district is spending its entire life savings worth Rs. 50 lakh to distribute ration kits among the poor, destitute and daily wage earners deprived of their livelihood during the ongoing lockdown. Several youths in the region have joined the initiative as volunteers to make sure that no one goes hungry. Paburam Manda, 67, and his two sons have provided food kits to 6,500 families in 83 villages of the region with the help of a large team of volunteers. The farmer family, which grows crops like cumin, garlic, onions and bajra, decided to extend help to the needy despite uncertainties about the its own agricultural yield after the recent unseasonal rains and hailstorms. The doorstep delivery of food has especially helped the migrant labourers from other States stranded in the villages of Osian, Tinwari and Baori blocks of Jodhpur district since the lockdown was enforced. The volunteers undertook a survey of the needy families in the first round of work to ensure that no was left out. Shortlisting the needy Mr. Manda, his wife Munny Devi and their sons — Ram Niwas, who runs an educational institution in Osian, and Bhagirath Manda, an Indian Revenue Service officer in New Delhi — took the help of village panchayat staff to shortlist the distressed people and started the delivery of kits from April 2. Those who offered to contribute were politely asked to come later if the family’s entire funds were used up. Each ration kit comprises 10 kg of wheat flour, 1 kg pulses and 1 kg oil, along with biscuits, soap and spices. Priced at Rs. 800, one kit has sufficient food for five members of a family and can last for 10 days. ‘A small contribution’ While Mr. Manda affirmed that he, as a farmer who had dealt with adversities, had decided to stand up for the nation during the present crisis, Dr. Bhagirath Manda told The Hindu on Sunday that the initiative was his family’s small contribution to support the underprivileged rural families which were on the brink of starvation.  ‘Huge response’ “The response we have received is overwhelming and our initiative has inspired others as well,” Dr. Manda said. He said the 400 volunteers engaged in the supply of kits were adhering to all precautionary measures and informing the recipients of the safeguards to protect themselves against the virus infection. The farmer's family has received the calls for help from more villages after the extension of lockdown till May 3. Dr. Manda — the physician-turned-civil servant — said the family would make arrangements for supply of 2,000 ration kits in the second round of its philanthropic work, beginning next week.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/farmers-family-spends-all-for-the-poor/article31384896.ece
20 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Virus effect: sex workers worry about the months to come||“I am now reduced to a beggar and rely entirely on free cooked meals distributed in our area,” says Laxmi Mane (name changed), a 32-year-old sex worker in Pune’s largest red light district, Budhwar Peth. The lockdown and the fear of COVID-19 means that this primary bread winner of her family of five has no source of income now, and perhaps for months to come. The financial worries continue to mount — an unpaid loan, overdue house rent, maintenance costs and an uncertainty over the future of her business. “After the lockdown is over, there will be no business. Earlier, it was the note ban which reduced our earnings from Rs. 15,000- 20,000to Rs. 7,000 as many clients stopped visiting us. Now, clients will worry about who all we have come in contact with. These thoughts keep gnawing on me,” she says in a telephonic interview. She earns about Rs. 7,000 per month, while her husband earns Rs. 6,000 monthly from his roadside food stall, which is also shut. With the lockdown being extended into May, she is also anxious about her three children who study at a boarding school in Ahmednagar and had to return home next month for the summer break. Least of worries There are approximately 1,700 sex workers living in Budhwar Peth, apart from nearly 300 who have fled to their homes because of the lockdown. Food provision is the least of their worries. “There are other needs too. Many women have families to support in their home towns, childcare has become a huge problem as day and night care shelters have shut down and children spend their entire day in cramped brothels. Routine medical needs of those who suffer from diabetes and hypertension are being ignored and then there is the issue of mental health, especially with uncertainty over resumption of business,” says Tejaswi Sevekari, Executive Director, Saheli Sangh — a sex workers collective. She is concerned that it may take 8-12 months for sex workers to resume their livelihood. In the initial days of the lockdown, HIV+ women were unable to access third-line anti-retroviral therapy (a higher treatment regimen for those who fail first and second line treatment) as it entails travelling to Mumbai. After a sex workers’ organisation, Veshya Anyay Mukti Parishad (VAMP), moved the Bombay High Court, district authorities were ordered to make suitable arrangements. In Jharkhand’s Gumla, where sex workers earn Rs.40-50per client or sometimes offer services in kind, such as in return for tilling or harvesting by a male on her farm land, there may be problems faced by HIV+ survivors in accessing anti-retroviral therapy (ART) for which they need to travel to Sadar Hospital in Ranchi, explains Pushpa Sharma from Srijan Foundation.  ‘Can’t avail benefits’ Many daily wagers, who travel to Ranchi on a daily basis and sometimes provide sex when they can't find other work, found themselves stranded and unable to return home when the lockdown was announced. “As a result, they have no identity proof, no ration card to avail benefits,” adds Ms. Sharma.  Childcare has become a huge problem as day and night care shelters have shut down and children spend their entire day in cramped brothels Tejaswi SevekariExecutive Director, Saheli Sangh||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/virus-effect-sex-workers-worry-about-the-months-to-come/article31384897.ece
20 April 2020||April 20 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Lockdown cannot be the only strategy’||Lockdown is just one aspect to contain the spread of COVID-19, enhanced testing, isolation of infected individuals, monitoring of development of herd immunity, a phased withdrawal of the lockdown should all be part of the strategy to fight the virus feels Partho Sarothi Ray, associate professor of biological sciences at the Indian Institute of Science Education and Research, Kolkata. Prof. Ray spoke to Shiv Sahay Singh of The Hindu on the outbreak of COVID-19 and measures taken to contain the spread.   What do we know about COVID-19 and how far do you think we are to finding a cure?  Though it is a novel virus, virologists have been familiar with this group called coronavirus. This group had caused outbreak of SARS in 2002 and MERS in 2009. It is less lethal than SARS but significantly higher than influenza virus. Very lethal viruses, such as SARS, Ebola, cause limited infections because they kill the people they infect and they do not get a chance to spread rapidly. However, COVID-19 is highly infective; nearly twice that of influenza virus. That is why it is spreading rapidly throughout the world. Most of the people dying of the infection are the elderly, people with comorbidities and those whose immune system is suppressed. Our record of finding cures to viral disease is not great. It is very difficult to find specific antiviral drugs targeted to specific virus. Finding an antiviral to this virus is not going to happen easily. Currently various antiviral drugs targeted for other virus like influenza are being tried out to treat COVID-19. One of the reasons is that this virus changes rapidly and gives rise to variants. Already, we know that there are multiple variants and a vaccine against one variant may not be effective against other.  As a virologist what do you think, after the lockdown will the spread of the disease be contained?  If you just do a mathematical modelling of how long it will take to stop the epidemic by doing just a lockdown, I think it will be required till June or may be as far as September. In a lockdown you have infected asymptomatic individuals who are staying in their homes and infecting people around them. After the lockdown is lifted they will go out and infect more susceptible people, so there will be resurgence. The question is whether is it feasible for us to keep extending the lockdown. We have seen the pain that the lockdown has brought, especially to the poor. The only way to stop this is to increase testing to such a level that we are able to identify and isolate these asymptomatic infected individuals. This should be the aim of the lockdown period.  So the more the testing the better we are prepared to deal with the situation?  We have seen countries like Germany, Italy going up to 13,000 14,000 tests per million. In the U.S. the number is 7,000 per million. I really don’t know if it is possible to achieve such numbers in India. We are saying that there is a need to increase testing in places where you are seeing infections. There is an urgent need to test asymptomatic people, people under quarantine or contacts of infected people. Because of high infectivity of the virus the insistence on testing comes into play. If we are able to test and isolate infected persons then we should be able break the chain of transmission.  There are concerns about the cost of the tests which comes to Rs. 4,500 per test. Can the price of test be reduced?  ICMR has approved a specific test protocol for COVID-19 which is based on some kits. These kits are nearly all imported and therefore there is dependency on them. Even using the kits, the pricing should be substantially less. In fact, a cost estimate for a test comes to around Rs. 700. If we also explore alternative methods which are regularly used in the labs the tests can be carried out at a cheaper cost. It can be done by reagents which are cheaper. We do not know whether these have been explored substantially. What we are suggesting is alternative testing should be encouraged and the dependence on the imported kits should be reduced. In that way both the price of testing can be made more realistic and more testing labs can be engaged.  There are talks about herd immunity? What are your views on it?  The way such viral transmission is stopped is by development of herd immunity. Herd immunity is when a large section of the population develops immunity against the virus and thereby stops its further spread. Herd immunity can only develop if people start developing antibodies against the virus. For that certain level of interaction has to be there among the population.   So lockdown cannot be the only strategy ?   Lockdown should be part of a broad well planned comprehensive strategy. Lockdown is just one aspect of the strategy. Other measures like enhanced testing, effective isolation of infected individuals, monitoring of development of herd immunityshould go hand in hand with lockdown as part of comprehensive strategy to fight the COVID-19 outbreak.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/lockdown-cannot-be-the-only-strategy/article31384899.ece
20 April 2020||Beijing,||Coronavirus did not come from us: Wuhan lab||A laboratory in the Chinese city at ground zero of the global COVID-19 outbreak has rejected U.S. theories that it spawned the pandemic. The denial came as world governments were debating how and when to ease lockdowns that have kept more than half of humanity — 4.5 billion people — confined to their homes and crippled the global economy. Many of the world’s 260 million Orthodox Christians were forced to mark Easter at home on Sunday, with church leaders telling worshippers to stay indoors and conducting services online or on television. But in Belarus, President Alexander Lukashenko, who has cast doubt on the gravity of the pandemic and allowed events such as football matches to continue, defiantly visited a church without a face mask. Virtual concert Hoping to spread cheer to those under lockdown, the world’s top musicians — from the Rolling Stones to Taylor Swift, Stevie Wonder and teen superstar Billie Eilish — joined forces for a virtual mega-concert on Saturday. The six-hour online event aimed to cultivate a sense of community during a pandemic that has killed at least 1,60,000 people worldwide, with more than 2.3 million confirmed infections. The virus was probably first transmitted to humans at a Wuhan market where exotic animals were slaughtered, according to Chinese scientists. But conspiracy theories that the virus came from a maximum-security virology lab have been brought into the mainstream by U.S. government officials.  “There’s no way this virus came from us,” Yuan Zhiming, the head of the P4 laboratory at the Wuhan Institute of Virology, which is equipped to handle dangerous viruses, said in an interview with state media. “I know it’s impossible.” The U.S. has the highest caseload of any country, with more than 7,35,000 confirmed infections, and over 39,000 deaths. But as Americans and others around the world chafe after weeks under stay-at-home orders, resentment is rising. Anti-lockdown protests on Saturday drew hundreds of people in states including Texas, Maryland, New Hampshire and Ohio. The small but spreading movement drew encouragement from Mr. Trump, who tweeted that three States should be “liberated” from the stay-home orders.  Shops reopened Elsewhere, a patchwork of countries including Switzerland, Denmark and Finland began reopening shops and schools. Germany is set to follow suit on Monday with some shops back open after declaring the virus “under control”, while Italy — at one time the European epicentre of the crisis — was tentatively mulling easing restrictions. Iran allowed some businesses to reopen Saturday despite being home to West Asia’s deadliest outbreak. Back in Wuhan, there was an emotional return to the city for the Chinese Super League football team after more than three months stranded on the roa. Wearing masks, the players had bouquets of flowers thrust into their hands as supporters held banners and sang to welcome them home.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/coronavirus-did-not-come-from-us-wuhan-lab/article31384568.ece
20 April 2020||Kabul,||Afghan girls turn car parts into ventilators||On most mornings, Somaya Farooqi and four other teenage girls pile into her dad’s car and head to a mechanic’s workshop. They use back roads to skirt police checkpoints set up to enforce a lockdown in their city of Herat, one of Afghanistan’s hot spots of the COVID-19 pandemic. The members of Afghanistan’s prize-winning girls’ robotics team say they’re on a life-saving mission — to build a breathing machine from used car parts and help their war-stricken country battle the virus. “If we even save one life with our device, we will be proud,” said Ms. Farooqi, 17. Their pursuit is particularly remarkable in conservative Afghanistan. Only a generation ago, during the rule of the Islamic fundamentalist Taliban in the late 1990s, girls weren’t allowed to go to school. Ms. Farooqi’s mother was pulled from school in third grade. Only 400 ventilators Afghanistan faces the pandemic nearly empty-handed. It has only 400 ventilators for a population of more than 36.6 million. So far, it has reported just over 900 coronavirus cases, including 30 deaths, but the actual number is suspected to be much higher since test kits are in short supply. This has spurred Ms. Farooqi and her team members to help come up with a solution. On a typical morning, Ms. Farooqi’s father collects the girls from their homes and drives them to the team’s office in Herat, zigzagging through side streets to skirt checkpoints. From there, another car takes them to a mechanic’s workshop on the outskirts of the city. In Herat, residents are only permitted to leave their homes for urgent needs. The robotics team has a limited number of permits for cars. So far, Ms. Farooqi’s father hasn’t been able to get one, but the girls are in a hurry. “We are concerned about security driving out of the city but there is no other option, we have to try to save people’s lives,” Ms. Farooqi said. At the workshop, the team is experimenting with two different designs, including an open-source blueprint from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. The parts being used include the motor of a Toyota windshield wiper, batteries and sets of bag valve masks, or manual oxygen pumps. A group of mechanics helps them build the frame of a ventilator. Daniela Rus, a professor at MIT, welcomed the team’s initiative to develop the prototype. “It will be excellent to see it tested and locally produced,” she said. Getting funding Tech entrepreneur Roya Mahboob, who founded the team and raises funds to empower girls, said she hopes Ms. Farooqi’s group will finish building a prototype by May or June. In all, the team has 15 members who work on various projects. The ventilator model, once completed, would then be sent to the Health Ministry for testing, initially on animals, said spokesman Wahid Mayar. Ms. Farooqi, who was just 14 when she participated in the first World Robot Olympiad in the U.S., in 2017, said she and her team members hope to make a contribution. “Afghans should be helping Afghanistan in this pandemic,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/afghan-girls-turn-car-parts-into-ventilators/article31384565.ece
20 April 2020||Colombo,||Govt., Opposition clash over holding poll||Even as Sri Lanka’s health authorities continue fighting COVID-19, which has so far affected 269 persons, the government and Opposition parties have expressed conflicting views on holding a poll during the raging global pandemic. Sri Lankan Prime Minister Mahinda Rajapaksa has urged the Election Commission to fix the date for the general election, after the poll scheduled for April 25 were postponed in the wake of the coronavirus. In a statement issued on Saturday, Mr. Rajapaksa said the Commission was “mandatorily required” to fix another day for the polls. “Things have to come back to normal sooner or later,” he said. The PM’s message comes at a time when Sri Lanka prepares to ease the curfew this week in select districts, after a near-total lockdown for a month. As of Sunday, as many as 96 persons have recovered, while over 100 others are being monitored under quarantine, according to Sri Lanka’s Health Promotion Bureau. EC to decide? On the revised date for the polls, the Election Commission asked President Rajapaksa to seek the Supreme Court’s opinion on the matter, citing the exceptional circumstances following the pandemic. However, President Rajapaksa has maintained that the question of seeking the apex court’s ruling did not arise, when “the date for fixing the poll is the responsibility of the Election Commission”. The Commission is yet to comment. Meanwhile, Opposition parties have raised concern over holding elections in the near future, while the threat of the pandemic lingers. Former Speaker Karu Jayasuriya urged the government and the Opposition to engage with the Commission “urgently” to prevent an “unnecessary constitutional crisis”, as the last Parliament was dissolved on March 2. Reconvening Parliament Almost all Opposition parties have sought the reconvening of Parliament using President Gotabaya’s executive powers, while urging the Election Commission to refrain from holding poll until the health risk is eliminated. The Sri Lanka Muslim Congress (SLMC) said in its letter to the Commission that until health authorities and the police provide “complete clearance” for free movement throughout the country, it is not possible to publish the notice of poll, fixing the revised date for the general election. The Tamil National Alliance (TNA) said that there can be no effective exercise of democracy in the form of an election in the midst of such a pandemic.  Senior doctors in Sri Lanka earlier told The Hindu that a reasonable assessment of the situation was possible only at the end of four to five incubation cycles. Sri Lanka has finished two.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/govt-opposition-clash-over-holding-poll/article31384570.ece
20 April 2020||New Delhi,||Karzai welcomes India’s involvement in talks||Former Afghan President Hamid Karzai has welcomed the American gesture to bring in India into the ongoing negotiation for sustained peace in the war-torn country. The response followed hours after U.S. Special Representative Zalmay Khalilzad discussed the state of the peace talks and the coronavirus crisis in South Asia with External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar. “I have said this since the process began... I do hope India will join the peace process in support of a sovereign and united Afghanistan with a strong government, in keeping with the traditional friendship between India and Afghanistan,” Mr. Karzai, who met with Indian envoy to Afghanistan Vinay Kumar on Saturday, told The Hindu . During his visit to Delhi in January, Mr. Karzai had also pitched for India’s support to the U.S.-Taliban and intra-Afghan process in meetings with Prime Minister Narendra Modi and National Security Advisor Ajit Doval. Mr. Khalilzad on Saturday made the move and said, “I reached out to Indian External Affairs Minister Dr. S. Jaishankar yesterday to discuss the latest on the Afghan peace process...” He said that both sides discussed the issue of release of prisoners. “We also spent some time covering the immediate and longer-term impact of the coronavirus.” The development is significant as it came days after a six-nation talk on the Afghan scenario was held which had excluded India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/karzai-welcomes-indias-involvement-in-talks/article31384569.ece
20 April 2020||Sydney,||Australia calls for probe into response||Australia on Sunday called for an independent investigation into the global response to the COVID-19 pandemic, including the World Health Organization’s handling of the crisis. Foreign Minister Marise Payne said the country would “insist” on a review that would probe, in part, China’s early response to the outbreak in Wuhan, the city where COVID-19 emerged late last year. “We need to know the sorts of details that an independent review would identify for us about the genesis of the virus, about the approaches to dealing with it (and) addressing the openness with which information was shared,” she told public broadcaster ABC.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/australia-calls-for-probe-into-response/article31384566.ece
20 April 2020||Madrid,||Spain sees sharp drop in toll||Spain registered a sharp drop in its daily death toll from the new coronavirus on Sunday, with the number falling to 410 from 565. The total number of fatalities in Spain, the third hardest-hit country in the world after the U.S. and Italy, has reached 20,453, the Health Ministry said. “It’s a number that gives us hope,” said Health Ministry Emergencies Coordinator Fernando Simon of the daily death toll, at its lowest in four weeks. Infections rose to 1,95,344, with 4,218 new cases in the past 24 hours.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/spain-sees-sharp-drop-in-toll/article31384571.ece
20 April 2020||April 20 2020 00:00 IST,||A shot of hope with a game changing vaccine||Over the initial phase of the national lockdown (March 24 to April 14), India reported a 20-fold increase in confirmed SARS-CoV-2/COVID-19 cases (468 to >10,000), and a 36-fold increase in deaths (9 to 330). Increased testing may partly account for this; but testing is still inadequate and this data represent underestimates. The case-fatality of 2% to 3% is indicative of the large number of deaths India can expect. Debates about the relative merits of mitigation to “flatten the curve” versus allowing “herd immunity” to build naturally are increasingly irrelevant. The failures in widespread testing for infection or for immunity imply that transmission-chains via asymptomatic, mildly-symptomatic and pre-symptomatic people remain undetected. Most countries, including India, are inadvertently employing hybrid strategies. The lockdown (an extreme example of mitigation) has been extended to May 3. The dire socio-economic consequences and the scale of human tragedy that play out daily make a prolonged total lockdown undesirable. Alongside infection-control, a strategic plan of action to mitigate suffering and to stimulate economic recovery is urgently needed. As a series of measures In a recent interview, the Union Health Minister, Harsh Vardhan, asserted that lockdowns and social distancing are the most effective “social vaccines” available to fight the pandemic. A social vaccine has far broader implications. So what is a social vaccine? A social vaccine is a metaphor for a series of social and behavioural measures that governments can use to raise public consciousness about unhealthy situations through social mobilisation. Social mobilisation can empower populations to resist unhealthy practices, increase resilience, and foster advocacy for change. This can drive political will to take action in the interests of society and hold governments accountable to address the social determinants of health by adopting progressive socio-economic policies and regulatory mechanisms that promote health equity and reduce vulnerability to disease. When applied to pandemics, the effectiveness of a social vaccine is determined by the extent of dissemination and uptake of accurate information about personal infection risk and methods to reduce the risk through consistent core messages disseminated through a variety of means. A social vaccine addresses barriers and facilitators of behaviour change, whether attitudinal, social, cultural, or economic, and supplements information, education, and communication (IEC) with targeted social and behaviour change communication (SBCC) strategies. Uganda and Thailand used these strategies effectively during the HIV/AIDS pandemic to bring down the incidence of HIV infection, before highly active antiretroviral treatment (HAART) was introduced in 1995. They demonstrated how an effective social vaccine helped “flatten the curve” till effective treatments were discovered that dramatically reduced mortality, viral loads and infection transmission. Lessons from HIV pandemic The human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) that causes the acquired immune deficiency syndrome (AIDS) is believed to have made the zoonotic jump from monkeys through chimpanzees to humans in Africa as early as the 1920s, but the HIV/AIDS epidemic was detected in 1981 and was a pandemic by 1985. From 1981 till December 2018, around 74.9 (range: 58.3 to 98.1) million people worldwide were HIV-infected, and around 32.0 (range: 23.6 to 43.8) million died (43%, range: 41 to 45%) from AIDS-related illnesses. The early years of the HIV/AIDS pandemic were also a time of global panic. The cause was unknown (till 1984) and diagnostic tests were unavailable (till 1985). Since there was no treatment, a diagnosis of HIV infection was a death sentence. Widespread fears of contagion rendered many infected people homeless and unemployed. Many were denied access to care. Stigma, discrimination and violence towards infected individuals, their families, social groups (sex-workers, gay men, drug users, truck drivers, migrants), and even health workers, were common. Criminalising sex-work and injecting drug use followed. Conspiracy theories, misinformation and unproven remedies were widely propagated. The blame game targeted world leaders and international agencies. The preparedness of health systems, societal prejudices and socio-economic inequities were starkly exposed. Reducing HIV transmission centred on acknowledging that everybody was potentially infected — even those apparently healthy — and that infection occurred predominantly through sexual transmission and intravenous drug use. The core preventive messages involved being faithful to one sexual partner or 100% condom use during sexual intercourse outside stable relationships; resisting peer-pressure for risky behaviours, and harm reduction for intravenous drug use. These measures conflicted with prevailing cultural, social, religious, behavioural and legal norms. IEC and SBCC activities targeted (and partnered) individuals, families, community leaders, peer-led community networks and social and health systems to change attitudes and behaviours. Religious and community leaders were key change agents. For example, the Catholic Church in Uganda did not initially support promoting condoms for safe sex since its use prevents life. After large numbers of people died of AIDS, their tacit acknowledgment that their religion did not preclude the use of condoms to prevent death was an important turning point. Thailand pioneered the effective use of social marketing of condoms for safe sex and used humour to defuse social taboos about publicly discussing sex. These strategies and advocacy against stigma and discrimination were successfully adapted in India. These skills and experiences can be innovatively adapted for the current pandemic. How it can work The core infection-control messages are available from official sources. Maintaining physical distancing in social situations (unless impossible) and wearing cloth masks or facial coverings in public (especially where distancing is impossible) by 100% of people (and 100% of the time) is key to preventing infection along with regular disinfection of oneself and one’s surroundings. Effective and innovative IEC and SBCC strategies should address the barriers and facilitators to implementation. People are more likely to practise these behaviours if all leaders (without exception) promote them publicly and consistently, the whole community believes in their importance, and if proper information, support, and materials are available and accessible. Coercive or punitive methods are invariably counter-productive, as was seen with HIV/AIDS. A social vaccine also requires people to hold leaders accountable to invest in: rapidly scaling-up testing; meeting the basic and economic needs of vulnerable sections; providing psychological support where needed; not communalising or politicising the pandemic; providing adequate personal protective equipment (PPE) to front-line workers in health, sanitation, transport and other essential services; and not compromising the privacy and dignity of infected individuals and their families in the interest of public health. Building trust is key if government-imposed mitigation strategies are to be embraced by the population. Re-purposing and funding relevant industries and small and medium businesses to produce materials such as PPE, hand sanitisers and medical equipment; community groups to supply cloth masks, soap, etc., and innovative social marketing of these are other essential components of the social vaccine. The components of the social vaccine should be in place before relaxing or lifting the lockdown. There is still no biomedical vaccine for HIV/AIDS. Considering the limited efficacy and uptake of influenza vaccines, vaccines for SARS-CoV-2/COVID-19 may not provide a panacea. Effective treatments to reduce deaths with COVID-19 may emerge, but till then, and even afterwards, a social vaccine is needed. A social vaccine can build societal immunity to the devastating effects of future pandemics by the lessons learned about addressing the root causes, and our responses to the current one. Dr. Prathap Tharyan is Adjunct Professor, Clinical Epidemiology Unit, Christian Medical College, Vellore. Dr. T. Jacob John, a retired Professor of Virology from CMC Vellore, is Chairman, Rotary Club of Vellore TB Control Society||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-shot-of-hope-with-a-game-changing-vaccine/article31384552.ece
20 April 2020||April 20 2020 00:00 IST,||Preparing for a new political field in J&K||With National Conference leaders Farooq Abdullah and Omar Abdullah being released after over seven months of detention, there is an air of inevitability to the leader of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Mehbooba Mufti, being released as well. There were expectations that Mr. Omar Abdullah and Ms. Mufti would be released in tandem, but nearly a month after Mr. Omar Abdullah’s release, it is strange that her detention should continue. Ms. Mufti has merely been moved out of a sub-jail into her official residence, where she remains in detention. New contours Notably, since they’ve been set free, neither of the Abdullahs has rocked Delhi’s political boat leading to speculation whether there had been some understanding reached prior to their release or whether they are keeping their powder dry following the Gupkar Declaration of August 4, 2019. During that meeting, politicians from across the spectrum, minus those from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), pledged to unite to safeguard the special status and autonomy of Jammu and Kashmir. Perhaps there is fear that Ms. Mufti could queer the pitch when she is unencumbered of her strictures and inconveniently starts harking back to August 5, 2019; after all, she has support among the Jamaat in south Kashmir. There is no doubt that Kashmiris have felt let down by their politicians, and although Ms. Mufti has been self-destructive as a politician, the longer she remains locked up, the more credibility she gains. Competitive jostling for political space could have an undesirable domino effect as New Delhi struggles to create a new political playing field, the contours of which are becoming clearer now. For one, it would make the going much tougher for New Delhi’s favourite, Apni Party, led by Altaf Bukhari and comprising a motley group of politicians who have defected, resigned or were fired from different political parties. Left alone in the political field, the Apni Party will gain disdain and derision rather than political heft. This must have been a big factor in the rethink on continuing to keep the Abdullahs in detention. The question remains: what will be New Delhi’s road map for Jammu and Kashmir? A cauldron of resentments Eight months of sustained lockdown has indubitably left many sections of Kashmiri society crushed economically and otherwise. There is perhaps a cauldron of resentments there, more susceptible than ever before to radical blandishments. Before the novel coronavirus came along, Kashmir’s apple orchards did some business. But all other avenues of income, such as the handicrafts industry, small enterprises, the papier-mâché industry, the carpet industry and tourism, could not have thrived. There was a stranglehold on social media. Broadband as well as mobile Internet services in the region were banned for months. Broadband and 2G Internet were restored in January, but they severely constrain all sorts of community, communication and business activities that normal societies thrive on. It’s spring in Kashmir, and the security forces confront a situation of increased armed activity. After claiming responsibility for the Kabul Gurdwara attack on March 25 that killed over 25 people, the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant-Khorasan Province said that the attack was “revenge for Kashmir.” This mutual reinforcement could turn into a wellspring for the radicalised Kashmiri as well as for Pakistan which is set to get a better grip on Kabul via the Taliban. India temporarily closed two consulates in Afghanistan (Herat and Jalalabad) in the first week of April anticipating growing security threats, among other things. At least two of the five militants who killed para commandos in early April in Kupwara, close to the Line of Control, were local youth from south Kashmir.  The COVID-19 crisis has certainly changed the dynamic of the discourse somewhat. It has given time for the government to prepare the playing field better. Delimitation will be the key. There will be more electoral loading in Jammu, which will take away some of the emphasis from the constituencies in Kashmir, which have espoused separatist sentiments. Yet, delimitation based on the infirmities of the 2011 Census would make less sense than one based on 2021, which has been deferred indefinitely. Elections could happen once the seats have increased from 83 to 90, which gives plenty of time to get the panchayat elections right. The last panchayat elections were a disaster because the mainstream political parties boycotted it. Nearly 12,000 posts were left vacant. This time the government will be keen to ensure more healthy participation. The road ahead The rough road ahead looks something like this: if the COVID-19 crisis abates, the Amarnath Yatra will be held from mid-June to end-July, and if the security situation permits, the panchayat elections will be held. Later, the Census will be conducted and delimitation will occur. Following all this, the Assembly elections will take place. All this could take more than a year and a half. Somewhere in the middle dangles the carrot of promised statehood. Though individual members are popular enough to stand on their own feet in their constituencies, the Apni Party cannot provide an overarching political framework for Jammu and Kashmir. Jammu BJP and Jammu and Kashmir People’s Conference chairman Sajjad Lone might add some numbers. The rest the BJP may manage, as it did in Goa, Karnataka and Madhya Pradesh. It is unclear if the National Conference and the PDP, and others of the Gupkar grouping, if they contest, can come together to deny New Delhi political space. But right now the Kashmiri is a mere bystander as the framework of a new political order is sought to be worked and put in place by New Delhi. sudarshan.v@thehindu.co.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/preparing-for-a-new-political-field-in-jk/article31384562.ece
20 April 2020||April 20 2020 00:00 IST,||Caught in the heightened arc of communal polemics||Communal politics around the Tablighi Jamaat has been intensifying ever since this little known organisation was in the spotlight after dozens of people who attended a religious congregation the group held at its headquarters in Delhi in March tested positive for COVID-19. For a nuanced perspective on this polarising issue it is imperative to make a conscious attempt to read the history of this particular trend within Islam. The attacks on the group by the right wing have gone as far as equating it to a case of ‘health terror’, and even urging the government to proscribe it. This impassioned suggestion is quite misplaced while at the same time dangerous as it is likely to instil fear among a section of those who follow Tablighi Islam. This peripatetic group of preachers look at faith renewal and bringing back non-practising Muslims to the fold of ‘true’ Islam. Looking at their conduct suggests that while the rest of the world was getting to know about the novel coronavirus outbreak in December 2019, the ‘apolitical’ Tablighis, who consciously distance themselves from ‘worldly affairs’, had already acquired and spread the virus among fellow travellers who were returning home after days and months of global spiritual patrolling. While the Tabligh is responsible for not taking timely action in dispersing the gathering at the Nizamuddin Markaz, which is the global headquarters of the movement, the lack of care by the state in underplaying the threat of the novel coronavirus and the delay in initiating testing cannot be ignored. By this time, the Tablighis had travelled across the world becoming one of the major carriers of the virus in India. The reaction of hate is both reductive and demagogic. The polemical narrative that is infused with Islamophobia is based on unfounded fears and deep-seated prejudices. History as subtext The political lexicon that has evolved around the Muslim minority within a right-wing stream operates on the presumption of their otherness, which includes stereotypical attitudes towards their eating habits. As the spread of the virus turns communal it is important to take a cursory glance at history. History has lessons for all. The Tablighi Jamaat, a transnational Islamic revivalist movement, was founded in early 1926 British India by Maulana Muhammad Ilyas Kandhlawi and spread by Ashraf Ali Thanawi, the two patriarchs of the movement. The political vicissitudes of 19th and 20th century India had a tremendous social, political and psychological impact on Muslims of the country, which led to vigorous religious expressions facilitated by the British. The 19th century was the period when a variety of new influential as well as controversial religious reform movements, both Hindu and Muslim, were emerging within India with a desire to rediscover their ‘lost glory’. In the search for this ‘lost glory’ and a sense of belonging and identity, the Tabligh emerged as a response to the Christian missionary and the Shuddhi Sangathan. There exist interconnected social and political patterns that led to the formation of the Tabligh with its original focus on ‘detracted Muslims’, and, later, evolving into a proselytising group. Though it emerged in an intensively political context, the Tabligh maintained an ‘apolitical’ demeanour, specifically in India. The message for all players There are lessons for the paranoid mind. Tabligh lays emphasis on individual social ‘reform’ and revocation of the political. This clearly means that the Tabligh does not directly hanker after state power; it has adopted a “bottom-up approach” to Islamise society and claimed a complete disengagement on issues that involve politics. Since the Tabligh is about a withdrawal from the political it does not emerge as a ‘security threat’. Despite its claimed distancing from politics, the movement exists, operates and travels through political boundaries and among political communities. The persistence of being apolitical has serious political implications; the price of political ignorance or apathy is quite high, as seen today in the Tabligh being implicated in the spread of the pandemic and a demonisation of the larger community. While there are lessons for the different sets of people embroiled in the current controversy, it is important to identify the problem at the moment — the ‘common enemy’, which is the SARS-CoV-2 virus. In the hierarchy of priorities, any action other than this would amount to inaction against the overarching threat that looms over us. Life in the steps being taken to flatten the curve as far as the virus is concerned is difficult. The politics of hate around the Tabligh only heightens this condition of national and global anxiety with isolation taking its toll on mental health. Is it a coincidence that the novel coronavirus, much like the cow issue, has intensified communal tensions between Hindus and Muslims? Clearly, it is not a coincidence. It is a pattern; a political design to caricature, frame and endanger one part of the nation. Ambreen Agha is Associate Professor at the Jindal School of International Affairs, O.P. Jindal Global University. The views expressed are personal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/caught-in-the-heightened-arc-of-communal-polemics/article31384554.ece
20 April 2020||April 20 2020 00:00 IST,||No dissent, no democracy||This newspaper carried a powerful editorial, “Perverse zeal” (February 17), on paediatrician Dr. Kafeel Khan’s arrest. As the novel coronavirus is taking its deadly toll on lives and economies across the world, one would imagine that the focus of the government would be on containing the spread of the virus and coming up with ameliorative measures to reduce the burden on the people. Instead, the dominant mood seems to be to hand out punishment to dissenters. To make matters worse, the courts are not at the forefront of defending rights and limiting excesses. Fate of dissenters On the birth anniversary of the framer of the Indian Constitution, B.R. Ambedkar, civil rights campaigner Gautam Navlakha and scholar and activist Anand Teltumbde were forced to surrender to the National Investigation Agency for their alleged involvement in the Bhima-Koregaon riots of 2018. The Uttar Pradesh government has filed a case against the founding editor of the news portal The Wire , Siddharth Varadarajan, for allegedly spreading fake news against Chief Minister Adityanath and making an “objectionable comment” about him. Scholars who condemned the excess of the U.P. government said: “A medical emergency should not serve as the pretext for the imposition of a de facto political emergency.” In India, dissenters seem to either be killed, as we saw in the case of Narendra Dabholkar, Govind Pansare, M.M. Kalburgi and Gauri Lankesh, or are subject to an unfair judicial process, as is happening to Dr. Khan, Mr. Navlakha, Mr. Teltumbde and Mr. Varadarajan. And comedians risk being on the no-fly list. While the courts over the past decade may not have delivered on protecting crucial rights as enshrined in the Constitution, there is a fine display of scholarship documenting India’s glorious history of individuals and groups questioning, censuring and debating authority for over 3,000 years. India Dissents is an anthology that documents some of the sharp arguments, doubts and expressions of differences over three millennia. From the Charavaks and Gautama Buddha to contemporary public intellectuals like Romila Thapar and Amartya Sen, the anthology speaks of the many defining texts by these writers that enabled people to question and hold those in power accountable. Ashok Vajpeyi, who established the Bharat Bhavan in Bhopal, and is a well-known administrator of cultural institutions, has not only edited this volume but has also written a very moving introduction. It is my earnest desire that all our elected representatives, learned judges, journalists and others read this anthology to understand the crucial role of dissent in a democracy. They need to move away from the comfort of patronage and return to the core calling of their respective vocations. A couple of excerpts I am sharing only excerpts from a couple of texts mentioned in the anthology as the paucity of space here prevents me from exploring the book in its entirety. At this time of rampant engineered social fissures, let us first look at a poem from Purananuru , a Sangam period Tamil anthology, written by Kovoor Kilar  and translated by A.K. Ramanujan. It is a clarion call to warring clansmen Netunkilli and Nalankilli to stop fratricidal war: “Your enemy is not the kind who wears the white leaf of the tall palmyra nor the kind who wears garlands from the black-branched neem trees. Your chaplets are made of laburnum your enemies are made of laburnum too. When one of you loses the family loses, and it is not possible for both to win Your ways show no sense of family: they will serve only to thrill alien kings whose chariots are bannered like your own.” The second is an excerpt from a letter written by Jayaprakash Narayan from prison during the Emergency to Prime Minister Indira Gandhi: “Having muzzled the press and every kind of public dissent, you continue with your distortions and untruth without fear of criticism or contradiction. If you think that in this way you will be able to justify yourself in the public eye and damn the Opposition to political perdition, you are sadly mistaken.” What the anthology teaches us is that no government, whatever be the circumstances, has the right to take away our freedoms, creative impulses, justice, dignity and equality. readerseditor@thehindu.co.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/no-dissent-no-democracy/article31384557.ece
20 April 2020||April 20 2020 00:00 IST,||Singing the corona tune||The COVID-19 pandemic has forced us into necessary isolation. Many of us are spending anxious hours sitting inside our homes and surfing social media for further updates. We are surrounded by a mountain of anxiety. Amidst all-pervasive gloom, I couldn’t help notice the steadfast outpouring of music on social media platforms. Many of the songs posted are new compositions specific to the situation. While most of these are indeed rib-tickling and perhaps merit no serious artistic attention, we ought not to dismiss this phenomenon. It perhaps reinforces the idea that tragedy invariably leads to comedy. Republican Party of India supremo Ramdas Athawale’s video, where he is seen chanting “Go Corona, Corona Go” along with the Chinese Consul General in Mumbai, Tang Guocai, went viral and the novel coronavirus crisis found an unintended anthem in his utterance. “Go Corona, Corona Go” has been widely remixed and parodied. If it were a Hindi film song, it would have been a blockbuster. I say this while being fully aware of the abysmal standards of contemporary Hindi film music. This can surely be called COVID-19’s ‘Kajrare moment’. Amongst other things, I also saw an edited clip from a Jim Carrey film where the famous actor is dancing hysterically to the aforementioned ‘corona anthem’. Far from true, this video regardless brought some cheer during a stressful time. The pursuit of a ‘Raag Corona’ Another video of a group of women singing “Corona Bhaag Jao” (“Run away corona”) received much attention. It was sung akin to a religious offering or prayer for benediction purposes. The Internet is also abuzz with some Bhojpuri singers using the COVID-19 outbreak to peddle several songs indicating what mayhem the virus might cause to the womenfolk. For anyone familiar with the raunchy lyrics of such Bhojpuri songs, the indications are obscene. Someone also shared a video of well-known devotional singer, Narendra Chanchal, singing “Kitthe Aaya Corona Maiyyaji” (“Where Did Corona Come From, Oh Goddess?”) at a religious gathering and the audience looked deeply absorbed. There are numerous others using film songs to spread safety messages. Some are using familiar tunes while writing new lyrics pertinent to the situation. Many classical musicians are playing Facebook live recitals to stay in touch with their fans. On a lighter note, should we be surprised lest someone came up with a ‘Raag Corona’? Numerous rappers have also risen to the occasion. We had our Italy moment too when some residents of a housing society in Gurugram came out on their balconies to recite the Gayatri Mantra and “Hum Honge Kamyaab” (“We Shall Overcome”). Music seems to have captured everyone’s fancy in distress. Immediate connect But why music? After all, singing will not destroy the virus and restore better times. Easy ways to resolve this could be that a catchy tune will spread faster because it has an immediate mass connect. This music might also offer momentary relief or escape from our grim ongoings by eliciting some much-needed humour. It is an easy communication tool and thus an effective message dissemination service if properly used at a time when most of us are spending inordinate amounts of time online. Or is it that we are so vulnerable in the face of distress that we cling to anything that generates promise or serves as a distraction? The caveat, however, remains that none of these songs will be remembered after the pandemic. Is this only for temporary fame then? A poet colleague recently told me that this is also resistance. A catastrophe has been unleashed and there is very little that we can do other than trying to stay safe. Isolation isn’t easy and may be music will keep us company through the trying times. Kunal Ray teaches literary and cultural studies at FLAME University, Pune||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/singing-the-corona-tune/article31384559.ece
20 April 2020||April 20 2020 00:00 IST,||Economy in lockdown||Less than two months after asserting that “global growth appears to be bottoming out”, the pandemic induced ‘Great Lockdown’ has forced the IMF to junk all its previous projections for economic output in 2020. Faced with the stark reality of sweeping shutdowns of almost entire economies worldwide, the fund last week acknowledged that the current “crisis is like no other”. Forecasting the sharpest contraction in world output since the Great Depression of the 1930s, the IMF slashed its projection by 6.3 percentage points from its January forecast for 3.3% growth to a 3% decline. In contrast, the recession of 2009 saw world output contract by a mere 0.1%. That the IMF was blindsided by the comments from Chinese authorities and WHO is clear from the fact that as recently as February 22, the fund’s chief, Kristalina Georgieva, told G20 Finance Ministers that “global growth would be about 0.1 percentage points lower” than forecast in January. China’s GDP, she projected, would expand by 5.6% this year, 0.4 percentage points slower than assumed in January. Last week, the IMF slashed China’s forecast to a growth of 1.2%, citing data on industrial production, retail sales, and fixed asset investment that, it said, suggested a contraction of about 8% in the first quarter. China reported a 6.8% first- quarter contraction. Still, in projecting an annual expansion in Asia’s largest economy, the fund is rather optimistically foreseeing a sharp rebound in activity over the rest of the year. On India, the IMF has cut its projection for growth in the fiscal year that started on April 1, from January’s 5.8%, to 1.9%. This again appears predicated on the fund’s baseline scenario that assumes that the pandemic would ‘fade in the second half of 2020’, allowing containment efforts to be unwound and economic activity to normalise. Another key assumption by the IMF’s economists is the availability of policy support to nurture the revival once activity restarts. Jettisoning its storied fiscal conservatism, the fund’s chief economist, Gita Gopinath, has advocated ramping up a broad-based and coordinated stimulus once the disease has been contained, a measure that would help avoid the errors of the Great Depression years when premature efforts to prune budget deficits prolonged the downturn. In this context, India’s fiscal measures pale in terms of scale when compared with what several other nations have undertaken. Given the size of the informal sector in India as well as the anticipated prolonged disruption in labour supply even in more formal parts of the economy, the Centre needs to proactively commit to a substantial stimulus package in order to ensure that once the economy reopens, it has the legs to run.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/economy-in-lockdown/article31384545.ece
20 April 2020||April 20 2020 00:00 IST,||Focus on the curve||As India prepares to partially relax the national lockdown for COVID-19 in zones that do not have high concern, from April 20, attention is focused on how successful ‘flattening the curve’ of infection has been. There is some evidence, based on reported cases put out by the Health Ministry that for a 48-hour cycle ending April 17, the growth in total cases was slower than during the preceding comparison period — 16% versus 28%. These data, and others indicating a slowing pace of case doubling, must be viewed against the backdrop of vastly different testing rates among States. Delhi has ramped up tests per million people and also reported a higher percentage of positive cases, compared to populous West Bengal and Madhya Pradesh which have done far fewer tests and yet find a higher share of positive cases. Kerala has managed to test, trace, quarantine and treat effectively, preventing new infections. The highest prevalence can be mapped to States with high economic output or significant urbanisation, or both, such as Maharashtra, Delhi and Tamil Nadu. Other factors may be driving up case numbers in Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Telangana, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh and Jammu and Kashmir. The most recent ICMR data appear to show a spike — 2,154 new cases in a single day reported on April 18. These are clear pointers for the Centre and States, as they try to reconcile public health and economic measures to alleviate the deep distress and damage caused to millions. Given the uncertainties surrounding the long-term effects of SARS-CoV-2 on people, including medical outcomes for those who have recovered from severe infection, India’s COVID-19 strategy has to focus on testing, containment and treatment on the one hand, and distress alleviation for vulnerable sections on the other. As the disease has demonstrated once again, pandemics have the ability to quickly expose underlying inequalities. From a medical perspective, it has laid bare the inadequacy of the public health system to roll-out enough tests in all States, to determine where containment measures would achieve the best outcomes, and also to provide intensive treatment for acute respiratory illness. Looking ahead, the need for testing can only grow when a phased exit strategy is attempted. The testing data generated by all laboratories should be complete and shared in real time transparently by the Centre to aid policy-making. As psychologists are pointing out, the response to HIV testing over two decades ago dramatically improved when people saw hope of treatment, got access to tests and were protected against stigmatisation and xenophobia. This would apply in good measure to COVID-19. Flattening the curve will require clear messages on preventive health, and steps to help people maintain strict quarantine where indicated without suffering economic losses, and carry out regular surveillance testing and symptom monitoring.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/focus-on-the-curve/article31384547.ece
20 April 2020||April 20 2020 00:00 IST,||Honouring ‘Three Very Brave Men’||Honolulu: The three Apollo astronauts received the Medal of Freedom, the highest U.S. civilian award, from President Nixon and an ecstatic welcome from their relieved and overjoyed families here yesterday (Honolulu, April 18). The astronauts — James Lovell, Fred Haise and John Swigert — were showered with praise by the President, who flew out from Washington to honour them. President Nixon told them that they were “three very brave Men”. The beaming Mr. Nixon, standing with Mrs. Nixon near the astronauts’ families at Honolulu International Airport, presented the Medal of Freedom to each of the astronauts at an emotion-charged ceremony marked by kisses, hugs and round after round of cheers from a big throng of well-wishers. The astronauts headed straight to their families as soon as they landed at the airport after flight from Pago Pago in American Samoa. The families had flown aboard the Presidential aircraft from Houston where Mr. Nixon had stopped to present the Medal of Freedom to the Apollo ground operations crew. President Nixon put his arms around Lovell, the space ship commander, as the party walked to a platform on the airport apron before the ceremony. Standing under a blazing sun, the President said it was his proud honour on behalf of a grateful nation to welcome the three men back to the United States.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/honouring-three-very-brave-men/article31384555.ece
20 April 2020||April 20 2020 00:00 IST,||loose change||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/loose-change/article31384544.ece
20 April 2020||April 20 2020 00:00 IST,||Becker pleads for resumption||German legend Boris Becker has urged tennis authorities to seriously consider playing tournaments, even if behind closed doors, in order to save the careers of lower-ranked players. In an Instagram live session with Indian great Vijay Amritraj on Saturday, the six-time Grand Slam winner said it was time for the multiple governing bodies — ATP, WTA and ITF — to unite and come up with a relief plan. Time for unity “Most tennis players outside the top-50, male or female, need the weekly pay cheque,” Becker said. “For 30 years, the ATP, the WTA and the ITF have never agreed with each other and only worried about their own tournaments But now everybody is in the same boat and struggling. It is an opportunity of a lifetime to bring everybody together. “Tennis is one of the few sports that can be held without spectators. It is not ideal, but most tennis players need to make a living. If everything is cancelled for the next few months, half the players will have to look for other jobs,” he said.  While Amritraj shared Becker’s worries, he wasn’t sure if closed-door matches would solve the problem. “While in the US and Europe there are several events where a majority of the revenue comes from television, in Asia and the Middle East that’s not the case. Television is not as big a money-spinner in tennis,” he stated. “Sponsorships are more important. So it is quite hard to put on a tournament without spectators.” Becker, however, felt that a few exceptions had to be made. “If there is a match on right now, the whole world will watch and television revenue will come in,” the German said. Income threatened “If I were in charge, I would definitely try and have the US Open. I know the situation is not right in New York and I hope things get better. “But if the US Open doesn't happen, the rest of the tennis season may well be cancelled. What are you going to do with those hundreds who need a living?” he asked.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/becker-pleads-for-resumption/article31384694.ece
20 April 2020||KOLKATA,||Ratra completes CA course||Former India wicketkeeper-batsman Ajay Ratra has used the lockdown period to complete an online course offered by Cricket Australia (CA). For Ratra, who has done a Level 2 coaches’ course at the National Cricket Academy and is aspiring to pursue the Level 3, the invite from CA was a fine opportunity to be updated about the trends Down Under. “The Board of Control for Cricket in India and CA had jointly conducted a course in 2017. I got a mail that it was about to expire. I took this up to enhance my knowledge,” Ratra said on Sunday. Ratra, employed with the Corporate Communications department of the Oil and Natural Gas Corporation, had to divide his time between his ‘work from home’ and the course. “The course had seven modules consisting of studies, videos and questions. I had to give about two to three hours every day for about a week. There were technical points related to batting, bowling and fielding and discussions on injury management and diet,” he said. Thirty-eight-year-old Ratra — who played six Tests and 12 One-Day Internationals in 2002 — looks forward to completing the BCCI Level 3 course. “I don’t know whether the CA course is recognised, but that is not my concern. I just wanted to make the best use of the time and enhance my knowledge,” said Ratra, who coached Punjab, Assam and Bihar under-23 apart from working with the Indian women’s cricket team.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ratra-completes-ca-course/article31384871.ece
20 April 2020||New Delhi,||Tips to overcome confinement||Solitary confinement may be most inhumane as a punishment, but the coronavirus pandemic has reduced the whole world to a state of lockdown and confinement. “Postponement of the Tokyo Olympics, along with the prospect of not being able to train for upcoming months has rattled the athletes. Adding to the stress is the ambiguity around their technical training due to the lockdown,” said sports psychologist Kirtika Pandey, founder of Inner Focus Institute of Mental Strength. She is more familiar as the person who works with elite shooters like World No.1 Elavenil Valarivan at the Gagan Narang Foundation. Remodelled lifestyle “The prolonged isolation has remodelled their lifestyle. Most of the athletes are in a state of shock, fear and frustration,” she said.  Kirtika said that since there was no cure or preventive treatment yet for COVID-19, “our brain is keeping us in a hyper-vigilant mode”. “The survival mechanism of the brain works by prioritising what is needed the most to protect us from the risk. “Hence, there is no relaxation and there are increased cases of nervous breakdowns, change in sleep patterns and appetite, lack of motivation, disinterest and lack of energy,” she said. The key is to develop specific mental skills. “List down your goals, both short-term and long- term. Make a weekly action plan and focus on sticking to the plan every day. Remember that maintaining discipline is more important than motivation.” she said. Monitoring the emotions is equally important. “If you notice any emotional distress, acknowledge it and try to find out the thought behind it,” she said. Stay in the present Stress relates to the focus on events in the past or future. “Meditate and learn to stay in the present,” she added. It is time to learn “new skills, apart from your sports, and doing things that you enjoy,” with a clear objective of doing at least one thing every day that “generates positive emotion”. Kirtika does not want athletes not to suffer in silence by allowing “the feeling to become overwhelming and intimidating,” but seek professional help promptly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/tips-to-overcome-confinement/article31384873.ece
20 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Chhetri recalls Lisbon head coach’s harsh words||“You are not good enough for the first team, get lost to ‘B’ team,” was what India football captain Sunil Chhetri had to listen to from Sporting Lisbon head coach when he joined the club in 2012. Chhetri, then a 26-year-old, was signed by the top Portuguese side on a three-year contract but returned home after completing just nine months. “After one week, I was told by the head coach ‘you are not good enough, get lost to ‘B’ team’. He was right. The pace in the Sporting Lisbon ‘A’ team was too fast for me (compared to) the Indian leagues,” Chhetri was quoted by indiansuperleague.com . “I gave it a shot for nine months, played five games, without scoring any goal. There was a four or five million release clause. I was to be there for three years but I told the coach I wanted to go back to India and nobody is going to pay this amount, just release me. They were really nice,” said Chhetri. First foreign stint Chhetri’s first foreign stint was, however, with Kansas City Wizards of USA in 2010. He also had a disappointing time at the Major League Soccer side and he returned home within one year after playing just one game for the first team. He did not play any MLS game. Then India head coach Bob Houghton called Chhetri to join the national team for the 2011 Asian Cup in Doha. He came back and did not return to Wizards. Before Wizards, Chhetri signed a deal with English side Queens Park Rangers in 2009 but the Football Association did not allow him the work permit as India’s ranking was low. Asked what legacy he will leave behind once he retires, Chhetri said: “If anyone remembers me, it’s about my hard work. When it is time for me to go and somebody else comes, I hope he comes because he is better than me, not because I did not work hard.” Surprised Chhetri also said he was surprised when he was offered a three-year contract by Kolkata giant Mohun Bagan in 2002, his first professional deal, that too by the biggest team in the country. “After the 12th class exam results, I got a call from Mohun Bagan. They saw me at Durand Cup when I was playing for City Club of Delhi. I thought they might want me for SAIL Academy. Never ever I thought Mohun Bagan is calling me for Mohun Bagan!” “I joined the team and trained. They did not tell me they were taking trial of me. After one week they told me ‘call your father’ I was 17 and I can’t sign a contract and there was no agents then. My father came but still I had no clue. “Next day, they called me with my father and said ‘here is your three-year contract’.”  The pace in the Sporting Lisbon ‘A’ team was too fast for me (compared to) the Indian leagues||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/chhetri-recalls-lisbon-head-coachs-harsh-words/article31384686.ece
20 April 2020||April 20 2020 00:00 IST,||Indians welcome Relief Fund||The Novak Djokovic-driven initiative to come up with a Player Relief Fund to help lower-ranked tennis players who are staring at months of zero income has come as a relief for a bunch of Indians. Djokovic, who is also the ATP Player Council president, wrote to fellow players recently to arrange for a money pot that could potentially generate in excess of $4 million through contributions from high earning stars. The fund is proposed to help those singles players ranked in the 250-700 bracket. The ATP has set aside $1 million for this fund and is planning to help those ranked from 150 to 400. The overall goal is to provide $10,000 to each player. India currently has six men’s players ranked between 150 and 700. “It is a great thing for players like me,” said Manish Sureshkumar, ranked 642. “$10,000 is a significant amount.” World No. 281 Sasi Kumar Mukund, while welcoming the move, felt that the criteria should be more flexible. “It is a good start, but the ranking criteria seem arbitrary from 700 to 900. It is unfair to penalise someone ranked 249 and help the guy ranked 251. “Also there is not much difference in the level of players who are ranked. The policy can always be improved upon,” said Mukund. The proposal may not benefit Niki Poonacha, ranked 823 in the world, but he hoped that the governments and national tennis federations will take a cue. While the women’s tour is yet to come up with a comprehensive plan, Ankita Raina, ranked 163, felt that the ATP’s move was an important message in ensuring that players still believed they could make a living out of playing tennis. “The WTA is also doing its bit. They have refunded three years’ registration fee and I received $1950. “All of this is helping us cope at a mental level too.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/indians-welcome-relief-fund/article31384697.ece
20 April 2020||CHENNAI,||Faf reveals secret of CSK’s success||Mahendra Singh Dhoni’s policy of roping in international captains who can contribute to team strategy was one of the biggest reasons for Chennai Super Kings’s big success in the IPL, feels former South Africa captain Faf du Plessis. “A great thing that CSK has done over the years, and that’s credit to MS and (Stephen) Fleming the coach, is they have targeted captains — (Brendon) McCullum, myself, (Dwayne) Bravo, obviously MS, (Suresh) Raina’s captained a bit — because they want thinking cricketers,” the 35-year-old told CSK’s website. “So, there’s a lot of leaders within group, that experience of thinking cricketers is what they want and obviously it has proven to be very successful,” he added. “Chennai Super Kings is a great franchise to be a part of. MS has got such strong leadership. He leaves a massive hole when he’s not on the field,” added du Plessis.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/faf-reveals-a-secret-of-csks-success/article31384782.ece
20 April 2020||New Delhi,||‘Indian players above temptation’||The threat of online corrupt approaches does not cause much anxiety to BCCI’s head of Anti Corruption Unit (ACU) Ajit Singh, who says Indian players are well aware of the modus operandi of fixers and are quick to report anything suspect. The ICC ACU head Alex Marshall, in an interview to The Guardian , had said players using various social media platforms during the lockdown could lead to corrupt approaches being made and that people needed to tread carefully. Ajit Singh said the BCCI ACU was in control of the situation. “We have made our players aware of the way people approach you and their modus operandi,” the veteran IPS officer told PTI. “(They will) try and behave like a fan and then try to meet you through someone who may be your acquaintance,” he said. “Most of them (India players), whenever it happens, they report to us,” he said. Most of the top players, with millions of followers, have been very active online with Q & A sessions on Twitter, interactive chats on Instagram and Facebook live. “We track whatever can be tracked online. Obviously, the physical verification part is out of the question in these times. But if something comes to our notice, it automatically goes into our database and once the lockdown is over, we will verify those,” he said. Ajit Singh, the former DGP of Rajasthan, said in his two-year stint, he had found all current India players honest and upright, and very aware of their responsibilities. “The players and ACU are one team. It’s the people who try and corrupt players that need to be tracked down,” he added.  I have found all current India players honest and upright, and very aware of their responsibilities,Ajit Singh||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/indian-players-above-temptation/article31384683.ece
20 April 2020||Chennai,||Their peak is now a valley||With the coronavirus pandemic bringing sports to a standstill, the spillover effects are felt far and wide. The summer vacation time is when most children take their initial steps to pursue a sport of passion, joining different camps across the city. But with their peak business season shut down, these camps are facing a tough time. Worried From kids missing out on crucial time to spruce up their game and the potential drop off in the future, camp organisers are worried. Lakshmi Kumar of Wahe Guru Cricket Academy, who has three grounds in the city at Porur, Velachery and Vandalur, says there are multiple issues to be figured out. “On the monetary side, we will lose about Rs. 3-4 lakh in these two months and if things extend up to July, it could be even more. “We run three teams in the TNCA lower division league and our selection process is also affected because we can’t evaluate the players.”  Future Stars Cricket Academy’s V. Suresh, who has been running his camp for the last two decades, feels the bigger issue, more than the monetary aspect, is about the children who are in the cusp of selection for the TNCA in various age-groups. “This is when we can work on a kid’s game. It is especially difficult for some of the under-16 boys because if they miss this window, they might have to wait for a few more years.” Financially, these two months play a huge role in getting children hooked to the game and hope they will continue to attend the annual camp during weekends once schools reopen. Additional expense Kedar Cricket Academy’s chief coach S. Kedarnath also points out there is additional expense that has to be incurred by the academies towards infrastructure. “The wickets have not been watered for a while now and we don’t know the condition of mats and nets as well. We will have to spend money once again to spruce things up before we start.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/their-peak-is-now-a-valley/article31384780.ece
20 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Junior cricketer Asif Ali’s gesture||Asif Ali, a junior cricketer from the State, has donated a part of his match fees from BCCI to the Kerala Chief Minister’s Distress Relief Fund (CMDRF). The 17-year-old, who represented Kerala in the Vijay Merchant Trophy matches during the 2018-19 season, handed over a cheque of Rs. 7715 to Kerala Devasom Minister Kadakampally Surendran at his office. “When I first heard Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan’s appeal on TV, I decided to donate whatever little I had to the CMDRF. I told my father about this and he arranged this meeting with the minister through our local panchayat member. I would have loved to contribute more but I brought a new bat from my earnings a few months ago,” said Asif who had also represented Kerala in the National Schools tournament last year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/junior-cricketer-asif-alis-gesture/article31384991.ece
20 April 2020||New Delhi,||Bhutia in FIFA’s tribute video||Former India captain Bhaichung Bhutia has joined football greats Pele, Diego Maradona and Zinedine Zidane in applauding healthcare workers and humanity’s other “heroes” for putting their own lives at risk to help others during the COVID-19 pandemic. Bhutia is among 50 past and present stars who featured in #WeWillWin campaign of FIFA, a special video to pay tribute to the efforts made by healthcare workers and other professionals who are giving their all to ensure the society continues to function in the face of the novel coronavirus. Other greats who feature include Ronaldo (Brazil) and Iker Casillas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bhutia-in-fifas-tribute-video/article31384684.ece
20 April 2020||KOLKATA,||Mental training for boxers||The Boxing Federation of India (BFI) on Sunday held a session on mental fitness and emotional well-being for boxers and coaches. Altogether 374 boxers and coaches attended the online programme conducted by Dr. Samir Parikh and sports psychologist Divya Jain. They discussed issues like match-day anxiety, training in absence of coach and how to maintain well-being during uncertain times.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/mental-training-for-boxers/article31384869.ece
20 April 2020||Kolkata,||Veteran sports journalist Goswami no more||Veteran journalist Samir Goswami, a much-liked figure in the Kolkata sports journalism fraternity, passed away on Saturday after cardiac arrest. He was 65 and is survived by wife. Loved for his amiable nature, Goswami worked for more than two decades in popular Bengali newspaper Bartaman. PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/veteran-sports-journalist-goswami-no-more/article31384687.ece
20 April 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||Shutterbugs make the most of lockdown||The prolonged absence of humans and associated traffic in the wake of the nationwide lockdown has provided Odisha’s photographers a never before opportunity to capture nature at its pristine best. In normal times, hundreds of boats ferry devotees to the temple on the scenic Kalijai Island in Chilika Lake every day. But, when photographs shot by drones made their way onto social media platforms, the island looked like a massive ship floating on transparent turquoise water. Stunning photographs of the confluence of the Rushikulya River and Chilika at Rambha taken during lockdown have left people in awe. Many got to discover that oft-visited places were actually so beautiful. The Twitter handle of Vijay Amruta Kulange, the Ganjam district collector, is filled with photographs showing how Ganjam’s places of tourist interest look when humans are not around. In fact, according to Keerthi Vasan, a young IAS officer posted in Ganjam, the district authorities have been documenting all tourist places during lockdown period. Professional photographers, videographers and amateur photography enthusiasts have been savouring every moment of the lockdown, capturing nature. Some even managed to sneak out from the cities while strict restrictions were in place and have captured images for posterity. It is not only nature which soothes the eyes. Photographs of empty arterial roads, city skylines and landmarks have made people realise how beautiful these structures appear without anthropogenic pressure. “Documenting tourist places with or without people is a continuous process for us,” State Tourism Director Sachin R. Jadhav said, when asked if Odisha Tourism was making the best use of the lockdown. Amiya Pani, a producer at the city-based documentary agency ‘Light House’, said, “the lockdown has brought an unprecedented tranquility in nature. This time may not come in future. We are tempted to capture everything — nature, people’s struggles and cities — through our lens during this lockdown, but we are constrained by restrictions.” People with smartphones, however, have been endlessly clicking photographs and posting them on social media.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-life/shutterbugs-make-the-most-of-lockdown/article31384682.ece
20 April 2020||April 20 2020 00:00 IST,||Humility enlightens||Spiritual sadana is firmly rooted in true humility when there is no trace of ego in the sadaka. This kind of spiritual maturity is difficult to attain even by those well steeped in sadana, pointed out Swami Sashishikananda in a discourse. The Kenopanishad tells a story about how even the gods headed by Indra had failed to realise that Brahman is all. Once, they were rejoicing in their triumph over the demons, believing that it was owing to their own effort and prowess that they had won. They did not realise that it was Brahman who has enabled this victory. Brahman appeared before them as a yaksha. Indra sent Agni, followed by Vayu to find out who the yaksha was. The yaksha gave them a simple assignment to test their respective powers. He placed a blade of grass and asked Agni to burn it but Agni was unable to do that. Similarly Vayu failed to blow away the blade of grass. Then Indra came to face the yaksha but did not find Him. Instead Goddess Uma appeared before him and explained that Brahman had appeared as the yaksha and that He alone is the source of all grace and glory in the universe including individual and collective attainments and achievements. An incident that happened in the life of Namadev is often quoted to show that it is imperative to remove one’s ego sense as it is the greatest hurdle in path to realisation. It is held that once, in an assembly of saints, another contemporary devotee, one Muktabai, wishing well for Namadev, asked a potter to test their level of maturity. Using the testing rod on the heads of all present, the potter claimed that all were fully baked except Namadev. Though hurt by this comment, through God’s grace Namadev gained enlightenment and was able to win over his own ego and pride.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/humility-enlightens/article31384621.ece
20 April 2020||April 20 2020 07:20 IST,||Sudoku - April 20, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-april-20-2020/article31385353.ece
20 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Divine service||On the approach road to the ISCKON temple in Dwarka, a serpentine queue of e-rickshaws moves slowly through a makeshift checkpost manned by police personnel and government officials. The checkposts, which have come up at various locations near the temple, are meant to sanitise the e-rickshaws, check the drivers’ temperature and issue slips mentioning the destinations the vehicles are expected to reach, carrying the cooked food. The ISCKON administration has been feeding scores of poor people since the lockdown was announced. The initiative is being supported by the Delhi government, which takes care of the logistics and administration. The temple is feeding around 4 lakh to 4.5 lakh people daily, said Piyush Goyal, chairman of ISCKON, Dwarka, adding that people from seven Assembly constituencies in South Delhi district are being fed by the temple administration. “Until now the entire cost has been borne by ISCKON itself. Now that the lockdown has been extended, the Delhi government has offered to pay a subsidised amount to us. We are working closely with the government as norms like social distancing during food distribution need to be adhered to and that can be enforced by government officials,” said Mr. Goyal. The food, delivered twice a day, is being distributed at approximately 200 localities in the district, officials said. “Our major focus is on areas like Uttam Nagar, Vikaspuri and Matiala, as there are a lot of slums there and several migrant workers also stay there,” said R.K. Sharma, the nodal officer of Hunger Relief Cell, South West. A vacant ground opposite the temple has been allocated for two separate tents where a team of cooks prepare rice and puris. The e-rickshaws, after collecting their respective slips, enter the ground, go through one more round of sanitisation and then collect the barrels of food kept ready by another set of workers. Drone monitoring While volunteers are seen making regular announcements on loudspeakers, asking everyone present to maintain social distancing and use masks, drones are also seen hovering over the ground. “We get real-time images from the drones and with the help of that we can ensure that all norms are followed. The e-rickshaws have also been provided with GPS so that we can track them and ensure that they reach the correct destination,” said Mr. Sharma. The e-rickshaw drivers then leave for their destinations where volunteers are already stationed to distribute the food. People are asked to bring their own utensils to receive their share. They avoid distributing food packets as that leads to unnecessary littering on the roads. Healthy food In the parking area of a building adjacent to the temple, a massive kitchen has been set up where several people are engaged in cooking three types of pulses and vegetables. “We aim to send healthy food to people to ensure a better immune system. Even when the food is distributed, the volunteers ensure that social distancing is maintained. While food for around 2.5 lakh people is the demand from the State government, for at least another 50-70 locations, the MLAs are taking food directly from us,” said Mr. Goyal. For the e-rickshaw drivers, delivering food twice a day means their income is not halted as a result of the lockdown. Rajkishore Mehto , a resident of the Kakrola area, said, “Earlier I used to earn around Rs. 700 per day and now after delivering food twice I earn approximately Rs. 400. But this is still better than dying hungry. When the lockdown was announced, we ran out of work overnight. I have a family of four to sustain and this work has helped me immensely.” While a 60-member team from the Delhi government is stationed at the temple to ensure smooth functioning of the entire process, another 700-800 officials are on the field in this particular district, Mr. Sharma said. Coordination with agencies In order to keep the kitchen and the delivery system well-oiled and running, coordination between various government agencies is taking place on a daily basis, said Mr. Sharma. “We also have a helpline centre here and we get distress calls from across the country. The calls from outside the city are redirected to the authorities concerned, while those from within the city are attended to and requisite help is provided,” added Mr. Sharma. Asked about the kind of distress calls they receive, he said most of them pertain to people asking for ration and food. Some even ask questions such as availability of transportation facilities or when the trains will start running, which the officers are obviously are not able to respond to. If it’s a ration-related call, they either attend it themselves or give details about the particular district contact person, said Mr. Sharma.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/divine-service/article31384879.ece
20 April 2020||New Delhi,||Film fraternity condemns ‘witch-hunt’ of CAA protesters||Activists, writers, teachers as well as filmmakers and actors condemned the “witch-hunt” against people who participated in the anti-CAA protests in two sets of statements on Sunday. Demanding the release of student activists, filmmakers and actors such as Mahesh Bhatt, Anurag Kashyap, Vishal Bhardwaj, Hansal Mehta, Nandita Das, Ratna Pathak Shah and about 20 others signed a statement urging the Delhi Police “to stop abusing the lockdown, respect the human rights of our fellow citizens and put an end to this witch-hunt.” “In a twisted fairy tale that the Delhi Police is trying to weave” students and activists who had taken part in the anti-CAA protests were being implicated in cases of rioting and communal violence that took place here in February, they said.   “A riot in which the minorities suffered the maximum damage, both in terms of lives and livelihoods, has now become a pretext for the Delhi Police to further witch-hunt activists, most of whom also come from the minority community,” they argued. Abuse of rights They called the police actions “inhuman and undemocratic”, an abuse of rights that involved pushing activists to jail while undertrials in many States were being released. In a separate statement, they pointed out the weak basis for particularly targeting Muslim activists and scholars with the use of sedition laws and preventive detention. The statement signed by Aakar Patel, Anand Patwardhan, Mukul Kesavan, Nandini Sundar and about 17 others, argued that the targeting of people like Sharjeel Imam, Kafeel Khan, Khalid Saifi and others was not a question of instigating violence through their speeches but “a lesson for all Muslims.” “Fall silent. Be afraid. Learn to accept to live on the terms dictated by a majoritarian State.” it said. Holes in FIR The statement picked holes in an FIR allegedly being used to tie anti-CAA activists to the riots that erupted in north-east Delhi, arguing that the “FIR does not speak of any specific act of violence but creates a grand theory of inflammatory speeches, and links these speeches to the outbreak of violence.” They also pointed out statements made by individuals reportedly charged with sedition, questioning the basis for their arrest and the breakdown of the alleged judicial process in some instances. Stating that Sharjeel Imam’s speech called for at best a roadblock, the statement argued that there were “many other questions in his speech — the nature of leadership, the terms on which solidarity across different social and political groups is to be forged — but these are questions that all movements engage with, and cannot constitute sedition.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/film-fraternity-condemns-witch-hunt-of-caa-protesters/article31384883.ece
20 April 2020||New Delhi,||Delhi riots: lawyers write letter over continued summons, arrest||A group of lawyers has written to the Chief Justice of Delhi High Court over the “troubling developments” of continued summoning, detention and arrest during the lockdown in connection with the recent riots in north-east Delhi. The lawyers, who have been working to provide legal assistance to those affected by the violence, said that investigating agencies were summoning many to appear at police stations in FIRs related to the riots. They said many of these summonses note that failure to comply with it would render the person liable for criminal action. However, as per the March 24 lockdown order issued by the MHA, ordinary residents and citizens are permitted to step out only for essential supplies , the lawyers argued. “In trying to comply with such summons, its recipients render themselves liable to penal action for violating lockdown orders, and in failing to comply with the summons, they may be liable for penal action... apart from exposing themselves, their families and the public to a grave health risk,” the lawyers said. They also said that people have been directed to appear at Crime Branch or Special Cell police stations that are at a considerable distance from their homes, making it extremely difficult for them to travel in the absence of public transportation. In many cases, the police are detaining people from their homes and neighbourhoods without any notice or information on the grounds of detention and without informing family members of the person, they alleged. “Moreover, there has been a troubling pattern of the police picking up family members of the person they seek to arrest, as proxies, and detaining them for hours on end, to threaten and coerce such families to produce the person they seek to arrest,” they said. They cited the example of a man from Chand Bagh area in Delhi who was detained overnight at PS Crime Branch, Chanakyapuri. The police officers had reached his house and asked for his nephew and on being told that the nephew was not home, had detained him. They also brought up the issue of police neither providing a copy of the FIR nor ground of arrest to the arrested persons and the family members. The lawyers said in light of the COVID-19 pandemic, these “ongoing and arbitrary police actions pose a significant risk to the health of the affected individuals, their families, and the public at large”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/delhi-riots-lawyers-write-letter-over-continued-summons-arrest/article31384874.ece
20 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Street vendor gets job offer, financial help||Deepak Gupta, a 29-year-old street vendor who is living with his one-year-old daughter at a shelter in Tihar Village, received monetary help and a verbal job offer after The Hindu’s report on Sunday. Deepak, who used to sell cosmetics on the street and lost his wife two months ago, said that he has so far received Rs. 15,000-16,000. “I have also received a job offer from a company in Noida and I told them about my daughter. They said they will discuss after the lockdown ends,” he said.  The Hindu had reported that the extension of the lockdown pushed Deepak and his daughter to live in a shelter-cum-government school.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/street-vendor-gets-job-offer-financial-help/article31384880.ece
20 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Delhi Police distributes over 50 lakh food packets||In one of the biggest relief operations by Delhi Police, it has distributed more than 50 lakh food packets to the poor and homeless in the city with the help of NGOs and good samaritans. The police said that they had received more than 20,000 calls on their 24*7 helpline number that was introduced to resolve issues related to the lockdown through direct intervention as far as possible.  A food delivery network system, put in place by the Delhi Police in all the 15 districts of the Capital with the involvement of nearly 400 NGOs, RWAs and good samaritans, made the distribution of more than 50 lakh food packets and around 50,000 dry ration kits possible, the police said. “We are distributing dry ration kits consisting of wheat, rice, pulses, edible oil, salt, spices besides masks, sanitisers, soaps etc. to families of four-five members. It is just an effort to help the ones in need with the help of dedicated police teams and NGOs,” said a police officer. The areas were selected on the basis of analysing calls. Atul Thakur, DCP (South) said that around 23,000 food packets are being distributed every day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/delhi-police-distributes-over-50-lakh-food-packets/article31384881.ece
