30 April 2020||New Delhi,||Home Ministry clears inter-State movement of stranded people||More than a month after the countrywide lockdown owing to the COVID-19 pandemic, the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) issued guidelines to allow inter-State movement of stranded migrant workers, tourists, pilgrims, students and others. Public transport, including trains and buses, continue to remain suspended and the State governments have been asked to appoint nodal authorities to register such stranded persons and facilitate their movement. The MHA spokesperson tweeted on Wednesday that new guidelines to fight COVID-19 will come into effect from May 4 “which shall give considerable relaxations to many districts.” “Details regarding this shall be communicated in the days to come,” the tweet said. Quarantine mandatory The MHA said such persons should be kept in home quarantine for 14 days unless an assessment by a medical team recommended institutional quarantine. For individuals who wanted to travel in their private cars, permission should be taken from the State authorities, an official said. “If someone has to cross multiple States to reach their destination, then the State authority where the travel will originate, will coordinate with the respective State authorities and issue a pass accordingly,” a senior Home Ministry official stated. The BJP-ruled Uttar Pradesh was one of the first States to arrange for the return of stranded migrant workers to return to their homes. The guidelines issued by the MHA on April 19 asserted that there would be no inter-State movement of labourers. Following Uttar Pradesh, States like Punjab, Odisha, West Bengal and Maharashtra were coordinating inter-State movement of migrant workers. Right step: Bihar CM Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar had requested the Centre to change its guidelines and allow students and workers living outside to return home. Mr. Kumar welcomed the move. In a statement issued on Wednesday, he said the relaxation provided by the MHA was an appropriate step and a large number of people stuck outside the State would be able to return.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/home-ministry-clears-inter-state-movement-of-stranded-people/article31468217.ece
30 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||Govt. lifts restrictions on several activities in State||The Health, Medical and Family Welfare Department issued additional guidelines for including certain activities in the list of those already permitted outside the containment zones during the lockdown, subject to compliance with the existing instructions (quarantine, keeping social distance, etc.) for prevention and control of COVID-19, according to G.O.RT No.255 issued by Chief Secretary Nilam Sawhney. The activities allowed as per the above GO are collection, harvesting and processing of minor forest produce/non-timber forest produce by the Scheduled Tribes and other forest dwellers in forest areas, and harvesting, processing, packing, sale and marketing of bamboo, coconut, spices and cocoa plantations. NBFCs back in business Non-banking finance companies (NBFCs), including housing finance and micro-finance institutions and cooperative credit societies with bare minimum staff, and construction activities in rural areas comprising water supply and sanitation, laying and erection of power transmission lines and telecom optical fibre cables and related activities, and e-commerce companies (their vehicles will be allowed to ply with necessary permissions). The fresh guidelines allow the engagement of migrant labourers in industrial manufacturing, construction, farming and MGNREGS works within the State. Facilities for export and import, research establishments dealing with agriculture and horticulture activities and inter and intra-State movement of planting materials, honeybee colonies and other beehive activities. Educational book shops and electric fan shops, signing on and off of Indian seafarers at Indian ports for the operation of merchant ships as per the protocols laid down by the Director General of Shipping and forest offices, including forestry plantation, and silviculture and related activities. The government permitted the operation of industries and industrial establishments outside the containment clusters in the rural areas, subject to compliance with social distancing and other norms, and allowed the ‘inter-mandal’ movement of manpower from one green zone to another, as per GO Rt. No. 92 issued by Chief Secretary Nilam Sawhney.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/govt-lifts-restrictions-on-several-activities-in-state/article31468209.ece
30 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||India reports 70 deaths, highest in a single day||India reported 70 COVID-19 deaths — the highest in a single day — in the past 24 hours. The total death toll as of Wednesday evening had reached 1,008 and propped India among 17 countries that had over 1,000 deaths. The total confirmed active cases were 22,982 and 7,796 had recovered, the Health Ministry website said in its evening update. At a conference, Health Minister Harsh Vardhan said that in the last three days, India’s doubling rate was 11.3 days. Although global mortality rate was around 7%, India’s was around 3%, and around 86% of those who died had a co-morbidity, he said. Data from the State Health Departments put the nationwide death toll at 1,067 and the total number of positive cases at 32,741, with 23,334 active ones. Preeti Sudan, Secretary, Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, said non-COVID essential medical care ought not be neglected. Patients needing care such as dialysis, cancer treatment, diabetics, pregnant women and those suffering from cardiac ailments must be given adequate care. She also urged States to promote the Arogya Setu App which was a self-assessment tool useful in the prevention efforts of the government, said a press statement. The customary daily briefing for journalists, conducted by the Health Ministry, was not held on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/india-reports-70-deaths-highest-in-a-single-day/article31468212.ece
30 April 2020||Mumbai,||India’s crossover star Irrfan Khan passes away||One of Indian cinema’s leading actors and its most recognised face internationally, Irrfan Khan passed away in Mumbai’s Kokilaben Dhirubhai Ambani Hospital on Wednesday. He had been admitted on Tuesday night for colon infection and died at 11.11 a.m. the next day because of resultant complications. Mr. Khan is survived by his wife, screenwriter Sutapa Sikdar and two sons, Babil and Ayan. His last rites took place on Wednesday afternoon at the Versova Kabrastan in Mumbai in the presence of his family, close relatives and friends, including filmmakers Vishal Bhardwaj, Tigmanshu Dhulia and Abhinay Deo. “We pray for his peace and we hope he’s in a better place today. He was strong in his fight, and we all have to be strong too in this loss,” a statement released by the family said. Mr. Khan, 53, had been detected with neuroendocrine tumour in March 2018 and he battled with it for several months in London. He returned early last year to shoot for Homi Adjania’s Angrezi Medium — his last film — but had to get back to London again in September for further treatment. Mr. Khan’s nonagenarian mother Saeeda Begum had passed away on Saturday morning in Jaipur, and according to agency reports, he had paid his last respects to her through video conferencing. Born in Jaipur Mr. Khan started his illustrious innings in acting with a stint at the Delhi’s National School of Drama. While Mira Nair’s Salaam Bombay (1988) is credited as his debut, he had to struggle long and hard to make space for himself in the world of films. He acted in a lot of television shows through the 1980s and the 1990s, including the popular Banegi Apni Baat . Notable projects The films to truly get him noticed were Tigmanshu Dhulia’s Haasil (2003) and Vishal Bhardwaj’s Maqbool (2004). But even before them, the buzz around him had started growing strong abroad with Asif Kapadia’s The Warrior (2001) in which he played a brutal warrior on the road to redemption. Ms. Nair’s The Namesake (2007) based on the Jhumpa Lahiri book by the same name, made him gain more ground internationally. Wes Anderson’s The Darjeeling Limited (2007), Michael Winterbottom’s A Mighty Heart (2007), Danny Boyle’s Slumdog Millionaire (2008), Ang Lee’s Life of Pi (2012) and Marc Webb’s The Amazing Spider-Man (2012) were his other notable international projects. Paan Singh Tomar (2012), in which he played an athlete turned dacoit, got him the National Award for Best Actor. He was honoured with the Padma Shri in 2011. He was “a rare talent and a brilliant actor,” tweeted President Ram Nath Kovind. Prime Minister Narendra Modi described Irrfan Khan’s death as “a loss to the world of cinema and theatre”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/indias-crossover-star-irrfan-khan-passes-away/article31468214.ece
30 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||Tally crosses 1,300-mark in State as 73 new cases emerge||With the detection of 73 new COVID-19 positive cases during the past 24 hours in 11 districts, the tally in the State has gone up to 1,332. The State has conducted 7,727 tests, the highest number of samples tested in a day so far taking the total samples tested so far to 88, 061. 29 discharged No deaths have been reported during the past four days and in the past 24 hours, 29 patients — 20 from Guntur and three each from Krishna, Anantapur and Nellore — have recovered and were discharged. So far, 287 patients have recovered and 31 have died leaving 1,014 active patients. Meanwhile, 29 of the new cases were reported in Guntur, the second most affected district after Kurnool which reported 11 new cases. Krishna district reported 13 new cases while Prakasam, Anantapur and Kadapa districts reported four cases each. Chittoor reported three cases, West Godavari reported two cases and East Godavari, Srikakulam and Visakhapatnam reported one case each. The total number of cases in Kurnool (343), Guntur (283) and Krishna (236) is going up by the day and the three districts account for 65% of the total cases. They are followed by Nellore (82), Chittoor (77), Kadapa (69), Prakasam (60), Anantapur (58), West and East Godavari (56 & 40), Visakhapatnam (23) and Srikakulam (5).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tally-crosses-1300-mark-in-state-as-73-new-cases-emerge/article31468208.ece
30 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||No community spread so far: CM||Ten persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in the State on Wednesday, of whom eight contracted the disease through contact with known or unknown sources. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, however, reiterated that there was no community transmission of COVID-19 in the State. “There is widespread campaign in many quarters that the State is up against the community spread. There have been no developments with regard to COVID-19 that is uncontrollable. However, the threat of community transmission is very real,” he said while briefing media here on Wednesday. Kollam accounted for six out of the 10 new cases, while Thiruvananthapuram and Kasaragod reported two cases each. Six in Kollam In five out of six cases in Kollam, the persons acquired the disease through contact with known or unknown sources of infection. These include three health-care workers. One person came from Andhra Pradesh. Of the two cases in Kasaragod, both of which are cases of local transmission through contact, one is a media person from one of the news channels. In Thiruvananthapuram, one person came from Tamil Nadu, while the other contracted the disease through contact with known or unknown source of infection. Of the 495 cases reported so far, only 123 are currently undergoing treatment. The number of persons put under surveillance is 20,673, of whom 501 are in isolation in hospitals and the rest are in home quarantine. The State tested 24,952 samples so far for COVID-19, of which 23,880 returned a negative result. Random tests Mr. Vijayan said that results of 391 samples out of the 3,101 samples which had been randomly collected from select groups on a single day as part of an “augmented testing” drive were awaited. He said it was a relief that only three samples out of this random samples had tested positive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/no-community-spread-so-far-cm/article31468545.ece
30 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||NEET applies to minority colleges: SC||The National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) is mandatory for admission to medical colleges run by religious and linguistic minority communities, the Supreme Court held on Wednesday. A three-judge Bench led by Justice Arun Mishra held that admissions solely through NEET for graduate and postgraduate medical/dental courses does not violate any fundamental and religious rights of minorities. NEET would apply for both aided and unaided medical colleges run by minorities. The court dismissed arguments by the managements of several minority-run medical institutions, including the Christian Medical College Vellore Association, that bringing them uniformly under the ambit of NEET would be a violation of their fundamental right to “occupation, trade and business”. The colleges had argued that imposing NEET would violate their fundamental rights of religious freedom, to manage their religious affairs, to administer their institutions. They said the State was reneging on its obligation to act in the best interest of minorities. But Justice Mishra, who wrote the 108-page judgment, said it was time the field of education returned to the “realm of charity”, a character it had lost over the years. NEET was brought in to weed out malpractices in the field. The court held that the rights of trade, business and occupation or religious rights “do not come in the way of securing transparency and recognition of merits in admissions”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/neet-applies-to-minority-colleges-sc/article31468203.ece
30 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Only 30 lakh found NREGA work in April||Although the Centre gave explicit instructions to reopen its flagship rural jobs scheme from April 20, only 30 lakh people were provided work under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA) in April, about 17% of the usual, government data show. In mid-April, only 1% of the usual number of workers had found employment. The figures for this April are the lowest in five years, and show an 82% drop from the previous year’s figure of 1.7 crore workers. Some States had zero workers as on April 29, showing they had not restarted their work sites at all. Only 1,005 people got work in Haryana, along with 2,014 in Kerala and 6,376 in Gujarat, showing very low rates of employment. Andhra Pradesh, on the other hand, has provided 10 lakh jobs, though it is still lower than the 25 lakh jobs provided last April. In the light of government failure to provide sufficient work at a time when the loss of livelihoods due to the lockdown and returning migrant workers have increased the need for work in Indian villages, there is a rising demand for compensation wages to be paid to workers instead.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/only-30-lakh-found-nrega-work-in-april/article31468219.ece
30 April 2020||LUCKNOW,||BJP MLA threatens ‘Muslim’ vendor||A BJP MLA in Uttar Pradesh was on Wednesday caught on camera allegedly threatening and berating a “Muslim” vegetable vendor in Lucknow and commanding him to not be seen in the area again. The video was widely shared on social media, triggering outrage against Brijbushan Rajpoot, MLA from Charkhari, Bundelkhand. In the video, Mr. Rajpoot is seen without a mask, scolding the vegetable vendor and repeatedly asking him to state his name. The vendor, who is wearing a mask, hesitantly murmurs that his name is Raj Kumar. “Your name is not Raj Kumar, speak the truth, what is your name,” the MLA asks the vendor. “ Sahi bolo warna maar maar ke theek kar dunga tujhe (Speak the truth, or I will beat you and set you right),” he warns him. ‘Abused’ over identity Mr. Rajpoot, who is allegedly standing at the gate of his Lucknow residence, then threatens a boy who is with the vendor to reveal his name if he wants to “avoid consequences”. The boy, who appears to be the vendor’s son, blurts out, “Azir-ur-Rehman”. Following this, the MLA abuses the vendor for hiding his Muslim identity and chases him away. After the duo leaves, the 38-year-old BJP MLA is heard speaking aloud: “He is a Muslim but lying and using a Hindu name to sell vegetables.” Later, talking to a news agency, Mr. Rajpoot said he reprimanded the vendor for allegedly lying. Sixteen vegetable sellers in Kanpur and one in Lucknow have tested positive for COVID-19, the MLA said. In another video clip, BJP MLA from Barhaj constituency in Deoria district, Suresh Tewari was allegedly seen telling people not to buy vegetables from Muslim vendors. The video, which emerged on Tuesday, has been widely shared on social media, triggering a controversy. “I am saying openly don’t purchase vegetables from Muslims,” the MLA can be heard saying in the clip. U.P. BJP spokesperson Chandra Mohan said the party would look into the circumstances in which the MLA issued such a statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bjp-mla-threatens-muslim-vendor/article31468434.ece
30 April 2020||CHENNAI,||Chennai sees spike with 94 new cases||The State capital saw another spike in the number of COVID-19 cases on Wednesday with 94 of the 104 new patients in Tamil Nadu coming from Chennai. In fact, it was the second consecutive day when the number of fresh patients crossed 100. Two persons, including a 27-year-old pregnant woman, died of COVID-19 in the city. In Karur, however, a 95-year-old woman hailing from Dindigul was discharged from hospital after making a full recovery. Eight more children tested positive for COVID-19, taking the count in the 0-12 age group to 129 — 71 boys and 58 girls. This included a two-year-old, a three-year-old and a four-year-old child. Eleven others, aged 13 to 20 years, have also tested positive. The State’s tally of COVID-19 cases stood at 2,162*, while the death toll increased to 27. A 65-year-old man, who was suffering from cancer, died of COVID-19 at Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital. He was a resident of Chennai. The pregnant woman died at the Government Kasturba Gandhi Hospital for Women and Children on April 27. Her samples returned positive for COVID-19 on Wednesday. Officials said she was married a year ago and was to give birth in mid-May. A total of 82 persons were discharged after treatment across the State. This took the number of persons discharged to 1,210. So far, 210 persons have been discharged in Chennai followed by 121 in Coimbatore, 91 in Tiruppur, 69 in Erode and 66 in Dindigul. A total of 922 persons continue to be under treatment.    The fresh cases were reported in five districts. Apart from Chennai, there were four cases in Chengalpattu, three in Kancheepuram, two in Villupuram and one in Tiruvallur. With this, Chennai’s count has gone up to 768 cases, according to the bulletin issued by the Directorate of Public Health and Preventive Medicine. While Krishnagiri continued to be in the green zone with no positive cases, four districts — Kanniyakumari, Ramanathapuram, Ranipet and Perambalur — moved from the red zone to orange (districts that have less than 15 cases or no new cases in the last 14 days). With this, the number of districts in the orange zone increased to 11, while 25 districts continue to be in the red zone (more than 15 cases or doubling time less than four days). The number of persons with an unlinked source of infection (primary) increased to 37 on Wednesday. Officials of the Health department said they were intensifying existing activities in Chennai Corporation areas. “The more cosmopolitan an area is, the higher the problem. Testing in Chennai is definitely on the higher side. More than 3,000 samples were sent for testing, and it is all set to double. That the city has more number of positive cases should not be a reason for fear among the public. It means we are searching for and finding more cases,” an official said. The number of samples tested stood at 8,087, the highest so far. With this, 1,09,961 samples have been tested so far. Testing of 1,935 samples is under process and 8,886 samples are repeat samples. The number of individuals tested crossed the one lakh-mark. A total of 1,01,075 individuals, including 7,886 today, have been tested so far. In addition to the 41 testing facilities in the State, three more laboratories in the government sector have been approved for testing COVID-19 — the Government Medical College Hospital, Omandurar Estate, Sivaganga Medical College Hospital and Virudhunagar Medical College Hospital. With this, there are 33 government testing facilities and 11 in the private sector. As on date, a total of 1,821 persons with suspected symptoms of COVID-19 are admitted to isolation facilities. A total of 30,580 persons are under home quarantine and 48 in government quarantine facilities. (* This is inclusive of two deaths cross-notified to other States and one patient who died after testing negative for the infection)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/chennai-sees-spike-with-94-new-cases/article31468310.ece
30 April 2020||April 30 2020 00:00 IST,||One more death in State||Karnataka recorded its 21st COVID-19 death on Wednesday, with a 73-year-old Tumkuru resident with complaints of Severe Acute Respiratory Illness (SARI) succumbing to the disease. As many as 12 new cases were also reported on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/one-more-death-in-state/article31468254.ece
30 April 2020||Bengaluru,||No hike in school fees for 2020-21||Private school managements in the State will not be allowed to increase tuition fees for the 2020-21 academic year. The Department of Public Instruction has issued an order on this keeping in mind the financial crisis that families are experiencing on account of the pandemic and the nationwide lockdown. Schools have been given the option to reduce the tuition fees, if they wish to do so. According to the department rules, there is a provision for private schools to increase tuition fees by up to 15% every year, but the department has urged schools not to do so this year. The order was issued after the government received complaints from parents that some schools in Bengaluru were increasing tuition fees and pressuring them to pay it. While the department had initially told school managements that they cannot collect fees from parents for the next academic year, it had later tweaked the order and stated that schools could do so if parents were willing, but added that it could not be made compulsory.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/no-hike-in-school-fees-for-2020-21/article31468257.ece
30 April 2020||April 30 2020 00:00 IST,||Lockdown blues||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/lockdown-blues/article31468260.ece
30 April 2020||April 30 2020 00:00 IST,||India remains on U.S. Priority Watch List||India continues to be on the ‘Priority Watch List’ of the United States Trade Representative (USTR) for lack of adequate intellectual property (IP) rights protection and enforcement, the USTR said in its Annual Special 301 Report, released on Wednesday. India remained one of the most challenging economies for IP enforcement and protection, the report said, using language it has used previously. Algeria, Argentina, Chile, China, Indonesia, Russia, Saudi Arabia, Ukraine and Venezuela are also on the Priority Watch List. While India made “meaningful progress” to enhance IP protection and enforcement in some areas over the past year, it did not resolve recent and long-standing challenges, and created new ones, the report said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/india-remains-on-us-priority-watch-list/article31468215.ece
30 April 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Punjab extends lockdown by two weeks||Punjab on Wednesday became the first State in the country to announce that it would extend the lockdown till May 17, while permitting the opening of shops in a staggered way on rotation for four hours every morning from April 30. Chief Minister Amarinder Singh, in a video address, also unveiled steps for limited lifting of lockdown restrictions from April 30 in the non-containment and non-red zones. The situation will be reviewed after two weeks and further relaxations will be announced if the pandemic is in control, he said. The limited relaxations from Thursday include permission for opening all registered shops, except those in multi-brand and single-brand malls, with 50% staff strength from 7 a.m. to 11 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/punjab-extends-lockdown-by-two-weeks/article31468204.ece
30 April 2020||GUWAHATI,||85-hour, 3,345-km drive to Aizawl with a body||An ambulance from Chennai covered 3,345 km in 85 hours to bring the body of a 23-year-old man home in Aizawl on Tuesday. This followed a similar travel through six States for 72-year-old Mukul Chandra Dhar of Tripura’s Dhalai district, who died before reaching home.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/85-hour-3345-km-drive-to-aizawl-with-a-body/article31468438.ece
30 April 2020||GURUGRAM,||‘Haryana-Delhi border sealed to curb spread’||Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Wednesday said his government had taken the “tough decision” to seal the State’s border with Delhi to prevent the spread of COVID-19. Vehicles supplying essentials such as vegetables and milk are allowed, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/haryana-delhi-border-sealed-to-curb-spread/article31468437.ece
30 April 2020||New Delhi,||Delhi reports 2 deaths, 125 new COVID-19 cases||Two deaths and 125 new COVID-19 cases were reported in Delhi on Wednesday, taking the toll of dead to 56 and the total cases to 3,439, said the Delhi government. The doubling time for cases in the city has increased to 13 days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/delhi-reports-2-deaths-125-new-covid-19-cases/article31468436.ece
30 April 2020||Belagavi,||Child tests positive||A child aged 12 has tested positive for COVID-19 in Sankeshwar of Belagavi district. He is in the designated hospital. This was announced in the morning bulletin here on Wednesday. Patient number 524 was a contact of his father [P-293] from Sankeshwar. With this, the number of positive cases has risen to 55. Of them four are under 18. One person died and seven have been discharged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/child-tests-positive/article31468470.ece
30 April 2020||Bengaluru,||Rain wreaks havoc in Bengaluru||Heavy rain accompanied by gusty wind lashed the city early Wednesday morning wreaking havoc in several parts of the city. BBMP control rooms were flooded with complaints of water logging from parts of Jayanagar, Basavanagudi, Murugesh Palya.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/rain-wreaks-havoc-in-bengaluru/article31468256.ece
30 April 2020||Chennai,||Submit report on easing curbs, Collectors told||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Wednesday directed all District Collectors to submit a report at the earliest, suggesting specific industries that could be allowed to function, depending on the COVID-19 situation in their areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/submit-report-on-easing-curbs-collectors-told/article31468312.ece
30 April 2020||Chennai,||Grocery shops to stay open till 5 p.m. today||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami said grocery stores would work from 6 a.m. to 5 p.m. in Chennai, Coimbatore and Madurai on April 30. From May 1, the timing will continue to be from 6 a.m. to 1 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/grocery-shops-to-stay-open-till-5-pm-today/article31468311.ece
30 April 2020||Chennai,||State to ramp up testing in red zones, says CM||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Wednesday said the government would increase the rate of testing of samples for COVID-19 in red zones and also speed up testing in Chennai, which accounts for around 35% of the cases in the State so far.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-to-ramp-up-testing-in-red-zones-says-cm/article31468316.ece
30 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Cong. counters Nirmala’s attack||The Congress on Wednesday sparred with Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman over allegations that the Centre had written off bank loans worth Rs. 68,607 crore taken by top 50 defaulters, including fugitives like Nirav Modi, Mehul Choksi and Vijay Mallya. Former Union Finance Minister P. Chidambaram, in an online press conference, said he was aware of the technical rule that a non-performing loan could be written off but why was this rule applied to fugitives. “Yes, we understand the technical rules of RBI. Point is not that...Why does this rule apply to Nirav Modis, Vijaya Mallyas and Mehul Choksis? They have been declared fugitives. That’s why, we questioned the bona fides of this government. The Finance Minister was silent for the last 37 days. Suddenly sprung to life and sprung to the defence of these fugitives. Is it not a little surprising and ironical?” he said. Mr. Chidambaram’s remarks came after Ms. Sitharaman said wilful defaulters were beneficiaries of “phone banking” under the United Progressive Alliance regime and the Modi government was chasing them to recover the dues. The Minister’s reaction came after the Congress, at a press conference on Tuesday, alleged that loans worth Rs. 68,607 crore were written off, and cited a response by the RBI to an RTI query to back their charge. The party also alleged that from 2014 to the end of the 2019-20 financial year, the government had written off loans worth nearly Rs. 6.66 lakh crores. ‘Legacy of UPA era’ Countering these allegations, in a series of tweets, Ms. Sitharaman asserted that while the government was engaged in recovering loans, most of of the bad loans were a legacy of the UPA era. Mr. Chidambaram said, “Is the government seriously suggesting that no loans were given after 2014 or that all the loans given after 2014 are performing loans? I mean, what do they take the people of India for? We may be stupid, but, we are not so stupid.” ‘Twisting facts’ Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said the Minister was twisting facts instead of giving answers. “Nirmala Sitharaman ji , cleaning the banks of people’s money by writing off loans of absconders and fraudsters is not called cleaning the system. It’s called weakening the entire bank architecture fiscally and imprudently, if not maliciously,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cong-counters-nirmalas-attack/article31468140.ece
30 April 2020||Kolkata,||Bengal to be in lockdown till end of May||The West Bengal government will continue the lockdown till the end of May, but will allow small shops and selective sectors to resume business from Monday in the green zone. The government will shut down any of those establishments in case of a spike in COVID-19 cases, Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee said on Wednesday. While 33 positive cases are reported in the past 24 hours, the testing numbers have gone up. A total of 1,397 persons have been tested in last 24 hours, while 119 patients are discharged, the State administration noted. Without specifying any date, Ms. Banerjee said lockdown would continue in Bengal for another month, with limited relief to certain sectors. She listed the sectors in a press conference. “Small neighbourhood shops for both essential and non-essential items, stand-alone electronic goods sellers but not big markets, stationery stores, paint shops, mobile and battery charging points, hardware, laundry and shops selling cigarettes or betel leaf… tea shops will sell tea [leaves] but no casual chatting sitting in tea shops is allowed,” the Chief Minister said. Industries such as construction will be allowed in the green zone “provided they follow lockdown protocol.” The activity of Public Health Engineering (PHE) will be encouraged, while self-help groups (SHGs) will be engaged to make masks. This was one of the many suggestions made by the doctors’ associations to the Chief Minister at Tuesday’s meeting. “Since unemployment will be on the rise, with a growing demand of masks, we requested the Chief Minister if SHGs can be engaged to make masks,” said Rejaul Karim, a doctor who attended the meeting. The doctors asked for “more and sterilised PPEs,” separate treatment facility for health workers, ensuring opening of private facilities in the green zone. “Globally, epidemic identification and forecast research institutes work throughout the year to study viruses. The Indian Council of Medical Research [ICMR] has been doing it, perhaps we need one for the State and the Chief Minister was informed. She agreed to the idea on the face of it,” said Dr Karim. Back to work On Wednesday, Ms. Banerjee said that nearly half of 45 jute mills were allowed to operate and 25% of tea garden workers were back to work. “In addition, 51 private hospitals are being asked to treat patients without fee. The State will bear the cost,” she said. However, the list of such hospitals is yet to be made public.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bengal-to-be-in-lockdown-till-end-of-may/article31468161.ece
30 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Pending Class 10, 12 exams after curbs end||The pending examinations for Class 10 and 12 will be held after assessing the situation at the end of the lockdown, the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) said on Wednesday. The board’s assertion follows reports that Class 10 exams may be cancelled. Several States had suggested the cancellation of these exams and use of internal assessment performance to allot grades instead. These issues were raised in Tuesday’s meeting of State Education Ministers with the Union Human Resource Development Minister. However, the CBSE reiterated that it will conduct the exams after the lockdown is lifted, giving a 10-day notice to students. The pending exams include 12 core subject papers for Class 12 students. Class 10 students in most parts of the country have no exams left. However, in northeastern Delhi, where exams were postponed due to the violence in February, Class 10 students have six subjects pending, while Class 12 students have 11 papers left.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pending-class-10-12-exams-after-curbs-end/article31468168.ece
30 April 2020||GUWAHATI,||85-hour, 3,345-km drive to Aizawl with a body||An ambulance from Chennai covered 3,345 km in almost 85 hours to bring the body of a 23-year-old hotel management graduate home in Mizoram’s capital Aizawl on Tuesday. This followed a similar travel through six States for 72-year-old Mukul Chandra Dhar of Tripura’s Dhalai district who died before reaching home on Monday. “Against all odds. 3,000 plus km of hardship and struggle won’t dampen the spirit of resting the tragic earthly remains of Vivian Remsanga by his friend Raphael AVL Malchhanhima along with Jeyanthiran and Chinnathambi, both from Tamil Nadu. Mizoram salutes you,” Mizoram Chief Minister Zoramthanga tweeted on Tuesday. “Thank you from the bottom of our hearts. You have just shown what every Mizo heartbeat means when it comes to the term ‘Tlawmngaihna’,” the Chief Minister said in another tweet. Tlawmngaihna is a Mizo code of conduct that urges everyone to be hospitable, kind and helpful. Scores of people in Aizawl, maintaining social distancing norms, welcomed the two ambulance drivers – Jeyanthiran, 41 and Chinnathambi, 51 – with traditional shawls, shirts and other gifts. The two, who took turns to drive, also became guests of Mr. Malchhanhima. The body of Vivian, who graduated from a Chennai-based hotel management institute in February, was found by the Adyar police. P.C. Michael Lalrinkima, general secretary of Mizoram Welfare Association in Chennai, said Vivian had died following a heart attack on April 23 and investigations had ruled out either COVID-19 or any kind of assault as the cause of death. “We were able to find an ambulance willing to take the body to Mizoram amid the lockdown. The ambulance charged about Rs. 2 lakh for the trip and Vivian’s friend Raphael agreed to accompany his body,” Mr. Lalrinkima said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/85-hour-3345-km-drive-to-aizawl-with-a-body/article31468181.ece
30 April 2020||Mumbai/New Delhi,||Uddhav speaks to Modi on MLC nomination||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Wednesday spoke to Prime Minister Narendra Modi regarding his nomination as MLC which is pending with Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari. Mr. Thackeray has to be nominated to the Upper House before May 28. The Prime Minister’s Office confirmed with The Hindu that Mr. Thackeray did call the PM. After hearing out Mr. Thackeray, the PM said he would collect the details. According to sources, Mr. Thackeray had dialled the PMO on Tuesday evening too from the Sahyadri guest house but Mr. Modi could not come on line. The call comes a day after the meeting of a delegation of senior Ministers from the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) with Mr. Koshyari where they handed him the resolution passed by the Cabinet recommending Mr. Thackeray’s name for one of the two vacant posts in the Council, to be nominated from the Governor’s quota. Mr. Koshyari reportedly had hinted that the final decision stands with Mr. Modi and the CM should directly talk to him. Mr. Thackeray was sworn in on November 28 and as per the Constitution, a Minister has to become a member of either House within six months. Constituents of the MVA, namely the Shiv Sena, the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and the Congress, have been questioning the delay on the part of the Governor. “The State is fighting a pandemic. Mumbai is one of the worst-hit cities in the country. The State cannot afford political instability at such a time,” NCP State president and Irrigation Minister Jayant Patil had said on Tuesday. The Cabinet meeting on April 9, chaired by Deputy CM Ajit Pawar, had passed the resolution recommending Mr. Thackeray’s name to the Council. With no movement from Mr. Koshyari, the Cabinet, again chaired by Mr. Pawar, reminded the Governor about the resolution.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/uddhav-speaks-to-modi-on-mlc-nomination/article31468134.ece
30 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Protect MSME workers: Chidambaram||Former Union Finance Minister P. Chidambaram on Wednesday noted that “extraordinary times require extraordinary solutions” and suggested that the Centre announce a Rs. 1 lakh crore-package for micro, small and medium enterpises (MSMEs) to be able to pay wages to 11 crore workers and a “pay cheque protection programme” for lower income groups in other private sector businesses. In an online press conference, Mr. Chidambaram also cautioned the Centre against entertaining any notion of imposing a financial emergency [under Article 360 of the Constitution] that would further limit the financial powers of the States. Financial emergency The Union government should prepare an exit strategy for the lockdown, address the problems of migrant workers and provide financial assistance to the States, he stated. “I think even to utter those words at this point of time would be inappropriate. I don’t want to use the phrase financial Emergency and I hope we are not pushed into that. If the government acts promptly, wisely and boldly by taking into account the advice of wise economists, we can avoid a financial emergency,” he replied to a query. “We should do everything to avoid a financial emergency because it would mean that whatever little powers are there with the State governments are taken away.” Making a strong case for the government supporting the 6.3 crore MSMEs, he said: “We urge the Prime Minister to look at the Congress proposal and immediately announce the implementation of two specific recommendations: Rs. 1 lakh crore wage protection assistance to help the MSMEs pay wages and salaries for April and Rs. 1 lakh crore credit guarantee fund for the MSMEs that will help them to go to the banks and borrow money.” He added, “For the non-MSMEs, we urge the government to announce a pay cheque protection programme, similar to the one announced in the United States.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/protect-msme-workers-chidambaram/article31468138.ece
30 April 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||Coming weeks will be a challenge, says Odisha CM||As COVID-19 cases increased in Odisha in the past 10 days, Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik on Wednesday sought people’s support to quarantine those returning from West Bengal and other States. Meanwhile, the number of cases in the State increased to 125, with the detection of seven new cases — three cases in Balasore district, one case each in Jharsuguda, Deogarh and Kendujhar districts, and one in Bhubaneswar. The cases reported from Balasore, Jharsuguda, Deogarh and Kendujhar were all those who returned from West Bengal. The Bhubaneswar case was a family member of a COVID-19 patient. Of the total cases, 39 patients had recovered and one had died earlier. The remaining 85 are under treatment at different hospitals, according to the Health Department. In a video message, Mr. Patnaik said the latest challenge was to take care of those returning from West Bengal. More than 50 of the 125 cases detected in the State had returned from West Bengal, he said. “When I spoke to you 10 days ago, the number of positive cases was 61. It has doubled now. But there is no need to panic. We can avoid the danger if we stay alert,” he said. The State first faced the challenge when people who returned from other countries and those who returned from Nizamuddin tested positive, he said. Mr. Patnaik said the coming weeks would be more challenging when Odia people from Maharashtra, Gujarat, Delhi, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Rajasthan and West Bengal would return home. He asked the people not to be worried if the number of cases went up when Odias returned from States that had witnessed larger infections than Odisha. Mr. Patnaik appealed to the people to stay vigilant and calm.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/coming-weeks-will-be-a-challenge-says-odisha-cm/article31468152.ece
30 April 2020||April 30 2020 00:00 IST,||‘We cannot let down our guard till April or May next year’||With the possibility of a graded exit from the the 40-day lockdown approaching, Srinath Reddy , president of the Public Health Foundation of India and member of the ICMR’s COVID-19 task force, takes stock of what has been achieved during this period in respect of the public health systems. With systemic weaknesses still remaining, he cautioned that we will have to be on guard against the virus for at least one year. Excerpts:  A key objective of the lockdown was to give us time to scale up our public health systems in case there is a surge of cases going forward. Has this been adequately achieved? Our public health system has been quite weak for several decades, because of poor investments, not only in infrastructure, but also in the health workforce. And in a number of other areas like the non-availability of public health carriers, the non-availability of adequate regulatory structures, and of course very low levels of health financing, which were barriers to access and affordability of healthcare. Obviously, we cannot say that we have actually accomplished a transformation in each of these areas, whether it is from the point of view of a steady state functioning of the health system or the surge response that is required to meet a pandemic challenge like this. However, I believe that lockdown has given us an opportunity to try and ramp up our resources in each of these areas, particularly in terms of building up more hospital bed capacity for isolation in intensive care. Also, for ensuring that our testing capacity has improved with acquisition of more testing kits, pressing into service of a large number of healthcare workers for contact tracing and isolation, as well as bringing in more doctors and nurses, including from the retirees, for providing healthcare services if required. We have also seen that the manufacturing capacity of medical equipment as well as personal protection equipment has gone up quite substantially.  What’s your advice on how to restart and what are the activities that can be avoided? I believe that it is time for us to now start moving out of the lockdown for most of the country where we do not have clearly identified hot zones with high caseload. It is in those zones that we probably will have to continue, if not the full, rigorous form of the lockdown, at least the slightly loosened form of lockdown. I believe we ought to look at urban and rural areas slightly differently. Rural areas are likely to be highly protected at the moment. As we restart our economic activities, rural areas should get up first and it’s already happening in terms of harvesting and other fieldwork. Even as urban areas resume activities, we must try and restrict the travel and transportation of goods between urban and rural areas to absolutely essential goods and essential travel needs, because we should prevent the ingress of the virus from urban areas into rural areas. We have to avoid mass meetings, we have to avoid malls and cinema halls, but smaller group meetings should be possible, and of course social distancing in public would still have to be maintained. And in education, I would give preference to school education over college education immediately, because school education is something that has to be done through personal contact. College education can come a little later because college education can also be done through distance education. There is concern that over the winter we may see a second wave of the virus even if it slows down now. What do you think is the kind of time period we’re talking about in which we are going to be seeing the effects of the virus not just in our health system, but in the way our economic activities are also affected? There is anticipation that we will see a slowdown in summer as the temperatures rise and even when the humidity rises. But there is also an apprehension that it could actually raise its head again in winter. We have to see whether it behaves like other coronaviruses, which do have a seasonal pattern, or whether this is an atypical virus, which behaves with virulence unabated throughout the year. If we anticipate that this actually is going to happen, that is the temperature effect, and we’ll go into a bit of a slumber during the period between summer and onset of winter, then we still have to be prepared for a possible resurgence in winter and we cannot let down our guard till April or May next year. In the interest of safety, we have to plan as though this is going to be a phenomenon that we have to deal with for over a year. What are the public health lessons that we can learn from other Asian countries that have been doing well?  Actually the champion in this region has been Vietnam. It is a sort of unreported, unsung hero. Of course, Singapore is now having some problems in terms of resurgence among the migrant workers, which has been a bit of a lapse, but it has been a good example, particularly in healthcare and fair amount in public health. What we have seen in Southeast Asian countries is that because they have had the experience of the H1N1, the H5N1, the so called Swine Flu, as well as the avian influenza, as well as the SARS, they have actually prepared public health as well as healthcare systems to respond very quickly to any such threat. They’re ready to get into high gear very quickly. We have had other things that have been favouring us but from the point of view of investments in public health, it is absolutely important that we build up a very strong surveillance system, a very strong primary healthcare system. We also ensure that investments in our entire health system, including the health workforce, as well as advanced care are there. So that we do not have weak chinks in our armour.  We have to avoid mass meetings, we have to avoid malls and cinema halls, but smaller group meetings should be possible||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/we-cannot-let-down-our-guard-till-april-or-may-next-year/article31468171.ece
30 April 2020||April 30 2020 00:00 IST,||‘By any calculus, India qualifies for UNSC permanent seat’||Syed Akbaruddin , India’s Permanent Representative to the United Nations, retires on Thursday. The diplomat discussed a range of topics related to India at the UN, including the country’s bid for permanent membership at the Security Council. Edited excerpts:  India is due for election to the temporary membership of the UN Security Council later this year, for the 2021-22 period. What do you think will be the priorities for India to work on? India in many ways is a sui generis country. It’s a country of a billion-plus, it’s a country which is a democracy, perhaps the only example in history of a billion-plus people working together in a democratic framework. We will bring to it those values and strengths of being able to work cohesively among disparate entities. That’s our USP, we try and work out solutions. One of the biggest issues that will confront all multilateral organisations and certainly the Security Council will be issues which are beyond borders. Issues of … the global commons, whether it is in cases of public health as we are now seeing in the current pandemic, but other issues, for example, cyber [issues]. There are no regulatory mechanisms or no rules on that, and that’s another. A third one is issues of high seas. Again, beyond your EEZ [exclusive economic zone], there is very limited understanding of what states can do and what states can’t do. Now, why should we focus on these broader thematic issues? It’s because you’ll see our experience has been: ungoverned spaces lead to opportunities for those who are inimical to global governance to breed, whether it is in states or it is beyond state boundaries, this has been the experience, and therefore, we as a country would like to focus on these things.  Has India got closer to permanent member status at the Security Council in the past four or five years? One of those aspirational goals was, is and will remain permanent membership to the Security Council, because we feel by any present day calculus, we would qualify. Now, the issue of the expansion and reform of the Security Council is not an India-centric issue. It is an issue which entails a whole host of teams, because, as I told you, everybody acknowledges that India is sui generic . A billion-plus people not being permanently in an organisation which starts with, ‘We the peoples of the United Nations’. You can’t have that dichotomy between an organisation, which says, “I’m ready, I work on behalf of the peoples of the world,” and keeps such a big country representing more than a billion people out. On India’s membership, there are very few discordant notes, but there are other issues. There are people who feel that matters relating to, for example, the veto are important factors. There are others who feel, ‘Should it be that every region expands or are there some regions that are already represented adequately (or not).’ There are a multiplicity of other issues which are fairly complex in nature. What is India’s position on accepting permanent membership in case it doesn’t carry veto power? And what, if anything, will actually change China’s position on India becoming a permanent member? If you look at the voting pattern at that stage when the reform or the expansion from 11 to 15 happened by increasing four non-permanent members, none of those present there as permanent members right now voted in favour. There were some who opposed, there were others who abstained. The only representative at that stage who voted in favour of change was the Republic of China. Now, even with that sort of vote, in two years, everybody accepted the vote and ratified it…in diplomacy, there is no finality in these things of what people say, people evolve, situations change, global pressures will mount. The choice will have to be, do you want an organ which is moribund, which is not effective, which is not legitimate, which is not credible, or do you want, in the evolving situation, a body which is able to work — with its difficulties, but it’s able to work. Therefore, we bet on optimism and we bet that change will happen and people who may have reluctance today will join. On the veto… Of course, there are many of us who feel that veto was the outcome of a situation in 1945 when the world was different. Our view is that we do not oppose any approach that is non-discriminatory in nature. You are aware that on the issue of discrimination, we have a very strong historical record, whether it was going back to the NPT [Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons Treaty]. At that stage, it was discriminating among those who had nuclear weapons before a certain date or later, similarly on the issue of veto. If there are restrictions, these need to be applicable to everyone. These are difficult calls and those discussions have not yet happened. Would you agree that the issue of Jammu and Kashmir has been internationalised after the August 5 decision by the government, given how many times it’s been raised including by the Secretary-General and the Security Council after so many decades [last taken up in 1971]? [Mr. Akbaruddin said that the Secretary-General issues a list of all items that are/were discussed formally in the Security Council, including those that have not been discussed in decades but are listed at the behest of delegations. These include ‘The Hyderabad Question’ and ‘The India-Pakistan Question’ of 1948]. I’m not contesting that is on the agenda because the agenda, the way it works is that one country can put in anything on the agenda to continue, even if not discussed for… in the case of Hydrabad now, 70 years. Being on the agenda is not an issue of concern to anybody. But it [Jammu and Kashmir] was discussed informally... Informal consultations by definition are not considered to be formal if in any nature. Yes, any country can raise anything on the agenda or outside the agenda in an informal setting. Like you and I when we sit and have a cup of tea, discuss anything under the agenda. Sure. We have not contested that this was informally raised, but you also are aware of those outcomes. No country, not even the informal outcome was shared with anybody, so you can see what the inclination of most members is. I can repeat it, I’ve done it many a time before, that there is no interest in addressing that issue in the Council in any format. That’s why those who had raised it raised it three times, but look at the way each time they raised it, the returns have diminished. So is it fair to say that you disagree that it’s been “internationalised”? In a globalised world, you can say anything is internationalised, but I don’t think there is any fear that if something is... States are sovereign, they can do what they want, but if you don’t have resonance, it’s a loss. How does plurilateralism — a concept India has backed — work during a pandemic? Wouldn’t multilateralism — which is, in many senses, under attack right now — work better given the pandemic affects everyone? I don’t see a conflict between the two frameworks. There are multiple levels at which you can address the same issue and perhaps that’s the way to go about it. There is a national effort under way. That does not detract from a regional effort like we’ve tried in SAARC with our Health Ministers. The EU is trying in some way in the European Union countries, there are others trying elsewhere. However, at some stage, you will also have to address it multilaterally, beyond plurilaterally. A virus knows no borders, so there will always be a threat to us unless we address it across the board, and that’s the role of multilateralism. India has achieved quite a bit in having its position on a global response to terrorism acknowledged. However, we haven’t been able to make headway on the proposal for a comprehensive convention on international terrorism, the CCIT. Which regions and countries have been the biggest hurdles? We need to look at the global context in which we made that submission and what is the situation today? We made the submission when I was a young First Secretary here in 1996. At that stage, terrorism was not even looked on as anything beyond a law and order issue. Today, we’ve come a long way on that. There are multiple elements… of what we put in there, which are now norms in the global discourse. They are now part of many Security Council resolutions, itself. The discourse has absorbed many elements from that. There still remain areas where we need to address them. Terrorism financing — there are Security Council resolutions; terrorism nuclear issues — there is a separate convention. The norm that nothing justifies terrorism is now accepted globally. We’ve come a long way on that, of course. ( With inputs from      Suhasini Haidar )  .   (For the full interview, log on to bit.ly/Akbaruddin)   We will bring to the Security Council the strengths of being able to work cohesively among disparate entities||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/by-any-calculus-india-qualifies-for-unsc-permanent-seat/article31468183.ece
30 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Existing schemes providing support to farmers: Tomar||The government’s actions on behalf of farmers during the lockdown are sufficient to cope with the impact of COVID-19, according to Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar. Flagship schemes for crop insurance and income support already provide enough support, Mr. Tomar told mediapersons on Wednesday, when asked about the need for a relief package for farmers. In fact, he insisted that the Centre’s agenda of doubling farmers’ income by 2022 still held true. Farm growth Think tank NITI Aayog also provided a rosy picture of the agriculture sector, with member Ramesh Chand saying it is likely to see a near-normal growth rate of at least 3% in 2020-21, despite the COVID-19 crisis. The farm sector grew at a rate of 3.7% in the last fiscal year. Despite the shutdown of large parts of the industrial and services sectors, agricultural growth will ensure that the Indian economy does not shrink this year, Dr. Chand said. He predicted that at least 0.5% GDP growth would come from agriculture alone, refuting international predictions of a negative GDP growth rate. Dr. Chand cited the forecast of a normal monsoon and reports of reservoirs having water at levels 40-60% higher than usual among the reasons for his optimism. Fertilizer and seed sales have been 5% and 20% higher than usual in the first four months of this year, he claimed, adding that reports suggested that farmers are getting higher mandi prices for major commodities, including wheat, gram, rapeseed, mustard and staple vegetables.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/existing-schemes-providing-support-to-farmers-tomar/article31468136.ece
30 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||UGC issues advisory for academic year||Universities and colleges can begin classes for second and third year students from August 1, and for first year students from September 1, according to an advisory issued by the University Grants Commission on Wednesday regarding the 2020-21 academic calendar. With regard to the current academic year, the UGC suggested that classes — currently being conducted through various modes of distance learning — can be completed by mid-June. Examinations will then be held online or offline based on local conditions and availability of resources. Final semester examinations can then be held in July and may be shortened from 3 hours to 2 hour duration. Intermediate semester students can be graded based on internal assessment of the present and previous semester, UGC suggested. The M.Phil and Ph.D students can be given a six-month extension to complete their degrees, with viva voce examinations being conducted via video-conferencing. All students will receive automatic attendance during the lockdown period. In the next academic year, however, they may follow a six-day week pattern. The UGC advisory was issued after taking into account the recommendations of a panel headed by Central University of Haryana V-C R.C. Kuhad. However, one major recommendation to hold a common entrance test for UG and PG students seems to have been rejected and does not find a place in the final guidelines. The UGC has emphasised that the guidelines are advisory, not mandatory in nature, and institutions are free to take decisions as required based on their own facilities and local restrictions due to COVID-19. Going forward, the Commission encouraged colleges and universities to equip their faculty with online teaching tools, develop virtual classrooms and virtual laboratory facilities. About 25% of their syllabus can be completed through online teaching and 75% through face-to-face, said the UGC.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ugc-issues-advisory-for-academic-year/article31468166.ece
30 April 2020||Mumbai,||Two pharmacists test positive in Mumbai||Two pharmacists from Mumbai — one from Shatabdi Hospital in Kandivali and another from a civic dispensary in Deonar — have tested positive for COVID-19. Many pharmacists in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region are in quarantine after being exposed to positive patients. Most pharmacists, equipped with just masks and gloves, have been on the frontlines offering their services since the outbreak in the State. “Pharmacists are the backbone of the health system and they have been offering continuous services in these difficult times. Their efforts have to be recognised,” said Manjiri Gharat, vice-president of Indian Pharmaceutical Association (IPA), a national body of pharmacists. The IPA on Monday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi urging him to include pharmacists in the special medical insurance package announced on March 26, which gives coverage to healthcare workers with risk of getting infected with SARS-CoV-2. “After going through the scheme, it is not clear if retail pharmacists are included in it. But it appears that pharmacists are not covered under it. Therefore, we request you to kindly take steps to include pharmacists working in retail and hospital sectors in this scheme,” the IPA letter stated. It also requested Mr. Modi to mention pharmacists in his next address to the nation along with doctors, nurses and paramedics as healthcare warriors fighting COVID-19. A pharmacist attached to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), who is in quarantine after coming in contact with positive patients, said they are constantly exposed to patients who may not know they have COVID-19. “People with fever are now first directed to the BMC’s fever clinics and we are exposed to patients who may later test positive,” he said. Two pharmacists have been quarantined in Kalyan and another one in Navi Mumbai. While the supply of drugs has been an issue during the lockdown, pharmacies across the city have remained open. “We try to maintain a distance. Customers often request us to speak to their doctors and relatives over the phone about their drugs, leading to contact with them,” said a pharmacist.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/two-pharmacists-test-positive-in-mumbai/article31468155.ece
30 April 2020||Bhopal,||Eight die in M.P., death toll rises to 130 in State||Eight persons died of COVID-19 in Madhya Pradesh on Wednesday, taking the death toll to 130, the Directorate of Health Services said. Ujjain, where the death toll climbed to 23, reported the most number of deaths, at three. So far, 18% of all patients have died of the illness in the city, arguably the worst case fatality rate in the country, up by two percentage points over the previous day. In addition, two deaths were reported in Khandwa, and one each in Khargone, Raisen and Bhopal, according to a bulletin issued by the Directorate. The case fatality rate in the State stands at 5%, higher than the national average. Meanwhile, 79 new COVID-19 cases were reported on the day, taking the count to 2,560. Bhopal alone recorded 31 of these. Forty-one patients were discharged from hospitals on recovery. So far, 461 persons have been discharged. The day’s tally does not take into account the figures for Indore, which are released late at night. “Teams of officials from different wings of the State administration are visiting the worst-affected districts to assist officials there,” Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said. He added that the test positivity rate was going down, even in Bhopal and Indore, and the case fatality rate was falling too. “The number of those recovering is going up.” From April 16 to 28, the case fatality rate oscillated between 4% and 5%, indicating the mortalities were rising in proportion to the case tally. As for the recovery rate, it climbed from 6% to 16% in the period.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/eight-die-in-mp-death-toll-rises-to-130-in-state/article31468159.ece
30 April 2020||CHENNAI,||AAI mulls limited flights with 30% capacity post lockdown||The Airports Authority of India (AAI) is looking at commencing limited domestic/international flight operations with 30% capacity post COVID-19 lockdown. Airport officials have been told to ensure that the passengers followed the safety protocol, particularly physical distancing. Facilities for hand sanitising/washing would be created in as many places as possible. In a Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) circulated to all airports on Wednesday, the AAI said once the lockdown period is over, airports shall be facilitating limited domestic/international scheduled flights in a phased manner. “To start with, may be at 30% capacity to facilitate social distancing. The operations to its original level is likely to be scaled up in gradual manner.” Where there were more terminals, only one terminal would be opened for use to minimise the cleaning area considering the limited availability of material resources. “Initially it is presumed that airline operations will be limited to Tier-I cities [Metros] and some other State capitals and major Tier-II cities… limited food and beverages and retail outlets to be made available to the passengers till operations of Airlines gradually increase. Initially they should serve tea/coffee etc. with take away snacks in boxes. As part of this limited restaurant facilities to be permitted inside security hold area,” the guidelines said. Airport authorities were told to coordinate with the State governments/local administration to ensure availability of public transport/private taxies for connectivity to the airport for passengers and staff. Spa centres/massage chair facilities would remain suspended as a safety measure. While airlines would advise passengers to reach the airport well in advance, the officials would take effective steps to ensure safe distance among passengers and staff at entry points, frisking booths, boarding gates etc. Health screening AAI said adequate number of doctors and paramedics should be available at airports to conduct screening of passengers both arriving and departing. Among other instructions were to ensure cleanliness and sanitation of the entire terminal building and public areas, including washrooms, chairs, counters, trolleys, security trays, x-ray machines, hand-rails, doors etc on a regular basis. Employees showing symptoms such as high fever, difficulty in breathing and cough should not be taken on duty. Such cases should be reported to appropriate health authorities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/aai-mulls-limited-flights-with-30-capacity-post-lockdown/article31468163.ece
30 April 2020||CHENNAI,||COVID-19 fears shifting to livelihood worries, finds study||Surveys on public attitudes to COVID-19 conducted in four States over the past month have found a shift from what were widespread anxieties about the uncertainty of the epidemic to more pressing concerns about livelihood issues, researchers said on Wednesday. Two surveys were conducted in Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra and Punjab from March 23 to 31 and from April 1 to 13, involving 866 and 1,237 people, respectively. “If the first survey brought out the general anxieties about the uncertainty brought by COVID-19, what we found in responses in the second survey is growing specific anxieties about income, availability of funds for daily needs and the day-to-day impact on livelihood,” said Shirley Yan, a researcher at Noora Health, a healthcare non-profit which released the results. The surveys were conducted by YosAid Innovation Foundation, its non-profit associate partner in India. The idea was to study how COVID-19 is being understood and responded to by the community, Ms. Yan said. One of the key findings was the very high degree of awareness about COVID-19 in all four States, with 99% of all participants having heard about it. It also found that over the past month, risk perceptions have also changed. Respondents with low risk perceptions attributed it to their being vigilant and following government recommendations and rules. On prevention strategies, handwashing was most commonly cited — suggesting an overall increase in awareness of hygiene, post-COVID-19 — followed by wearing a mask and avoiding going outside. Some respondents mentioned drinking hot water, avoiding cold food items and avoiding meat. One common misconception, the study said, involved meat-eating, with 55% believing they could get infected from consuming chicken, eggs or meat. Researchers also interviewed healthcare workers in the four State who voiced concerns about continued availability of Personal Protective Equipment and suggested hospitals should make contractual staff, who are on the frontlines of the COVID-19 fight, permanent employees.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/covid-19-fears-shifting-to-livelihood-worries-finds-study/article31468177.ece
30 April 2020||New Delhi,||Venkaiah hopes to hold monsoon session||Vice-President and Rajya Sabha Chairman Venkaiah Naidu on Wednesday said the next session of Parliament would be convened depending on the ground reality. He was interacting with Rajya Sabha members and party leaders. The Budget session of Parliament ended abruptly on March 23 and the monsoon session is scheduled for July. Mr. Naidu said that with the intensive efforts being made across the country to contain the spread of the novel coronavirus and the results from the ground, one might hope for a normal schedule. According to a statement issued by Mr. Naidu’s office, the Vice-President spoke to 241 of the 245 Rajya Sabha members. He also spoke to the Governors, the Chief Ministers and the political leaders and enquired with them about their safety. He also spoke to former Presidents Pranab Mukherji and Pratibha Patil and former Prime Ministers Manmohan Singh and H.D. Deve Gowda. Some members flagged the plight of migrant workers and the efforts being made to reach them relief.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/venkaiah-hopes-to-hold-monsoon-session/article31468143.ece
30 April 2020||AHMEDABAD,||In Gujarat, cases cross 4,000-mark||The number of COVID-19 cases in Gujarat rose by 308 to 4,082 on Wednesday and the death toll increased by 16, including nine fatalities in the worst-hit Ahmedabad, to 197, a Health Department official said. Moreover, 93 patients were discharged on recovery after two tests came in negative. The total number of patients who recovered stands at 527. However, the State continues to see an increase in the number of cases by adding over 200 cases on an average every day. The death toll also remains in the double digit for the past several days. Ahmedabad accounts for more than 65% of the cases and deaths. On Wednesday, the city recorded 234 cases and 9 deaths. Now, Ahmedabad’s cumulative figures are 2,777 cases and 137 deaths. Till Wednesday evening, 263 patients have recovered. Surat and Vadodara form the other large clusters. Surat has recorded 601 cases, 22 deaths and 40 cases of recovery and Vadodara has recorded 270 cases, 16 deaths and 87 cases of recovery. The authorities have decided that asymptomatic patients remain quarantined at home. In Ahmedabad and Surat, the civic bodies have introduced this step to concentrate the efforts of health workers on serious and symptomatic cases and to decrease the pressure on government quarantine centres.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/in-gujarat-cases-cross-4000-mark/article31468157.ece
30 April 2020||April 30 2020 00:00 IST,||Punjab extends lockdown by two weeks||The containment and red zones will, however, continue to remain under total and strict lockdown, said an official statement. Deputy Commissioners have been directed to work out the rotational schedule for the shops that are allowed to be opened in line with the Chief Minister’s directives, which have come four days after the new Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) guidelines came into effect, said the statement. In urban areas, all stand-alone shops, neighbourhood shops and shops in residential complexes are allowed to open during this period, as per the new directives, which make it clear, however, that establishments such as salons, and barber shopswould continue to remain closed. Further, e-commerce companies will continue to be permitted to deal in only essential goods during this period.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/punjab-extends-lockdown-by-two-weeks/article31468131.ece
30 April 2020||April 30 2020 00:00 IST,||India remains on U.S. Priority Watch List||The same assessment was made in the 2019 report. These long-standing concerns were about innovators being able to receive, maintain and enforce patents particularly in the pharmaceutical sector; concerns over copyright laws not incentivising the creation and commercialisation of content; and an outdated trade secrets framework. “India also further restricted the transparency of information provided on state-issued pharmaceutical manufacturing licenses, continues to apply restrictive patentability criteria to reject pharmaceutical patents, and still has not established an effective system for protecting against the unfair commercial use, as well as the unauthorized disclosure, of undisclosed test or other data generated to obtain marketing approval for pharmaceuticals and certain agricultural chemical products,” the report said. The report also mentioned high customs duties on medical devices and Information and Communications Technology. These goods categories were persistent challenges in trade talks between the two countries last year — the language used in the 2020 report in this context is the same as in the 2019 report.  Online IP enforcement in India has improved, the report said, but progress is undercut by factors including weak enforcement by courts and the police, lack of familiarity with investigative techniques and no centralised IP enforcement agency.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-remains-on-us-priority-watch-list/article31468144.ece
30 April 2020||April 30 2020 00:00 IST,||MHA clears movement of stranded people||“All States and Union Territories have been asked to designate nodal authorities and develop standard protocols for receiving and sending the stranded persons. The authorities shall also register the stranded persons within their States and UTs. In case, a group of stranded persons wish to move between one State to another State, the sending and receiving authorities may consult each other and mutually agree to the movement by road,” the guidelines said. The person would be screened and those found asymptomatic would be allowed to proceed. “Buses shall be used for transport of groups of persons which will be sanitised and shall follow safe social distancing norms in seating.” The States falling on the transit route would allow the movement of such persons. “On arrival at their destination, they would be assessed by health authorities, and kept in home quarantine unless the assessment requires keeping a person in institutional quarantine.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mha-clears-movement-of-stranded-people/article31468147.ece
30 April 2020||April 30 2020 00:00 IST,||Only 30 lakh found MGNREGA work in April||“MGNREGA families should be given at least 10 days’ wages as free cash for the loss in the month of April,” said economist Reetika Khera, who teaches at the Indian Institute of Management-Ahmedabad. “The government asked the private sector to pay workers. Shouldn’t they lead by example?” On April 4, activists of the Mazdoor Kisan Shakti Sangathan had filed a petition in the Supreme Court, asking for full wages to be paid through the lockdown to the scheme’s 7.6 crore active job card-holders. On April 20, an intervention application was filed asking that as an interim measure, unemployment allowance be paid to all who were at work on March 24, when the lockdown was announced. Almost 1.6 crore workers found employment under the scheme in March. The scheme stipulates that if workers register for work, but are not provided employment, they are eligible to an unemployment allowance amounting to a quarter of their wages in the first month, half in the second, and full wages thereafter. “An unemployment allowance is the very least that should be paid to these workers,” said Nikhil Dey, one of the activists who filed the petition.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/only-30-lakh-found-mgnrega-work-in-april/article31468150.ece
30 April 2020||April 30 2020 00:00 IST,||India reports 70 deaths, highest in a single day||Dr. Vardhan said only 0.33% patients were on ventilators, 1.5% patients on oxygen support and 2.34% patients in ICU, which was a “reflection of the quality of care being provided across the country.” He said 288 government laboratories were working along with 97 private lab chains with around 16,000 sample collection centres and testing around 60,000 per day.  The World Health Organisation organised a meeting of vaccine manufacturers and regulators from South-East Asia. “The manufacturing capacity that exists in our region [South-East Asia] is of the quality and scale required to produce and roll out a COVID-19 vaccine globally and will play a key role in overcoming the pandemic,” Poonam Khetrapal Singh, Regional Director, WHO South-East Asia, said in a statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-reports-70-deaths-highest-in-a-single-day/article31468149.ece
30 April 2020||PUNE,||Maharashtra reports 597 cases, nears 10,000 mark||The COVID-19 pandemic continued its relentless upward surge in Maharashtra as the State reported a spike of 597 new cases on Wednesday to take the cumulative tally to 9,915, while 32 new deaths saw the total death toll rising to 432. According to figures given by the State Health Department, 26 of these deaths were reported from Mumbai city, three from Pune city, and one each from Panvel and the urban pockets of Solapur and Aurangabad. A measure of hopeful news was found in the 205 cases who were discharged today, taking the total number of those recovered in the State till date to 1,593, as per State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate. With the new deaths, Mumbai’s death toll now stands at 270 – accounting for more than 60% of the State’s death tally, while that of Pune district has risen to 85 of which 79 have been reported from Pune city, three from the rural areas in the district while the rest from Pimpri-Chinchwad. Solapur district, which comes under the Pune division, has now reported six deaths while Aurangabad has recorded seven deaths till now. “56% of the deaths reported had high-risk co-morbidities such as diabetes, hypertension, asthma and heart disease,” informed Dr. Awate. Of the 600-odd cases, Mumbai reported the overwhelming majority — as many as 475 — as they city’s cumulative tally shot to 6,644. Pune district authorities reported a surge of at least 60 fresh cases in Pune city as the district’s cumulative active cases rose to 1,238. “A central team under Dr. A. K. Gadpayle is on a visit in Pune Division to review COVID-19 prevention and control activities and visited Solapur district today where they reviewed the implementation of containment activities. In the 20 containment zones in Solapur, a total 174 surveillance squads are screening 97,000 people daily,” Dr. Awate said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/maharashtra-reports-597-cases-nears-10000-mark/article31468164.ece
30 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Regulating academics is in national, public interest: SC||Regulating academics and imposing reasonable restrictions to ensure educational standards are in national and public interest, a three-judge Bench of the Supreme Court ruled, holding that the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) is mandatory for admission to medical colleges run by religious and linguistic minority communities. The right to freedom of trade or business is not absolute. It is subject to “reasonable restriction in the interest of the students’ community to promote merit, recognition of excellence, and to curb the malpractices. A uniform entrance test qualifies the test of proportionality and is reasonable”, Justice Arun Mishra wrote for the Bench comprising Justices Vineet Saran and M.R. Shah. “NEET is intended to check several maladies which crept into medical education, to prevent capitation fee by admitting students which are lower in merit and to prevent exploitation, profiteering, and commercialisation of education. The institution has to be a capable vehicle of education,” Justice Mishra observed. The court said minority institutions were equally bound to comply with the conditions imposed under the law. The regulations, including admission through NEET, were neither divisive or dis-integrative. They were necessary. The judgment was based on a challenge by the colleges to several notifications issued by the Medical Council of India (MCI) and the Dental Council of India (DCI) under Sections 10D of the Indian Medical Council Act, 1956, and the Dentists Act, 1948, for uniform entrance examinations. “Professional educational institutions constitute a class by themselves. Specific measures to make the administration of such institutions transparent can be imposed. The rights available under Article 30 [right of minorities to administer their institutions] are not violated by provisions carved out in Section 10D of the MCI Act and the Dentists Act and Regulations framed by MCI/DCI,” the court held.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/regulating-academics-is-in-national-public-interest-sc/article31468148.ece
30 April 2020||April 30 2020 00:00 IST,||Sandilya Vidya||The Upanishads are storehouses of the wisdom pertaining to the Eternal and Infinite Brahman. This wisdom is revealed in many ways; sometimes in the form of exchanges between a disciple and preceptor, or as stories, parables, analogies, etc, or as the findings of some of the ancient sages when they were steeped in meditation. For instance, the Chandogya Upanishad contains several Vidyas such as Bhooma Vidya, Prajapati Vidya, Vaishwanara Vidya, Sandilya Vidya, and so on that teach the art of meditation that leads one towards the ultimate goal Brahman. It is important that the spiritual aspirant in search of the highest wisdom places absolute trust and faith in the conclusions of the sages who have dedicated their lifetime to gain access to these vidyas, pointed out Sri R. Krishnamurthy Sastrigal in a discourse. The Sandilya Vidya is named after the great sage Sandilya who had the revelation of the Supreme Being. In this vidya, he teaches how to focus the thought on the all comprehensive Brahman. In one sense, it teaches the essence of the entire Upanishad wisdom, for it highlights the value of meditation as a continuous inner mental activity to be practised by each individual until such time when the Truth is revealed within oneself. For, only when one thinks deeply and constantly is there a chance to get deeper into the core of many issues. In this quest, the aspirant is urged to correlate the external world of perception with one’s inner experience through uninterrupted meditation. Without harbouring any doubt or suspicion, if one continues to meditate with intense faith in the words of the sage to whom this method of realising Brahman has been revealed, one is sure to attain Brahman at some point of time in future.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sandilya-vidya/article31468172.ece
30 April 2020||New Delhi,||‘Nitish should bring back workers now’||The leeway given by the Ministry of Home Affairs to the State governments to bring back students, pilgrims and migrant workers stuck in other States has given fresh ammunition to NDA ally Lok Jan Shakti Party to hit out at JD(U) president and Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar.  “At least now, he should act. He has repeatedly been citing the excuse of lockdown to refrain from bringing our migrant workers, pilgrims and students. If other States like Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh can bring back their people, how come these rules applied only to Bihar?” LJP president Chirag Paswan asked. He said he had to knock at Home Minister Amit Shah’s doors when the State government didn’t respond to his pleas. “I had a word with Home Minister Amit Shah last evening after not getting any response from the State government. He was very positive and concerned about it. I had written a letter to Chief Minister Nitish Kumar two days back requesting him to arrange transport to bring back our students stuck in Kota and other places, but I didn’t get a response.” Mr. Paswan thanked Mr. Shah for bringing in the order.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nitish-should-bring-back-workers-now/article31468141.ece
30 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Govt. appoints Tirumurti as envoy to UN||The government has appointed T.S. Tirumurti as the next Permanent Representative of India to the United Nations. He will take over from Syed Akbaruddin, one of the country’s most prominent diplomat, who is retiring. His appointment to the UN will come at an important time when India will be in the UN Security Council for a two-year term in 2021-22. The announcement came amid a slew of other appointments announced for envoys to Austria, Qatar and Bahrain, while more Ambassadorial positions to the United Kingdom, Finland, Switzerland, Italy, Singapore, EU/Belgium and The Philippines are expected shortly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/govt-appoints-tirumurti-as-envoy-to-un/article31468146.ece
30 April 2020||GUWAHATI,||‘Armed forces may give virus to villagers’||The extremist National Socialist Council of Nagalim, or the Isak-Muivah faction of the NSCN, has accused the armed forces of exposing the villagers of Manipur to the COVID-19 in the name of pushing out its cadre from a designated camp. A stand-off between the inhabitants of Kashung village and the Assam Rifles troops began on April 21.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/armed-forces-may-give-virus-to-villagers/article31468162.ece
30 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Make testing centres PwD-friendly’||The Union Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment (SJ&E) has asked all States and Union Territories to make sure that testing, quarantine and treatment centres for COVID-19 are accessible for persons with disabilities (PwD). A Ministry statement said on Wednesday that Department of SJ&E Secretary Shakuntala Gamlin had written to all Chief Secretaries, asking them to ensure that basic accessibility features are in place at testing and quarantine centres as well as hospitals. “The current crisis poses even greater threats to the Divyangjan not just due to their less/compromised immunity, ability to perceive or comprehend information but also due to non-availability of accessibility features... at such COVID-19 related facilities,” the Ministry said. The States and Union Territories were asked to ensure that sanitisers, glove cases, soaps and wash basins are within reach for PwD, particularly wheelchair users. Ramps with railings, at least one low height counter at receptions, testing areas and pharmacies and audio and captioned video announcements should be provided.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/make-testing-centres-pwd-friendly/article31468165.ece
30 April 2020||GUWAHATI,||A meal for Rs. 1 on Assam highway||A dhaba owner on a highway in Assam is offering a vegetarian meal for Rs. 1 till May 3 for truckers. Debu Saha of Shankarnagar in Hojai district said, “At a normal rate, a meal comprising rice, dal and two vegetable curries would cost Rs. 50. Charging a token Rs. 1 from truckers, doctors and medical staff, policemen and the staff of the local administration is my way of contributing to the battle against this virus.” Assam’s Transport Commissioner Adil Khan told The Hindu , “An entire ecosystem is linked to the trucking business. Since smooth transport of essential commodities through Assam is vital for the adjoining States too, we were one of the first in the country to identify repair shops and 45 highway dhabas across 33 districts where the truckers can have food and rest.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/a-meal-for-rs-1-on-assam-highway/article31468179.ece
30 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Use Aarogya Setu app: Centre to staff||All Central government officials, including the outsourced workforce, have been directed to immediately download the ‘Aarogya Setu’ app on their mobile phones. The decision comes amid concerns raised by experts on the privacy of the application. The officials, through an office memo on Wednesday, were told by the Department of Personnel and Training (DoPT) to review their status on the app before starting for office and commute only when it shows their status as ‘safe’ or ‘low risk’. In case the app shows a message that an official has a ‘moderate’ or ‘high risk’, calculated on the basis of Bluetooth proximity (recent contact with an infected person), he or she should stay away from office and go in for self-isolation for 14 days till the status becomes ‘safe’ or ‘low risk’, the order says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/use-aarogya-setu-app-centre-to-staff/article31468178.ece
30 April 2020||CHENNAI,||One strain of virus is most potent: study||Scientists at the National Institute of Biomedical Genomics (NIBMG), Kalyani, West Bengal, have found that the novel coronavirus has undergone mutations to form 10 different types (clades). Of the 10, one specific type called A2a has become predominant and is fast replacing both the original type (called “O”) from China and other mutated types in many countries. The results of the study will soon be published in the Indian Journal of Medical Research . The A2a type seems to be predominant in New York, Italy, Australia, Spain, Iceland, Brazil, Congo and other countries. It is also the dominant type in India. In the U.S., Washington state and New York show contrasting predominance of the clades. While B1 type is predominant in Washington, A2a dominates in New York. The differences in patterns of travel contact with China and Europe could be a reason, they write.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/one-strain-of-virus-is-most-potent-study/article31468169.ece
30 April 2020||Mumbai,||14 new cases in Dharavi||Dharavi reported 14 new cases on Wednesday, bringing its tally to 344, including 18 deaths. On Tuesday, the area reported 42 new cases, its highest 24-hour tally so far, and also reported four deaths. The number dropped to 14 on Wednesday, and no deaths were reported. The cases are from Matunga labour camp, Kunchikurve Nagar, 90-feet road, Mukund Nagar. Also, cases were reported from new parts including 60-feet road, Dharavi Koliwada.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/14-new-cases-in-dharavi/article31468153.ece
30 April 2020||Aruppukottai,TAMIL NADU||Textile shop violating curfew order sealed||Over 1,000 litres of edible oil was seized during a routine check conducted by Essential Commodity Monitoring Committee at Kariyapatti on Wednesday. The team, led by Food Safety Officer, N. Mohammed Ismail Kasim, inspected 17 shops on Main Road. The officials also seized food items like applams and snacks that had contained unauthorized colouring matters. Such 45 kg of food items was destroyed. The officials found that banned plastic bags were also still available in the shops and seized around 25 kg of plastic bags. The oil and bags were kept in Taluk office. Meanwhile, a team of officials, led by Aruppukottai Tahsilder, Palanisamy, raided a textile shop on the Main Bazaar that was kept open violating the curfew order. Only shops that sell essential goods were allowed to be kept open and do business. When the officials entered the shop, they found some 30 people, including customers, inside the shop. A group of people had come out to buy silk saris for a marriage function. The shop was locked and sealed by the revenue officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/textile-shop-violating-curfew-order-sealed/article31468623.ece
30 April 2020||BENGALURU,TAMIL NADU||Aero India 2021 is on, at same time and place||The 13th edition of Aero India will be held from February 3 to 7, 2021. The venue remains unchanged again — Air Force Station, Yelahanka, according to the event site of the Ministry of Defence. The dates of the two-yearly international military and civil air show are normally announced in October. There was no immediate information why the announcement was made more than five months ahead.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aero-india-2021-is-on-at-same-time-and-place/article31468200.ece
30 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||With over 65% of COVID-19 cases, all eyes on north Chennai||Over 65% of the COVID-19 case load in the city has been reported in three zones of north Chennai. The 426 sq. km of the city is divided into 15 zones with a total population of around 70 lakh. Chennai Corporation Commissioner G. Prakash on Wednesday said the city’s northern zones — Tondiarpet, Royapuram and Thiru Vi Ka Nagar — have registered more positive cases. “The number of positive cases in north Chennai is more because of the population density. The city has a population density of 27,000 per sq. km while north Chennai has 55,000 per sq. km. Six wards in north Chennai reported more positive cases,” he said. “The testing rate in Chennai is also one of the highest in the country. We have collected 22,000 samples for focused testing, out of which 673 persons have tested positive for COVID-19. But 44 positive cases have unlinked history. We have formed special teams to trace the links. There is no community spread,” Mr. Prakash insisted. He said 200 samples from traders in Koyambedu had been collected and added, “Over 1,600 retail traders will be shifted to 245 playgrounds in the city.” Stressing on the need for social distancing in commercial establishments, Mr. Prakash said shops violating norms of social distancing will be sealed for three months. “Over 1.75 lakh people in containment zones will soon get assistance from volunteers who will facilitate supply of essential commodities,” Mr. Prakash said. Over 95% of positive cases are asymptomatic in the city. For example, most of the 59 media persons who have tested positive are asymptomatic. The Corporation has created 22,000 quarantine spaces in various parts of the city. An additional 22,000 will be created in private schools, private lodges and colleges. Case in Ripon Buildings An employee at the Chennai Corporation headquarters Ripon Buildings has tested positive for COVID-19 and has been admitted to a hospital. “His condition is stable. Samples have been collected from more employees from Ripon Buildings,” an official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/with-over-65-of-covid-19-cases-all-eyes-on-north-chennai/article31468335.ece
30 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||More testing, field support teams to arrest virus spread||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Wednesday said the State government would increase the rate of testing samples for COVID-19 in red zones and speed up testing in Chennai, which accounts for around 35% of the cases reported in the State so far. Besides, the government has constituted 15 field support teams (FSTs) to assist the district administration in containment zones in the Chennai, Coimbatore, Madurai, Salem and Tiruppur Municipal Corporations. Mr. Palaniswami said that the testing of samples would be ramped up, and that “all those living on the streets where COVID-19 cases were reported” would be tested in the first phase. In the next phase, residents of the respective wards will be randomly tested. In Chennai, the number of mobile testing units will be increased from the existing three to 10, to reach houses of those suspected to have COVID-19. “With Chennai reporting more cases, the Chief Minister is focusing more on containing the spread here. During the Collectors’ meeting, it emerged that the efforts being made in districts and rural areas have been paying off. The challenge is primarily in Chennai and some other places,” a senior official told    The Hindu . Six zones of the Greater Chennai Corporation that have at least 40 patients — Tondiarpet (zone 4), Royapuram (zone 5), Thiru-Vi-Ka Nagar (zone 6), Anna Nagar (zone 8), Teynampet (zone 9) and Kodambakkam (zone 10) — have been assigned an FST each. Three other FSTs have been assigned to three zones each, and one team has been assigned to the Greater Chennai Corporation’s headquarters. Likewise, Tiruppur, Coimbatore, Madurai and Salem Municipal Corporations have been assigned an FST each. These teams will “assist the district administration/the Greater Chennai Corporation to ensure management of containment zones, provision of essential services in the containment area, contract tracing and testing, etc.” Each FST comprises IAS and IPS officers and senior officials from local bodies and the Health Department. The District Collectors will coordinate with FSTs. Containment zones Mr. Palaniswami said that hand sanitisers, masks and disinfectants would be distributed to residents of all houses in the containment zones. A new committee would be constituted to ascertain if there were COVID-19 cases without a proven contact history, and then trace their contacts. He also gave a series of other instructions to raise awareness on the importance of physical distancing, wearing masks and ensuring hygiene. Arrangements will be made to quarantine the poor in government quarantine facilities if they are unable to do so on their own due to space constraints. Mobile toilets will be arranged in containment zones, if needed, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/more-testing-field-support-teams-to-arrest-virus-spread/article31468373.ece
30 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19 testing to be stepped up in Chennai, says Chief Secretary||The Greater Chennai Corporation has been instructed to ensure that the number of samples tested daily for COVID-19 in the city is stepped up from 1,300 to the 1,500-1,800 range, according to Chief Secretary K. Shanmugam. Responding to a question on the perception that there was “delay” in taking samples, testing and declaring the results, the Chief Secretary, told The Hindu on Wednesday, that this was the case about a week ago. Now, “both data entry and updating the results are done online. The time taken is only 24 hours. There are no issues, now,” he said, adding that he was personally monitoring the situation daily. In terms of samples tested per million population, it was highest in Chennai. As for contact tracing, Mr. Shanmugam said this had “improved a lot.” The time taken for completing the cycle was 48 hours. Multiple agencies such as the police, Health Department and the local bodies were all involved. “As for Chennai, the status is being reviewed daily by Director-General of Police [J.K. Tripathy] and I,” he said. Attributing the rising graph of positive cases in Chennai to increased testing, Mr. Shanmugam emphasised that “Chennai is our focus.” Field teams were posted in areas with a heavy concentration of the COVID-19 cases to keep a close watch on following procedures such as contact tracing and containment area management, Mr. Shanmugam said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/daily-testing-of-samples-to-be-stepped-up-in-city-says-cs/article31468331.ece
30 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Collectors told to identify units that can be allowed to operate||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Wednesday directed all District Collectors to submit a report to the State government at the earliest, suggesting specific industries that could be allowed to function, depending on the COVID-19 situation in their respective districts. Indicating the possibility of a relaxation of the lockdown in districts designated as green zones, the Chief Minister directed Collectors to implement relevant guidelines as and when the State government issues them. According to the Centre’s classification, green zones are districts where there are no cases of COVID-19, whereas orange zones have a relatively small number of patients and red zones have a high case count. During a video-conference, Mr. Palaniswami told Collectors that they could take steps to allow industries to function in green zones, as and when the government issues appropriate instructions. He urged officials to take steps to ensure orange zones turn green zones and red zones turn orange zones at the earliest. Collectors were directed to watch out for the movement of people and vehicles through inter-State borders and subject such travellers to medical checks. He also directed the Commissioner of the Greater Chennai Corporation and all District Collectors to submit a report on the total number of migrant workers (State-wise) residing in urban and rural areas. He instructed them to ensure that dry rations and other forms of aid reached the beneficiaries. Largely under control The spread of the disease was largely under control in the State, barring Chennai, the Chief Minister said. “Chennai is a large city with a relatively higher population density. Since many live on narrow streets, it is easy for the disease to spread. That is also why there has been an increase in deaths in Chennai,” he said. Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam, Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar, Revenue Minister R.B. Udhayakumar, Chief Secretary K. Shanmugam, Director-General of Police J.K. Tripathy and senior officials took part in Wednesday’s meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/collectors-told-to-identify-units-that-can-be-allowed-to-operate/article31468368.ece
30 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Ration cardholders to get double their free rice quota for 3 months||The State government has decided to double the rice entitlement of all rice-drawing ration cardholders in Tamil Nadu for the next three months, to alleviate hardship caused by the COVID-19 lockdown. This is in tune with the government’s policy of universal public distribution system (UPDS). As done for the ordinary allocation of rice, every cardholder will get the additional allocation of free rice, at 5 kg per person a month. There are about 2.01 crore rice-drawing cards, of which priority household (PHH) cards are 1.15 crore and non-priority household (NPHH) cards, around 86 lakh. The broad objective of the State government is to ensure that no card receives a lower amount of rice than what it would normally receive under the UPDS, as per an order issued by the Cooperation, Food and Civil Supplies Department on Monday. With this, a ration card, having four persons as members of a household, will be entitled to receive 40 kg of free rice a month, up to the end of June. Ordinarily, the monthly entitlement is 20 kg for a card of four persons. The order states that PDS beneficiaries can draw the additional entitlement for the month of April in May and June, while obtaining their revised quota of rice. In other words, during the period of April-June, a ration card in the State will cumulatively get 120 kg of rice free. The State government’s move is an improvement over the Central government’s scheme — the Prime Minister Garib Kalyan Ann Yojana (PMGKAY) — wherein only two types of ration cardholders, the Priority Household (PHH) and Antyodaya Anna Yojana (AAY), are entitled to receive the additional allocation of 5 kg per person a month for the three months (April-June), over and above the norms as stipulated by the National Food Security Act (NFSA). Another decision taken by the government is to increase the minimum entitlement during the three months, for single-member ration cards, to 7 kg per card a month from 5 kg per card a month, which is the norm under NFSA. By providing an additional quantity of 5 kg per person in such cards in light of the lockdown, the total entitlement will go up to 12 kg, which is even otherwise being given in Tamil Nadu for single-member ration cards. The State government’s move to cover NPHH cards involves an additional requirement of 66,271 tonnes of rice a month, at the rate of Rs. 146 crore a month. In total, it will cost Rs. 438 crore additionally to the exchequer for the three months. But the government will spend only Rs. 84 crore more than the originally-budgeted amount. This is because it will be able to save Rs. 354 crore from the transaction of pulses procurement, as the State has been allocated 11,108 tonnes of tur dal by the Centre, free under the PMGKAY, for PHH and AAY cards. A few days before the Centre came out with PMGKAY in March, the State government announced that rice, one kg each of sugar and tur dal, and one kg of edible oil would be given free to all entitled ration cardholders in April, apart from Rs. 1,000 in cash each to rice-drawing cards. It had also decided to extend this concession, except the cash support, for the month of May.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ration-cardholders-to-get-double-their-free-rice-quota-for-3-months/article31468362.ece
30 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Residents bar visitors from their localities||As COVID -19 positive cases have been reported in most parts of the city, various residents’ associations have started blocking streets using banners and signboards asking outsiders not to enter. The city has recorded around 673 cases and Royapuram zone alone has 164 cases, followed by Thiru Vi Ka Nagar with 128 cases. Zones such as Manali and Sholinganallur have recorded very few positive cases so far. Meanwhile, residents in many parts of the city have now started taking precautions and are not allowing outsiders. “The MGR Nagar locality in Thirumullaivoyal houses more than 400 families and there are many migrant workers too. The friends of workers visit the locality often and the stretch is used by people to reach Thirumullaivoyal Main Road. Hence, we decided to put a board asking outsiders not to enter,” said Mullai Dayalan, a resident. Meanwhile, M. Selvi, a resident of Rettakuzha lane near Mundakakanni Amman MRTS station in Mylapore, said residents in the lane decided not to allow anyone to enter the area. “The decision was taken after a few residents, living near Dr. Ambedkar Bridge off R.K. Salai, tested positive for COVID-19. The youngsters from that locality often hang out in our area,” she said. TNSCB tenements too In Perumbakkam, the Tamil Nadu Slum Clearance Board (TNSCB) tenements has also restricted outsider entry. “There are four entries into a block. Three of them have been blocked. The lift operator does not allow visitors into the block. The residents have to come down and meet them,” a resident said. Similarly, residents of some apartment complexes in Padikuppam also put up signboards at the entrance asking visitors not to come inside till the lockdown is over.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/residents-bar-visitors-from-their-localities/article31468333.ece
30 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HC seeks report on provision of PPE to healthcare workers||The Madras High Court has taken serious note of the fact that doctors, paramedical staff and sanitation workers of the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital (RGGGH) have tested positive for COVID-19. It has called for a report from the State government on the provision of personal protective equipment (PPE) to front line workers, in the fight against the disease. Justices M. Sathyanarayanan and M. Nirmal Kumar granted time till May 13 for Additional Advocate General S.R. Rajagopal to file a comprehensive status report, with supporting documents, on the number of PPEs distributed to front line staff. The interim order was passed on a public interest litigation (PIL) petition filed by advocate S. Jimraj Milton. The petitioner had insisted upon issuing PPE kits not just to doctors, nurses and other hospital staff but also to police personnel, electricity and telecommunication staff and others involved in delivering essential services. He pointed out that these workers were risking their lives to protect others and some of them had, in the process, contracted the disease. During the course of the hearing through video-conferencing, the judges took note of a newspaper report published on Monday regarding the Madras Medical College hostel having been shut after two postgraduate students reportedly tested positive for COVID-19 and the source having been traced to a sanitation worker at the hostel. The judges recorded in their interim order that some doctors in RGGGH had complained to the newspaper of not having been provided a sufficient number of PPE kits. “This court is concerned about doctors, nurses, sanitation workers and policemen who are the forefront warriors,” they said. Further, appreciating the services rendered by those in the Revenue Administration Department as well as local bodies, the judges said their interests should also be taken care of by the State. The Bench added that guidelines had been issued by the National Centre for Disease Control to make PPE kits mandatory in the checklist for isolation rooms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-seeks-report-on-provision-of-ppe-to-healthcare-workers/article31468364.ece
30 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Very few patients in T.N. have needed ventilator support, say doctors||Very few patients who tested positive for COVID-19 in Tamil Nadu have required ventilator support till now. A few others, who did require oxygen, were put on high-flow oxygen therapy and recovered well, said senior doctors involved in the treatment of COVID-19 patients. As on date, the State has a total of 2,162 COVID-19 cases. Of this, 1,210 persons have been discharged from hospitals, leaving 902 patients in hospitals, undergoing treatment. The State has so far recorded 27 deaths due to COVID-19. A senior doctor said that of all those who tested positive in the State so far, 2-3% may have required ventilator support. About 5-10% required intensive care. “Right now, none of the patients in hospitals in the State are on ventilator support. One of the main reasons is that we are picking up cases early. Some were put on high-flow oxygen therapy and it has helped them. They came out well and were discharged,” he said. Another reason is the close monitoring of asymptomatic patients in the high-risk category. “The State has been advising that asymptomatic patients, falling under the high-risk category, such as the elderly and those having co-morbid conditions, should be closely monitored. While this has helped us stay on the safer side, it has definitely helped us detect hypoxia early,” he said. Another senior government doctor said that there were several studies and theories on ventilator support, high-flow oxygen therapy, and keeping patients in a prone position to improve oxygenation. “We are in a situation where it is early to tell which one gives better success rates. Nevertheless, as of now, the number of critical patients is less in the State,” the doctor said. In any infectious disease, there are three determining factors — agent (virus or bacteria), environment, and host, a doctor, said, adding: “All three factors should be favourable for the infection to be established.” “In COVID-19, the infectivity is high, that is, person to person transmission is high. But the disease is developing less in people,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/very-few-patients-in-tn-have-needed-ventilator-support-say-doctors/article31468374.ece
30 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Delivery partner tests positive for COVID-19||A delivery partner with online food ordering and delivery app Swiggy was among those who tested positive for COVID-19 in the city. The Greater Chennai Corporation confirmed this and said that contact tracing was under way. “We are tracing 64 contacts and taking necessary action. Swiggy has also been cooperating with us for the same,” said a senior official. Six members of his family have tested negative and have currently been quarantined. In an official statement, Swiggy said that in accordance with predefined protocols, the delivery partner was quarantined as soon as the incident was discovered and he was currently in the care of health authorities. “We are committed to supporting the delivery partner through this period. We have been working with local health authorities to support them in any way needed,” the statement said. As part of the measures taken, Swiggy said that they have strongly encouraged contactless delivery and have been checking for mask usage through technology as well as using their network of restaurants to test delivery partners for symptoms. “Another measure we will be taking is that all deliveries will soon mandatorily be no-contact deliveries,” the company added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/delivery-partner-tests-positive-for-covid-19/article31468341.ece
30 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Cabinet to meet on May 2, decide on lockdown||The Cabinet will meet on May 2 to decide on whether to lift the COVID-19 lockdown from May 4. It will also look at ways to lift restrictions imposed since March 24. Confirming this, a senior official told The Hindu that the government had to consult multiple stakeholders, besides receiving ground inputs from District Collectors before taking any decision. “But, even otherwise, officials have indicated a staggered exit and not to open all gates on day 1 (May 4),” he said. He said the recommendations of the 21-member expert committee would shape the decision.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cabinet-to-meet-on-may-2-decide-on-lockdown/article31468370.ece
30 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Disinfect establishments twice a day: Corporation||The Greater Chennai Corporation said all establishments which have been permitted to function should be sanitized and disinfected twice a day. Corporation Commissioner G. Prakash, in a statement, said establishments which were open and functioning should be disinfected twice a day and all employees should compulsorily wear masks. These establishments have been directed to ensure that physical distancing is maintained and employees wash their hands regularly. After every use, ATMs should be sanitized, the GCC has directed. Functioning establishments have been asked to have a team of people in charge of disinfecting the space. Details regarding the number of employees working as well as measures taken to disinfect and sanitize the premises has to be provided to the Corporation before May 1, the Commissioner said. Officials from the Health Department are expected to carry out inspections of these premises as well. The Corporation warned violators will be penalised.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/disinfect-establishments-twice-a-day-corporation/article31468339.ece
30 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Majority of children asymptomatic, say doctors||Like adults, a majority of children who tested positive for COVID-19 in Tamil Nadu are asymptomatic. The paediatric age group accounts for nearly six % of the total 2,162 COVID-19 positive cases in the State. As of April 29, 129 children - 71 boys and 58 girls in the age group of 0 to 12 years have tested positive in the State. One of the youngest, a five-day-old baby, whose mother had tested positive for COVID-19, has been admitted to a government hospital in the city. S. Srinivasan, State nodal officer, Child Health, said for a majority of the children, their parents had tested positive for COVID-19. “Almost all children are asymptomatic. There was one child who had pneumonia, but recovered with treatment. Once they test positive, they are admitted to hospitals and discharged after 14 days, once their results return negative for the infection. We have no sick children as of now,” he said. The lungs of the children are not affected as in adults, said doctors. At the Institute of Child Health (ICH) and Hospital for Children, Egmore, children who had no travel/contact history, but presented with unexplained fever, asthma, sudden breathlessness, X-ray findings and pneumonia were tested for COVID-19 in the last three weeks. “We screened 60 children and all of them tested negative for COVID-19,” said Rema Chandramohan, director of ICH. She said that this was the situation throughout the world. “Children are asymptomatic and are doing well. They have not reported any problems warranting respiratory support,” she added. Dr. Srinivasan added that during the SARS (Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome) outbreak in 2002 and MERS (Middle East Respiratory Syndrome) outbreak in 2012, the paediatric population across the world accounted for 6.9% and less than 3%, respectively. Hospitals are able to manage children admitted to isolation wards as one of their parents are with them. “They are coping well. A few of them have mild symptoms of cough or lower respiratory tract infection. Just like they stay home during the lockdown, they stay inside a room at the hospital. Some of them do try to come out of the room, but being a hospital set-up, they do fear doctors and stay inside the isolation rooms,” a senior doctor said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/majority-of-children-asymptomatic-say-doctors/article31468344.ece
30 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Flower merchants plan to close shops till lockdown ends||Flower merchants in Koyambedu market have decided to close shops till May 3 and not source produce till then as a precautionary measure against COVID-19. While alternate space was being prepared in Madhavaram for flower and fruits traders at Koyambedu, flower merchants have decided not to shift citing various reasons. S. Mookiah, president, Koyambedu Wholesale Flowers Market Merchants’ Association said there are about 470 flower shops in Koyambedu. it would be difficult for 3,000 traders and labourers to shift overnight to the alternate site. There may be hardships in bringing produce to Madhavaram late at night. “We have already stopped sourcing flowers to the Koyambedu market since Sunday. One of the flower merchants tested positive for COVID-19 in his residential area. Instead of shifting to Madhavaram, we decided to shut shops and support the government’s directive not to function in Koyambedu,” he said. Similarly, fruits merchants plan to close shop after Thursday. Licensed traders were provided application forms to allot shops at Madhavaram. S. Srinivasan, wholesale fruit merchant at Koyambedu, said, “We plan to finish selling stock on Thursday and then shut shops. It will be tough to shift to Madhavaram for most fruit traders.” Meanwhile, wholesale vegetable traders who were allowed to function at Koyambedu reported less sales. Some of them dumped the unsold stock in the market. About 250-300 shops operated on Wednesday. The market received only 200 truckloads of vegetables, which was half the daily load on Wednesday. Some retailers continue to seek space in the Koyambedu mofussil bus terminus, traders added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/koyambedu-fruit-flower-sellers-against-moving-to-madhavaram/article31468338.ece
30 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Stalin threatens protest||DMK president M.K. Stalin on Wednesday alleged that by bringing the Cauvery Water Management Authority under the Jal Shakthi Ministry, the BJP government at the Centre had defeated the purpose of the constitution of the body. In a statement, he urged Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami to hold a cabinet meeting to adopt a resolution against the Centre’s move. “If the Centre did not withdraw the gazette notification, we will organise protests against it,” he said. Alagiri slams Centre TNCC president K. S. Alagiri condemned the Centre’s decision and charged that it is “unilateral move” aimed at benefiting Karnataka.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stalin-threatens-protest/article31468356.ece
30 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Refrain from panic buying’||The City Police Commissioner A.K. Viswanathan asked residents not to indulge in panic buying on Thursday and opt for neighbourhood shops. In a video message, he said to help people purchase goods after the intensified lockdown, shops will be open from 6 a.m. to 5 p.m. on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/refrain-from-panic-buying/article31468336.ece
30 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||An app to help police track violators||In an effort to track people leaving their homes for no reason during the lockdown, the city police have started using an app called Eye Tracker from Wednesday. “The police personnel will scan the driving licence or Aadhaar card using the app. If the motorist does not have either, his mobile number will be entered along with the purpose of travel,” said Shekhar Deshmukh, deputy commissioner of police, Mylapore. All these details will be stored in a server. “This will have the travel history of the motorists. With this app, the policemen will be able to identify them easily,” said another senior officer. If the motorists are found caught roaming around frequently without any reason, their vehicles would be seized.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/an-app-to-help-police-track-violators/article31468342.ece
30 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||T.N. raises Rs. 2,000 cr. by issue of bonds||Tamil Nadu has raised Rs. 2,000 crore through the issue of bonds known as State Development Loans (SDLs) with a tenure of 30 years, at an interest rate of 7.15%, according to data from RBI. With this, the State has so far raised Rs. 8,560 crore (Rs. 8,000 crore this month alone) by selling bonds to meet the increased expenditure due to the COVID-19 outbreak. Earlier this month, the Centre allowed States to raise Rs. 3.2 lakh crore in net market borrowings during the first nine months of the current financial year, as a result of which Tamil Nadu will be able to borrow Rs. 28,880 crore. “While several States have issued shorter tenor SDLs of 1-3 years, Tamil Nadu has reissued a 30-year SDL,” said Jayanta Roy, senior vice-president at ICRA.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tn-raises-rs-2000-cr-by-issue-of-bonds/article31468360.ece
30 April 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Grocery shops to stay open till 5 p.m. today: CM||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Wednesday announced that provision stores and grocery shops would be allowed to function from 6 a.m. to 5 p.m. in Chennai, Coimbatore and Madurai Municipal Corporation limits on April 30. However, from May 1, timings for shops selling provisions and vegetables will continue to be from 6 a.m. to 1 p.m., Mr. Palaniswami said in a statement. Once the complete lockdown in Chennai, Coimbatore and Madurai Corporations is lifted, the restrictions that prevailed before April 26 will continue to apply, the Chief Minister said. Mr. Palaniswami also urged people to follow physical distancing norms and not rush, but remain patient while shopping. The Chief Minister also urged them to wear masks while stepping outside houses to shop.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/grocery-shops-to-stay-open-till-5-pm-today-cm/article31468359.ece
30 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||DMK to set up community kitchens in 25 towns||DMK president M.K. Stalin on Wednesday said his party would establish community kitchens in 25 important towns to feed the people who had been denied a livelihood by the COVID-19 pandemic. “We will do it under the name, ‘ Ezhai Eliorukku Unavu ’ (food for the poor). We will feed 20 lakh people in 25 towns. On a daily basis, we will give food to one lakh people,” Mr. Stalin said in a video message. He said over six lakh people had sought help after he launched Ondrinaivom Vaa , an online initiative, and the party was distributing them food, medicines and other essential commodities. Mr. Stalin said he had decided to set up kitchens since many people wanted cooked food instead of food items. “I was heartbroken when they said that they do not have place to cook food. They are migrant workers, daily wagers and homeless,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmk-to-set-up-community-kitchens-in-25-towns/article31468358.ece
30 April 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore sees 11 wildlife offences during lockdown||In the five weeks or so of the nationwide COVID-19 lockdown, the Forest Department in Coimbatore has seen 11 cases of wildlife offences, where people have hunted or attempted to hunt wild animals that strayed into human habitations. All cases were reported in private or poramboke lands adjoining forest areas. Persons involved in these offences either hunted or attempted to trap animals such as hares, wild boars and spotted deer. The maximum number of persons caught by the Department attempted to ensnare hares. Officials with the Forest Department say that those involved in the poaching could have committed the offence as they were without jobs at home, due to the lockdown. It is also learnt that the demand for meat of such animals went up in rural areas when restrictions were imposed on the functioning of meat stalls as part of the lockdown. As per details provided by the Forest Department, 42 persons were fined since April 4. The fines ranged from Rs. 5,000 to Rs. 20,000 a person. In two cases, Forest Department staff seized meat of wild boars and spotted deer from the accused involved. Other cases were related to laying of snares for trapping hares, a species that is widely found in bushes and grasslands in rural areas and private lands lying close to forest. Like hares, wild boars and spotted deer too, stray into farm lands. In one of the cases reported on April 6 in the limits of Periyanaickenpalayam forest range, a cow died after it accidentally stepped on or chewed an ‘ avittukai ’, a crude explosive used to hunt wild boar. “The farm owner alerted the Department about the incident. During investigation, it was found that three persons had placed the explosive in the farmland for poaching purposes. They had also placed snares in which a spotted deer was trapped. It was rescued and released,” said D. Venkatesh, District Forest Officer, Coimbatore Forest Division. The official said that a team led by foresters conducts patrols in places adjoining forests every day. During such patrols, they either find snares or persons laying them. Mr. Venkatesh added that no cases of poaching or poaching attempts were reported inside the forests during the lockdown period.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-sees-11-wildlife-offences-during-lockdown/article31468380.ece
30 April 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Local blends come up as illegal brewing thrives during lockdown||Sleuths of the Prohibition Enforcement Wing (PEW) of the Coimbatore rural police stumbled upon a new ‘blend’ as they conducted a surprise raid at the house of K. Krishnasamy at Cheran Nagar near Kinathukadavu on April 20. They found 300 ml bottles filled with a dark spurious drink and the man who allegedly made the blend told them that it was Sarbath Saarayam . The prefix Sarbath was given to the drink as it was prepared adding colour, squash and other flavours to methanol. Each bottle was sold for Rs. 500. PEW team seized 120 bottles of the drink from Krishnasamy. “The man who made the spurious drink had stocked methanol before lockdown. He added flavours and colours to methanol at certain proportions and named it as Sarbath Saarayam and it had wide demand in the area during lockdown. We also arrested two others who were found with the same drink,” said PEW inspector K. Baskaran, who led the raid. PEW has also registered 10 cases for illegal brewing of arrack since the lockdown started and TASMAC outlets were closed on March 24. PEW seized 250 litres of fermented wash, which is distilled to make arrack, and 20 litre of arrack till Tuesday. Coimbatore rural police (law and order) have also stepped up checks to curb the sale of arrack in its limits. Superintendent of Police Sujit Kumar has instructed all stations to conduct checks to curb illegal brewing and sale of arrack. As per statistics provided by Mr. Kumar, rural police registered five cases each related to seizure of arrack and fermented wash and one case related to seizure of methanol. While rural police arrested seven persons for possessing and selling arrack, four were held for stocking fermented wash and three for possessing methanol. The rural police have so far seized 17.2 litre of arrack, 413 litre of fermented wash, and 20 litres of methanol.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/local-blends-come-up-as-illegal-brewing-thrives-during-lockdown/article31468389.ece
30 April 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore start-up builds robot for COVID-19||A Coimbatore-based start-up has developed robot for UV sterilisation, instead of spraying the disinfectant, that can be used in hospitals treating COVID-19 patients. According to a press release, Kamal Prasath Balaji, who had taken part in the World Skills competition, and runs Dotworld Technologies, a start-up, has built ‘Dokat Cura’, a UV sterilisation tower. “Ultraviolet germicidal irradiation (UVGI) is a disinfection method that uses short-wavelength ultraviolet (UV-C) light to kill or inactivate micro organisms normally used in water treatment and sanitation in hospitals. Taking inspiration from there, DotWorld Technologies has built ‘Dokat Cura’ a UV sterilisation tower that uses short-wavelength ultraviolet (UV-C) instead of the conventional method of spraying the disinfectant,” says the press release. The tower is portable and battery-operated and can be effectively used to sterilise various public places like hospitals and trains and buses. These towers can be controlled with a remote and a timer and can be operated from safe distances. The company then came up with Dokat Cura+, a manual controlled robot that will help sanitise public places by navigating automatically. The start-up also plans to develop ‘Dokat Aura’, which is a robot nurse that can supply food and medicine in isolation wards. The solutions are in functional prototype phase can be taken to mass production stage if the Government approves the products, the release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-start-up-builds-robot-for-covid-19/article31468383.ece
30 April 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Kite flyers turn Coimbatore skies unfriendly for birds||With the COVID-19 lockdown forcing people to stay indoors, youngsters and children are increasingly engaging themselves in kite flying in Coimbatore. But the leisure sport does not seem to be bird-friendly. Animal Rescuers, a voluntary organisation that assists Forest Department in the rescue and rehabilitation of birds in the region, has so far rescued 36 birds during lockdown, out of which three were suspected to have suffered injuries by kite strings or having hit against the spikes of kites. On Tuesday, G. Krishna Kumar, a volunteer of Animal Rescuers, rescued a Pariah Kite. The injured bird was taken to A to Z Pet Polyclinic and Scan Centre at Peelamedu in the city. “An X-ray imaging of the bird’s left wing showed a broken bone,” said M. Manu, a veterinarian with the polyclinic. The bird is shifted to an aviary of the Forest Department. According to Dr. Manu, the bird is likely to recover in three weeks. A pigeon that Animal Rescuers rescued recently was found entangled in synthetic kite string. A crow was also found with one of its wings injured. “Birds like Black Kite may tend to attack kites, and get entangled in the string,” added Dr. Manu. Treating the rescue of birds as an essential service during lockdown, Coimbatore District administration has given special pass to Animal Rescuers for its works. Animal Rescuers can be reached at 96260 11011.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kite-flyers-turn-coimbatore-skies-unfriendly-for-birds/article31468388.ece
30 April 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||‘Complete lockdown an experimental attempt’||The complete lockdown implemented by the State government in five cities was an “experimental attempt” to curb the spread of COVID-19, former Union Minister and senior BJP leader Pon. Radhakrishnan said on Wednesday. He was interacting with journalists on a teleconferencing platform. “In these times, the public must cooperate with the government,” he said in an online press meet with the mediapersons in Coimbatore. Noting that the excessive crowds “in some places” due to panic buying could have been avoided, Mr. Radhakrishnan claimed that he personally saw people practising personal distancing outside shops in Chennai on March 25, a day before the complete lockdown came into force. Regarding the allegations that the State government purchased rapid test kits at a higher cost, Mr. Radhakrishnan said that opposition parties must not politicise the issue given the current situation. “If you speak in such a manner at this time, the people will lose hope,” he claimed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/complete-lockdown-an-experimental-attempt/article31468400.ece
30 April 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||SITRA gets over 100 samples a day for certification||With the spread of COVID-19, Coimbatore region has emerged as a hub not only for production of protective gear for healthcare sector but also as a major centre to test these products. The South India Textile Research Association (SITRA), which is one of the four approved laboratories in the country to test coveralls, masks, and fabric used to make these, is getting 100 to 150 samples a day for certification. These come from different States. According to SITRA sources, the Association has so far tested samples from nearly 2,000 firms and has approved products of 100 manufacturers. SITRA, which tests masks, coveralls, and the fabric used to make the PPEs, gets regular products and innovative ones. There are about 20 certified fabric producers in the country who make non-woven fabric for the coveralls. Some are also trying out repellent finishes and anti-viral fabrics. Some companies make reusable coveralls with woven or knitted fabric with coating. But the demand is more for one-time use coveralls as of now. It takes less than 30 minutes to know if a coverall has failed the tests. In the case of masks, it takes three to five days to test a sample, the sources say. The sources say that the Association started testing the testing process for coveralls and masks in March and it gained momentum after March 25. The tests are based on the requirements of Hindusthan Latex Limited, which is the Central government’s nodal agency for PPEs. It will soon ramp up its capabilities for synthetic blood penetration resistance test as it will acquire more machinery. “The one we are using now is developed in-house and two more machines will be added soon,” said one of the officers at SITRA. For the last four or five days, the government has introduced traceability and the PPE manufacturer should mention where the fabric was sourced from and if it is certified. Unique certification codes are given to the samples tested and SITRA mentions that the testing is only for the sample produced. Though the Association continues to get mask samples for testing, the focus now is on coveralls, the sources added. Since SITRA is a Centre of Excellence for medical textiles, its incubation centre has mask making facilities and these are used by converters now.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sitra-gets-over-100-samples-a-day-for-certification/article31468385.ece
30 April 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||School teacher mobilises fund to help 100 people||A teacher working in a government-aided school mobilised fund to provide groceries to daily wagers and members of Narikuravar community in Perur, on the outskirts of Coimbatore city, amid the COVID-19 lockdown. S. Annadhanalakshmi, a Tamil teacher from T.A. Ramalinga Chettiar Higher Secondary School at Saibaba Colony, and her colleagues pooled money to buy groceries and donated it to 100 people on behalf of the school. “I was born and raised in Perur, so I knew who were suffering due to the lockdown,” she said. She supplied groceries from March 26 to March 28 to around 50 daily wage labourers working in a farm in Perur and 50 members from the Narikuravar community. Each were given about 3 kg rice and vegetables such as onion, tomato, brinjal and cabbage along with cooking oil and biscuits. “My family members helped me in packing the materials,” she said. Using a two-wheeler, the groceries were supplied to 100 persons in three days, Ms. Annadhanalakshmi said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/school-teacher-mobilises-fund-to-help-100-people/article31468392.ece
30 April 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Rain inundates low-lying areas in Coimbatore||After days of heat and sultry weather, Coimbatore City received its first summer shower on Tuesday night. Many areas outside the city limit in the district also received good rain.Coimbatore South received the maximum rainfall – 58mm in the 24 hours ending 8 a.m. Wednesday. The rain saw inundation of low-lying areas and underpasses. The Coimbatore Corporation had to deploy manpower to clean the underpasses at Avinashi Road, Cross Cut Road, near Kaleeswara Mill and Kikani school. After removing the water using tankers, the Corporation deployed its workers to remove the slush, said sources. Usually after rain, the Corporation would receive complaints of stagnant water at underpasses but this time it did not receive any as people were indoors due to the COVID-19 lockdown, the sources added. Coimbatore airport received the second highest rainfall – 38mm followed by Pollachi at 30mm, TNAU at 19mm, Periyanaickenpalayam at 19mm and Sulur at 13 mm. The Corporation sources said only one case of tree fall was reported in the city – in Ramnagar – and Corporation removed it.   Erode Staff Reporter adds:  In Erode, moderate rainfall accompanied by strong winds lashed many parts of the city in the early hours of Wednesday. Many parts of the rural areas received rainfall that began around 12.30 a.m. Rainfall recorded at various places in the district include Chennimalai 58 mm, Modakurichi 47 mm, Kodumudi 18.6 mm, Gobichettipalayam 17 mm, Ammapettai 16.8 mm and Talavadi 13 mm. In Salem district, Thammampatti received 40 mm, while Mettur received 19.8 mm and Anaimalai 17 mm. In Namakkal district, Collectorate premises received 8.50 mm rainfall, followed by Tiruchengodu 8 mm and Kumarapalayam 6 mm.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rain-inundates-low-lying-areas-in-coimbatore/article31468377.ece
30 April 2020||COIMBATORE/SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Field Support Teams for COVID-19 management||The State government on Wednesday announced the formation of Field Support Teams for five cities namely Chennai, Coimbatore, Tiruppur, Madurai and Salem as part of the precautionary measures against COVID-19. A government order said the teams comprised IAS and IPS officers, District Revenue Officers and officers from local bodies and Health and Family Welfare Department. The teams would assist the respective district administrations in ensuring management of containment zones, provision of essential services in the containment area, contact tracing and testing, etc.  Special task teams The State government had already constituted 12 coordination teams and Zonal Special Task Teams. For Coimbatore Corporation, the team comprises E. Saravanavelraj, Director, Geology and Mining, Chennai; R. Gajalakshmi, Managing Director, SIDCO, Chennai; H. Ramesh Babu, Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police (ADCP), Crime Against Women and Children, Coimbatore; N. Premanandhan, Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP), Commercial Crime Investigation Wing, Coimbatore; P. Gandhimathi, District Revenue Officer (DRO) (Stamps), Coimbatore; M.S. Kalaivani, DRO/Deputy Commissioner (Excise), Coimbatore; R. Murugesan, Deputy Director (incharge), Tamil Nadu Institute of Urban Studies, Coimbatore and P. Aruna, Deputy Director (Health), Tamil Nadu Institute of Urban Studies, Coimbatore. The team for Tiruppur Corporation areas consists of L. Nirmalraj, Joint Managing Director, The Tamil Nadu Water Supply and Drainage Board (TWAD Board), Chennai; D. Suresh, Assistant Commissioner of Police, Social Justice and Human Rights (SJHR), Tiruppur; V. Latha, DRO (Land Acquisition), Chennai-Kanniyakumari Industrial Corridor Project (CKICP), Salem and G. Dhanalakshmi, Joint Director (Administration), Commissionerate of Municipal Administration, Chennai. The members of the team for Salem Corporation limits are: Srivenkata Priya, Director, Sericulture, Salem, V. Sathish, Assistant Commissioner of Police, Social Justice and Human Rights, Salem, R. Priya, General Manager, Tamil Nadu Magnesite Limited, Salem and R. Poonkodi Arumaikan, Joint Director (Electronics), Office of the Chennai Metropolitan Area, Chennai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/field-support-teams-for-covid-19-management/article31468397.ece
30 April 2020||Cuddalore,TAMIL NADU||NLCIL begins coal production at Talabira mines in Odisha||NLC India Ltd (NLCIL) commenced coal production at its Talabira II and III coal blocks in Odisha. The coal mines allotted to NLCIL in 2016 has a capacity of 20 million tonnes per annum. Rakesh Kumar, CMD, NLCIL, said the PSU had achieved success on Talabira project during a difficult time due to the lockdown.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nlcil-begins-coal-production-at-talabira-mines-in-odisha/article31468352.ece
30 April 2020||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Ailing wild elephant dies||A 10-year-old male wild elephant that was under treatment for the last five days died in a forest area inside Germalam Forest Range in Sathyamangalam Tiger Reserve (STR) on Tuesday evening. Forest department officials said that the elephant was found in a weak condition near the Vaidhiyanapuram village on April 23. On Wednesday, the carcass was buried after autopsy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ailing-wild-elephant-dies/article31468378.ece
30 April 2020||KARUR,TAMIL NADU||95-year-old woman recovers in Karur||A 95-year-old female patient of Dindigul, who had tested positive for the virus, was discharged after treatment from the Karur Government Medical College Hospital here on Wednesday. She was admitted to the hospital on April 18 after the swab test taken at the Government Hospital in Thadikombu in Dindigul district turned positive for the virus. An asymptomatic patient, she had initially refused to be admitted to the hospital as she did not want to leave her grandchildren. It was only after the intervention of a senior official of the Health Department in Chennai and the Dindigul Collector, she agreed to be admitted to the hospital. As a special case, her 64-year-old son, who tested negative for the COVID-19 virus, was allowed to take care of her all through the 14-day admission in the isolation ward at the KGMCH. Since the patient was under the high risk category, doctors paid special attention to her. When the wheel-chaired patient emerged out of the hospital on Wednesday, the doctors, nurses and paramedical staff lined up to send her off. The visibly relieved doctors wished her good luck.“I received an excellent care and treatment at the hospital. I feel immensely happy to be back at my home to see my children and grandchildren,” the patient told The Hindu over phone after reaching her home in Dindigul. Her son said that it was a tough time to be in the isolation ward. But, she had recovered well with the support and prayer of all. Rosy Vennila, Dean, KGMCH, said that the complete recovery of her was definitely a morale booster for those who treated her. Inspite of her age, she responded well to the medical personnel whenever they treated her. The patient was among 5 patients discharged from the hospital on Wednesday. Meanwhile, seven persons who had tested positive for the virus were discharged from government medical college hospitals in Thanjavur and Tiruvarur on Wednesday. One of the patient discharged from Thanjavur Medical College Hospital was from Kumbakonam, the other belonged to Papanasam. With the discharge of the two persons, the total number of persons undergoing treatment for COVID-19 virus infection at the TMC hospital dropped to 20, official sources said. Five persons, including four from Nagapattinam district, were discharged from the Tiruvarur Government Medical College Hospital. The patients were advised to remain in self isolation at their houses for the next 14 days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/95-year-old-woman-from-dindigul-discharged-from-hospital/article31468645.ece
30 April 2020||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Govt. doctor travels from hotspot in Villupuram to green zone Krishnagiri, tests positive on return to duty||A containment zone was put up around Rayakottai flyover here after a government doctor with the Villupuram government hospital, who had visited Krishnagiri during the weekend and returned to Villupuram on Monday, tested positive for COVID-19. The doctor is reported to have given his swab for test on Tuesday at the time of joining work and the tests returned positive on Wednesday. The incident has raised a red flag over the travel permission to a doctor with a government hospital from a hotspot during the lockdown; and his visit to his house here to meet his wife and father-in-law, fully aware of the risks. Incidentally, the wife, who is also a government medical staff, had not alerted the authorities of the arrival of a person from a hot spot, even as clear instructions were issued by the district administration over intimation of new arrivals into the district. According to sources, the doctor was given permission because he was newly married. In its wake, the health department was mobilised to disinfect the area, and it collected swab samples of the doctor’s wife and father-in-law. Swabs of nine tenants of the building they stayed in was also collected for COVID-19 test. An official source said, “the doctor is believed to have travelled during the quarantine period. Doctors are given some days of rest and some may travel to meet their families”. The State government had issued strict guidelines for travel passes only for funerals, medical emergencies and weddings.  S. Prasad adds from Villupuram  A Health Department official said the doctor had been admitted to the isolation ward in the Villupuram Government Medical College and Hospital (VGMCH). The doctor had visited Krishnagiri last Thursday after the end of his quarantine period and returned on Monday. Though he showed no symptoms, a COVID-19 test was, however, done on Tuesday while he was on afternoon duty in the GH and he tested positive. The doctor was posted in the out-patient ward in the Villupuram GH for three nights. He had attended to two patients and both of them have tested negative. The doctor was staying alone in Villupuram and he had most probably contracted the infection from outside the hospital, the official said. The samples of all healthcare providers who were on duty along with the doctor have been tested. Their results are negative. Area sealed Meanwhile, the district administration has sealed the residential locality in Villupuram where the doctor stayed and declared it as a containment zone.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/govt-doctor-travels-from-hotspot-in-villupuram-to-green-zone-krishnagiri-tests-positive-on-return-to-duty/article31468405.ece
30 April 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||No income now and future uncertain for these people||The Sri Lankan refugee camp in Koodal Nagar remains barricaded since April 26 after a 36 year-old man there tested positive for COVID-19. K. Karthik, 37, who has been living in the camp with his family since 1990, says, “I know we need to remain at home to prevent the spread of the pandemic. We’ve been adequately briefed about the containment zone process and now we’ve accustomed to it.” There are around 320 families in the camp. Mr. Karthik says that although they have all gone through the ordeal of escaping from their country and seeking refuge in India, living through a pandemic is unnerving too. “But with the help of officials and kind-hearted people, we stay afloat,” he says. “Health workers check us for symptoms and spray disinfectants every day. Police monitor our activities through drone cameras and the Corporation ensures our vegetable supply. No one else is allowed to enter the camp without permission. Some politicians and locals give dry rations. These kind gestures are of real help,” he says. However, all the free time they have in their hands has made them wonder about an income-less present and an uncertain future. T. Silandhiran, a painter, says most of the Sri Lankan Tamil refugees are daily wagers. They work as painters, construction workers and linesmen. So they have little money to save. “With the extension of the lockdown, we can’t afford the Rs. 100-bag of vegetables that the Corporation distributes through mobile vans. I have to find a neighbour who will split the cost,” he says. Getting a job was difficult even before COVID-19 pandemic, Mr. Silandhiran says. “Some employers would take pity on us and give us menial work because hoteliers and big companies would not hire us because of our Sri Lankan lineage. Now we wonder whether we can get our jobs back,” he says. Literate daily wagers A. Jayanthini, who has completed B.Sc in Information Technology, says most of the graduates at the refugee camps work for daily wages only. “People with MBA, MCA and B.Tech degrees do painting and digging trenches for laying electrical lines. Post COVID-19, there will be pay cuts and fewer days of work too. With the Rs. 2,000-allowance from the State government, we must manage our daily expenses, medicines and groceries,” she says. Mr. Silandhiran says they watch TV all day to divert their worries. Since the houses are located very close to each other, afternoon matinees playing on popular channels blare behind all doors. “We will be grateful if we get free groceries, vegetables and fruits,” he says.  We can’t afford the Rs. 100-bag of vegetables and have to find a neighbour who will split the cost  T. SilandhiranPainter||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-income-now-and-future-uncertain-for-these-people/article31468635.ece
30 April 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Quack arrested in Madurai||Luck ran out for a high school dropout, who had a roaring medical practice for the last 15 years in Madurai city, when he landed in police net on Tuesday following an anonymous complaint lodged against him. When a police team landed at Om Muruga Clinic at Palanganatham, a huge board that read ‘Doctor Murali Kannan, M.B.B.S., M.D.’ welcomed them. Cornered, the ‘doctor’ spilled the beans almost immediately. “Initially, it was just M.B.B.S. on the board. Later, he added M.D. specialised in heart ailments, diabetes and special general consultant,” a police officer said. Inquiry revealed that T.M. Kannan alias Murali Kannan, 60, worked as a compounder in Manamadurai for six years and, subsequently, in the city. Later, he promoted himself as doctor with a fake registration number. The name board and his identity card also claimed that he was a medical officer in Government Rajaji Hospital. He issued medical certificates too. Police said the fake doctor made around Rs. 1 lakh a month. His son was a software engineer in Bengaluru and his daughter lived in Singapore. He had recently objected to the setting up of a new medical shop near his clinic. “He never met medical representatives fearing that his fake identity will be revealed. He would buy medicines from stockists and prescribe only those available with him,” they said. Based on a complaint lodged by Joint Director of Health Services, Usilampatti, Murali Kannan was arersted by S.S. Colony police for forgery and cheating and under the provisions of the Indian Medical Council Act, 1956.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/quack-arrested-in-madurai/article31468633.ece
30 April 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Trade unions flay DA freeze||The State government’s decision on freezing dearness allowance and suspending encashment of earned leave has drawn flak from trade unions. The State government’s decision comes after the Centre government decided to freeze DA to its employees and pensioners. “A freeze on the allowance is arbitrary and against law. This announcement was made suddenly without consulting trade unions,” said S. Sampath, joint general secretary of Tamil Nadu Government Transport Corporation Staff Federation. Though the government was facing financial crunch because of the COVID-19 pandemic, they should have resorted to some other means to handle the situation like recovering loans from corporate houses and increasing the share of Corporate Social Responsibility initiatives. “The government thinks twice before disbursing benefits. But, with deductions, the decision making was swift,” said All India Trade Union Congress State secretary M. Nanda Singh. V. Pitchai of Centre of Indian Trade Unions said that only if people had money will there be an increase in production and revenue. Melur Alphonse, secretary of Labour Progressive Federation, said the move would affect people and have an impact on the economy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/trade-unions-flay-da-freeze/article31468639.ece
30 April 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Wholesale vendors worried about space at Mattuthavani||Members of Netaji Vegetable Vendors Welfare Association have said that retailers end up taking spots meant for wholesalers at Mattuthavani vegetable market. With the market shifting to Mattuthavani Bus Stand, retailers might garner all prospective slots available for wholesalers, said association secretary M. Krishnapandi. The association members submitted a petition to Collector T.G. Vinay and Corporation Commissioner S. Visakan, seeking issue of identity cards with photos and Aadhaar numbers for wholesalers to ensure that only they did business at the new market. The Collector said that a meeting was held with all vegetable vendor associations recently where it was decided that only 150 wholesale shops would be allowed at Mattuthavanai Bus Stand. “In our discussion, members of various associations also said that there were around 350 retailers selling vegetables at Mattuthavanai. We, however, have not given permission to any retailers,” he said. Corporation Commissioner S. Visakan said that 40 spots dedicated for retailers had been allocated all over the city and they must be utilised effectively. Retailers selling vegetables at Mattuthavani had been removed from there, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/wholesale-vendors-worried-about-space-at-mattuthavani/article31468641.ece
30 April 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||An anniversary to remember||Best laid plans may go awry, but some manage to turn a negative situation into a positive one. Take, for instance, Jijin Thampi, a 31-year-old attendant at the railway hospital in Madurai. He had made elaborate plans to celebrate his first wedding anniversary with family and friends in his native Kochi on Tuesday. However, to medical workers like him, duty in the times of a pandemic means staying back. “I had made plans to celebrate my first wedding anniversary, which falls on April 28. My friend’s wedding anniversary too falls on the same day and I was to meet my family and friends for the celebration. However, following the lockdown, I had to cancel the plans,” he says. But he was undeterred by the fact that he will be unable to go home for the anniversary. He still decided to celebrate — by feeding the homeless. “I chanced upon the idea two days ago and got permission from Karimedu police.” Accompanied by his friends, he distributed food packets and water bottles to 200 homeless people in Arasaradi and Meenakshi Sundareswarar Temple and police personnel deployed there. “Back at home, it was a simple celebration. My wife made payasam and offered it to neighbours. She was impressed when I told her about how I celebrated our special day. I also shared the pictures with her,” Thampi says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/an-anniversary-to-remember/article31468638.ece
30 April 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Dos and dont’s for feeding birds, animals||Animal Welfare Board of India has issued an advisory on feeding and treatment of birds and animals during COVID-19 pandemic. According to a release, feeders should identify a place, preferably away from public movement, and time to feed the birds and animals. They should stick to the particular place and time. The feeders should co-operate with the local authorities and follow the guidelines imposed during the lockdown. A schedule of the feeding time and place should be handed over to the local police and residents’ welfare association. Waste management norms should be strictly followed and after feeding animals and birds, the feeding trays or newspapers should be destroyed. The masks and gloves used at the time of feeding must be disinfected or destroyed. Residents should not scatter leftover food and instead it could be placed at one place for the animals. The release states that: as per Article 51 A(g), it is the fundamental duty of every citizen to protect and improve the natural environment, including forests and wildlife. Animal and Birds do not spread COVID-19. Therefore anyone who abandons or harasses animals out of fear of COVID-19 will be liable to be prosecuted under Section 11(1) of the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act, 1960. Staff of local bodies should also prevent needless fear among people regarding spread of the virus through animals. A number of complaints on animal cruelty, including pet animals, were received during the lockdown period. Such inhuman behaviour shall be punishable. The police must act immediately whenever such complaints were made by public, feeders or animal welfare activists, the release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dos-and-donts-for-feeding-birds-animals/article31468631.ece
30 April 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Incidents of violence against SC people on the rise’||At least 25 incidents of violence had been perpetrated against members of Scheduled Caste (SC) community across the State during the COVID-19 lockdown, said A. Kathir, executive director of Evidence, a Madurai-based non-governmental organisation. Most of the incidents could be traced to land disputes or love affairs. In one such incident, one Sudakaran of Arani Taluk was in love with a girl belonging to an upper caste and they were planning to marry. Objecting to it, the girl’s father and a relative murdered the youth on March 29. On April 23, when a TV channel journalist Adi Suresh videographed a statue of B.R. Ambedkar after it was allegedly defaced by unidentified persons, he was attacked by a 10-member gang. In another incident, a group of 15 persons in Tiruvannamalai district forced Scheduled Caste people to vacate an agricultural field and set fire to the crop. Tamil Selvan, a Dalit from Kottaipatti near Nilakottai in Dindigul district, married a caste Hindu girl from a neighbouring village and fearing attack, they settled down in Periyakulam. When the woman delivered twins on April 16, they returned home on the hope that the girl’s relatives would have forgotten the past and welcome them. However, on the night of April 22, 15 huts in the village were destroyed. Mr. Kathir said that atrocities against Dalits were on the rise as the government machinery was focused on containing the COVID-19 pandemic. Though the police had arrested the culprits in all these cases, the State government should direct the enforcing agencies to detain the accused under Goondas Act and compensate the victims at the earliest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/incidents-of-violence-against-sc-people-on-the-rise/article31468642.ece
30 April 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Puducherry Minister stages protest in House||Health Minister Malladi Krishna Rao on Wednesday staged a sit-in protest inside the Assembly over the refusal of Yanam administration to allow entry to 14 people who returned from other States. Mr. Rao, who represents Yanam constituency, came to the Assembly in a black dress squatted on the portico of the Assembly demanding permission for the workers to enter Yanam. Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy and Speaker V. P Sivakolundhu met Mr. Rao and enquired with him about the reason for staging the protest. He submitted a memorandum to Mr Sivakolundhu accusing Lieutenant Governor Kiran Bedi of working against the interest of people in Yanam. Speaking to reporters, the Minister said the workers reached the Andhra Pradesh side of the border by foot from Odisha, Hyderabad and Puttaparthi four days ago. They have expressed their willingness to get quarantined once they are allowed permission to enter the region, he said. Mr. Rao said the Regional Administrator was adamant on not allowing the workers to cross the border.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/puducherry-minister-stages-protest-in-house/article31468354.ece
30 April 2020||Rameswaram,TAMIL NADU||Strong winds damage boats||About 20 to 25 mechanised boats berthed in Rameswaram fishing jetty were damaged after gusty winds battered the area in the early hours of Wednesday. According to fishermen in the vicinity, the wind was so strong and it blew for about 20 to 30 minutes. As the lockdown was in force due to the COVID-19 pandemic, the residents did not venture out. Boat owners had to shell out amounts ranging from Rs. 10,000 to Rs. 1 lakh for repairs, said fishermen leader P. Sesu Raja. “All the boats have to be towed and anchored safely to the shore. While towing them, damages are bound to occur. Without repairing, it wouldn’t be advisable to take them to sea,” he added. With the lockdown and the annual ban on fishing already affecting their livelihoods, the fishermen are looking to the government for help. The damage to the boats only added to the woes of the fishermen, Mr. Sesu Raja said and hoped the government would immediately take steps for inspection of the damages and compensate the fishermen. “There is no way the fishermen can raise money for the repairs,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/strong-winds-damage-boats/article31468630.ece
30 April 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Poor demand for ‘poovan’ banana||The crash in price of the poovan banana has hit farmers badly as the variety is grown in large tracts of land in Tiruchi and Karur districts. While the lockdown had led to the crash in prices of almost all varieties of banana due to poor demand and problems in transport early this month, the subsequent government action to facilitate movement of farm produce has resulted in the appreciation of price of most varieties of banana, except the poovan variety.  Poovan banana, farmers and traders explain, is largely bought for festivals and events such as marriages and other ceremonies and temple festivals. Besides, it is purchased in bulk quantities for making panchamirtham in the Palani Dhandayuthapani Swamy and other temples in the State. “With the temples remaining closed and all events and festivals suspended, there has hardly been any demand for the variety,” said K.P.Palanivel, president, Plantain Traders Association, at Gandhi Market. Although the daily auction at the vazhakkai mandi at the Gandhi Market has been suspended at the direction of the district administration to avoid the crowd and check the spread of the novel corona virus, wholesale traders continue to procure banana bunches on negotiated prices from farmers, many of whom continue to bring their produce here. “We continue to receive about 10,000 bunches a day (against the normal arrival of about 20,000 bunches a day). Poovan is the only variety which is not in demand as marriages and festivals have been suspended. Farmers in Thottiyam region have been badly hit. Prices of all other varieties have recovered to some extent thanks to the efforts of the Collector and traders in moving the produce from the field,” he said. According to him, poovan variety is now sold in the range of just Rs. 5 to 8 a kg due to heavy arrivals and poor demand against its normal price of up to Rs. 20 a kg. The robusta (green) variety was selling at just about Rs. 8 a kg due to heavy arrivals. The price of Nendran variety, which had fallen to just about Rs. 8 to 10 a kg in the initial days of lockdown, rallied sharply to Rs. 30 a few days back. But now the price of the variety was ruling at around Rs. 22 a kg. Similarly, the price of Elarasi has recovered to Rs. 22 from Rs. 10 a kg. Similarly, the field price of red banana has gone up to Rs. 30 from Rs. 10 a kg, he said. Meanwhile farmers’ representatives have called for the government’s intervention to support banana growers who had raised the poovan variety. “The government should procure the poovan and robusta varieties from the farmers directly,” says Puliyur A.Nagarajan, president, farmers’ wing of the Tamil Maanila Congress. The party president G.K.Vasan came out with a statement on Wednesday expressing concern over the heavy losses sustained by farmers, especially those growing the two varieties. Supporting the demand for procurement by government, he requested the State to come to the rescue of the farmers at this critical junction. Mr.Palanivel observed that the government can procure the varieties and arrange for producing value added products.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/poor-demand-for-poovan-banana/article31468654.ece
30 April 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Farmers oppose Centre’s move on Cauvery management authority||The Union government’s decision to bring the Cauvery Water Management Authority (CWMA) under the Ministry of Jal Sakthi has evoked stiff opposition from farmers’ organisations in the Cauvery delta region. While the move was viewed as an “administrative procedure” in official circles in Chennai, a section of farmers’ leaders have expressed apprehensions that it could erode the autonomy and dilute the powers of the Authority. The Cauvery Delta Farmers Welfare Association, the original petitioner in the Cauvery dispute, however, hoped that the Centre’s latest notification would not have any adverse impact for the State. The CWMA was constituted in June 2018 under the direction of Supreme Court to give effect to the final award of the Cauvery Water Disputes Tribunal as modified by the court in its order dated February 16, 2018. S. Ranganathan, general secretary, Cauvery Delta Farmers Welfare Association, hoped that the character of the CWMA as enunciated in the orders of the Tribunal and Supreme Court would not be changed by the Centre’s latest notification. “We don’t know why it has been done now but hope the CWMA will continue to have the same powers and strength of force,” Mr.Ranganathan observed. But other farmers’ organisations viewed it as an attempt to render the CWMA ineffective. Reacting strongly, P.R.Pandian, general secretary, Tamizhaga Cauvery Vivasayigal Sangam, alleged that the decision was nothing but an attempt to cripple the CWMA. “The Centre’s actions appear to be supportive of Karnataka, which had opposed the formation of the CWMA. It has not even appointed a full-time chairman to the authority. The latest notification has come as a shock to us,” Mr. Pandian said and demanded the revocation of the notification. The notification went against the final award of the Tribunal which clearly specified that the mechanism to enforce its order should be “independent in character and empowered,” observed Arupathy S. Kalyanam, general secretary, Federation of Farmers' Associations of Delta Districts. “The Supreme Court should take suo moto cognisance and strike down the notification,” he demanded. “We can not expect the CWMA to act independently when it is under a Ministry of the Centre; we need an autonomous and empowered authority to get our monthly quota of water in Cauvery river,” said ‘Cauvery’ S. Dhanapalan, general secretary, Cauvery Farmers Protection Association. Questioning the timing of the notification, he termed it as “cunning” act by the Centre as farmers can not take to streets against it as prohibitory orders were in force now. “Nevertheless, we have decided to hoists black flags in our houses tomorrow and we will not hesitate to launch a protest if the Centre did not revoke the notification,” Mr.Dhanapalan said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/farmers-oppose-centres-move-on-cauvery-management-authority/article31468346.ece
30 April 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Parcel train to cover delta region||The Nagercoil-bound daily special parcel train being operated since April 9 to transport various commodities in view of the lockdown will run via the mainline section covering parts of the delta region. The change in route of this parcel train will come into effect from April 30. Southern Railway administration on Wednesday communicated the change in the route of this train (00657) to the Tiruchi railway division since the mainline section comes under its jurisdiction. It has also intimated to the Chennai, Madurai and Thiruvananthapuram railway divisions. Ever since its introduction early this month, the Nagercoil-bound parcel train from Chennai Egmore was being operated on the chord line section via Vriddhachalam, Ariyalur, Srirangam and Tiruchi to load and unload parcel consignments. However, the change in the route of this special train was due to booking requests from Chennai to dispatch consignments to various towns located along the mainline section which covers parts of the delta region, says a senior railway official. The mainline stretch starts from Villupuram Junction and ends at Tiruchi Junction passing via Cuddalore Port, Chidambaram, Mayilduthurai, Kumbakonam and Thanjavur Junction. As per the revised timings announced by the railway administration, the parcel train would leave Chennai Egmore at 5 a.m. and reach Nagercoil at 9.30 p.m. It would have stoppages at Villupuram, Cuddalore Port Junction, Mayiladuthurai, Kumbakonam, Thanjavur, Tiruchi, Dindigul, Madurai, Virdhunagar and Tirunelveli to load and unload parcels. It would run with one parcel coach which has a capacity to carry about 23 tonnes of consignments and a SLR coach which can take around eight tonnes of parcels. The railway administration had recently changed the route of the Chennai-bound daily special parcel train from Nagercoil. The special which was being operated via chord line section is now running via the mainline section upon reaching Tiruchi Junction. Railway sources here say that over 375 quintals of parcels which were sent by the daily special train had been unloaded in Tiruchi Division since April 9. Over 300 quintals of parcels were booked from Tiruchi Division. A few days ago, Southern Railway delivered through its parcel train cancer medicine to a patient residing in a village near Chidambaram. In addition to operating parcel trains, Southern Railway has been operating freight trains carrying various commodities such as coal, food grains and other commodities despite the lockdown.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/parcel-train-to-cover-delta-region/article31468668.ece
30 April 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Muslims unperturbed over prayers at home||Social distancing and self-isolation have become order of the day for Muslims who have been observing Ramzan, the month of dawn-to-dusk fasting, from this week. For the first time in recent history, the Saudi Arabian government has closed down Al Masjid Al Haram (The Great Mosque) in Mecca and Al Masjid an-Nabawi (The Prophet’s Mosque) in Madina, considered to be Islam’s holiest sites, for Ramzan, as part of its efforts to contain the spread of COVID-19. In south India, making and distribution of ‘nonbu kanji’ (rice gruel) for the fast-breaking meal (Iftar) through mosques has ceased. While the act of prayer hasn’t been affected, the community spirit that mosques foster during the holy month may be missing this year. Even so, people are determined to make the best of situation. “Muslims are facing Ramzan at the time of pandemic. But we hope everything will go smoothly as usual,” Nawab Mohammed Abdul Ali, the Prince of Arcot, who is based in Chennai, told The Hindu . “I’d advise my Muslim brethren to avoid going to the mosque for prayers. There should not be any congregation at all, whether for Iftar or for Taraweeh (special prayers). It is part of the sayings of Prophet Muhammad, (peace be upon him), that during medical emergencies and inclement weather, one should not go to the mosque for prayers,” he said adding that people should stay at a safe distance this year while conveying their festive wishes to one another rather than embracing or shaking hands as is commonly done. “The closure of mosques has made many families gather for prayers at home. Having Iftar with one’s family members is more peaceful and blessed,” said K Syed Jafar, general secretary of the Muslim Literary Society (MLS), a community philanthropic organisation in Tiruchi. With its emphasis on abstinence, Ramzan, which is ninth month of the Islamic lunar calendar, has always been about self-restraint and introspection. “The lockdown may be a blessing in disguise – one will be more focused on prayers and less distracted by Iftar parties and shopping,” said Fathima Sulaiman, a homemaker based out of Chennai, who is visiting her hometown, Tiruchi. “The meals may not be as sumptuous and varied as during previous years, but it is an opportunity for me to spend time with my extended family of 15 members. Children have not had this experience of regular family dinners and bonding earlier,” she added. While many Islamic scholars abroad have announced schedules for app-based sermons throughout Ramzan, this is currently unavailable in India. “There will be no prayers in mosques, but there is no plan to shift sermons online,” said Moulvi Abdul Rahim, Tiruchi district secretary of Tamil Nadu Jamathul Ulama Sabai (a council of Islamic scholars). Scaling back and reconstructing life’s timetable may not be impossible, said homemaker Fathima. “This Ramzan may be a chance to rediscover ourselves, bond better with our families, chat with old friends to rekindle past memories and do all those small things, which we wanted to do but lacked the time.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/muslims-unperturbed-over-prayers-at-home/article31468656.ece
30 April 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Efforts on to tackle violence against women||The Social Welfare Department is keeping a tab on the section of abusive men indulging in violence against women during the lockdown. Such a measure is not unusual at the time of emergencies when there are more cases of violence against women, according to officials. Inability of women working in informal sector will reduce access to basic needs and services, increase stress on families with the potential to exacerbate conflicts and violence. As resources become scarcer, women may be at greater risk for experiencing economic abuse, according to an advisory issued by the World Health Organisation. Earlier this month, the WHO had cautioned all countries that violence could be inflicted by intimate partners on women and children causing injuries, mental, sexual and reproductive health problems.  The National Commission for Women has also reported about a sharp spurt in the cases of domestic violence after the lockdown took effect. A few days ago the Delhi High Court directed the Centre to effectively implement provisions of the Domestic Violence Act during the lockdown responding to a petition filed by All India Council of Human Rights, Liberties and Social Justice, an NGO. Since every anganwadi worker is assigned with the task of the well being of 1,000 persons, it would be easier for them to identify problems in families and create awareness, particularly among women in rural parts, about the institutional support systems in place. Women bear the brunt of increased workload during this pandemic. School closures exacerbate this burden and place more stress on them, the official said. The district administrations have activated the Integrated Child Development Services, Child Protection Unit for effective monitoring of domestic violence against women and children, realising that stress, disruption of social and protective networks, and decreased access to services can exacerbate the risk of violence against women. The department has taken cognisance of the tendency of perpetrators to use restrictions due to COVID-19 to exercise power and control over their partners to further reduce access to services, help, and psychosocial support from both formal and informal networks. In such situations, ‘the anganwadi workers will facilitate the complainants to avail themselves of the utility of the institutional support. Complaints could be conveyed by the affected women through helpline numbers 1091 and 181. Once a complaint is received, a team led by Protection Officer would go to the spot to make an inquiry and offer immediate counselling, a Social Welfare Officer in one of the delta districts said. Contrary to the apprehensions, the complaints being received through the helplines in recent weeks were far and few between, the official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/efforts-on-to-tackle-violence-against-women/article31468659.ece
30 April 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Prices of tomato and brinjal drop||The prices of tomato and brinjal have come down in Tiruchi market. One kg of tomato was sold at Rs. 12 in the grocery and retail stores on Wednesday. The rate was Rs. 10 to 14 in the temporary retail markets set up in different parts of the city. The rate was almost similar for the last one week. Some farmers from rural areas, who prefer to sell their produce directly to the consumers, were seen selling tomato for Rs. 8 a kg. Stripe brinjal, one of most sought varieties of brinjals, was available at the temporary vegetable markets for Rs. 10 a kg. However, the rate of Manapparai brinjal was hovering around Rs. 20 a kg. One kg of tomato was priced between Rs. 25 to Rs. 30 about a month ago. The prices of brinjals were also hovering around the same. Since the rates were relatively cheap, consumers bought tomato and brinjal more than they generally buy. “Tomato and brinjal are selling like hot cakes as consumers could buy more volume with low prices. It is a delight for consumers,” says M. Sathish, a vegetable trader at the temporary market at Anna Nagar. Stating the price dynamics of vegetables had changed in the aftermath of lockdown, he said farmers would market their produce only after knowing the rate trend in various markets in the State as well as in neighbouring States. The lockdown had narrowed down their options due to strain on supply chain and movement restrictions. Hence, they preferred to send their produce to the local markets. Traders said that the Tiruchi market mainly received tomato, brinjal and green chilli from Manapparai, Vaiyampatti, Marungapuri, Thuvarankurichi and neighbouring areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/prices-of-tomato-and-brinjal-drop/article31468662.ece
30 April 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Teachers lend a helping hand to students, parents||Government school teachers have pitched in to donate essentials and groceries at a time when parents are unable to make a living and provide food for their children. For K. Saraswathi, a resident of M.G.R. Nagar, ties with her children’s school teachers remained strong even after they graduated from there. Her three children, two of whom are pursuing engineering, their youngest in class 12, and her brother’s children studied at Edamalaipatti Pudur Panchayat Union Elementary School. “The teachers are the biggest blessings in our children’s lives,” she says. Both Ms. Saraswathi and her husband are daily wage labourers and were unable to purchase essentials due to lack of work. “For the first few days of the lockdown, we managed with whatever we had. We had gruel for many days,” she says. Pushpalatha Balaji, vice-principal of the school, came to know about their situation and immediately raised funds to purchase essentials for them and 20 other families in their locality. “There are various well-wishers and Good Samaritans. I connect with them on Facebook and through them, get help for those who need it.” Ms. Balaji has been able to provide nearly 100 bags of rice, salt, oil and other necessary items for the families of her students and former students. “I am doing everything I can. As their teacher, my job does not end with them stepping out of my school. I take full responsibility until they become adults,” she says proudly. In Poovalur, Satheeshkumar, science teacher at the Government Higher Secondary School, used his one month’s salary to purchase groceries for 46 families. “Most of my students’ families are unable to afford one square meal a day. Many were eating rice with water and salt when I enquired,” he said. After funds from his salary ran out and requests continued to pour in from other villagers, Mr. Satheeshkumar too connected with some friends on Facebook. With the financial assistance from his friends, he purchased rice, oil, dal, salt, sugar, among other essentials, for at least 126 families. He makes it a point to purchase groceries at small shops inside the village so that the shopkeeper also earns some money for the day. “The problem is that most of my students came to school only for the noon meal. Now that it has been stopped, many are suffering,” he says. He suggests that like the Amma Canteens, school kitchens too must be kept open for the benefit of students and their families during this difficult time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/teachers-lend-a-helping-hand-to-students-parents/article31468665.ece
30 April 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Goldsmiths struggling to make ends meet||Rise in prices of gold has not changed the plight of thousands of goldsmiths living at Palakkarai in the city. The last 40 days of lockdown has forced them to remain idle. Goldsmiths earn anywhere between Rs. 500 and Rs. 700 a day depending on their skill but they are facing an unprecedented crisis in their lives for the first time now. ‘We are struggling a lot. Due to near total depletion of cash reserves, we have to depend on government doles for survival,’ Ravi, 45, who has been in this vocation for nearly three decades, said. ‘Many of us who are in the business of making of gold ornaments of 916 variety could manage to meet our expenditure so far with the amount pending from jewellery showrooms. We are very concerned as the benefits announced by the government for members of welfare boards are reaching us rather late. Besides, many artisans have not enrolled with the Tamil Nadu Goldsmiths Welfare Board,” he said. There is a perennial demand for gold jewellery. So, many could not reconcile to the fact that their workshops in Big Bazaar area could be kept closed for so long. Rising demand for the product has not improved the economic well being of goldsmiths in any way. ‘We have been leading a hand to mouth existence for generations,’ they say. As the going has been tough for goldsmiths despite their expertise in making new designs from old jewellery and gold bars, many have switched over to other jobs. The elders have been watching the preference of younger generation to work as salespersons in garment showrooms and other establishments helplessly. Nevertheless, since the lockdown has not spared any business activity, goldsmiths say that any extension of the lockdown is bound to spell doom.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/goldsmiths-struggling-to-make-ends-meet/article31468651.ece
30 April 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Watch towers erected||The police have established watch towers at the district borders and at toll plazas along different national highway stretches to mount surveillance and check mass transport of people and labourers in freight carriers. Field-level police have been deployed in shifts to be on watch towers to see whether freight vehicles transport labourers or others when the prohibitory orders were in place and detain such vehicles. The move is aimed at checking illegal movement of contraband also. The Tiruchi Rural Police encompassing five sub divisions has set up check posts at 20 locations bordering Perambalur, Ariyalur, Pudukottai, Karur, Thanjavur, Salem, Namakkal, Madurai and Dindigul besides Tiruchi city to keep a round-the-clock watch and prevent mass transport of people. The watch towers put up at district border check posts include near MIET on the outskirts of Tiruchi city along the Tiruchi – Pudukottai national highway; Periyar bridge near Musiri; Vadugapatti near Kattuputhur in Musiri sub-division; Nagalapuram bordering Perambalur district; Kottapatti bordering Karur district and Andiyapatti bordering Pudukottai district. Watch towers have been separately put up at Samayapuram toll plaza along the Tiruchi – Chennai national highway; Thuvakudi toll plaza along the Tiruchi – Thanjavur national highway; Pettavaithalai toll plaza along the Tiruchi – Karur national highway and Vaiyampatti toll plaza along the Tiruchi – Dindigul national highway. The watch towers were established a few days ago. With bus and rail services having been completely suspended in the wake of the lockdown, there were reports of people being transported in freight carriers to their destinations in different parts of the country. In order to check such activity, watch towers have been established. This was meant to prevent movement of people from highly infected areas within the State. Dedicated teams of police in three shifts were being deployed atop the watch towers to mount surveillance during night when such incidents could be more to evade detection. Sources say over 14,000 cases have been booked against more than 15,000 persons found violating prohibitory orders during the lockdown. The number of vehicles seized by different police stations in Tiruchi Rural Police limits has exceeded 12,600.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/watch-towers-erected/article31468667.ece
30 April 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Economic potential of ‘kadukkai’ not being realised||Elders in the Malayalee tribal community on Pachamalai Hills lament that the younger generation is not tapping the economic potential of kadukkai (harde whole) nuts available in plenty on the hills. A few decades back, the nuts used to be procured by the dyeing industries based in Namakkal and Salem districts. But, with the passage of years, the focus of the community got shifted to tapioca and cashew. The number of kadukkai trees, most of which are on patta lands, has also dwindled, according to tribal residents. The youngsters choose to look for employment in the plains rather than make a living by collecting minor forest produce, P. Perumal, district unit president of Tamil Nadu Scheduled Tribe Peravai, said. Also called inknut, it is used to make grey/black tones to naturally dye clothes, and used in Ayurveda for its extraordinary therapeutic benefits. Unlike in other hilly terrains, the availability of forest produce such as honey and wax is not available on the Pachamalai hills due to the limited extent of forest cover. The Malayali community on the Pachamalai hills will be benefited if they are enabled by the Forest Department to raise kadukai trees, bamboo and nellikai (gooseberry), Mr. Perumal said. At present, only the tamarind trees are economically beneficial to the tribal community, he said. The Forest Department and the Adi Dravidar and Tribal Welfare Department are currently implementing special schemes for betterment of the livelihood of the tribal community. Pachamalai is one of the 10 areas in seven districts of the State chosen for implementation of Integrated Tribal Development Programme. The areas where the tribal population exceeds 50 % or more were chosen for implementation of the schemes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/economic-potential-of-kadukkai-not-being-realised/article31468652.ece
30 April 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Prohibition raids continue||Prohibition raids were conducted on Wednesday resulting in the seizure of 330 litres of fermented wash and 10 litres of toddy. The raids were conducted at Jeeyapuram, Vathalai, Sithambur, Manachanallur and Musiri. Eight persons were arrested and five cases were booked, a press release said adding that the seized fermented wash and toddy were destroyed at the respective spots. The raids have been continuing since the lockdown was announced late last month.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/prohibition-raids-continue/article31468653.ece
30 April 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Gypsy babies crying for milk||Around 25 babies of gypsies, whose livelihood has been wiped out during lockdown, are craving for milk. The 110 gypsy families in Poonga Nagar in Valliyoor, who are living in 38 concrete houses, each measuring 323 square feet, and the rest in tents, have lost their livelihood of selling artificial ornaments in the bus stands and also during temple festivals ever since the lockdown was promulgated on March 25. As the State Government announced COVID – 19 relief to the poor, each gypsy family received 6 kg rice on two occasions till March 30 while a few people from Valliyoor gave 20 kg rice and vegetables to each family. Since most of these nomadic families do not have Aadhaar card and the ration card, the official machinery cannot give them the relief as allowed by the government. “Of the 110 families here, only 36 have got the smartcards that enable them to get essential commodities from the ration shop while others are battling with hunger,” said Mohan, a gypsy. Though 54 gypsies of Poonga Nagar have been enrolled in the Gypsy Welfare Board, the COVID – 19 relief of Rs. 1,000 is yet to be paid in their bank account. “We visited the bank on a few occasions to draw this assistance. But the bank officials told us that the amount is yet to be remitted in our account,” said gypsy Pandi Durai. Consequently, most of the gypsy families of Poonga Nagar are in dire straits during this lockdown. The agonising part is that they cannot buy even milk for their babies, all aged below 2 years. “There are 25 babies in our colony below the age of 2. While we can give rice or gruel to the children above the age of two or three, the babies are crying all the time in hunger as we cannot buy milk as we don’t have money. So we’re giving the babies black coffee that often causes stomach upset to the babies,” says Roja, a gypsy having an 18-month-old baby. When a social activist, who is helping the gypsy families during the lockdown by roping in a few sponsors, called a second-rung official coordinating the COVID – 19 relief works in the district in a bid to ensure milk supply to the gypsy children, he replied: “We’ve given everything to the gypsies... There are more people who are poorer than the gypsies”. Hence, the social activist pooled in a group of people from Valliyoor, who have given money to a milk supplier for giving milk to the gypsy children for the next 15 days. “If the lockdown continues even after 15 days, you please call me on the 13th day and get our contributions for giving milk to the gypsy children till May-end,” the social activist has requested the milk supplier.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gypsy-babies-crying-for-milk/article31468627.ece
30 April 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Escaped burglar nabbed||A burglar, who escaped from the isolation ward in Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital on Tuesday, has been nabbed. Maayaandi, 39, of Kaalvaai near Srivaikundam attempted to steal a mobile phone from a house on Tuesday. Caught by the public and handed over to Srivaikundam police, he was taken to Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital for a mandatory health check-up before being remanded in judicial custody in Palayamkottai Central Prison. Doctors found that he was suffering from cold and cough — symptoms of COVID-19 — and referred him to the isolation ward of TVMCH. As police escorts waited outside, an isolation ward assistant began to prepare a bed for Maayaandi. It was then that the burglar escaped from the ward through a rear door. After an initial search proved futile, a complaint was filed at TVMCH police station. On Tuesday night, police noticed the suspect standing inside a deserted bus stand at Vaeinthaankulam. As they moved towards him, he ran out and jumped into Vaeinthaankulam, a tank that had good storage due to desilting. Although police used searchlights and roped in fire and rescue services personnel, he escaped. When the search continued on Wednesday, police nabbed Maayaandi from Karungulam area.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/escaped-burglar-nabbed/article31468625.ece
30 April 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Over 100 cases registered in the Nilgiris||More than 800 litres of illicit liquor and fermented wash has been seized by the Nilgiris district police since the nationwide lockdown came into effect. Statistics released by the Nilgiris district police have revealed that 105 cases have been registered since March 24 by both the Prohibition Enforcement Wing of the district police as well as police teams in police stations across the district. Over the last four weeks, the police have seized more than 167 litres of arrack and 649 litres of fermented wash. Interestingly, only 96 litres of the total amount of liquor seized during the period is Indian Made Foreign Liquor bottles which were being sold illegally in a few villages. Nilgiris District Superintendent of Police V. Sasi Mohan said that the production of arrack and fermented wash was limited to remote pockets of the district such as Manjoor, Cherambadi in Gudalur and parts of Kotagiri.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/over-100-cases-registered-in-the-nilgiris/article31468375.ece
30 April 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Youth drowns in Coonoor river||A 21-year-old youth died after falling from the top of a waterfall and drowning in the Coonoor river near Marapallam on Tuesday. Police identified the deceased as S.Aghil, a third-year student of an arts and science college in Coimbatore and a resident of Burliar. He had reportedly trekked with around four friends and family members to the waterfall on Tuesday. Forest department officials said that the waterfall is only accessible through a trek through the reserve forest. It is believed Aghil stepped into the water and tried to take a selfie, when he slipped and fell more than 50 feet from the waterfall and into the Coonoor river below. Fire and rescue service personnel were immediately intimated about the incident on Tuesday, but had trouble reaching the area and had to suspend the search due to poor visibility. The search was resumed on Wednesday morning and Aghil’s body was finally retrieved.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/youth-drowns-in-coonoor-river/article31468390.ece
30 April 2020||VILLUPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Doctor in Villupuram tests positive||A doctor attached to the Villupuram Government Hospital has tested positive for COVID-19. With this, the total number of patients who have tested positive for COVID-19 in the district has reached 49. A Health Department official said the doctor had been admitted to the isolation ward in the Villupuram Government Medical College and Hospital (VGMCH). The doctor, who was recently married, had visited his wife, also a doctor in the Krishnagiri GH. He had visited Krishnagiri last Thursday after the end of his quarantine period and returned on Monday. A COVID-19 test was done on Tuesday and he tested positive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/doctor-in-villupuram-tests-positive/article31468351.ece
30 April 2020||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Virudhunagar district has no positive case for 5th day in row||For the fifth consecutive day on Wednesday, Virudhunagar district has not reported any COVID-19 cases. This is good news for the district that had witnessed a sudden spike of seven positive cases on April 24. Besides, considering the fact that a total of 1,183 samples had been tested on those days and all the samples had been reported negative and the results of only 72 more samples were awaited, according to Collector R. Kannan. Meanwhile, the Reverse Transcription - Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR) testing equipment installed in Virudhunagar Medical College Hospital was used to test samples on Wednesday. “This is a smaller equipment and could test only samples at a time. By running the equipment for three shifts, a total of 114 samples could be tested. Hitherto all the samples were being sent either to Madurai Medical College Hospital or Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital. “Now, with no fresh cases, all contact tracing has been completed and the testing of samples of suspected contacts has been completed,” Mr. Kannan said. Testing of ante-natal mothers who are expecting deliveries in the next two weeks is under way. Otherwise, samples of frontline workers, including health workers, police personnel and others are under way. Apart from the 114 samples that could be tested in Virudhunagar, the remainder of samples could be sent other testing centres, the Collector said. Virudhunagar district has so far recorded 32 positive cases and 16 of them had already been cured and discharged from Government Rajaji Hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/virudhunagar-district-has-no-positive-case-for-5th-day-in-row/article31468624.ece
30 April 2020||April 30 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||8 from Tiruppur discharged, 3 in Salem||A total of 10 patients, including eight patients from Tiruppur district who recovered from COVID-19 , were discharged from the Government Medical College and ESI Hospital here on Wednesday. Sources in the Health Department said that the eight patients from Tiruppur district comprised seven men and one 52-year-old woman. Among the men, the youngest was 23 years old and the eldest was 61 years old. From Coimbatore district, two women aged 29 and 30 respectively were discharged. No children were among the discharged patients on Wednesday. These patients will be under 14 days of house quarantine, according to the sources. With these eight patients, the total number of discharged patients in Tiruppur district increased to 91 out of the 112 COVID-19 positive cases. Three COVID-19 patients, including a woman, who were undergoing treatment at the Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College and Hospital, recovered and were discharged on Wednesday. A total of 31 persons were undergoing treatment at the hospital and 20 were discharged already. On Wednesday, three persons were discharged. They were given a send-off by Dean of the hospital R. Balajinathan, Medical Superintendent P.V. Dhanapal and other doctors. They were asked to be in home quarantine for 14 days. With this, 23 persons have been discharged so far, and eight persons are undergoing treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/8-from-tiruppur-discharged-3-in-salem/article31468401.ece
30 April 2020||April 30 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Chennai sees spike with 94 new cases||The fresh cases were reported in five districts. Apart from Chennai, there were four cases in Chengalpattu, three in Kancheepuram, two in Villupuram and one in Tiruvallur. With this, Chennai’s count has gone up to 768 cases, according to the bulletin issued by the Directorate of Public Health and Preventive Medicine. While Krishnagiri continued to be in the green zone with no positive cases, four districts — Kanniyakumari, Ramanathapuram, Ranipet and Perambalur — moved from the red zone to orange (districts that have less than 15 cases or no new cases in the last 14 days). With this, the number of districts in the orange zone increased to 11, while 25 districts continue to be in the red zone (more than 15 cases or doubling time less than four days). The number of persons with an unlinked source of infection (primary) increased to 37 on Wednesday. Officials of the Health department said they were intensifying existing activities in Chennai Corporation areas. “The more cosmopolitan an area is, the higher the problem. Testing in Chennai is definitely on the higher side. More than 3,000 samples were sent for testing, and it is all set to double. That the city has more number of positive cases should not be a reason for fear among the public. It means we are searching for and finding more cases,” an official said. The number of samples tested stood at 8,087, the highest so far. With this, 1,09,961 samples have been tested so far. In addition to the 41 testing facilities in the State, three more laboratories in the government sector have been approved for testing COVID-19 — the Government Medical College Hospital, Omandurar Estate, Sivaganga Medical College Hospital and Virudhunagar Medical College Hospital. With this, there are 33 government testing facilities and 11 in the private sector. (* This is inclusive of two deaths cross-notified to other States and one patient who died after testing negative for the infection)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/chennai-sees-spike-with-94-new-cases/article31468366.ece
30 April 2020||April 30 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||People throng vegetable markets in Salem||With the total lockdown ending in corporation limits on Tuesday, people in large numbers visited the temporary vegetable markets functioning at various places in the city here on Wednesday. The district had, so far, reported 31 COVID-19 positive cases while 20 were discharged from the Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College and Hospital after treatment. The district was under complete lockdown on April 25 and 26 and in Corporation limits till April 28. All the shops, except medical shops, were closed and cases were registered against motorists for coming out. On Wednesday, vegetable markets that currently functions temporarily at Dr. M.G.R. Central Bus Stand (New Bus Stand) and other places were opened and people thronged the markets in large numbers. Though they waited in queue, personal distancing norms were not maintained.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/people-throng-vegetable-markets-in-salem/article31468396.ece
30 April 2020||April 30 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Private sector and patient safety||Everyone has a family member who has some medical issues — someone waiting to check his blood sugar levels, some waiting for their pregnancy ultrasound scan and others waiting for a surgery — the list is never ending. The big question is, “Is it safe to go to a hospital for consultation/procedure during these times?” Thankfully, our country has taken stringent social distancing measures like a 6-week lockdown to flatten the curve. The peaking of cases which we see in smaller European countries and some States of US is in stark contrast to what we have suffered as a large nation. Kerala has already flattened its curve and is showing great progress with preventive and containment measures. The private healthcare sector has also evolved its strategies in the past few weeks. A pandemic this large is a new learning experience for everyone alive at this moment in the world. It’s important for the private sector in India, being a major healthcare deliverer, to learn, evolve and adapt newer strategies to cope up with the unprecedented disaster. The learning process and adaptation of knowledge in implementation has kept India significantly proactive. The patient safety measures and personal protective equipments (PPEs) against the virus have been a result of the knowledge shared across the continents after analysing the rapidly evolving scientific data. When the world is struggling with the availability of proper PPEs for the healthcare workforce, thanks to our innovative and indigenous textile infrastructure in the cities of Coimbatore and Tiruppur, we could get sufficient international standard PPEs, including Hazmat Suits, N95 protective masks etc., in a short time. The synergy between the government and the private healthcare sector has also been evident — from diagnostics to treatment areas. These form the foundation behind the crusade against COVID-19. As more doctors are falling ill across the world and even in our country, the question of patient safety takes no back foot in any standard along with the safety of the healthcare workforce. As a patient, the fear is understandable and inevitable, even in emergency situations, leave alone the planned visits. However, with the increasing availability of the rapid screening for COVID-19, and laboratories performing the PCR testing (some with in-house collection facilities), the hospitals can literally function as individual units with Safe Zones, free from COVID-19, and designated COVID-19 isolation zones. The entire structure of hospital operations has to be segregated, minimising contact among patients, with the highest safety standards with adequate PPEs for patient and healthcare teams alike. The safety measures implemented across our own chain of hospitals is a standing proof of this evolution of our understanding and implementation of patient safety measures. Based on the data collated and analysed by more than 100 doctors, we have formulated ‘GEM Patient Safety Initiatives — GPSI’, which are implemented across our facilities in Tamil Nadu and Kerala. Identification, isolation, providing information, educating the patients are the key functions of GPSI. Making all facilities adopt a unidirectional flow, segregating the visitors with physical distancing, sanitising the facilities, equipments and personnel to maintain utmost safety for both the public and healthcare workers is the idea behind this initiative. We are happy to share our practices with others so that the public are benefited more. With the unavailability of a vaccine or proven antiviral therapeutic option at present, the fight is still preventive but the other medical issues plaguing the human race can’t wait or we may equally lose lives over cancers, heart issues, strokes and other critical issues. These preventive safety measures will guide and help us, the medical professionals to continue the services in these tough times safely. Most medical conditions fall in the bracket of semi-emergences (Eg: ulcer diseases, hernias, gallstone disease, obesity etc.,) which may not require immediate attention, however with the suffering prolonged and without medical attention may be left undetected of something bigger going within. The flattening the curve may take its time, but its time to move on, slowly, steadily and more importantly safely and definitely. Most tertiary care centres have evolved strategies to ensure the same.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/private-sector-and-patient-safety/article31468349.ece
30 April 2020||April 30 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Heavy traffic in Tiruppur as complete lockdown ends||Following the end of complete lockdown in Tiruppur, Kumaran Road saw heavy vehicle traffic on Wednesday, despite prohibitory orders under Section 144 of CrPC being in force. The three-day complete lockdown, which was enforced in the city as a precautionary measure to curb the spread of COVID-19, ended on Tuesday at 9 p.m., following which grocery shops, vegetable markets and other essential outlets remained opened on Wednesday from 6 a.m to 1 p.m. as per the restrictions of the nationwide lockdown. A senior officer with the Tiruppur City Police said that there was a sudden increase in vehicle movement on Wednesday morning on Kumaran Road. “Kumaran Road connects the residential areas with the markets,” he said. The up-tick in traffic was caused by the people who attempted to visit the markets after staying at their homes for three days, the officer said. However, no unnecessary crowds or any violation of physical distancing were reported in the markets or other places in the city, according to the officer. Over 100 vehicles were seized on Wednesday for violations. The traffic decreased completely by 1 p.m., the officer said. 357 cases registered During the complete lockdown, Tiruppur City Police registered 357 cases and seized 303 vehicles for venturing outside unnecessarily between Sunday and Tuesday. With the introduction of the Smartcop mobile application for the City Police, the violations are being monitored closely, the officer said. The police enter the particulars including name, mobile number, vehicle registration number and Aadhaar number of a lockdown violator before warning the person. If the same person is caught in a different location more than twice on the same day or the next day, the police confirm that the person has been venturing outside unnecessarily amid the lockdown and register a case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/heavy-traffic-in-tiruppur-as-complete-lockdown-ends/article31468399.ece
30 April 2020||April 30 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Strict monitoring at check-posts continues in Erode||Strict monitoring at the 42 manned check-posts in the district continues while vehicles with only valid passes are allowed to enter the district and motorists subject to medical tests here on Wednesday. A total of 70 COVID-19 positive cases were reported in the district and after treatment 69 recovered while one elderly man died at the hospital. After the lockdown was announced on March 24, inter-district borders with Namakkal, Karur, Tiruppur, Coimbatore and The Nilgiris were closed while the inter-State border with Karnataka at Hasanur and Bargur was also closed. The police have erected temporary check-posts across the district to check motorists for plying without valid reasons. A total of 133 unmanned spots were closed and 42 manned check-posts were created. Details of vehicles coming into the district with passes were entered and the motorists were screened using thermometer gun by health workers. Superintendent of Police S. Sakthi Ganesan told The Hindu that monitoring at the check-posts continues round-the-clock and cases were registered against violators.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/strict-monitoring-at-check-posts-continues-in-erode/article31468393.ece
30 April 2020||April 30 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Miles to go||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/miles-to-go/article31468658.ece
30 April 2020||April 30 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Five areas removed from containment list||With no positive cases reported in five of the 10 containment areas in corporation limits in the past 28 days, five areas were released here on Wednesday. After two Thailand nationals tested positive for COVID-19 in the second week of March, Kollampalayam Housing Unit and Sultanpet areas were announced as containment areas and streets in the areas were barricaded and residents were asked to stay indoors. Later, with more positive cases emerging, eight other areas were also cordoned off. Corporation Commissioner M. Elangovan told The Hindu five areas were released from containment areas and the rest could be released on May 7.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/five-areas-removed-from-containment-list/article31468394.ece
30 April 2020||April 30 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Health dept. conducts tests for residents||The health department is running tests on a few residents in SS Nagar in the Gudalur Bazaar area after a few people showed “flu-like” symptoms, and one person, who was admitted in hospital died suddenly on Tuesday. Officials said that the woman, aged 35, had been admitted to the government hospital in Gudalur, a few days ago with fever. She was showing signs of recovery until Tuesday, when she suddenly developed chest and back pain and died at the hospital, officials said. Officials said that investigations were ongoing to identify the cause of death of the woman. Meanwhile, local residents said some are feeling unwell, with most having fever and cold.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/health-dept-conducts-tests-for-residents/article31468407.ece
30 April 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Relaxation of prenatal diagnosis rules can lead to misuse: Outfits||Women organisations have opposed the Union government’s order relaxing prenatal gender testing norms, as they fear it would be misused during the period lockdown. In an order issued earlier this month, the Centre relaxed norms of Prenatal Diagnostic Techniques (Prohibition of Sex Selection) Rules, 1996, guiding ultrasound clinics that have the equipment to determine the sex of a foetus. Till now, they were supposed to maintain detailed records of scans undergone by each woman who visits their centre and submit it to the local appropriate authority. This rule has been relaxed under emergency provisions of COVID-19. They are not required to maintain such records till June 30. Essential services Scanning centres are considered essential services under the health emergency and the centres are likely to witness huge rush. Detailed documentation of scans is time consuming and the relaxation would help the scanning centres spend less time on technical formalities and more on actual work, point out officers. However, women rights activists say this is nothing but a legal loophole to allow malpractices. Sharada Gopal, convener of Jagruta Mahila Okkoota, feels that such a loophole sould not be allowed under the pretext of an emergency. She urged the government to withdraw the relaxation immediately. “Prenatal sex determination almost always leads to female foeticide as Indian families desire sons over daughters. Even with strict rules in place, the government is unable to reduce female foeticide and the gender ratio is still very unhealthy. If in such situation, the rules are relaxed, doctors, parents and paramedical staff will join hands in carrying on the evil practice of foeticide openly,” she said. Anjali G.B., founder of Dalit Mahila Kalyan Samiti, suspected that the government has acted under pressure from some associations of medical professionals who have been opposing pernatal sex determination rules. “They have argued that it is time consuming and not as useful as it was meant to be. They have made use of the emergency for wrong gains,” she said. She threatened legal action by women organisations if the government did not rollback the exemption immediately. An email sent to the Director-General of Health Services, New Delhi, seeking a response was not replied to.  If in such situation, the rules are relaxed, doctors, parents and paramedical staff will join hands in carrying on the evil practice of foeticide openly. Sharada Gopal Convener, Jagruta Mahila Okkoota||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/relaxation-of-prenatal-diagnosis-rules-can-lead-to-misuse-outfits/article31468297.ece
30 April 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||SI suspended for ‘beating up’ CRPF constable in Belagavi||The sub-inspector in charge of Sadalaga police station, who was accused of beating up CRPF constable Sachin Sawant in custody, has been suspended pending further inquiry. Raghavendra Suhas, IGP (Northern Range), inquired into the incident, following an order by the State government. Anil Kumbar, the sub-inspector, has been suspended on the charge of misbehaviour and negligence. Allegations A retired CRPF officer had made allegations of police brutality on Mr. Sawant. On his Twitter handle, he alleged that after taking Mr. Sawant into custody, 15 police personnel, including a woman constable, had beaten him up. He alleged that the constable was forced to lie before the judge that he had assaulted the police personnel. Mr. Suhas said that the CRPF constable has been released from jail on Tuesday and is taking rest in the CRPF training centre in Jamboti. He said that a fair inquiry would be conducted taking all sides into account. “It is unwarranted that some people are trying to whip up sentiments using social media,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/si-suspended-for-beating-up-crpf-constable-in-belagavi/article31468280.ece
30 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Helpline providing mental health counselling in 21 States: NIMHANS||The city-based National Institute of Mental Health and Neuro-Sciences (NIMHANS), through its COVID-19 helpline, has so far provided counselling on mental health and psychosocial issues related to the pandemic to 16,000 callers and their family members across 21 States and Union Territories in collaboration with the local administrations. Also, NIMHANS and the State government have provided mental health consultation to over 52,000 people in the State after Karnataka recorded its first COVID-19 positive case six weeks ago. These details were given to a special Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice B.V. Nagarathna during the hearing on PIL petitions, related to issues cropped up owing to lockdown, through videoconferencing. Naveen Kumar of NIMHANS, who was requested by the court to provide details on how mental health issues related to COVID-19 and lockdown were being addressed, told the Bench that 300 workers spread over 21 States and UTs are managing the calls through a cloud-based interactive voice recording system of NIMHANS and are counselling the needy. Counselling is being provided in the categories of children and adolescents, general adults, elderly people, and on domestic violence issues, the Bench was told. The counselling is also provided on substance withdrawal symptoms. It was also pointed out to the Bench on behalf of NIMHANS that the facility of extensive counselling is being provided to a large number of migrants, and counselling has been given to 21,000 migrant workers in Karnataka. National action plan Dr. Naveen Kumar also said that NIMHANS has prepared a national action plan on addressing acute mental health and psychosocial issues related to COVID-19 and post-pandamic issues, and the Union government is likely to announce the action plan shortly. Meanwhile, counsel for the People’s Union for Civil Liberties has emphasised the need to provide mental health counselling in 111 containment zones across the State. While appreciating the service rendered by NIMHANS in the present situation, the Bench asked the State government to give adequate publicity to the various facilities extended by NIMHANS on COVID-19 related issues so that a large number of citizens can benefit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/helpline-providing-mental-health-counselling-in-21-states-nimhans/article31468285.ece
30 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Coaching centres conduct bridge classes||Although class ten students are yet to complete their board examinations, several coaching institutes and colleges have begun conducting online bridge classes for classes eleven and twelve. In fact, many integrated pre-university colleges have admitted students based on their preparatory scores and have already begun conducting classes for first year students. “We completed the admission for our son in January. The college has now told us that they will begin online classes from May. Our son spends at least four hours a day preparing for the SSLC examination. In addition to that, it will become very taxing for him if he has to attend these online classes for PU as well,” said a parent of a 15-year-old, who did not want to name the college his son was enrolled in. Another group of institutions, Deeksha, which offers integrated coaching for pre-university (PU) classes and prepares students for competitive examinations, has started a free 21-day online bridge course in order to help students who have completed their 10th grade to ‘transition smoothly into science stream of PUC’. When asked why the course was started although class ten examinations of various boards are yet to be completed, a representative said that it was only meant for students who were “prepared” and ready for these classes. They said that 1,500 students had registered for the course, and the online classes commenced on April 15. S.R. Umashankar, Principal Secretary of the Department of Primary and Secondary Education, said that coaching classes do not come under their purview and hence they could not stop tutorials from conducting classes. Mental health professionals, however, have cautioned educational institutions against pushing children who are already worried about the effects of the pandemic and the lockdown on their academic careers. K. John Vijay Sagar, Additional Professor, Department of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry at NIMHANS, said that conducting the next academic year’s classes at this time was not a good idea. “We all have to accept that the academic year will be delayed. Colleges should not pressurise students and parents to attend the online classes,” he said. He added that the lockdown will have an adverse impact on the mental health of students, and such a move by college managements will impose a great deal of stress on them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/coaching-centres-conduct-bridge-classes/article31468274.ece
30 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Wage day anxieties for State’s labour force||Industrial workers are keeping their fingers crossed as their pay day nears, even as the State’s silence on implementation of compulsory payment of wages for the lockdown period has made trade unions jittery. Though the State has not issued any specific order, it is contemplating invoking provisions of the Industrial Disputes Act or the Disaster Management Act to ensure that wages are paid. The State government’s U-turn on the Labour Department’s earlier order making the payment of wages compulsory has only added to the anxiety of workers. The Labour Department’s Labour Wage and Retrenchment COVID Helpline (8884488067) to assist those in distress has so far received over 40 complaints, most of them with salary and termination issues. Looking to Centre “The State is looking up to the Centre and the decision here will be made accordingly. If we take a decision and the Centre takes a decision otherwise, there will be chaos and confusion. Labour is in the concurrent list,” a senior Labour official told The Hindu . “Let the government of India make the first move.” When asked how State government would monitor payment of wages, the official said, “There are formal mechanisms under the Industrial Disputes Act. We may use that or we may use the provisions of the Disaster Management Act. The government is in discussion with all stakeholders.” While in most large industries wages are paid by the end of the month,in medium- and small-scale industries payments are made in the first week of the following month. Under the Payment of Wages Act, the employer has time till the 10th day of the month to pay wages. Differing from the Labour Department’s stand, however, trade unions have urged the State to issue a notification to give effect to the order issued by the Union Ministry of Home Affairs on March 29 that made payment of wages during lockdown compulsory. ‘State’s order crucial’ “The order from the State is important to make payment of wages compulsory. We do not think any further order from the Centre is required as the March 29 notification is very clear,” said M. Sathyanand, secretary, AITUC, Bengaluru. “We have already started receiving complaints about employers offering only 50% of the salary or in some cases only the basic salary. The State’s order will clear the confusion,” he added. The problem, he pointed out, was that just about 25% of the workforce is unionised. “It is difficult to safeguard the interests of the unorganised workforce, and also a big chunk of labour force in large industries that work on casual or contract basis.” While FKCCI, representing MSME sector, has announced no wage cuts for those earning less than Rs. 15,000 a month, Mr. Sathyanand said that the unions supported the sector’s demand for monetary support from the Government, waiver from GST and fixed charges waiver. “However, we are against Government digging into PF/ ESI funds to support the sector.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/wage-day-anxieties-for-states-labour-force/article31468288.ece
30 April 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Aero India 2021 is on, at the same time and place||The 13th edition of Aero India will be held from February 3 to 7, 2021. The venue remains unchanged again — Air Force Station Yelahanka, according to the event site of the Ministry of Defence. The dates of the two-yearly international military and civil air show are normally announced in October. There was no immediate information why the announcement was made over five months ahead. Also virtually, the entire world is in lockdown due to the COVID-19 pandemic that has shut down or indefinitely deferred many international events, including the 2020 Tokyo Olympics. The Yelahanka air base, about 30 km from the city centre, has been hosting the air show in February every odd-numbered year since it was started in Bengaluru in 1996. However, Bengaluru came close to losing the last two events — of 2019 and 2017 — to perhaps Lucknow though the Ministry never said so openly. The then Defence Minister had also said Uttar Pradesh was keen on holding the air show: UP (as also Tamil Nadu) has also started developing a defence industrial corridor. Aero India is a premier international event that draws international and Indian military and civil aircraft makers, their support industries, besides military brass and government dignitaries, and over two lakh public and business visitors. Its long-time organiser, Defence Exhibition Organisation returns to organise the 2021 event. Last year’s show was organised by Hindustan Aeronautics Ltd.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/aero-india-2021-is-on-at-the-same-time-and-place/article31468277.ece
30 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Rain wreaks havoc across city||Heavy rain accompanied by gusty wind lashed the city early Wednesday morning wreaking havoc in several parts of the city. BBMP control rooms were flooded with complaints of water logging from parts of Jayanagar, Basavanagudi, Murugesh Palya, Bagalagunte, Bommanahalli, Srinivasanagar. Several houses in Bommanahalli, Bagalgunte, Shantinagar, and HAL were inundated. Several neighbourhoods also reported power outages. Over ten trees were uprooted across the city including in SBI Colony, Basaveshwaranagar, Seshadripuram, C.K. Acchhukattu, Bagalagunte, and damaging a car in Jeevanbhima Nagar. According to the Karnataka State Natural Disaster Monitoring Centre (KSNDMC), Bengaluru received an average of 45 mm rainfall since Tuesday midnight with a few areas receiving more than 65 mm of rain. Hegganahalli in Dasarahalli received 88.5 mm of rain, one of the highest in the city. A part of a side wall of a storm water drain in Pattegarhpalya in Vijayanagar collapsed as the road caved in. In a similar incident, a small part of Hayes road collapsed due to deep excavation done on a vacant land adjoining the road. “Fortunately no one was injured as it rained in the wee hours and most people were at home,” said a senior civic official. Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike Commissioner B.H. Anil Kumar said the collapsed parts were filled with sandbags and tarpaulins as temporary measures.  Fever clinics Requesting people not to panic, he said, “A sudden change in weather and rain might cause common cold and flu. People need not panic and mistake it for COVID-19. Also, as of now, there is no co-relation between rain and the spread of COVID-19,” he said. People who develop symptoms of flu can report to fever clinics set up across the city. The city will continue to receive rains over the next few days, said G.S. Srinivas Reddy from the KSNDMC. “Parts of south interior Karnataka including Ramanagara, Chikkaballapur, Mysuru, Tumkuru would receive heavy rains in the next three to four days. Pre-monsoon showers are expected during this time of the year,” he said.  A sudden change in weather and rain might cause common cold and flu. People need not panic and mistake it for COVID-19. Also, as of now there is no co-relation between rain and the spread of COVID-19. B.H. Anil Kumar BBMP Commissioner||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rain-wreaks-havoc-across-city/article31468264.ece
30 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Cabinet to review State finances, lockdown norms||With just four days left for the scheduled ending of lockdown on May 3, a crucial meeting of the State Cabinet on Thursday is expected to discuss measures to be implemented for containment of COVID-19 and further easing of restrictions in unaffected districts and taluks. The Cabinet is expected to take a decision on writing a detailed note to the Centre on the State’s loss of revenue and financial constraints faced by it owing to the 40-day lockdown and areas/sectors that need to be relaxed after May 3. In a few pockets Only a few pockets in Bengaluru city have reported active cases. The Cabinet may consider granting permission to open industries and other establishments located on the outskirts of the city. This is because total lockdown of Bengaluru, which generates 60% of revenue to the exchequer, has caused heavy revenue loss to the State. Akrama-Sakrama The Cabinet is also likely to discuss issues related to Akrama–Sakrama scheme for regularisation of unauthorised constructions and formulation of guidelines for payment for penalties for regularisation of illegal constructions. Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Wednesday held a meeting with Ministers and discussed issues related to regularisation of BDA sites to raise funds. Discussions, however, remained inconclusive, sources said. Sources said based on inputs received from Ministers from different districts, the Cabinet is expected to give a free-hand to the district administration and district in-charge Ministers to grant permission to allow all types of activities in taluks not affected by COVID-19. Instead of districts, it was proposed to categorise taluks as red, orange, and green for allowing all types of activities in the green category taluks. During his interaction with Chief Ministers via videoconference on April 27, Prime Minister Narendra Modi indicated that the lockdown will continue in hotspots areas of the country but stressed the need for categorisation of zones into red, yellow, and green.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cabinet-to-review-state-finances-lockdown-norms/article31468293.ece
30 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Involve Disaster Management Cells to locate homeless, HC tells govt.||The Karnataka High Court has directed the State government to explore the possibility of involving the recently set up ward-level Disaster Management Cells (DMCs) in locating homeless persons on the streets of the city. The ward-level DMCs were set up on April 26, 2020 by the Bruhat Bangalore Mahanagara Palike after the court sought the government’s response based on an email sent by social activist Kathyayini Chamaraj on non-constitution of the DMC in every ward as per the Karnataka Municipal Corporations (Ward Committee) Rules, 2016. The Joint Commissioners of eight zones of the BBMP, in their separate orders passed on April 26 had entrusted various tasks, including the responsibility of maintaining COVID-19 social distancing, keeping surveillance on persons under quarantine, monitoring containment zones, to the DMCs. A special Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice B.V. Nagarathna issued the directions while hearing, through video conferencing, the PIL petitions on issues arisen due to COVID-19 lockdown. While expressing displeasure over the absence of any “organised and systematic efforts” to identify migrants and homeless during COVID-19 lockdown, the Bench directed the Additional Chief Secretary (Urban Development Department) to ensure that the BBMP complies with the direction issued by the government to identify shelterless persons. The State government, the Bench said, must clarify whether people who are staying on the streets can continue to be there in the present condition. Meanwhile, the government clarified to the court that homeless persons had put up sheets over their place, and that is why in an earlier statement there was a reference to people living in temporary accommodations on streets. While expressing dissatisfaction over the reports of chief marshall of the BBMP on identification of homeless persons, the Bench pointed out that the reports are vague while also pointing out the failure of the zonal joint commissioners to submit their reports on steps taken to identify homeless persons in their jurisdiction despite a directions issued by the court earlier.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/involve-disaster-management-cells-to-locate-homeless-hc-tells-govt/article31468270.ece
30 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||BMRCL floats tender for issuing open loop common mobility cards||At time when the city is under a lockdown, Bengaluru is one step closer towards getting the National Common Mobility Card (NCMC), which will allow holders to use Namma Metro and buses as well as pay for parking and toll, and purchases in retail stores. The Bangalore Metro Rail Corporation Ltd. (BMRCL) has floated a tender to select a financial institution to issue the open loop mobility card. BMRCL Managing Director Ajay Seth told The Hindu that by the year-end, the required infrastructure will be in place to introduce the facility. The BMRCL had started a trial test by installing automatic fare collection (AFC) system at Baiyappanahalli, Mysuru Road and Majestic stations but had to defer it due to the lockdown. Since 2011, the BMRCL has been issuing closed loop smart cards for passengers to travel in Namma Metro trains. The BMRCL has covered Phase II routes for the common mobility card that include extension of metro line on Kanakapura Road from Yelachenahalli to Anjanapura township, and on Mysuru Road from Kengeri terminal. These two lines are expected to open for commercial operations this year. “Financial Institution shall strive for migration of existing card holders to NCMC cards by offering value added services and loyalty programmes. However, to ensure customer convenience, BMRCL will continue to issue and accept closed loop cards for transit ticketing,” states the tender document. The tender document also states that the fee for instant issuance of NCMC card at metro stations shall not be more than Rs. 100. There will not be a minimum balance limit or related charges on the NCMC issued from BMRCL premises. The selected financial institution will issue the card with approval of BMRCL on design and other features. The tender documents states that BMRCL commuters shall be able to check balance via SMS, web-based channels, or mobile apps. The BMTC, too, is in the process of floating a tender for issuing the common mobility card. A few years ago, BMTC had taken measures to introduce the facility, but was unable to scale it up.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bmrcl-floats-tender-for-issuing-open-loop-common-mobility-cards/article31468272.ece
30 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Teachers to be roped in to conduct door-to-door health survey||Teachers working in government and aided schools will be roped in to conduct a universal survey of all families across the State to identify individuals with health conditions. Teachers who are booth-level officers will be assisted by another teacher and will have to identify patients who have severe acute respiratory infection (SARI) and influenza-like illnesses. They will also have to report if people have any symptoms of COVID- 19. K.G. Jagadeesha, Commissioner for Public Instruction, said survey details would be issued by the Department of Health and Family Welfare. In five days As the survey will have to be completed quickly, the department has issued a circular asking district-level officers to depute additional teachers. The survey needs to be completed within five days. The data collected will be fed into the ‘Health watch’ mobile app. Teachers can upload the details they collect directly through their smartphones or they can enter the data at the office of the Block Education Officer.  ‘Provide safety gear’ While teachers said they would be happy to help the government, they highlighted the importance of being provided with proper safety gear. Basavaraj Gurikar, president of the Karnataka State Government Primary School Teachers’ Association, said, “Although we think health workers will be better equipped to carry out the survey, we are ready to do the survey as it is a global pandemic. However, we want the government to provide us with masks and gloves so that we can take precautionary measures.” He added that senior teachers need to be exempted from it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/teachers-of-government-aided-schools-to-conduct-door-to-door-health-survey/article31468295.ece
30 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Umbrella’s the word for social distancing at BBP||People and organisations are finding unique ways to enforce social distancing. At Bannerghatta Biological Park (BBP), where the staff is on field though the park is closed to visitors, giant green golf umbrellas, which until now were provided for the convenience of zoo visitors, are doing the job. These are being used by the zoo keepers, doctors, biologists, etc. to maintain social distance. “We had these umbrellas three months ago. Those who wished to use them could deposit Rs. 500 and return it after using it. Now, it has become handy to maintain distance,” BBP Executive Director Vanashri Vipin Singh told The Hindu. “We are coming up with an SOP with new strategies to help maintain these protocols once the lockdown is lifted and we open the park to visitors. We will probably be giving them to groups of visitors who come together, for instance an umbrella for a family. This will help them maintain a distance from other visitors. We will provide them for free once we open as a tool for social distancing,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/umbrellas-the-word-for-social-distancing-at-bbp/article31468269.ece
30 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Yediyurappa, five Ministers violating quarantine protocol: DKS||Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee president-designate D.K. Shivakumar on Wednesday sought to know if Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa and five other Ministers were flouting the quarantine mandate by not quarantining themselves in spite of figuring in the list of primary contacts of a Kannada news channel cameraperson who had tested positive for COVID-19 on April 24. Other primary contacts of the person, including his daughter and wife, have been quarantined. Taking to Twitter, Mr. Shivakumar said: “Why aren’t they in quarantine ? Isn’t it double standards by those who must set an example to citizens.” According to the patient flow chart tweeted by Mr. Shivakumar, between April 20 and 22, the cameraperson had been to ‘Krishna’, home office of the Chief Minister, taken a news bite from a Deputy Chief Minister and Kannada and Culture Minister C.T. Ravi and had also covered Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai. He had interviewed Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar and taken a news bite from Housing Minister V. Somanna. Meanwhile, Primary and Secondary Education Minister Suresh Kumar has said that all the five Ministers, who were contacts of the cameraman, have undergone COVID-19 tests. He also said the report of one of the five Ministers was negative and reports of the others are awaited.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/yediyurappa-five-ministers-violating-quarantine-protocol-dkshivakumar/article31468275.ece
30 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Siddaramaiah calls meeting of Opposition, farmers’ leaders today||Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah has called a meeting of leaders of the Opposition parties and leaders of farmers’ organisations on Thursday to discuss the problems being faced by farmers and daily wagers during the lockdown. Mr. Siddaramaiah has written to leaders of JD(S), CPI(M), CPI, JD(U), and major farmers’ organisations and invited them to attend the meeting at the Vidhana Soudha at 11 a.m. to collect information on the State government’s response towards problems being faced by farmers and daily wagers. Besides loss of produce owing to the lockdown, farmers have also been suffering crop loss following unseasonable rain in different districts in the last few days. The Congress has received complaints regarding disruptions in the supply of inputs required by farmers for preparing fields for the coming kharif season, sources in the party said. The former Chief Minister has decided to seek suggestions from Opposition leaders on all issues to put pressure on the government on providing relief to farmers and unorganised sector workers, sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/siddaramaiah-calls-meeting-of-opposition-farmers-leaders-today/article31468286.ece
30 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||State records one more death, 12 new cases||Tumakuru district recorded its second COVID-19 death on Wednesday, taking the toll in the State to 21. As many as 12 new cases were reported on Wednesday, taking the total number of positive cases to 535 in the State. A 73-year-old male patient admitted on April 25 at the designated hospital in Tumkuru with complaints of severe acute respiratory infection (SARI) succumbed to the disease on Wednesday. His test reports came after his death. On March 27, Tumakuru recorded its first COVID-19 death when a 60-year-old Tablighi Jamaat meeting attendee succumbed to the disease. Primary and Secondary Education Minister S. Suresh Kumar told presspersons on Wednesday that the deceased had a history of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), diabetes, and asthma. The 12 new cases are eight from Kalaburagi and one each from Davangere, Hukkeri in Belagavi district, and Nanjangud in Mysuru district. While Bengaluru Urban did not record any case on Wednesday, Davangere (where one case that was reported earlier had recovered, making it a non-COVID district) recorded its second case, bringing it back in the list of affected districts. This district is back in the red zone now. The new cases include a four-year-and-six-month-old girl child from Kalaburagi and four teenagers. Karnataka’s COVID-19 infection growth rate stood at 1.25% in the last five days. The number of discharged persons has exceeded those infected in the five days. While a total of 60 cases have tested positive in the last five days, 64 people have been discharged, the Minister said. All frontline government employees who are working hand-in-hand with the Health Department in COVID-19 activities will be tested at K.C. General Hospital. “With police personnel already being tested, those employees other than police will be tested in K.C. General Hospital,” the Minister said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/state-records-one-more-death-12-new-cases/article31468290.ece
30 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Fire at HAL’s foundry & forge scrap yard||A fire broke out at the scrap yard of HAL’s Foundry & Forge Division on Old Airport Road creating panic among the residents on Wednesday morning. The alarm was raised around 9 a.m. following which an HAL emergency team rushed to the spot. HAL, in a press release, said the scrap included magnesium metal, and that the fire was contained using dry chemical fire extinguishers. “There is no damage to any property and no casualty is reported due to the fire. An investigation is on,” said HAL in a press release. Eight fire tenders of HAL were pressed into service to douse the fire, while the police cordoned off the area. No one was injured in the incident. Fire and emergency service personnel were at the spot to extend help to HAL if required. According to the police the fire was brought under control in two hours.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/fire-at-hals-foundry-forge-scrap-yard/article31468262.ece
30 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Nearly 3,000 passengers left south India by air||Over 3,000 foreign nationals, including tourists and expats, who were stranded due to the lockdown were flown to their respective countries from Kempegowda International Airport (KIA) since March 31. Twenty-two flights were made to 17 destinations across the globe from KIA, said a press release. The first evacuation was to Frankfurt in Germany with Air India operating a flight on March 31. The largest number of passengers were headed to Tokyo with JAL operating three flights on three consecutive days followed by Incheon in South Korea with Korean Air operating one flight, according to a release. Baghdad, Cairo, Colombo, Doha, Frankfurt, London were some of the other destinations to which flights were operated. For the first time, KIA facilitated flights to eight new cities, including Baku, Baghdad, Cairo, Incheon, Rome, Paro, Stockholm, and Tbilisi, the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/nearly-3000-passengers-left-south-india-by-air/article31468266.ece
30 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Online workshop tomorrow||The NSS Unit of Bangalore University is organising a State-level online workshop on ‘Creating legal awareness on COVID-19’ on May 1 at 11 a.m. According to a press release, the workshop is for NSS directors/coordinators of all the universities, including private universities and the Directorate of Karnataka. The workshop will be inaugurated by the Vice-Chancellor of Bangalore University.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/online-workshop-tomorrow/article31468282.ece
30 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Stranded Indians to be brought back||The government has chalked out a plan of action to bring back Indians stranded in other countries. As many as 10,823 people from Karnataka are stranded abroad — 4,408 tourists and visitors, 3,074 students, 2,784 migrants and professionals, and 557 ship crew, said Primary and Secondary Education Minister S. Suresh Kumar on Wednesday. Of these, 6,100 have been shortlisted to be brought back in the first phase. Giving the break-up of people stranded in various countries, he said, 328 are in Canada, 927 in the U.S., 2,575 in the UAE, 414 in Qatar, and 927 are in Saudi Arabia.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/stranded-indians-to-be-brought-back/article31468289.ece
30 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Federal Bank launches mobile ATMs||The Federal Bank, in an initiative to help the public stay safe, has begun delivering banking services at customer doorsteps. The bank had launched mobile ATMs in Chennai and Mumbai in the last few weeks and has extended the facility to Bengaluru. Vans housing ATMs will ply in different areas in the city. Any bank customer can withdraw cash for free. The first mobile ATM in the city was inaugurated by city Police Commissioner Bhaskar Rao.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/federal-bank-launches-mobile-atms/article31468301.ece
30 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||RTCs to seek ISRO help to improve operational efficiency||To improve bus services, the four road transport corporations (RTCs) in the State, KSRTC, BMTC, NWKRTC, and NEKRTC, will seek technological assistance from the Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO). On Wednesday, Deputy Chief Minister and Transport Minister Laxman Savadi met ISRO chairman K. Sivan and others. In a press release, Mr. Savadi stated that technological assistance from ISRO will help improve the operational efficiency of the corporations, bring in more transparency, and end pilferage. The four RTCs operate over 25,000 buses on over 23,000 routes that include long distance interstate services.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rtcs-to-seek-isro-help-to-improve-operational-efficiency/article31468304.ece
30 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Intermittent power supply on April 30||There will be intermittent power supply in many areas till 7 p.m on April 30 because of replacement work of 11KV switchgear of 66/11KV Devarabesanahalli sub station. The affected areas are: Kariyammana Agrahara, Devarabesanahalli, Bellandur Village, Kasavanahalli Main Road, Kaikondrahalli KPC Layout, CSBS layout, IAS Layout, and surrounding areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/intermittent-power-supply-on-april-30/article31468267.ece
30 April 2020||DHARWAD,KARNATAKA||Business and civil work to resume today in Dharwad||Minister in-charge of Dharwad district Jagadish Shettar said that business activities, which have come to a standstill following lockdown, can resume in Dharwad on Thursday. However, Hubballi will continue to remain under lockdown. Mr. Shettar, who chaired a meeting of officials here on Wednesday, said that Dharwad district, except Hubballi city, which has seven active COVID-19 cases will see several relaxations from lockdown for four days from Thursday. Farming, industry, construction, roadworks and commercial activities will be allowed in Dharwad city, all the taluk headquarters and rural areas for four days in a week on the condition that social distancing, cleanliness and provisions of Section 144 of Cr.PC are adhered to. The relaxations will be on Mondays, Tuesdays, Wednesdays and Thursdays, he said. There are seven active cases of COVID-19 in Hubballi and the area in a three-kilometre radius of Mulla Oni and Azad Nagar has been declared containment zone. It has been decided that there will be no relaxation in the entire Hubballi city, he added. In Dharwad city, the business establishments registered under the Shops and Establishment Act will be permitted to function from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Similarly, business will be as usual in Kalghatgi, Kundgol, Alnavar, Annigeri and Navalgund. As per the decision, along with the supply of essential commodities and civil works by Public Works Department, National Highway, Rural Development and Panchayat Raj, rural minor drinking water works, minor irrigation, MGNREGS and other infrastructure-related work will be allowed. All industries in the district, except in Hubballi, producing essential commodities and related to essential services will be allowed to start their units, in adherence with safety norms. They have to use only 50 % of their workforce and ensure that the workers are provided food, shelter and other facilities. The Joint Director of Industries will monitor these establishments. He clarified that the ban on public transport, bars, restaurants, pubs, liquor outlets, shopping complex, cinemas, marriage halls and places of worship/prayer will continue. The administration will permit takeaway service from restaurants. The lockdown is to save lives of the people and without the co-operation of the people, the purpose will be defeated. He appealed to the citizens to stay indoors and not to venture out unnecessarily, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/business-and-civil-work-to-resume-today-in-dharwad/article31468476.ece
30 April 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Keeping an eye on trucks coming from other States: Police||The district police have kept an eye on trucks with goods from neighbouring States to avoid the spread of the COVID-19 infection in the district, said Hassan Superintendent of Police R. Srinivasa Gowda here on Wednesday. The officer told reporters that the police had booked cases against those who entered the district without valid passes from the places where they started their journey. There were instances of people travelling by trucks that have been allowed to carry essential goods. “We got information on Tuesday night that two people from Mumbai reached Arsikere by a truck. Our staff traced them and quarantined them after registering a case. However, two more people who travelled by the same truck went to K.R. Pet in Mandya district and another five people got down at Bhadravati itself. We have shared information with officers of the respective places,” the officer said. The police intensified their vigil after a person who travelled by a truck along with two people from Mumbai tested positive for COVID-19 in Nagamangala taluk. The driver of the truck, a native of Hassan taluk, has gone back to Mumbai with a load of vegetables, along with another person. The police have been in touch with them over the phone. “We are constantly following their movement. So far they have not returned to Hassan,” the SP said.  Phone-in programme The SP conducted a phone-in programme at his office to listen to people’s problems over the lockdown. A few people called up to check when the lockdown would end. A cloth merchant appealed to the SP to allow apparel shops to open. Besides that, many called up the officer to know the process to getting travel passes to travel outside the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/keeping-an-eye-on-trucks-coming-from-other-states-police/article31468486.ece
30 April 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||121 cases booked||Hassan Police have booked 121 cases in connection with lockdown violations. Superintendent of Police R. Srinivasa Gowda told presspersons here on Wednesday that the cases include those filed against those who entered the district without travel passes. The administration has booked those who came to the district on trucks and other vehicles without travel passes. The police checked more than 22,600 vehicles at check-posts since the lockdown began. The officer said that the police seized 6,304 vehicles and booked cases on the charge of lockdown violations. Also, the police officials have booked 118 cases against those involved in illegal sale of liquor. On the theft of liquor, he said that a case was booked in one place in Hassan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/121-cases-booked/article31468484.ece
30 April 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||‘Do not cancel ration cards now even if beneficiaries are found ineligible’||Minister for Food and Civil Supplies and Consumer Affairs K. Gopalaiah has directed the officials not to cancel any ration cards during the lockdown period and during the prevalence of COVID-19 pandemic even if it was found that the beneficiaries were ineligible. Chairing a review meeting of officials in Haveri on Wednesday, the Minister said that no beneficiaries should be denied foodgrains during this period of crisis. He also asked the officials to take steps to cancel licence of PDS shops in case of licence holders collecting service charges from beneficiaries or were found cheating them in weights and measures. Clarifying that the government itself was giving service charges to PDS licence holders, Mr. Gopalaiah said that if it was found that any extra money was being collected from beneficiaries, action should taken immediately. The Minister directed the officials to constitute around 10-15 teams comprising officials of different departments to keep an eye on PDS shops. The Minister said that as there were no COVID-19 cases in Haveri district, steps should be taken to dispose of applications for BPL and APL cards. He said that he would take up the issue of simultaneous opening of all PDS shops in the State in May for distribution of foodgrains, with Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa. A decision would be taken on Thursday. On the plea by elected representatives about procurement of maize under minimum support price (MSP) scheme, he said that the Centre had permitted procurement of paddy, ragi and jowar under the scheme. “We will again write to the Centre on procuring maize under the scheme,” he said. Deputy Director of Food and Civil Supplies Vinod Kumar Heggalagi briefed the meeting about food distribution and other initiatives taken by the department. Deputy Commissioner of Haveri Krishna Bajpai, MLAs C.M. Udasi, Nehru Olekar and others were present. Visit Subsequently, the Minister visited KSFC warehouses in Haveri and checked stock and quality of foodgrains. Mr. Gopalaiah asked the Deputy Commissioner to identify five acres of land for construction of a warehouse for storage of foodgrains distributed under Public Distribution System.  ‘Action should be taken immediately, if PDS shops are collecting service charges from beneficiaries’||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/do-not-cancel-ration-cards-now-even-if-beneficiaries-are-found-ineligible/article31468478.ece
30 April 2020||Kalaburagi,KARNATAKA||Sharat to stay as Kalaburagi DC||In a quick turn of events, the transfer order of Kalaburagi Deputy Commissioner B. Sharat was put on hold late on Tuesday to allow the officer to continue in his post handling the COVID-19 containment measures in the district. Through a notification on Tuesday, Mr. Sharat was transferred with immediate effect as the Executive Director of the Karnataka Examination Authority to replace Suralkar Vikas Kishor who was transferred as the Deputy Commissioner of Kalaburagi. The order, however, was put on hold late on the same evening. Sources said that Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa was apprised by some leader from the district of the COVID-19 situation in Kalaburagi and the need to continue the officer. Soon after the transfer order was issued, the former Minister and Congress leader Priyank Kharge, in a tweet, had questioned the need to transfer the officer at this point. It is learnt that Mr. Sharat had, in the course of the battle against COVID-19, strained his relationships with a few local politicians who thought that they were not taken into consideration in the fight against the disease.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/sharat-to-stay-as-kalaburagi-dc/article31468281.ece
30 April 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Three dead, one injured in lightning strike||Three persons were killed and one injured in different incidents of lightning strike in Kalaburagi district on Tuesday night. Satish Subhash Holkeri (39) and Kuppanna Navle (60) died in a lightning strike when they were taking shelter under the tree in a field in Bhuntar village of Kamalapur taluk, while Rajendra Guttedar suffered severe injuries in the incident. In the other incident, 23-year-old Anil Bhovi died when lightning struck at Allapur village in Chincholi taluk of Kalaburagi district the same night. Cases have been registered at Kamalapur and Tatkal police stations, respectively.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/three-dead-one-injured-in-lightning-strike/article31468472.ece
30 April 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Private bus owners want tax waiver, subsidies post lockdown||Private stage carriage (route bus) owners, whose over 8,000 buses across the State have remained parked following the lockdown, have said their operations can continue post lockdown only if the government waives road tax for the lockdown period and offers adequate subsidy for tax and fuel. The scenario of public transport gets completely changed post lockdown when buses are allowed to operate with 40% capacity to maintain social distance. It will not be commercially feasible to operate services in such a condition, unless the government offers subsidies in road tax and fuel, said Dilraj Alva, president of DK Bus Owners Association that represents Mangaluru private city bus operators. Sadananda Chatra, office-bearer of Karnataka Bus Owners Federation and owner of Durgamba Motors in Kundapur, said every permit-holder has to pay advance quarterly tax of Rs. 999 per seat to the government. For a 48-seater bus, the annual tax component comes to Rs. 1.91 lakh. The government as of now has not waived taxes, but only deferred advance payment for the first quarter, he said. Lamenting that the tax incidence for private stage carriages has been the highest in Karnataka despite operators providing good services, Mr. Alva said taxes were much less elsewhere in the country. The government should provide diesel at cheaper prices to public transport operators on the lines of subsidised diesel to fishermen, he said. Federation president K. Rajavarma Ballal said operators will have to run buses almost empty for the first two months after the lockdown. Owners run business on loans. The situation has been challenging, Mr. Ballal said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/private-bus-owners-want-tax-waiver-subsidies-post-lockdown/article31468299.ece
30 April 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||2,000 stranded abroad may reach Mangaluru after lockdown||Deputy Commissioner of Dakshina Kannada Sindhu B. Rupesh said here on Wednesday that about 2,000 persons stranded abroad are expected to reach Mangaluru once the second phase of lockdown ended on May 3. Speaking at a meeting chaired by Minister in-charge of Dakshina Kannada Kota Srinivasa Poojary to review the lockdown situation, she said that detailed guidelines are being worked out in consultation with the Indian Medical Association, Mangaluru, on how private medical practitioners should help the district administration in containing COVID-19. Referring to the arrival of persons stranded abroad, Mr. Poojary said that passengers hailing from Dakshina Kannada and Udupi can be quarantined in Mangaluru, while other passengers, after screening, can be sent to their respective places for quarantine. Ms. Rupesh said that the district administration needs four more days to send workers from North Karnataka back to their hometowns on special buses. About 4,000 workers from North Karnataka have been sent back from the district in the last few days. A majority of them remaining to be sent back are in Mangaluru taluk, she said. Buses are being arranged from places where workers are staying. A majority of these workers are from Bagalkot district. Each bus will carry about 22 workers and they will be allowed to board only after medical check-up. Their details are being sent to the Deputy Commissioners of the respective districts. District in-charge Secretary V. Ponnuraj expressed concern over people under-reporting fever because of fear, during the first round of house-to-house survey by Accredited Social Health Activists. “In the first round, we found only 174 cases of SARI (severe acute respiratory illness) and ILI (influenza like illness) cases. The second round of survey is under way now,” he said and called upon elected representatives to make people aware that COVID-19 infection will not lead to death.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/2000-stranded-abroad-may-reach-mangaluru-after-lockdown/article31468481.ece
30 April 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||No salary for bus crew||At least 24,000 workers directly depending on about 8,000 private stage carriage buses across the State have not been paid their salaries during the lockdown period. Few operators have permanent employment system and they too are unable to pay full salary, said Mr. Sadananda Chatra. Mr. Dilraj Alva said the association has urged members to pay salaries to crew. Many have paid for March; but it cannot be guaranteed for April, he said. Mr. K. Rajavarma Ballal said with majority owners going for contract system where crew get commission for daily collection, their payment is also in jeopardy. Mr. Chatra said the Udupi district administration has said operations will be allowed only if operators come up with a physical contact-less fare collection system.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/no-salary-for-bus-crew/article31468300.ece
30 April 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Stardom never came in the way of actor Irrfan Khan’s simplicity||Actor Irrfan Khan, who passed away on Wednesday, was at the peak of his popularity when he was invited to participate in a campaign for sustainable living spearheaded by his guru and theatre personality Prasanna in Badanavalu, a village on the outskirts of Mysuru, in April 2015. Shedding the airs of a star, Mr. Khan, accompanied by his wife Sutapa Sikdar, turned up at Badanavalu on April 9 and spent the night on a mat on the floor of a dilapidated structure that had housed a thriving khadi centre almost 90 years ago, discussing with Mr. Prasanna and other like-minded people the challenges in creating awareness among the public about sustainable development in harmony with environment. The actor firmly believed that living has to be in sync with nature. “Instead of migrating to ill-planned cities, villagers should stay put, pursuing their unique craftsmanship and derive pride in rural skills. All efforts should be made to make our villages self-sufficient,” he said, speaking his mind during an interaction with reporters. After spending the night in Badanavalu, Mr. Khan had a frugal breakfast, seated on the floor, and bade his guru and his associates farewell. Before returning to Mumbai via Bengaluru, he Khan did not forget to call on his National School of Drama classmate Sumathi, who teaches at the College of Fine Arts in University of Mysore at her residence in Bogadi. Ms. Sumathi, who had seen the actor from close quarters during their college days in New Delhi between 1984 and 1987, said Mr. Khan never gave up his simplicity despite reaching dizzying heights in filmdom. “Success never went to his head. When we told him he would become a celebrity, he would brush it aside saying he would remain the same Irrfan. He lived by it,” she recalled. Despite the fame he earned, Mr. Khan remained committed to social values and causes to build an equitable society even in cinema. Citing his roles in Madaari, the 2016 thriller in which he as Nirmal exposes the corrupt administration, and Paan Singh Tomar , based on the true story of an athlete, Ms. Sumathi said the actor would imbibe the character while playing the role. “He would not accept roles where the character did not have his commitment,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/stardom-never-came-in-the-way-of-actor-irrfan-khans-simplicity/article31468303.ece
30 April 2020||RAICHUR,KARNATAKA||55 workers return||As many as 55 migrant workers who reached Raichur from Bengaluru on government buses on Wednesday, were, after necessary medical examinations, advised 14-day home quarantine. Of the 55 workers, 10 each are from Sindhanur and Deodurg, 12 from Arkera, eight from Raichur, six from Lingsugur, five from Manvi and two each are from Maski and Kavithal, sources said. They were all stuck in Bengaluru after the lockdown.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/55-workers-return/article31468475.ece
30 April 2020||Shivamogga,KARNATAKA||Biometric attendance to be a must at McGann||Expressing serious displeasure over the allegations of unauthorised absenteeism of doctors at McGann Hospital, a government hospital attached to Shivamogga Institute of Medical Sciences (SIMS), Minister for Rural Development and Panchayat Raj K.S. Eshwarappa has said that bio-metric attendance system will be made mandatory for all medical and non-medical staff here. Speaking at a meeting here on Wednesday to review the functioning of McGann Hospital, he said that a register should be maintained for each doctor in which information related to work discharged by him, including ward visits, should be entered. He said that serious patients should be attended to by senior doctors.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/biometric-attendance-to-be-a-must-at-mcgann/article31468483.ece
30 April 2020||UDUPI/MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Four more fever clinics to be set up in Udupi||District Health and Family Welfare Officer (DHO) Sudhir Chandra Sooda said on Wednesday that two COVID-19 swab collection kiosks donated by the district unit of Indian Red Cross Society (IRCS) would be installed at the Community Health Centres (CHCs) at Shirva and Brahmavar. Speaking at a function here to handover the kiosks and Personal Protection Equipment (PPE) sets, Dr. Sooda said that three fever clinics were functioning in the district and four more would be set up. There had been no COVID-19 positive case recorded in the district since March 29. Hence, the district was now in the safe zone. But it was essential to identify persons who might have entered the district from COVID-19 hotspots, and send them to compulsory quarantine. Principal District and Sessions Judge C.M. Joshi, Chairman of district unit of IRCS Basrur Rajeev Shetty were present. ‘Clinic on wheels’ In Mangaluru, Dakshina Kannada district in-charge Minister Kota Srinivas Poojary on Wednesday flagged off a “fever clinic on wheels”, which is a modified Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) bus. MP Nalin Kumar Kateel, MLAs D. Vedavyas Kamath and Y. Bharath Shetty, Zilla Panchayat president Meenakshi Shanthigodu, Deputy Commissioner Sindhu B. Rupesh and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/four-more-fever-clinics-to-be-set-up-in-udupi/article31468480.ece
30 April 2020||Vijayapura,KARNATAKA||EPF relief for small firms, industries||The Union government has announced that it will bear three months instalment of employees Provident Fund amount of those firms that have employees not more than 100 and pay salary of around 90 % employees not exceeding Rs. 15,000. A release said that the firms must have uploaded Know Your Customer (KYC) forms and Aadhaar and other details of their employees. For more details, call Ph: 08352-251852; e-mail: do.vijayapura@epfindia.- gov.in.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/epf-relief-for-small-firms-industries/article31468473.ece
30 April 2020||April 30 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Lined up||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/lined-up/article31468292.ece
30 April 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||Alappuzha MCH team leaves for Kasaragod||A 26-member team from the Government Medical College Hospital (MCH), Alappuzha, left for Kasaragod to help the health authorities there in fighting the COVID-19 pandemic. The team, including 11 doctors, 10 nurses, and five nursing assistants, led by MCH Deputy Superintendent Abdul Salam A., left for the northernmost district on a Kerala State Road Transport Corporation bus on Wednesday morning. The vehicle was flagged-off by A.M. Ariff, MP. The team would remain in Kasaragod district for two weeks. They have been entrusted with COVID-19 outbreak control duties. Kasaragod has been one of the worst affected districts in the State. Meanwhile, no fresh case was reported in Alappuzha on Wednesday. The district has so far reported five cases of the disease and all the patients have been fully cured. Officials said two persons remained under observation at Taluk Hospital, Haripad, with symptoms of the disease. Besides, 1,315 remained in home quarantine in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/alappuzha-mch-team-leaves-for-kasaragod/article31468606.ece
30 April 2020||KALPETTA,KERALA||Control room to be set up to check KFD||A meeting of the senior officials of the various departments, chaired by District Collector Adeela Abdulla here on Wednesday decided to set up a control room at the Revenue Divisional Office at Mananthavady in the district to intensify preventive steps against the spread of the Kyasanur Forest Disease (KFD or monkey fever) in Thirunelly grama panchayat in the district. Round-the-clock services of officials of various departments, including those of revenue, veterinary, forest, animal husbandry, and local self-government would be available at the control room, Ms. Abdulla said. As the entry of villagers into the forest and grazing of cattle were the major reasons for the spread of the disease, steps would be taken to restrict the entry by providing food for villagers and fodder for cattle in hamlets adjacent to the forest under the Thirunelly grama panchayat. Penalty A fine would be imposed on those who send their cattle for grazing in the forest. The meet also decided to constitute six squads of animal husbandry department to monitor the movements of villagers. It also decided to ban collecting honey from forest areas under the limits of the grama panchayat and make announcements to alert the public on the spread of the disease.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/control-room-to-be-set-up-to-check-kfd/article31468562.ece
30 April 2020||KANNUR,KERALA||Kannur Collector, DPC lock horns||The district administration and police appear to be on a collision course over the implementation of the lockdown norms to contain COVID-19 The District Collector has asked the District Police Chief to remove all roadblocks in non-hotspot areas of Kannur district. In a letter to District Police Chief (DPC) Yathish Chandra on Tuesday, Collector T.V. Subhash expressed his displeasure over the police designating containment zones and blocking roads in non-hotspot areas, inconveniencing people. Based on a report of the District Medical Officer, the Collector said there was no need for containment zones as there was no community spread in the district. Treatment denied As roads were blocked in non-hotspot areas in the district, there had been an instance of an ambulance being rerouted and dialysis patients being made to go back without seeking treatment, the Collector said. “The road blockades are putting lives of such people at risk.” Pointing out that no decision was taken to divide the district into various containment zones, the Collector said such blockades had affected essential services and movement of ambulances and volunteers. The Collector also directed the DPC to attend the daily review meeting at the Collectorate. ‘Nothing wrong’ Mr. Chandra told the media that the decision to create containment zones and the preventive action had been taken based on the orders of Inspector Generals (IG) of Police Ashok Yadav and Vijay Sakhare, the Special Officers deputed for COVID-19 prevention. Explaining that there was nothing wrong in blocking roads and other police actions, he said further decisions would be taken in consultation with the officers in charge. CM’s reaction Meanwhile, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said the government fully backed the police in their implementation of social distancing norms and lockdown regulations. He declined to comment on the alleged differences of opinion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kannur-collector-dpc-lock-horns/article31468585.ece
30 April 2020||KASARAGOD,KERALA||Two, including scribe, test positive for Sars-CoV-2||Two persons, including a journalist, were tested positive for Sars-CoV-2 in the district on Wednesday. A 29-year-old resident of Chemmanadu and a 24-year-old journalist with a private news channel were diagnosed with the disease. Both got infected through contact. Dr. A.T. Manoj, District Surveillance Officer, said samples were randomly collected from journalists. Of the total 15 media persons tested, one was positive. Interestingly, the journalist had shown no symptoms, he pointed out. “We have asked the journalist to provide details about the places he had visited in the last 14 days,” Dr. Manoj said. Besides, three persons working with him, including the cameraman and driver, and other journalists of the channel have been instructed to go on self-quarantine, he added. The infected journalist might have visited several places and attended meetings. It is important to ascertain from where he contracted the disease,” he observed. With the addition of the new cases, the number of COVID-19 cases has gone up to 13 in the district. As many as 1,930 persons are under observation, including 1,901 in home quarantine and 29 in hospitals. Meanwhile, 59 persons completed their observation period, and three were discharged from the COVID-19 treatment centre in Kasaragod on Wednesday. In Kozhikode Three more people were cured of COVID-19 in Kozhikode district on Wednesday. According to District Medical Officer V. Jayasree, a 20-year-old resident of Changaroth, a 41-year-old resident of Azhiyoor, and a 35-year-old resident of Edachery recovered from the disease. With this, 20 people from Kozhikode and four from other districts have been discharged from the Government Medical College Hospital so far. Three persons from Kozhikode, one from Kannur and another from Tamil Nadu are undergoing treatment at the hospital. As on Wednesday, 1,125 people are under observation, including 48 at the hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/two-including-scribe-test-positive-for-sars-cov-2/article31468554.ece
30 April 2020||KASARAGOD,KERALA||Kasaragod Collector in quarantine||Kasaragod Collector D. Sajith Babu is in self-quarantine after the Health Department added him to the list of people who came into contact with a journalist who tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Wednesday. The journalist, working in a visual media organisation, had interviewed the District Collector on April 19. The Health Department has details of the people whom the journalist met in the past 14 days. The Collector’s gunman and driver have also been instructed to be in home quarantine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kasaragod-collector-in-quarantine/article31468586.ece
30 April 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Chendamangalam looms fall silent||COVID-19 and efforts to contain the pandemic have silenced the famed handlooms of Chendamanangalam. The silence makes it difficult to believe that it was less than two years ago that the village rose like a phoenix from the epic floods of 2018 which nearly wiped out the iconic industry. “We were beginning to stand on our feet once again, thanks to all the good people, NGOs, government support, and thriving tourism,” said Ajithkumar Gothuruth, secretary of the Chendamangalam Karimpadam Cooperative Handloom Weavers’ Society, referring to the revival of the weaving sector after the 2018 floods. He said after nearly 40 days of stoppage of normal works the looms began to roll on Wednesday with a partial reopening of operations after the lockdown. But weavers were finding it difficult to reach the centralised facility with public transport off the road, he added. An official of the Industries Department said the department was making an assessment of the situation. He said the weavers sustained substantial losses after the Vishu season sales were washed out.  Vishu sales hit T.S. Baby, Hantex board member from Paravoor, said the societies were in a bind with the Vishu season gone and the only hope being the upcoming Onam festivities. “Even these opportunities look dim because who knows how long the efforts to bring the pandemic under control will continue,” he asks. Besides, he said regular handloom buyers were in a bind too. With less money in hand they would postpone buying new cloths, he said as he called on both the Centre and the State to offer some solace. A financial package that would include cheap loans can help the sector, he added. Mr. Ajithkumar said the spread of COVID-19 worldwide had brought tourist flow to Muzuris and other centres near Kochi to a trickle. The drying up of the tourist stream had its reflection on handloom sales too, he said. The five cooperative weavers’ societies around Chendamanangalam and two near Cherai record an annual sales of around Rs. 4.5 crore. Around 500 to 550 weavers are involved. They earn about Rs. 300 a day on an average. But wages for about three months are unpaid along with production incentive of Rs. 900 a week. The situation is grim , he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/chendamangalam-looms-fall-silent/article31468574.ece
30 April 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Second phase of Operation Breakthrough to begin soon||The Kochi Corporation and the district administration are likely to resume efforts to resolve the city’s waterlogging issues before the monsoon sets in, even as councillors wonder if enough has been done to avoid another round of flooding. The second phase of Operation Breakthrough, the district administration’s attempt to troubleshoot issues with the flow of water in the city’s canal and drain network, is set to begin in a week, said S. Shajahan, Deputy Collector and nodal officer of the project. As many as 33 projects are part of the second phase, estimated to cost around Rs. 15 crore. Changadampokku thodu, Karanakkodam thodu, and Thevara-Perandoor canal as well as the mouths of these canals would be desilted. Operation Breakthrough by itself is unlikely to offer much succour, said M.G. Aristottil, councillor representing Kaloor South. Unless the small culverts that were blocked when Kochi Metro Rail Limited (KMRL) built its stations and pillars are rectified, waterlogging will not abate, said P.M. Harris, chairman, standing committee for works. “KMRL will take up the corporation’s requirements and construct cross culverts. Work will be taken up next week on providing man-holes along pavements as well,” said a KMRL official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/second-phase-of-operation-breakthrough-to-begin-soon/article31468551.ece
30 April 2020||Kochi,KERALA||A surprise gift for her generosity||When 12-year-old Parvathy Krishna went to the Central police station in the city on Wednesday afternoon to contribute her meagre savings to the Chief Minister’s Distress Relief Fund (CMDRF), she hardly expected a favour in return. But the cops at the station joined hands to give her a surprise just hours after her noble gesture. The seventh standard student of Kendriya Vidyalaya visited the station with her mother Padmakumari and handed over Rs. 3,373 from her piggy bank to Station House Officer S. Vijayasanker. Later, a civil police officer who visited her house in the colony near TDM Hall, in front of which her father sells tender coconut, to verify her address for making the contribution to the CMDRF was moved by the penurious conditions in which the family lived. “He found a broken television at the house, and the girl was obviously disappointed at not being able to watch TV like other children. So, the cops mobilised money and delivered a new TV at her house much to her delight,” said K. Laljy, Assistant Commissioner, Ernakulam. Parvathy, it emerged, was not new to contributing for good causes as she had donated to the CMDRF during the floods in 2018 as well.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-surprise-gift-for-her-generosity/article31468560.ece
30 April 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Prosecution lapses swayed verdict in Walayar case: panel||The lapses committed by the two prosecutors concerned during the trial of the sexual assault and death cases of two sisters in Walayar “swayed the verdict” in the sensational case, the judicial commission that probed the lapses in the investigation and prosecution of the cases has found The prosecutors “had not succeeded in truly and faithfully utilising the evidence gathered during the investigation and in conscientiously presenting all the materials proving the charges against the accused persons during the trial of the cases, while conducting the prosecution of the cases,” the commission noted. P. K. Haneefa, a former district judge, submitted the report to the State government last week. The commission was appointed following a public outrage against the acquittal of all the accused in the case. The commission also blasted the police for the tardy investigation during the early stage and recommended action against sub-inspector P.C. Chacko. Jalaja Madhavan and Latha Jayaraj were the two special public prosecutors in the case. Serious lapses The lapses on the part of the two in “conducting the prosecution of the cases were serious ones, which influenced the court while pronouncing the judgments in the six sessions cases.” The two prosecutors “had not taken any step to rectify the shortcomings in the final reports submitted by the investigating officer to the court despite their opinion that the evidence collected during the investigation was not sufficient to establish the guilt of the accused persons.” It was the duty of the prosecutors to “require further investigation if they had felt that there were shortcomings in the investigation,’’ the commission noted. Special public prosecutors for conducting the prosecution of sensitive and sensational cases shall be appointed only from a panel of advocates practising in criminal cases. Considering the “glaring lapses committed by them while conducting the prosecution of the cases, it is suggested that they may not be considered for the appointment to the post of public prosecutor in session courts in future,” the panel suggested. Panel suggestions Whenever public prosecutors are appointed in sessions courts, they should be directed to undergo induction course for at least two months before assuming charge. The course may be conducted at the Kerala Judicial Academy in consultation with the High Court of Kerala, it was suggested. The investigating officer in a sensational case may be given the liberty to seek legal opinion from senior advocates specialised in criminal cases, the commission suggested.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/prosecution-lapses-swayed-verdict-in-walayar-case-panel/article31468567.ece
30 April 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Firemen have a tough time battling blaze||A combination of factors ranging from complete lack of ventilation and even basic firefighting equipment to clogged stairwells and multitude of wooden compartments and glass separations made life hell for firefighters, two of whom were injured, called up to douse a major fire that broke out at a textile showroom near HMT Junction at Kalamasserry on Tuesday around 6.30 p.m. It took 75 firefighters and 15 firetenders from nine fire stations across the district to douse the fire after more than six hours around 1 a.m. An electrical short circuit is suspected to have caused the accident and the owner of the gutted building pegged the extent of damage at Rs. 3 crore. Fire and Rescue Services sources said the two-storey building, spread over 5,000 sq.ft., was packed with highly inflammable articles like textiles, footwear, fancy items, mattresses and cosmetics. “The lack of proper ventilation meant that it was like a furnace inside and the stairwells stockpiled with sundry stocks made it even more difficult for us to make progress and detect the origin of fire,” said T.B. Ramakrishnan, Station Officer, Eloor fire station. It took firefighters over two hours to even reach the interiors of the building. Having no escape route for the heat further intensified the fire. One of the two injured firefighters ended up with 13 stitches to an injury on his hand caused by a glass shard.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/firemen-have-a-tough-time-battling-blaze/article31468558.ece
30 April 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Over 2,500 litres of spirit seized||The Chottanikkara police seized over 2,500 litres of spirit kept in 250-odd cans in a household near the Chottanikkara Devi Temple and arrested the house owner on Wednesday night. The arrested are Manoj Kumar, 37. The spirit was kept in the guise of sanitisers. The formalities are yet to be over and details will be revealed on Thursday, police sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/over-2500-litres-of-spirit-seized/article31468549.ece
30 April 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||IMA denies claims of cloth mask sellers||The Indian Medical Association (IMA) State unit has denied the claims of some retailers of cloth masks that the fabric has been endorsed by the IMA. “The IMA has not endorsed any masks or the fabric used for it. These are misleading claims and we will recommend action against those who are found involved in spreading such bogus claims,” said Abraham Varghese, president of IMA, Kerala. Dr. Varghese said a few suppliers had been shortlisted under the Indian Medical Association’s Professional Equipment and Employment Protection Scheme. Those behind the misleading claims may have placed similar orders with the firms shortlisted under the scheme, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ima-denies-claims-of-cloth-mask-sellers/article31468561.ece
30 April 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||VFPCK to promote home gardening||As part of its efforts to encourage people to grow their own vegetables, the Vegetable and Fruit Promotion Council, Keralam (VFPCK), is set to distribute kitchen garden kits to kickstart a vegetable challenge. A kit with six items will cost Rs. 250, while a larger kit with 10 items will be priced at Rs. 600. The inauguration of the distribution will be held on Thursday. Call 9497713883 for details.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/vfpck-to-promote-home-gardening/article31468565.ece
30 April 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Uniform supply to be hit||The government’s initiative to provide free school uniforms to students in government schools and a section of students in aided schools might be derailed by the scarcity of yarn following the lockdown. However, the problem will be for the academic year 2021-22, which will require about 50 lakh metres of shirting, skirting and trouser materials. School uniform materials totalling around 35 lakh metres, for 2020-21, has already been produced. Yarn availability has been hit by stoppage of production in States such as Tamil Nadu , said T. S. Baby, Hantex board member.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/uniform-supply-to-be-hit/article31468575.ece
30 April 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||With 6 cases, Kollam goes on high alert||With six persons from Kollam testing positive on Wednesday, the Health Department has sounded a high alert in the district and intensified vigil in all hotspots. While four persons have a connection to Chathannur, where a health worker had earlier tested positive, the fifth case is a 73-year-old from Kulathupuzha. The other patient is a 28-year-old fish vendor from Andhra Pradesh whose sample was collected as part of augmented surveillance. He arrived in Kollam on April 22 on a fish lorry and was under institutional quarantine at Oachira. The cases from Chathannur include a nine-year-old boy from Standard Junction, a, 64-year-old from MC Puram, a 41-year-old health worker from Kalluvathukkal who has been working in the Community Health Centre, and a 52-year-old attached to the Family Health Centre (FHC), Chathannur. “In Chathannur, two afflicted persons are health workers and a triple lockdown will be imposed there. Though the situation is serious, there has been no community spread,” said Minister J. Mercykutty Amma, here. While Chathannur, Kalluvathukal, and Oachira will be under strict surveillance, the Kulathupuzha CHC was closed as a precautionary measure. Parippally OP closed Meanwhile, Government Medical College, Parippally, closed the OP department and pharmacy since the son of a staff member was among those who tested positive on Wednesday. “We have no idea how the child contracted the infection and though the parent has been tested negative we have closed some sections as a precautionary measure. In the coming days we will be functioning more like a COVID-19 hospital,” said the hospital authorities. The sample of the health worker who first tested positive in Chathannur was one of the 15 random ones collected by the sentinel surveillance team. “The person was asymptomatic and the contact tracing turned out to be a huge task given the nature of her job. She had visited many houses as part of field work, helped bed-ridden patients, collected the details of people in home quarantine, and did OP duty at the FHC on a couple of days. Two more persons who were involved in the daily activities of the health centres and other COVID-19 prevention measures have now turned positive and the current situation requires the public to stay extremely alert,” said an official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/with-6-cases-kollam-goes-on-high-alert/article31468611.ece
30 April 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||She sold two of her goats for CM’s fund, got five in return||For Subaida, a 60-year-old woman from Kollam, who made headlines after she sold her goats to raise money for the Chief Minister’s Distress Relief fund (CMDRF), this holy month will be special for more than one reason. She was all smiles on Wednesday when she received five goats in the place of the two she sold. It was Anees Adam, a Malabar-based restaurateur and his partners, who sponsored the goats after they came to know about the incident. The goats were handed over to her by M. Mukesh, MLA, and District Collector B. Abdul Nasar on Wednesday. Rented house Subaida lives in a rented house and runs a modest tea stall attached to it at Sangamam Nagar, Port Kollam. Since the tea shop, the family’s main source of income, had remained closed during the lockdown, it was practically impossible for Subaida to make any contributions. “In the Chief Minister’s press conference I heard about several people, including children, contributing to the fund and I badly wanted to help. I was really upset as I could not figure out a way. Then someone came to buy the goats. I hesitated initially, but decided to sell them. My husband also encouraged me to contribute the money,” she said. Since Subaida had no idea how to make the contribution, she went to the nearby police station to enquire. They directed her to the civil station where she handed over the money to Mr. Nasar. Giving important “I sold the goats since contributing to the CMDRF was more important and I was happy to do that,” added Subaida, who lives with her ailing husband and brother. Subaida’s gesture was acknowledged and lauded by people from all walks of life, including Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/she-sold-two-of-her-goats-for-cms-fund-got-five-in-return/article31468608.ece
30 April 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||No fresh COVID cases in Kottayam for second day||In a breather to the residents of Kottayam, the district did not record a single fresh case of COVID-19 on Tuesday and Wednesday after a sudden spurt in the viral infection for five days. According to officials, the results of all 209 samples received during the day were negative. The authorities are now awaiting the results of 272 samples collected over the past couple of days and 86 samples collected on Wednesday. Of the 209 samples tested negative during the day, 201 samples belonged to people like police officers, elderly people and pregnant women who had no history of direct contact with COVID-19 patients. Meanwhile, a meeting to review the preparedness of Kottayam against the COVID-19 outbreak here on Wednesday decided to expand the scope of sampling to include more elderly persons and direct contacts of the existing patients, among others. The meeting, convened by the senior bureaucrat Alkesh Kumar Sharma, also decided to conduct surveys at the local body level to identify people having symptoms of the disease. The data collected through the survey should be handed over to the respective government hospitals in a time-bound manner. Protocol The surveillance on people in home quarantine will be strengthened to ensure that they do not violate the quarantine protocol. Speaking on the occasion, Mr.Sharma also suggested the Buildings Division of the Public Works Department to arrange for opening more COVID care centres. The decision to expand the scope of sampling came in the backdrop of reports that several among the COVID-19 patients here had consulted government dispensaries even after developing mild symptoms of the viral infection. They, however, were referred for COVID tests only at a later stage. For instance, the female nurse from Punnathura who was tested positive on April 26 had approached the Community Health Center, Ayarkkunnam on four occasions (April 6, 11, 19 and 24), but was referred to the district General Hospital, Kottayam only on the fourth occasion. According to experts, the delay in conducting the COVID tests, might have triggered the chances for a silent transmission. No possibility They, however, also pointed out that each of these patients had been linked to other patients some way or the other and hence there was no possibility for a community transmission at this juncture.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/no-fresh-covid-cases-in-kottayam-for-second-day/article31468612.ece
30 April 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Stranded Keralites elated at move to bring them back||The procedures initiated by the State government to bring back Keralites stranded in other States following the national lockdown have brought cheers to hundreds who have been eagerly waiting for such a move. Since the government is clueless about the number of such persons in need of support, it has opened a registration process on the official portal of NoRKA Roots. Based on their number and locations, appropriate arrangements will be made to facilitate their return. Some are stranded in various parts of Kerala and are keen to return to their native places. Like the arrangements made to receive Non Resident Keralites (NRKs), there will be separate facilities for assessing the health condition of stranded persons. They will be permitted to return to their homes only after thorough screening. Quarantine norms will be applicable to them too. Since the announcement of the lockdown, several Keralites stranded in various parts of the country have been in touch with people’s representatives and officials for a speedy return. Owing to stringent lockdown regulations, the government has not been able to entertain such requests other than ensuring their safe stay at the respective places. A group of youths from Kozhikode and Malappuram who were stranded in Maharashtra said they had been getting food and medical aid following the intervention of people’s representatives from Kerala. Nikhil, a member of the group, said they were also offered timely medical check-up and counselling thanks to the intervention of a local charitable society. “All of us are waiting to complete our registration process on the NoRKA portal as it will only help our quick return,” he added. In the first phase, senior citizens, students, and those in need of medical aid will get priority. Their transportation and quarantine requirements will be met by the respective district administrations. Efforts are also on to enlist the support of various charitable organisations and government agencies to facilitate their return.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/stranded-keralites-elated-at-move-to-bring-them-back/article31468548.ece
30 April 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Medicos seek re-evaluation of final exams results||Around 400 medical undergraduate students who could not clear their final-year exams this year by less than 10 marks have accused the Kerala University of Health Sciences (KUHS) of ignoring their demand for a re-evaluation of results. One of them told The Hindu on Wednesday that the results were published on March 24, a day before the country went into a lockdown to contain COVID-19. “So far, there has been no reply to the emails we sent to the Chief Minister, Health Minister, and the Vice Chancellor regarding re-evaluation,” he alleged. Exams in March The exams were held in the first week of March and the results were published within less than three weeks. The students said the evaluation was held only for six days. In one self-financing medical college in Kozhikode district, 11 students in a batch of 57 failed by just one mark. Twenty five students in that batch reportedly failed in only one paper. One student reportedly scored good marks in the theory exams, but fell short of one mark in the practicals. According to the students, 31 of them failed in the exams in Government Medical College, Thiruvananthapuram, 24 in Kozhikode, 20 in Palakkad, 15 in Thrissur, Kottayam and Pariyaram, and 12 in Alappuzha. Thirty eight students failed in a self-financing medical college in Ernakulam. The number of those who failed in similar colleges in Thiruvananthapuram, Kozhikode, and Malappuram were 30 and above. The students claimed the number might be more, as many were not forthcoming to express their views fearing reprisal. Promise to students The students were promised recalculation of marks, called re-totalling, and provision of mark list by April second week. But the authorities were yet to do so. According to the university’s rules, those who did not clear the exams could appear for the supplementary exams only after six months. But the students said they were not sure if they would be able to do as academic activities were delayed due to the COVID-19 scenario. They were also concerned about losing an year. University authorities, however, claimed that the results were not announced in haste. “The university has a two-layer system of evaluation where the average of the two marks is taken as final. If there is a 15% difference between the two, it will go to a third evaluator and the average of the highest two is taken as the final. Despite this, if the students have any complaint, they can approach the grievance cell headed by the Pro Vice-Chancellor. Re-evaluation is rare,” said an official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/medicos-seek-re-evaluation-of-final-year-exams-results/article31468571.ece
30 April 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||KV teachers seek nod to visit home towns||The All India Kendriya Vidyalaya Teachers’ Association has urged authorities to allow their members, some of who are from other States, to visit their home towns. In a letter to Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan and Deputy Commissioner, Kendriya Vidyalaya Sanghatan Regional Office, Ernakulam, G. Suresh, general secretary of the association, said around 400 teachers in KVs in Kerala hail from other States. They get to visit their home towns only during the summer vacation. The parents and children of at least some of them are there right now. This year, the vacation for KV teachers in Kerala is from April 9 to May 28. However, due to the COVID-19-related lockdown, they are stranded here. It has been almost a year since they visited their home towns and they are required to resume duty on May 29, Mr. Suresh said. Against this backdrop, the association urged the government to allow these teachers to travel in line with the rules and directions, by their own vehicles, those arranged by them or by public transport. They could come back within a month to resume duty.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kv-teachers-seek-nod-to-visit-home-towns/article31468572.ece
30 April 2020||Malappuram,KERALA||Landslip survivors return the favour||Those who survived the calamitous landslip which claimed 59 lives at Kavalappara in Pothukal panchayat near Nilambur last year have found an opportunity in the COVID-19 lockdown. Over two dozen youngsters from Kavalappara donated blood on Tuesday, as a mark of gratitude for the humanitarian help they got. “We owe a great deal to the kindness of the people who helped us at a time when we were devastated,” said Jayan, one of the survivors. The people of Kavalappara were slowly returning to normal when COVID-19 brought about the global lockdown. It dawned upon the men of Kavalappara that they would never get a better opportunity to display their gratitude through a unique act of blood donation at a time when everything was under lockdown.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/landslip-survivors-return-the-favour/article31468563.ece
30 April 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Beautician trainer’s body found||The body of a woman who had gone missing last month from Kollam was found buried here on Wednesday. A music teacher from Kozhikode was arrested in connection with the murder of the woman. The body of Suchitra, 42, from Mukhathala, Kollam, was found buried near a house at Sreeram Street, Manali, where music teacher Prasant Changaroth, 32, stayed for rent. The police said it was an illicit relation between Prasant and Suchitra that led to her murder. Suchitra, a beautician trainer at a private firm in Kollam, had been missing since March 17. The police had launched an investigation following a complaint by her relatives. Suchitra had left home on March 17 telling her family that she was going to Kochi for training. But she told her employer that she was taking leave for five days because her mother was ill. Her relatives approached the police after they found that Suchitra’s phone was constantly switched off since March 20.  The police zeroed in on Prasant after examining Suchitra’s phone call history. He reportedly admitted to his role in the murder of Suchitra. The police said Prasant had sent his family away on Suchitra’s demand. Suchitra joined Prasant at his house here on March 18. Following a quarrel, Prasant reportedly strangulated her using a table lamp cable. He chopped off both legs of Suchitra and tried to burn the body before burying it. The body was exhumed and shifted to the District Hospital here for post-mortem.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/beautician-trainers-body-found-buried-in-palakkad/article31468580.ece
30 April 2020||Palakkad,KERALA||Woman tries to flee; gets trapped on parapet||A 35-year-old woman from Tamil Nadu who allegedly attempted to escape from a COVID-19 observation centre at Jawaharlal College of Engineering at Lakkidi near Ottapalam was trapped on the first floor parapet of the building on Wednesday. Police and Fire Services personnel shifted her to Taluk Hospital, Ottapalam. The woman reached Pattambi two days ago from Coimbatore violating lockdown restrictions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/woman-tries-to-flee-gets-trapped-on-parapet/article31468564.ece
30 April 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Two more cured of disease in Pathanamthitta district||Two more COVID-19 patients in Pathanamthitta were cured of the disease and one of them got discharged from the Pathanamthitta General Hospital on Wednesday, reducing the number of patients in the district to one. According to District Medical Officer A.L. Sheeja, the second patient, hailing from Adoor, will be discharged from the General Hospital on Thursday. No new COVID-19 case was reported from any part of Pathanamthitta on Wednesday, according to a medical bulletin released by the district administration. 222 home-quarantined The number of people quarantined at their homes has come down to 222. Among them, 177 persons came from various other States and 44 others are primary and secondary contacts of various infected persons. A total of 3,723 throat and nasal swab samples had been sent from the district to the virology laboratory in Alappuzha and so far 17 of them were tested positive for the virus infection. The department awaits test results of 178 throat swab samples from the laboratory, according to Ms. Sheeja. Meanwhile, the district administration has closed various rural roads and other openings to the neighbouring districts of Kollam and Kottayam that have reported a spurt in the number of COVID-19 cases in the past one week. District Collector P.B. Noohu said that those who travel to places that have been identified as COVID-19 hotspots should remain in quarantine for 28 days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/two-more-cured-of-disease-in-pathanamthitta-district/article31468614.ece
30 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Ordinance for shelving delimitation gets nod||The Cabinet has approved a draft Ordinance for winding up the process of delimiting local body wards and facilitating the conduct of elections due in October on the basis of the existing wards. The government had earlier amended the Kerala Panchayati Raj Act and the Kerala Municipality Act by adding one ward each to all rural and urban local bodies. A Delimitation Commission was also constituted for carving the new wards ahead of the local body elections. The commission had issued mandatory orders and started training sessions for secretaries of local bodies. Following the COVID-19 outbreak, the secretaries who hold the pivot of the delimitation process were tasked with the conduct of community kitchens and other virus containment activities and the government had no option but to shelve the process. CM’s stance Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan clarified on Wednesday that the thrust was on conducting the elections on time, before the tenure of the incumbent committees expired and hence the process had been dropped. As per the amendment to the Acts, the minimum number of wards in block and grama panchayats was fixed at 14 and maximum at 24. The minimum in municipalities was fixed at 26 and maximum at 53, in district panchayats it was 17 and 33 respectively and Corporations 56 and 101 respectively. The draft Ordinance has reduced one ward each in the maximum and minimum numbers. On promulgating the Ordinance, the State Election Commission would be able to conduct the election without delimitation. The Delimitation Commission would be dissolved in due course since the entire process had been shelved.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ordinance-for-shelving-delimitation-gets-nod/article31468577.ece
30 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Over 3 lakh NoRKs wish to return||As many as 3,20,463 Non-Resident Keralites (NoRKs) held up in 150 countries owing to the COVID-19-induced ban on international flights into the country have registered till Wednesday for returning to Kerala. The online registration on the website of the Department of Non-Resident Keralite Affairs (NoRKA) that began on Sunday evening is continuing, surprising NoRKA officials. The government is yet to decide when to stop the online registration and forward the list to the Union Ministry of Home Affairs. Of those who have registered, 2,23,624 are those who had gone on job and resident visa, 57,436 had gone on visit visa, and 20,219 on dependent visa. As many as 7,276 students, 691 on transit visa, and 11,327 others have enrolled. As many as 56,114 people who lost their jobs and 58,823 people who want to avail themselves of annual leave have registered. As many as 41,236 people whose visit visas have expired and 23,975 whose visas expired or cancelled for various reasons have expressed willingness to return to the State. Students Others who have registered are 9,561 students who want to return owing to the lockdown, 10,007 senior citizens, 9,515 pregnant women, 2,448 students who had completed their courses, 748 who had completed their sentences in prisons abroad, and 1,08,520 others. A district-wise break-up of those registered till now for returning to the State shows that Malappuram district tops the list with 54,280, followed by Thrissur (40,434), Kozhikode (40,431), and Kannur (36,228). The number of people who have registered has surpassed the number of beds identified in the State for quarantining those showing symptoms on their return. The State has identified 2,39,642 beds and the Public Works Department has carried out an inspection of the facilities. From other States Meanwhile, the online registration for Keralites stranded in other States commenced on Wednesday evening. NoRKA is using the same websitewww.registernorkaroots.orgfor this too. A separate section “Inside India” has been created for the registration. The NoRKs section had been renamed as “Outside India”. Instead of the passport number that has to be provided by the NoRKs, those stranded within the country have to provide Aadhaar details or any identity card with number, current location with the district, destination address in Kerala, district, municipality, among other details for registration.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/over-3-lakh-norks-wish-to-return/article31468588.ece
30 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Two positive cases put capital district back in the spotlight||Two COVID-19 positive cases were reported from the southern part of the district on Wednesday, prompting the police to tighten lockdown restrictions in regions under the Neyyattinkara sub-division. The patients are a 48-year-old man from Neyyattinkara and a 68-year-old man from Tamil Nadu. Both men were undergoing treatment at a private hospital in Neyyattinkara. Once they tested positive for COVID-19, they were shifted to the Medical College Hospital here, the district administration said. How the patients contracted the infection was yet to be ascertained. Their route maps were being prepared, the authorities said. After the news broke on Wednesday, the police asked shops in Neyyattinkara and Balaramapuram to close. Lockdown restrictions would be tightened under the Neyyattinkara sub-division from Thursday, the police said. Shops selling essential commodities would be allowed to remain open till 12 noon only. Vehicle movement also would be restricted. In all, 67 persons were placed under disease surveillance on Wednesday, while 81 others completed the surveillance period without developing symptoms. At present, 2,061 people were under surveillance in the district. Among these, 1,921 were in home quarantine, 52 under observation in hospitals, and 88 persons in COVID care centres. Odd-even scheme The City police registered cases against 73 persons for violating the odd-even scheme that was introduced for allowing vehicles on roads during the lockdown. As per the system, only vehicles with registration numbers ending in odd numbers were permitted on Wednesday. The cases were registered under the Kerala Epidemic Diseases Ordinance, 2020, District Police Chief Balram Kumar Upadhyay said. The concessions on lockdown rules in city areas stipulated that vehicles with registration numbers ending in odd numbers were allowed on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays and even numbers on Tuesdays, Thursdays and Saturdays. Vehicles on health-related emergencies and essential service duties are exempted from the rule. In all, the City police registered cases against 187 persons and seized 149 vehicles on Wednesday for lockdown violations. Cases were also registered against 68 persons for not wearing masks. Another six persons were booked for unnecessary travel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/two-positive-cases-put-capital-district-back-in-the-spotlight/article31468620.ece
30 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Exams only after lockdown is lifted||The SSLC and higher secondary education (HSE) examinations in the State will be possible only after lifting of the lockdown, including restrictions in the Red zone districts. The remaining SSLC and higher secondary examinations seem unlikely to get under way on May 11 going by the Union government’s advisory on conducting the Central Board of Secondary Education examinations after the lifting of lockdown restrictions and giving 10 days’ notice. Totally conducive With States likely to proceed on the same lines, the examinations here will be conducted only after May 13, provided the restrictions are completely lifted, even in the Red zone. “Only if the situation is totally conducive can we proceed with the examinations,” an official said. General Education Department officials said that once the lockdown was lifted, the results could be declared in 25 days — the examinations could be conducted in five days, while valuation would take 10 days and tabulation a similar amount of time. Arrangements would be made depending on the post-lockdown situation, they said. Online mode Online situations were also being considered, but practical difficulties existed. Individual or area-specific strategies would need to be worked out even if a majority of the students were able to take the exams online. Following a meeting that Union Minister for Human Resource Development Ramesh Pokhriyal had with State Education Ministers and Secretaries on Tuesday, the government was mulling centralised valuation of answer sheets of examinations already conducted after the lockdown was lifted, though home-based valuation was also an option. If valuation camps are held, then the papers can be evaluated in 10 days, officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/exams-only-after-lockdown-is-lifted/article31468595.ece
30 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||1.9 lakh ha of fallow land to be farmed||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Wednesday announced a major initiative to launch farming in 1.9 lakh hectares of fallow land in the State from early May. The harvest season for the first crop of vegetables and fruits from this would coincide with Onam when consumption peaked. He declared the formation of agriculture clubs to channel the resourcefulness and enterprise of the youth into increasing the State’s food production. The government also sought to make agriculture an agreeable and rewarding venture by procuring the latest precision-farming technology. The government will enlist an estimated 56,000 non-resident Keralites displaced due to loss of employment in the Gulf in the scheme. The Chief Minister promised the institutionalising of a cold chain mechanism to store, preserve and transport vegetables, fruits, meat, milk, and poultry from farm to the table. A fleet of refrigerated trucks would ferry the produce from farms to markets. Mr. Vijayan said the State could spare 1,40,000 hectares to cultivate food crops intercropped with cash crops. Local self-government institutions would spearhead the scheme. Persons owning land could farm on their own or lease their property to the local body for cultivation. The State hoped to invest Rs. 3,000 crore, sourced from cooperative banks and NABARD, into the project. Kudumbashree would play a significant role in this.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/19-lakh-ha-of-fallow-land-to-be-farmed/article31468576.ece
30 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Kudumbashree farming groups hit||The lockdown has adversely affected Kudumbashree group farming, leading to a loss of Rs. 3.6 crore, according to a study report. The report on the losses of the farming groups, the problems they faced, and the consequences has been prepared by Dathan C.S, programme officer in-charge of Kudumbashree’s agricultural wing. The report says the groups that overcame two back-to-back floods in the past two years to plant crops this year were unexpectedly hit by the curbs on transportation and markets. As much as 8.64 tonnes of produce such as rice, vegetables, plantain, and tubers that were grown with an eye on Vishu sales could not be harvested owing to the lockdown. This alone has caused an estimated loss of Rs. 2 crore. Harvested produce that could not be sold or was sold at very low prices caused losses to the tune of Rs. 1.67 crore. The district where the farming groups experienced maximum loss is Thrissur. While 821 farming groups were affected by the restrictions, cultivation on 277.82 hectares was hit. In Malappuram, 778 groups were facing losses owing to the lockdown. Items cultivated This year, 48,490 farming groups grew paddy, vegetables, tubers, and plantain for the Vishu market. Of these, 31,421 were set to harvest the produce. Of them, 4,042 groups and their cultivation on 1,202 ha were severely affected. The women’s farming groups in Thrissur, Ernakulam, and Kannur districts that grew kani vellarikya (golden cucumber) for Vishu too faced severe losses. There are 68,388 farming groups with 3.38 lakh women under the umbrella of Kudumbashree. Together, they farm 50,000 hectares, of which nearly 80% is taken on lease.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kudumbashree-farming-groups-hit/article31468570.ece
30 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Soft loans likely for tourism employees||The government is thinking of providing soft loans for employees of the tourism industry as part of the short, mid and long-term strategies being worked out for the revival of the tourism sector. Soft loans are being planned as the majority of hotels, resorts and other units in the sector is unable to pay salary and allowances to the staff following closure of units due to COVID-19. Soft loans with interest ranging from 3% to 4% with the employer as guarantee is being looked into. In a communication to the stakeholders of the industry, Tourism Secretary Rani George says Minister for Tourism Kadakampally Surendran has held discussions with the Kerala State Cooperative Bank and schemes are being worked out. Kerala Tourism has been affected and the entrepreneurs and the employees are facing the crisis which may extend for a few months. The proposal for the revival has been worked out and the components are being discussed with the relevant departments. Electricity charges On the request of the tourism industry for waiver of fixed charges for electricity, Ms George says the Kerala State Electricity Board should be approached with request for an option for instalments for the deferred payment of fixed charges. The Confederation of Kerala Tourism Industry (CKTI), which has approached the State and Union governments with a revival package for the sector that generated Rs. 45,010.69 crore last year, is of the view that the revenue loss this year would be Rs. 20,000 crore. CKTI president E.M. Najeeb told The Hindu that they have demanded one-year tax holiday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/soft-loans-likely-for-tourism-employees/article31468583.ece
30 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Govt. to help PSUs||The government will lend a helping hand to public sector enterprises to resume industrial production post lockdown, Industries Minister E.P.Jayarajan said here on Wednesday. Addressing heads of PSUs over a videoconferencing network, he said the government would provide financial assistance to get the units back on track and help them source raw materials and identify markets for their products. The Minister urged the PSUs to come forward to produce medical equipment for the fight against COVID-19. He stressed the need to focus on product diversification to come out of the pandemic-induced crisis.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/govt-to-help-psus-to-resume-production/article31468579.ece
30 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||‘Let this alertness continue’ even after lockdown||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Wednesday launched the second phase of the Break the Chain campaign to promote personal hygiene in view of the spread of COVID-19. The second phase, with the slogan Thudaranam ee karuthal (Let this alertness continue), is being launched in view of the possible lifting of the lockdown by next week. The awareness campaign says that it is not yet time to drop the guard, but it is important to remain extra alert in the coming days. Mr. Vijayan handed over the campaign poster to Health Minister K.K. Shylaja. Officials of the Health Department, Social Justice, Women and Child Welfare, and Social Security Departments, which are jointly organising the campaign, were present. Do not spit A related campaign to discourage spitting in public spaces, with a slogan Thuppalle thottupokum (Do not spit, we will be defeated), will be organised as part of it, as the spread of the virus is aided by spitting. The campaign organisers have also coined an acronym — SMS (Soap, Mask, Social Distancing) to remind people of three essentials during this pandemic period. An official said the government would make it an offence punishable by law. Mr. Vijayan inveighed against littering and discarding garbage in public places. He reminded local self-government institutions to get strict on such violations and prevent piling up of waste. The government has also cautioned against the disposal of used masks and gloves in public spaces and called for proper disposal through local bodies. Senior citizens, pregnant women, and those having other health issues have been advised to remain indoors. An effective method The Break the Chain campaign, launched in March soon after the COVID-19 outbreak, was replicated in other States and overseas too and was applauded as one of the most effective methods in containing the spread of the virus. Handwash points came up across the State as part of the campaign. Celebrities had joined the campaign with videos promoting handwashing and personal hygiene and the need to use hand sanitisers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/let-this-alertness-continue-even-after-lockdown/article31468597.ece
30 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Cong, BJP flay move||Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee president Mullappally Ramachandran said here on Wednesday that the government had thrown down the gauntlet to the High Court by opting for an Ordinance to override the stay on the deferment of the salary of government employees and teachers. Terming the move as fascist, he said the CPI(M) had let down the employees. BJP State president K. Surendran said the government was challenging the court with the Ordinance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cong-bjp-flay-move/article31468599.ece
30 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Farming to be taken up on KU campus||The University of Kerala will revive farming on its campus at Karyavattom, which was once an agricultural hub. The move comes against the backdrop of the government’s mission to enhance agricultural output to achieve self-sufficiency in food in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic. The university is also planning to provide Karshika (agriculture) scholarships to student farmers as incentive. The Syndicate, which adopted the decision at its meeting on Tuesday, also decided to direct its affiliated colleges to follow suit by creating community farming clubs. The Syndicate has proposed launching the scheme next academic year. The academic community will be allowed to dedicate up to two hours every day after class hours for nurturing the fields. A preparatory meeting on Thursday will give shape to the programme. While the departments of Botany and Environmental Sciences have been tasked with coordinating the programme, the heads of various departments, student representatives, and senior officers will attend the meeting. Pro Vice Chancellor P.P. Ajayakumar said the crisis in the State could be turned into an opportunity to revive farming in the vast area that formed part of the Karyavattom campus. “Paddy was extensively cultivated in the region till the fields were cleared for setting up the campus in 1967 ,” he said. While 20 acres of land will be utilised for paddy farming, another five acres will be earmarked to cultivate vegetables and tuber crops. The Agriculture Department has extended support towards the initiative.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/farming-to-be-taken-up-on-ku-campus/article31468616.ece
30 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Mask production for students begins||Samagra Shiksha, Kerala, has launched production of 30,000 masks under its block resource centres in all districts. Masks will be compulsory for all students and teachers once schools reopen after the lockdown. Mask production is being taken up by utilising the services of volunteers, including Samagra Shiksha specialist teachers, former students, and parents. The aim is to make 50 lakh masks. Of these, 10 lakh are being made through the National Service Scheme for students appearing for exams post-lockdown.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mask-production-for-students-begins/article31468615.ece
30 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Chala shops to stay closed||All the shops in Chala market, except those selling essential items, will remain closed till May 3. The decision was taken at a meet ing of traders’ organisations chaired by District Police Chief (Thiruvananthapuram city) Balram Kumar Upadhyay. The organisations said though the government had eased restrictions, the police had asked shops in Chala market to close down after crowds began gathering. It was decided to close down all the shops except those selling essential items, as there were no practical methods to reduce crowds in markets like Chala.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/chala-shops-to-stay-closed/article31468617.ece
30 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||CM’s directive on masks||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Wednesday hinted that the government might make the wearing of masks in public places legally enforceable. He said the number of people using masks in public had increased. “It is enough to cover the face with a towel, shawl or handkerchief,” he said. He said school students would be encouraged to make cloth masks for use in educational institutions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cms-directive-on-masks/article31468589.ece
30 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||CM slams Muraleedharan||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has expressed incredulity that Union Minister of State for External Affairs V. Muraleedharan had blamed the government for prematurely declaring Idukki and Kottayam districts as Green zones. “...It is because of his undiluted ignorance. The government's response is calibrated and based on scientific analysis of field data and expert opinion. There are several new cases, and the government categorised the districts as Red zones to fend off community spread. At no stage has the outbreak outpaced the State's response,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cm-slams-muraleedharan/article31468566.ece
30 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Heavy rain likely in 4 districts||Heavy rainfall is likely in Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Ernakulam and Idukki districts on Thursday, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) has said. The weather agency has issued yellow alerts for the four districts indicating the possibility of isolated heavy rainfall (6.4 cm to 11.5 cm in 24 hours). Lightning forecast Thunderstorms accompanied by lightning and gusting winds could be expected in parts of the State till May 3, the IMD said on Wednesday. The Kerala State Disaster Management Authority (KSDMA) has issued an advisory given the possibility of strong winds accompanying the summer rainfall. People should avoid standing under trees or parking vehicles under them. KSDMA advisory The KSDMA has also advised the removal of poorly-anchored hoardings, electric posts and flag poles to avoid mishaps. The public have been asked to report snapped power lines and damaged electric posts to the Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB) on 1912 or the control room of the district disaster management authority concerned on 1077. KSEB work Meanwhile, the Kerala State Electricity Board was expecting to restore by Wednesday night the power supply to several areas in the southern districts lashed by Tuesday’s thunderstorm. The heavy rain and lashing winds had brought down overhead power lines and electric poles. A full assessment of the losses remains incomplete due to the lockdown.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/heavy-rain-likely-in-four-districts-warns-imd/article31468578.ece
30 April 2020||April 30 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Water sources being mapped||The Haritha Keralam Mission is mapping water sources and quarries in the district with the support of the IT Mission. The mapping, which will be completed by June, is expected to give a clear picture of water sources. Nine persons have been trained for the purpose. The district has been divided into 43 sections. The IT Mission has section-wise satellite pictures of the water sources. Pink lines have been given to identify the rivers and streams. The information will be handed over to local bodies once mapping is done.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/water-sources-being-mapped/article31468546.ece
30 April 2020||April 30 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Woman held for illegally transporting people||A woman who allegedly acted as an agent for taking people from Tamil Nadu to Kerala in vehicles carrying vegetables by violating lockdown norms has been arrested by the police. She was identified as Sindhu, 42, wife of Cheruparambil Sajeev, Pengamukku. A TV channel had reported about a racket cashing in on the travel restrictions following the lockdown. Sindhu had been introducing herself to people as the World Malayali Federation president, according to the police. One held Meanwhile, the police took into custody a person from Vadama, Mala, who arrived from Bengaluru in a vegetable lorry, and sent him to quarantine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/woman-held-for-illegally-transporting-people/article31468555.ece
30 April 2020||April 30 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Safe zone||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/safe-zone/article31468557.ece
30 April 2020||April 30 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Life moves on||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/life-moves-on/article31468582.ece
30 April 2020||April 30 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Care from all parts||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/care-from-all-parts/article31468603.ece
30 April 2020||April 30 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Safe harvest||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/safe-harvest/article31468569.ece
30 April 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||210 industrial units allowed to revive operations in Anantapur||The district is limping back to normal, in small pockets though, with activity resuming in 210 industrial units, which are now permitted to operate as per the revised guidelines of the Union government. The district administration has received 232 applications seeking permission to revive operations. Of them, 210 have been cleared and seven are under review. Permission was denied to 15 industrial units as they did not come under the exempted category, district Collector Gandham Chandrudu said on Wednesday. A district COVID-19 task force meeting was organised via video link with the participation of people’s representatives from all the constituencies and BC Welfare Minister M. Sankaranarayana. “While agricultural operations are continuing, opening of industries with proper social distancing norms will give an impetus to the economy,” the Collector said, and sought the opinion of the MLAs on the pros and cons of the lockdown, or its relaxation. Meanwhile, the district witnessed four new positive cases in the day, taking the tally to 58. One of them, a 65-year-old woman from Hindupur, died on April 26, but her sample tested positive now. Twenty persons had been discharged so far after treatment. The latest death was the fifth in the district, and all of them had tested positive only after their death. Testing facility inspected The other three persons who tested positive were a 22-year-old youth from Arvind Nagar in Anantapur city, a 25-year-old youth from Guttakindapalli of Dharmavaram mandal and an 85-year-old woman from Nikampalli of Hindupur town. The Collector, along with Sub-Collector T. Nishanthi and assistant collector M. Jahnavi, inspected the COVID-19 Samples Testing Centre at Hindupur, and said that proper planning in the collection of samples should be done and 192 samples tested every day at the facility. Meanwhile, the samples of the 53 journalists were collected in Anantapur on Wednesday. Joint Collector S. Dilli Rao advised them to take precautions while discharging their duties and adhere to the safety norms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/210-industrial-units-allowed-to-revive-operations-in-anantapur/article31468676.ece
30 April 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||1 dead, 3 injured as bikes collide||One died on the spot and three were injured when two bikes collided at Thimmapakonda in Kalyandurg mandal in the district on Wednesday. Gujjala Ashok, 22, a resident of Govindavada village in the mandal, died on the spot when the motorcycle, on which he was taking his elder pregnant sister to a hospital, collided with another bike coming in the opposite direction. While the woman sustained a fracture in the leg, the two persons on the second bike sustained injuries on the head. Kalyandurg Rural Sub-Inspector P. Sudhakar said the three were taken to the Primary Health Centre here and from there shifted to Bellary for better treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/1-dead-3-injured-as-bikes-collide/article31468673.ece
30 April 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||HNSS Canal breaches at Somandepalli||The Handri Neeva Sujala Sravanthi Irrigation water canal breached at Polepalli village in Somandepalli mandal of Anantapur district on Wednesday following heavy rain in the area on Tuesday night. Irrigation officials were engaged in plugging the breach, as a lot of Krishna river water was getting wasted. An earthmover was pressed into service and sandbags were being put across the bund. Heavy rain and gales led to banana plantations getting razed to the ground at Kuchivaripall in Yellanuru mandal and several vegetable traders and wholesalers lost their stocks in Hindupur as water entered the godowns and temporary storage spaces erected on ground to avoid assembly of people at one place.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/hnss-canal-breaches-at-somandepalli/article31468697.ece
30 April 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Cricket assn. chips in for relief fund||The District Cricket Association on Wednesday donated Rs. 2 lakh toward the COVID-19 relief operations taken up by the Rural Development Trust (RDT) in Anantapur. The cricket association’s representative in a release said its members, umpires, present and former players, coaches and others chipped in for the fund. He added a cheque for the amount had been handed over to Rural Development Trust programme director Moncho Ferrer. The Rural Development Trust had been feeding people in 17 quarantine centres, and supplied more than a lakh of food packets. They also supplied Personal Protective Equipments(PPEs), masks and other requisite items to doctors.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cricket-assn-chips-in-for-relief-fund/article31468674.ece
30 April 2020||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||A smart way to watch over COVID-19 patients||With the Union Health Ministry announcing new guidelines for the home isolation of people who either have very mild COVID-19 symptoms or are in the pre-symptomatic phase, it will now be a mammoth task for authorities to monitor their health status and also ensure they do not violate home quarantine norms. This is where a wearable device developed by faculty from the Indian Institute of Science (IISc.) and city-based doctors, in collaboration with MIISKY Technovation Pvt. Ltd., could come in handy. The device [a smartwatch] can measure various vital parameters of individuals under isolation on a real-time basis. Linked to a smartphone via Bluetooth, the smartwatch will record the patient’s blood oxygen saturation level and body temperature in real time, said Hardik J. Pandya, Assistant Professor, at the Department of Electronic Systems Engineering at IISc. Dr. Pandya also heads the Biomedical and Electronic Engineering Systems (BEES) Laboratory at the institute. He said the device is suitable for those under isolation and also for asymptomatic COVID-19 positive patients. The team that has developed this device comprises, besides Dr. Pandya, students at BEES Laboratory and doctors from Aster CMI and Sri Shankara Cancer Hospital and Research Centre and researchers from MIISKY Technovation Pvt. Ltd. Sonal Asthana, Senior Consultant Transplant surgeon in Aster Integrated Liver Care team, said the device will also help get the location details of the wearer. “The location details will help ensure that the individual is adhering to quarantine norms. A warning can be sent to authorities if the user crosses over from one zone to another. Also, if the temperature rises or the oxygen saturation level falls below 93%, the wearable device alerts the local tracking centre about the impending need for hospitalisation,” Dr. Asthana explained. “These readings are then automatically uploaded to an Android application [via Bluetooth] which can be accessed by clinicians or the Health Department. When there is an increase in the body temperature or a drop in the oxygen saturation level, beyond admissible limits, the health officials can be alerted through an SMS,” he said. “Using this device, people can be monitored even in their homes and thus we can save hospitals for the critical patients.” The team that started work eight months ago, on a medical device to record vital parameters in patients, thought it was more suitable for COVID-19 patients as nearly 80% of patients are asymptomatic and may only need medical attention if they develop fever or shortness of breath with low oxygen saturation levels. The device uses non-invasive near-infrared technology for calculating these vital parameters. “It is envisaged that such a technology will be of critical utility in public health management of our country in times of a pandemic. It will help ease the burden on the testing facilities and the health infrastructure by being able to monitor asymptomatic patients remotely,” said Dr. Pandya. He said the team is in the process of filing a patent and planning to use it on volunteers in the coming weeks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/a-smart-way-to-watch-over-covid-19-patients/article31468186.ece
30 April 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||3 new cases recorded in Srikalahasti||Officials of the COVID-19 Task Force were on their toes with the surfacing of three positive cases in Srikalahasti on Wednesday. With this the temple town accounted for 51 of the 77 cases in Chittoor district. District Collector Narayana Bharat Gupta inspected the red zones in Nindra, Chinnagottigallu and Yerravaripalem mandals, which reported one positive case each, all being police and revenue personnel. The Collector rushed to Kuppedu village in Nindra mandal at noon following an appeal by the villagers to conduct tests to all those who had completed 60 years of age. Mr. Gupta asked the task force personnel to conduct 100 tests in the village, which should include all the elderly people there. A revenue official, a resident of Kuppedu but working at Srikalahasti, had tested positive to the virus last week. This led to declaring of the neighbouring mandals of Pichatur and Narayanavanam as red zones. He is currently under isolation at SVRR COVID-19 hospital in Tirupati. Though all his family members and close relatives in the village were sent for quarantine, the villagers expressed fears of community spread of the virus. This made them appeal to the Collector to visit their village and initiate steps for massive tests. Circle Inspector (Nagari rural) M. Rajasekhar informed the Collector that the inter-State border with Tamil Nadu at Nindra and Vijayapuram mandals were under surveillance and the lockdown was being implemented strictly in the rural areas. A special vigil was mounted on the rural roads to prevent unnecessary public movement. The Collector also inspected the red zones at Utabavula and Chappidi villages in YV Palem and Chinnagottigallu mandals, where two positive cases surfaced last week. He told the field staff to collect samples from all those who complain of symptoms related to the virus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/3-new-cases-recorded-in-srikalahasti/article31468678.ece
30 April 2020||G.V. Prasada SarmaVISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Three GVMC pipeline project works delayed due to lockdown||Three transmission pipeline schemes of the GVMC to share water available with areas falling deficit have been hit by the COVID-19 lockdown. GVMC proposed a pipeline from Padmanabhapuram to VIMS connecting it to an existing pipeline at a cost of Rs. 39 crore. With poor groundwater levels and Mudasarlova reservoirs and infiltration wells in the Gosthani running dry, Ward Nos. 1 to 6 comprising Arilova, the Health City, Endada and Madhurawada faced an acute water shortage in the 2019 summer. To remedy the situation, the pipeline to carry 15 MLD of water is planned. Another pipeline is to run from Aganampudi filtration plant to Anakapalle. With infiltration wells in the Sarada river running dry, the 27-km pipeline at a cost of Rs. 40 crore is meant to improve supply to Anakapalle and the five villages adjacent to it that are part of the GVMC. The pipeline is to carry 20 MLD water from Aganampudi to the Narava filtration plant to serve as standby to cater to the areas in the vicinity parts that are affected when the reservoirs run dry. When water levels in the Meghadrigedda, Tatipudi, Raiwada and Mudasarlova reservoirs are low, the only source is Yeleru reservoir. Water that comes from Yeleru reservoir to Aganampudi will be brought to Narava to make up for the deficit and cater to the areas nearby, say sources. Rs. 36 crore outlay The 18 km pipeline is estimated to cost Rs. 36 crore. All the three tenders were proposed to be received on March 25. “But with the lockdown coming into force contractors had expressed their inability to obtain the necessary bank guarantees and drafts necessitating postponement,” says GVMC Chief Engineer M. Venkateswara Rao. “Now the process of receiving the tenders will be taken up on May 6 after the lockdown ends,” he told The Hindu . After receiving the tenders, they will have to be sent to the committee set up by the government for final approval. Though the time to be given for the works is 18 months, he is confident that it will be completed in a year, in time for the next summer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/three-gvmc-pipeline-project-works-delayed-due-to-lockdown/article31468708.ece
30 April 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Narasaraopet turns a hotspot||Narasaraopet, a bustling town 45 km away from here, is the latest hotspot of COVID-19. A staggering number of cases, 104, from this town, has shocked the local administration, which seemed to be just relaxing after aggressively implementing cluster containment plans in Guntur city. From deploying TrueNAT testing kits to imposing severe restrictions on movement and opening of new quarantine centres, the officials are making every effort to contain the infection. The COVID-19 virus is spreading to towns like Piduguralla and Dachepdalli, though the areas in Macherla have witnessed a drop in number of cases.  Rapid spread The town has recorded the most number of cases in the State, surpassing Guntur and Vijayawada. With 27 cases reported on Wednesday, the total number of positive cases in the district rose to 283. It all started when a cable TV collection agent died after a week into the lockdown. Doctors said that he died of TB, but tests revealed that he had the virus. Later, his wife tested positive and a close contact of the woman also tested positive. The area in Orava Katta soon became a hub of COVID-19, with as many as 70 cases testing positive from the region. Soon, a private doctor got infected after treating a home guard and from there infection spread rapidly infecting doctors, nurses and many medical staff, who had treated many patients without knowing about their medical history. Collector I. Samuel Ananda Kumar, SP Ch. Vijaya Rao and special officer B. Rajasekhar has been visiting the town ever since and giving instructions to the personnel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/narasaraopet-turns-a-hotspot/article31468226.ece
30 April 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||4,500 fishermen stranded in Gujarat to reach home today||More than 4,500 fishermen from the Andhra Pradesh, who were stranded at Veraval port in Gujarat owing to the lockdown, are being brought home in 65 buses and they are expected to reach their native districts by Thursday afternoon, Minister for Marketing, Fisheries and Animal Husbandry Mopidevi Venkata Ramana Rao has said. “Bringing back the fishermen is an herculean task. The process began after Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy spoke to his Gujarat counterpart Vijay Rupani and Union Home Minister Amit Shah,” Mr. Ramana Rao told the media here on Wednesday. Initially, the government had thought of bringing the stranded fishermen through the sea route, but the plan was shelved due to logistical issues. Rs. 3 crore allocated “Bringing the fishermen by road involved a lot of paperwork. Of the 65 buses, 57 have started their journey. As per the update, they have crossed the Gujarat border. A senior officer Satish Chandra has been deputed for the work. A sum of Rs. 3 crore has been allocated from the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund for the task,’’ Mr. Ramana Rao said. Most of these stranded fishermen are natives of Visakhapatnam, Vizianagaram and Srikakulam districts. “As per the protocol, the fishermen will be shifted to quarantine facilities immediately after their arrival. If their samples test negative in RT-PCR tests, they will be allowed to go home and put under home quarantine,” said the Minister. Fishermen from north coastal districts usually go to Veraval port in Gujarat and Mangalore for work during this season every year. Recently, 1,700 fishermen were brought back from Mangalore port.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/4500-fishermen-stranded-in-gujarat-to-reach-home-today/article31468187.ece
30 April 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ambati seeks clarification on Heritage staff turning +ve||Ambati Rambabu, YSRCP MLA, has asked TDP president Nara Chandrababu Naidu to clarify over reports that a large number of employees at the Heritage Food Pvt Ltd manufacturing unit at Uppal in Telangana have been infected with COVID-19. “Lakhs of litres of milk is being supplied to many parts of the country from this plant. If this is true, then we ask the government in Telangana to take further action,” said Mr. Rambabu. Naidu urged to clarify At a video conference with reporters, Mr. Rambabu said that there were reports that many employees working in the factory had tested positive and sought an explanation from Mr. Naidu if the reports were true.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ambati-seeks-clarification-on-heritage-staff-turning-ve/article31468222.ece
30 April 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Stranded workers head back home||There is relief, at last, for the thousands of migrant workers stranded in Guntur, Krishna and Prakasam districts as the government has started sending them back to their native places by APSRTC buses. Marketing Minister Mopidevi Venkata Ramana Rao told the media here on Wednesday that 60,000 workers would be sent to their native districts. Medical tests “Most of the migrant workers come to Guntur and Krishna districts to work in paddy, chilli and cotton fields during February-May. Unfortunately, they have been stranded for more than a month. We are sending them by RTC buses. After reaching their respective districts, they will be undergoing medical tests. Only after the quarantine period, they will be sent home,” said the Minister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/stranded-workers-head-back-home/article31468223.ece
30 April 2020||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Telangana’s youngest COVID survivor goes home||Cheer and joy replaced anxiety and gloom at the Gandhi Hospital here on Wednesday as a 45-day-old baby, said to be Telangana’s youngest COVID-19 survivor, was discharged along with 12 more children after being treated in paediatric wards. The infant was only 23 days old when he was admitted to the hospital. His family hails from the southern part of Telangana. Health Minister Eatala Rajender appreciated the efforts put in by para-medical staff, nurses and doctors and said the infant is the youngest COVID-19 case in the country. However, health officials said he is ‘probably’ the youngest survivor, indicating a lack of clarity. In some cases, children, who along with their parents, tested positive were allotted separate rooms in the hospital. It had earlier been published in these columns that the children were ready to be discharged. Though the children had tested negative twice consecutively, their parents continued battling the novel coronavirus. So, they chose to stay in the hospital along with their kids until they all recovered since their family members were not keen on taking care of the children, some revealed. The Health department released videos of the moments when the children walked out of the hospital. Holding balloons and standing by their parents’ side, they answered questions about their treatment. A few of them told COVID-19 nodal officer at Gandhi Hospital, Prabhakar Reddy, that they forged friendship with other children during their stay. On the whole, 35 people were discharged, including the 13 children and infants. Acting on feedback Asked for feedback on the medical and food facilities at the hospital, a young patient’s parent pointed out that the quality of dal served was not good and they relied on tea and biscuits. Another parent said the condition of bathrooms needs to improve. Hospital authorities said they have been acting on the feedback from those who have been discharged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/states-youngest-covid-19-survivor-goes-home/article31468497.ece
30 April 2020||Kochi,ANDHRA PRADESH||Exempt judges’ salaries from order: Kerala HC||The Kerala High Court Registrar General has requested the State government to exempt salaries of High Court judges from the government’s salary deferment order. In a letter to the State government, the High Court Registrar General says salaries and allowances of the Chief Justice and the judges cannot be varied or deferred by the State government thorough an executive order. As per Article 221 of the Constitution, High Court judges are paid salaries as determined by Parliament and they shall not be varied to their disadvantage after appointment. The letter was sent on April 27, a day before a single judge stayed the salary deferment order. It points out that the Chief Justice has initiated steps to collect amounts from the judges for making donations to the Chief Minister’s Distress Relief Fund (CMDRF). Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said in the capital that the government would not defer the payment of the salary of judges. It also brings to the notice of the government that no option is provided in the programme set for salary deferment in the SPARK software to process the salary of High Court judges without salary deferment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/exempt-judges-salaries-from-order-kerala-hc/article31468188.ece
30 April 2020||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kurnool GGH superintendent made DME||Kurnool Government General Hospital Superintendent G.V. Rama Prasad has been made Director of Medical Education (DME) with full additional charge as the incumbent DME (FAC) K. Venkatesh has taken a medical leave from April 20 to May 29. A GO was issued on April 28 in this regard.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kurnool-ggh-superintendent-made-dme/article31468698.ece
30 April 2020||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Workers stranded in T.N. wait anxiously to return home||When a group of 250 workers from the district, skilled in cutting sugarcane, left for Pudukottai district in Tamil Nadu to work in the fields, little did they anticipate about the crisis that has now crippled the world. Leaving behind family members here, these workers went to Gandarvakottai in 13 batches with their contractor in February to make money. “Just as we were close to completing the back-breaking work, the nationwide lockdown was announced,” recalled a worker, J. Irimaiah, over phone. Usually, they return to their hometowns by March-end or in the first week of April. Stranded for a month now, these workers anxiously wait for the lockdown to end. “We are now counting our days to return to our homes in Yerragondapalem and reunite with families,” said a worker, Kumari. “Some of us have exhausted whatever little money we had earned by the time the first phase of the lockdown was over,” Irimaiah said. These workers are paid between Rs. 700 and Rs. 900 for cutting a tonne of sugarcanes. “Every year, we used to visit the farms in Gondarvakottai Taluk for cutting sugarcane as we do not have any work to do in drought-hit Prakasam district,” says a worker Malleswari. After trying in vain to return to Andhra Pradesh, these workers have now sought help of Prakasam District Legal Services Authority(DLSA). DLSA Chairperson P.Venkata Jyothirmayi has assured them of help and arranged for their stay and food at Manganur, after speaking with his counterpart in Tamil Nadu. Workers from Prakasam stranded outside the State could call 15100 or 9440901058 for the DLSA to arrange them food and accommodation, according to the DLSA Chairperson, also Prakasam Principal District Judge.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/workers-stranded-in-tn-wait-anxiously-to-return-home/article31468684.ece
30 April 2020||ONGOLE/NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||4 more test positive in Prakasam||Four more persons tested positive for coronavirus in Prakasam district taking the number of confirmed cases to 60 in the last 24 hours. Two of them were primary contacts of the persons who had returned from New Delhi after attending a religious congregation. Health officials feared spreading of the disease at the community level as an equal number of persons had neither came into contact with Delhi nor foreign returnees. Containment plan Officials swung into action to implement the cluster containment action plan in Ekalvya Nagar, near the PVRM boys high school, and also in Perala, Podili and Gudlur. Entry and exit points were closed and police pickets were posted to prevent movement of people from and to the clusters. In the wake of increase in the number of new cases, police personnel enforced the lockdown strictly in Ongole and in other red zone areas, including Chirala. The total number of confirmed cases in Ongole alone rose to 32 with a 61-year-old man contracting the disease. One case each was reported from Gudlur, Podili and Chirala, Government General Hospital Superintendent D. Sriramulu said. Podili reported the first coronavirus case with a 59-year-old man testing postive on Wednesday.. Test reports of 598 persons received on Wednesday turned out to be negative. A 30-year-old woman from Perala, near Chirala, and a 57-year-old man from Gudlur had also tested positive for the disease. In Nellore, a deceased doctor's wife and a car driver were discharged from the COVID-19 isolation ward on recovery. So far 27 persons in Nellore were treated. Meanwhile, para-military force personnel sprayed disinfectants at the Collector's office and red zone areas in the city, which has reported 82 confirmed cases so far.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/4-more-test-positive-in-prakasam/article31468682.ece
30 April 2020||Rajulapudi Srinivas,ANDHRA PRADESH||Migrant workers stuck in State heave a sigh of relief||With the Central government giving the green signal for movement of migrant labourers stranded in different States to their native places, they were seen in a happy mood on Wednesday. They lost no time in passing on the information to their families and friends. Nearly 75,000 persons, a vast majority of them labourers, were staying in shelter homes arranged by the government in the State, since the lockdown was imposed in the country, in accordance with the directions issued by the Supreme Court and the High court. Thousands of migrant workers were working in industries, the agriculture and horticulture sectors, catering units, hotels, brick kilns, manufacturing units, aqua processing and packing companies, daily-wage labourers, spinning mills, poultry and other sectors in State. Labourers from Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand, Odisha, Tamil Nadu, Telangana, Bihar, West Bengal, Maharashtra and other States were working in AP. Similarly, many labourers from the State went to the neighbouring States in search of livelihood. Many workers, stranded in other States, were seen trekking on national highways and a few reportedly died of exhaustion.  Govt. thanked “We are stuck in the shelter home for over one month and my family is suffering without food. I thank the government for taking the decision to send us to our native places,” said Murugan of Tamil Nadu . “I came to AP to work in an aqua company and got struck. I very to eager to see my parents and children,” said Magi who hails from Odisha. The Centre has asked the State governments to facilitate the workers’ return through mutual consultation. Medical tests will be conducted once the labourers reach their native States, said an official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/migrant-workers-stuck-in-state-heave-a-sigh-of-relief/article31468233.ece
30 April 2020||Rajulapudi Srinivas,ANDHRA PRADESH||Polavaram MLA vows to stand by Adivasis||Leaders of various tribal outfits have urged the government to file a review petition in the Supreme Court over quashing of GO 3, which provides 100 % reservation for tribal people in the recruitment of teacher posts in Agency areas. Polavaram MLA and AP Legislature Committee for Tribal Welfare Chairman Tellam Balaraju has promised to take the matter to the notice of Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy and Tribal Welfare Minister Pamula Pushpa Srivani, and render justice to the Adivasis. Members of Adivasi Teachers and Employees Associations, Girijana Sankshema Sangam, Adivasi Hakkula Sangham and other organisations, headed by Mr. Balaraju, conducted an open meeting at Duddukuru village in the district on Tuesday, and discussed the situation arising out of the quashing of the GO. Adivasi Sangham leader Midiam Gangaraju said the situation had arisen due to the inclusion of the GO in the AP Regulations of Reservation for Appointments to Public Services Act, 1997, without including it service rules. Another leader, Kunja Krishnam Raju stressed the need for revision of the GO. The MLA said the architect of the Indian Constitution Dr. B.R. Ambedkar had given certain rights to people living in Scheduled Areas under Article 244 (1), Schedule 5, to protect them from non-tribals. The issue on revision of the GO would be discussed in the Tribal Advisory Council (TAC), and a resolution would be made after discussing the matter with the Chief Minister. Prior to Independence, Adivasis living in Agency areas had some rights and the government would try to protect them, the MLA said. Earlier, the Adivasi leaders staged a protest over the quashing of the order.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/polavaram-mla-vows-to-stand-by-adivasis/article31468688.ece
30 April 2020||SANGAREDDY,ANDHRA PRADESH||Construction workers turn restive near Hyderabad||Tension prevailed for some time near Indian Institute of Technology Hyderabad (IITH) on Wednesday when hundreds of workers came out, demanding that they be sent back to their native places. At one point, they pelted stones at a patrolling vehicle, injuring three officials, including an ASI. Police were deployed in large numbers on the premises where about 2,400 workers working for L&T and Shapoorji Pallonji are staying. Situation was brought under control when MLA T. Jayaprakash Reddy, Collector M. Hanumantha Rao and Superintendent of Police S. Chandrasekhar Reddy held talks with the workers and pacified them. According to the police, a large number of workers, mostly migrants from different parts of the country, are involved in the construction activity on the IITH premises. Alleging that they had not been paid for the past three months, the workers assembled at the site and raised slogans against the contractor. They also alleged that the food supplied to them was of poor quality and showed the heaps of food thrown into the dustbin on the premises. Even the toilets were in very bad condition, the workers said. As the situation was going out of control, one of the contractors informed the police. A large number of police personnel, including SP S. Chandrasekhar Reddy, rushed to the spot. By the time the police reached, there was a huge gathering and some of the agitated workers indulged in stone pelting. Three policemen were injured in the attack and shifted to a hospital. Police brought the situation under control by using force. Later, police pacified the agitators and some of them taken to the Collectorate for talks. “We have sorted the issue amicably. The pending wages for two months would be paid by Thursday evening. Representatives of the construction companies have accepted that. The work would commence from Friday,” the MLA, the Collector and the SP told reporters after the meeting. The Collector said many of the workers wanted to go to their native places but due to lockdown they were not allowed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/construction-workers-turn-restive-near-hyderabad/article31468194.ece
30 April 2020||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Fisherman dies in Srikakulam||A 59-year-old fisherman died when he went for fishing in the early hours of Wednesday. According to police, Mylapalli Pentayya belonged to Danipeta village of Ranasthalam mandal in Srikakulam district. The Ranasthalam police shifted the body for post-mortem and registered a case. Srikakulam Fishermen Association president Duda Sudhakar urged the government to sanction compensation to the family of the victim. He said that fishermen were forced to venture into the sea.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/fisherman-dies-in-srikakulam/article31468685.ece
30 April 2020||Staff Reporter,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two more cases in East Godavari||Two persons reportedly contracted coronavirus from a 52-year-old woman in Peddapuram in East Godavari district on Wednesday. The 52-year-old woman was tested positive on Tuesday. “On Wednesday, husband and co-sister of the woman tested positive for COVID-19. They had visited Vijayawada on March 20,” Peddapuram Revenue Divisional Officer S. Mallibabu told The Hindu . Both the patients are aged 58. The other members in the family, including a domestic help, are undergoing medical tests. “The family did not reveal their travel history to Vijayawada when the first case was reported on Tuesday,” said Mr. Mallibabu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/two-more-cases-in-east-godavari/article31468679.ece
30 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ordinance route to defer pay in Kerala||The Kerala Cabinet has cleared a draft Ordinance empowering the government for deferring six days’ salary of employees and teachers for five months to face the extraordinary fiscal crisis triggered by the COVID-19 outbreak. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan told reporters here on Wednesday that there was a steep fall in income and the crisis was unbearable. The decision on deferment was made to overcome the crisis. Since the High Court had pointed out that the decision was legally untenable, the Cabinet decided to recommend the Governor to promulgate an Ordinance, he said. The Ordinance will also empower the government to impose a 30% cut in the salary, allowances and honorarium of Ministers and MLAs for a year. The draft explains that in the event of any disaster or public health emergency, it shall be competent and lawful for the government to defer up to one-fourth of the total salary of an employee in any institution owned or controlled by the government, including aided and grant-in-aid bodies. The High Court had said there was no sanction of law for the order to defer the salary and it amounts to deprivation of property of the employees and teachers who were affected by it. Hence, the government had to issue the Ordinance under extraordinary circumstances, it said. Finance Minister T.M. Thomas Isaac clarified that the government had the powers to deduct up to one-fourth of the total monthly salary of an employee for the management of the crisis that stemmed out of the public health emergency, but would strictly go by the earlier decision to defer the salary.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ordinance-route-to-defer-pay-in-kerala/article31468192.ece
30 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram/Bengaluru/Hyderabad/Chennai,ANDHRA PRADESH||One dies in Tumakuru district of Karnataka||Karnataka’s Tumakuru district recorded the death of a COVID-19 patient on Wednesday and the State reported 12 new cases. The virus continued to infect more people in Andhra Pradesh, which reported 73 new cases in 11 districts, and Kurnool and Guntur remained hotspots. Kerala had 10 fresh cases Wednesday, of whom eight had contracted the disease through ‘contact with known or unknown sources’. Kerala Chief Minister, Pinarayi Vijayan reiterated that there was no community transmission in the State. “There seems to be a widespread campaign that Kerala is up against the community spread of COVID-19. There have been no developments that are uncontrollable. However, the threat of community transmission is very real,” he told the media. Kollam accounted for six of the 10 new cases while Thiruvananthapuram and Kasaragod had two cases each. In five out of six cases in Kollam, contact with known or unknown sources was the cause. These included three healthcare workers. One person had come from Andhra Pradesh. Of the two cases in Kasaragod, involving local transmission, one was a media person from a news channel. In Thiruvananthapuram, one person had come from Tamil Nadu, while the source of infection of the other was under study. Of the 495 cases reported so far, 123 were undergoing treatment. Mr. Vijayan said that the results of 391 samples out of the 3,101 samples randomly collected from select groups on a single day, as part of an “augmented testing” drive, were awaited from the lab. Only three samples of the 3,101 tested positive. Results of another 25 would be released after re-confirmation. With the detection of 73 new cases, the tally in Andhra Pradesh rose to 1,332. The State had conducted 7,727 tests, the highest number tested in a day, taking the total samples tested to 88,061. Among fresh cases, 29 were from Guntur, the second most affected district after Kurnool, which reported 11 cases. Krishna district reported 13 cases while Kadapa, Prakasam and Anantapur districts had four cases each. Chittoor had three cases, West Godavari two and East Godavari, Srikakulam and Visakhapatnam one case each. In Telangana seven more cases were reported on Wednesday, all from Greater Hyderabad limits, taking the total to 1,016. The medical bulletin said 11 districts including Siddipet and Mulugu were COVID-free. With the death in Tumakuru district the toll in Karnataka stood at 21. The 12 new cases reported raised the tally to 535. A 73-year-old man admitted on April 25 to a hospital in Tumakuru with Severe Acute Respiratory Illness (SARI) died on Wednesday. The 12 new cases include eight from Kalaburagi and one each from Davangere, Hukkeri in Belagavi and Nanjangud, Mysuru. While Bengaluru Urban had no case, Davangere (earlier a non-COVID district after a recovery) recorded its second case. The new cases include a six-year-old girl from Kalaburagi and four teenagers. The State plans to bring back Indians stranded abroad. As many as 10,823 persons from Karnataka were stranded including 4,408 tourists and visitors, 3,074 students, 2,784 migrants and professionals and 557 ship crew.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/one-dies-in-karnataka-ap-grapples-with-spread/article31468197.ece
30 April 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Play the game right to outsmart virus||Finding a permanent solution to COVID-19 may take time, but tackling its spread is child’s play, if one were to go by the web/mobile game developed by Indian Institute of Technology Tirupati (IIT-T). ‘SurviveCovid-19,’ the Mario-style lightweight survivor game was developed on 2D platform by the Research in Intelligent Software & Human Analytics (RISHA) lab of IIT-T’s Department of Computer Science and Engineering. The game, basically created as an awareness campaign for COVID-19 and played around 800 times till now, is all about a person, who steps out of his house to buy groceries and returns home at a time when a deadly virus is around. All that he has to do is safeguard himself from the virus that chases him by wearing a mask, using sanitisers, eating immunity-boosting fruits and staying away from possible carriers (social distancing) on the street. The protagonist moves around the screen based on the player’s cursor key movements on the system. ‘Effective tool’ The game has been developed by an academic Sridhar Chimalakonda as the mentor and his students Dheeraj Vagavolu and Akhila Sri Manasa Venigalla. “The game is useful not only to beat boredom during the lockdown period, but also in encouraging people to stay indoors and practise health measures,” Dr. Chimalakonda told The Hindu . He feels that creating awareness through games would sync well with the younger generation, rather than through physical campaigns or media advertisements. The game was designed as an Android-based mobile one and has been evaluated through a remote qualitative user survey with the help of 20 volunteers. “The results are promising with all the questions in the survey having a mean value greater than 3.6,” say the researchers. While bringing out a full-fledged research paper on the game, the team also claims it to the first-of-its-kind game themed on COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/a-mobile-game-to-beat-boredom-keep-the-virus-at-bay/article31468190.ece
30 April 2020||TIRUPATI/KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||29 persons discharged in Kadapa after treatment||As many as 29 persons, who tested positive and were undergoing treatment, have shown signs of recovery and sent home in Kadapa district, while one was discharged from COVID hospital at SVIMS campus, Tirupati. Meanwhile, Superintendent of Police (Kadapa) K.K.N. Anburajan asked the staff to stay confident and optimistic. In a message addressed to the employees who were infected in course of discharging their duty and are undergoing treatment at the hospital, he said proper treatment and nutritional intake would certainly help them recover fast, citing the recovery of an 82-year-old person in Kadapa last week. Similarly, a patient from Chittoor district undergoing treatment at COVID-19, SVIMS campus, was discharged on Wednesday, after a 14-day isolation. He was sent to home at Srikalahasti in an ambulance with a suggestion to follow home quarantine. He was handed over Rs. 2,000 on behalf of the government. Food distributed Red Sanders Anti-Smuggling Task Force (RSASTF) provided homemade lunch to nearly 600 people, who includes the police guarding the streets, sanitary staff and the homeless. Accompanied by APCOB Assistant General Manager Y. Gunasekhar, the task force in-charge P. Ravishankar distributed food personally cooked by the latter’s wife P. Vinutha at home. Meanwhile, ‘Seethala Homam’ was performed by scholars of SV Vedic University at their campus on Wednesday, which is part of the arrangement worked out with SVIMS and SV Ayurvedic College to offer a blend of ancient wisdom, traditional knowledge and modern medicine as the recipe for recovery from COVID-19. SVVU Vice-Chancellor Sannidanam Sudarsana Sarma led the proceedings, which were conducted in the presence of Y. Swarnalatha Reddy, wife of TTD trust board chairman Y.V. Subba Reddy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/29-persons-discharged-in-kadapa-after-treatment/article31468686.ece
30 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Percentage of cases in State is less than national average’||The percentage of positive cases registered in Andhra Pradesh is 1.51% against the national average of 3.84%. The death rate is 2.33% against the national average of 3.18%. So far, 88,061 tests have been conducted, and the test per million ratio is 1,649. In the last 24 hours, 7,727 tests have been conducted, 70% of them in the red zones. At a review meeting on COVID-19 on Wednesday, officials told Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy that 73 cases were recorded in the last 24 hours – 29 in Guntur district, and 27 of them in Narsaraopet alone. Containment measures were being undertaken in a big way there, they said. Trial tests began at a laboratory set up at RIMS in Srikakulam, and steps were being taken to open a laboratory in Ongole and Nellore, the officials said. These labs would be operational by Saturday. The government opened nine laboratories in eight districts. In addition, 50 TruNat kits were available in the area and teaching hospitals. Mobile labs were getting readied, the officials told the Chief Minister. When Mr. Jagan sought to know the status of tests being conducted on people identified in the door-to-door survey, the officials said that 12,247 people underwent the COVID-19 tests and the remaining would be covered in the next three days. Aid to fishermen Mr. Jagan enquired about the steps being taken to bring back the fishermen stranded in Gujarat. The officials said 4,065 fishermen were returning to their native places from Gujarat, and that the government was meeting the transportation, food and other expenses. The Chief Minister asked the officials to pay Rs. 2,000 per person as soon as the fishermen reached their native places.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/percentage-of-cases-in-state-is-less-than-national-average/article31468704.ece
30 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||High Court adjourns SEC case hearing to May 4||Expressing displeasure over the unauthorised participation of some advocates in the proceedings through video-conference, High Court Chief Justice J.K. Maheswari on Wednesday adjourned the hearing on the batch of writ petitions that questioned the validity of the ordinance reducing the term of the State Election Commissioner (SEC) to May 4. Irked over the disturbance, Ms. Justice Maheswari ordered that the advocates-on-record should appear before the court in person on the above date, and no one else be given access to the video-conference, lest the important proceedings be vitiated again. Justice Maheswari and Justice M. Satyanarayana Murthy were hearing the urgent matter when the advocates, who were not at all connected with the case, accessed the system using a code that was shared with them by the fellow advocates who were representing the parties to the dispute. The Chief Justice reportedly expressed displeasure over the development. As the obstruction continued, they adjourned the hearing and ordered the physical presence of the advocates. Lockdown norms Justice Maheswari insisted that the advocates and others who were given the entry pass should strictly follow the lockdown guidelines, including social distancing, when they come to the court on May 4. The final hearing on the matter commenced on April 28. IAS officer N. Ramesh Kumar, whose term as the SEC was cut short by the A.P. Panchayat Raj (Second Amendment) Ordinance, 2020, to three years, is the main petitioner.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/high-court-adjourns-sec-case-hearing-to-may-4/article31468695.ece
30 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Eye in the sky’ catches frontline staff in action||As the city along with rest of the country is facing an unprecedented situation due to the lockdown forced by the COVID-19 pandemic, eerie silence and empty roads and buildings have been the new normal for more than a month. Also, frontline staff and all other government officials are out on the streets making efforts to contain the outbreak. These visuals were captured by drone cameras by a couple of teams and the videos have gone viral on social media platforms. Ritchie Media, a start-up, with the support of the Vijayawada Municipal Corporation (VMC), has a made a tribute video to all the frontline staff while showing stunning visuals of the city. Duty first “The video is a tribute to all healthcare professionals, police, municipal staff who have been risking their lives. While shooting the video, we were moved by the way government personnel — from Asha workers to higher-ups — are responding to the situation on the ground,” said Ritchie, the start-up’s founder. On YouTube, the video has over 21,000 views while another video by T.S. Reddy of Photo India has been viewed by more than 45,000 users. The Photo India video exclusively captured the aerial view of the city roads and important places.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/eye-in-the-sky-catches-frontline-staff-in-action/article31468221.ece
30 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Three-tier system to prevent forest fire||Officials of the Wildlife Management wing of the Forest Department have prepared an action plan to prevent fires in the forests during the summer and save the animals. Due to wildfires in the forests during summer, many animals, birds and reptiles usually perish. Though wildfires occur spontaneously in the grasslands, brushlands, and dried-up vegetation, most of them are caused by the villagers either accidentally or deliberately. Surveillance intensified The forest authorities have put in place a three-tier system to prevent the fires and surveillance has been stepped up in the forests located in the hilly and inaccessible areas. Patrolling has been intensified in the national parks and sanctuaries. “Wildfires are caused due to dry leaves, leftover beedi and cigarette butts, or as a result of lighting firewood in the forests and heatwave,” says a forest officer. Speaking to The Hindu , Principal Chief Conservator of Forests (PCCF - Wildlife) D. Nalini Mohan said the task force teams and surveillance, monitoring and flying squads were asked to intensify patrolling in the forests to prevent fires. Entry barred “There is no entry for the villagers into the forests as some of them with smoking habit may go into the forests for grazing cattle, light cigarettes and throw the matchsticks, or cigarette filters, which will ignite flames,” the official said. The flying squad and wildlife DFOs would monitor the patrolling in the forests, and the Forest Range Officers, beat officers and guards had been instructed to patrol in sanctuaries and national parks, Mr. Nailini Mohan said. “We are conducting awareness programmes in the hamlets abutting the forests and explaining the fire prevention measures. Instructions have been issued to the officials to focus on the Agency areas,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/three-tier-system-to-prevent-forest-fire/article31468231.ece
30 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||A.P. workers in Chennai get aid||Around 100 migrant workers from Andhra Pradesh, who were stranded in Madipakam area of Chennai due to lockdown, received aid from a local NGO there, thanks to the intervention by Andhra Pradesh Mahila Commission. Commission Director R. Suez received a call from one of the stranded construction workers saying that they were starving since they had no work and thus no money to buy food.  Food arranged On the directive of Mahila Commission Chairperson Vasireddy Padma, Ms. Suez contacted the Tamil Nadu State Mahila Commission Chairperson and requested her to help the migrant coolies and their families there. A local organisation called Pioneer Trade immediately arranged food for the workers and it also started a community kitchen to feed them regularly. Members of another NGO Madras Social Work Group provided essential commodities to the families, sufficient for a month and assured the AP Mahila Commission chief that the workers’ welfare would be taken care of. The Mahila Commission circulated a WhatsApp number (6301411137) and two other contact numbers- Ms Suez (9701056808) and secretary M. J. Nirmala (9603914511) to enable women subjected to domestic violence or any other form of abuse in the lockdown period seek immediate help. Ms. Padma said the commission had been getting calls from pregnant women in need of medical help and a few cases of migrant labourers calling for immediate assistance, on these numbers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ap-workers-in-chennai-get-aid/article31468227.ece
30 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. forms panel to audit deaths||A nine-member committee will examine the deaths due to COVID-19 in the State, according to a GO issued. The State-Level Death Audit Committee, constituted by the Health, Medical and Family Welfare Department, will be headed by the Director of Medical Health (DME). The Director of Public Health and Family Welfare, the Commissioner of A.P. Vaidya Vidhana Parishad, the Registrar of NTR University of Health Sciences, the professors of forensic medicine and community medicine, Government General Hospital, Vijayawada, the professor of general medicine, GGH, Guntur, a representative of the Indian Medical Association, and any other expert will act as its members. The committee will conduct verbal autopsy and examine the case records to ascertain the cause of death, and submit a report to the State Nodal Authority for COVID-19 (Health and Family Welfare Department).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govt-forms-panel-to-audit-deaths/article31468706.ece
30 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Officials told to complete spillway work by June-end||Chief Minister Y. S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has instructed the officials to make the necessary plans and try to complete the spillway works of the Polavaram project by the June-end. Action plan “The officials should chalk out action plans at the micro-level for every work relating to the project. Ensure that the designs are approved at the earliest,” he instructed the officials at a review meeting on Wednesday. Referring to the inundation of the some of the project sites owing to rain last year, the Chief Minister insisted that all the affected families be shifted and the rehabilitation programme be undertaken. The progress of the works undertaken at Owk tunnel-2, Valigonda, Nellore Barrage, Sangam barrage, Vamsadhara-Nagavali link and etc were also reviewed. The Chief Minister asked the officials to complete the works as per the schedule.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/officials-told-to-complete-spillway-work-by-june-end/article31468278.ece
30 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ten IAS probationers given posting||Ten IAS probationers of the 2019 batch were given posting as Assistant Collectors (under training) in different districts in the State. Orders to this effect were given on Wednesday. The probationary officers are: Chahat Bajpai (West Godavari district); G. Surya Sai Praveen Chand (Anantapur); Bhawna (Nellore); Mallarapu Naveen (Srikakulam); V. Abishek (Prakasam); Aparajita Singh Sinsinwar (East Godavari); C. Vishnu Charan (Chittoor); Nidhi Meena (Kurnool); Katta Simhachalam (Vizianagaram); and Vikas Marmat (Kadapa). After completion of the training course at the Lal Bahadur Shastri National Academy of Administration, Mussoorie, the probationers shall report to the district Collectors concerned on May 9. Training They will undergo one week training in the Collectorate, one week in the district treasury office, two weeks with the Superintendents of Police, four weeks in the Andhra Pradesh Human Resources Development Institute (APHRDI), Bapatla, two weeks in the survey and settlements, and two weeks in the Central and State financial institutions. Assessment reports The Collectors will submit the assessment reports of the probationers to the government through the Chief Commissioner of Land Administration as soon as they complete each of the half-year training in their respective districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ten-ias-probationers-given-posting/article31468234.ece
30 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rajat Bhargava, Valaven get new postings||The government on Wednesday posted Rajat Bhargava as Special Chief Secretary of the Revenue Department. He is currently Special Chief Secretary (Industries and Commerce). Dr. Bhargava will look after commercial taxes, excise and registrations in the department. The post fell vacant upon the retirement of D. Sambasiva Rao on March 31. Chief Minister Y. S. Jagan Mohan Reddy, sources say, chose Dr. Bhargava for the key post in view of his expertise in finance and revenue subjects. He had previously served in the Union Finance Ministry .  R. Karikal Valaven is posted as Special Chief Secretary (Industries). He is also placed in full additional charge of Special Chief Secretary ( Infrastructure & Investments), Vice-Chairman and MD, APIIC, until further orders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rajat-bhargava-valaven-get-new-postings/article31468701.ece
30 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Door deliveries pick up pace||Door deliveries are picking up pace in the city, with retail giants as well as small grocery shops using the help of leading delivery firms to send purchases directly to customers’ homes. “Seventeen companies have been given permission to deliver essentials. On Wednesday (March 29), the total door deliveries made were 4,365. We have witnessed a steep increase in demand for door deliveries,” said an official from the district administration. Officials from Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporatioon (GVMC) said that though retail stores and grocery shops were permitted to deliver essential goods, few customers evinced interest in placing orders over phone or through the internet. Gradually, however, customers began placing orders from their homes as awareness grew over the risk of venturing out of home. “In mid-April, there was a dip in orders as reports surfaced of a pizza delivery boy testing positive for COVID-19 and the subsequent ban on door deliveries in Telangana. However, people again began placing orders and the numbers are rising. The delivery executives are also maintaining high safety standards,” the official said. “There were a few issues after the launch of door delivery service, which were sorted out quickly. In April, there were over 85,000 home deliveries of essentials,” he said. A door delivery executive, P. Raghu, said that while delivering orders, they wear face masks and gloves without fail, as it has made mandatory. They also carry sanitiser and frequently clean their hands, he said. “Door delivery agents have been really useful during this COVID-19 crisis. We have been placing orders for the past three weeks. We receive the order wihin 24 hours of placing it,” said S Tanveer, a resident of Lawson’s Bay Colony. Swiggy, Zomato back in business The district administration has also started making use of food delivery giants Swiggy and Zomato since March 27 in some areas. Till date, both the companies have fulfilled 51 deliveries. “Once a customer places an order on Swiggy or Zomato, the executives will pick up the order from DWCRA groups at Rythu Bazars and deliver them to customers. Once in every three days, the DWCRA groups will get the money credited in their accounts from the delivery companies. These DWCRA groups will in turn pay the money to farmers,” said a senior official from the district administration.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/door-deliveries-pick-up-pace/article31468715.ece
30 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Active COVID-19 cases rise to 4 in Visakhapatnam district||A suspected COVID-19 case from Kasimkota mandal was officially confirmed in a health bulletin on Wednesday, taking the number of active coronavirus cases in Visakhapatnam district to four. The newest case is a 60-year-old woman from Chintalapalem village of Kasimkota mandal, who had returned to Chintalapalem from her workplace in Vijayawada along with two others in a lorry on March 17. The three persons were shifted to a quarantine ward at the Visakha Institute of Medical Sciences (VIMS) where the woman subsequently developed symptoms. She reportedly tested positive on Monday, officials said. With this, the total number of COVID-19 cases in the district till date is 23, of which 19 have already been discharged. “The other two women and those who are in quarantine are not showing any symptoms. However, their quarantine will be extended to keep a close watch on their health,” a health official said. ‘Speed up testing’ The lockdown is being strictly enforced by the rural police teams at several villages which come under the containment zone surrounding Chintalapalem village. Meanwhile, Special Chief Secretary (Health) K.S. Jawahar Reddy asked the District Collectors to speed up testing. Mr. Reddy also asked them to create more awareness on the ‘Aarogya Setu’ app and ensure that everyone downloads it. Mr. Reddy took part in a video conference with Collectors of all districts on Wednesday. Responding to Mr. Reddy, Mr. Vinay Chand said that the lockdown is being strictly enforced across the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/active-covid-19-cases-rise-to-4-in-visakhapatnam-district/article31468713.ece
30 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||PAV opposes clauses in recruitment of doctors||The notification issued by the State Government for recruitment of doctors has not evoked the desired response, according to reliable sources. The ‘one year contract’ rule and ‘marks weightage’ clauses in the notification are said to be the reasons. In a letter to Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Wednesday, Praja Arogya Vedika (PAV) president M.V. Ramanayya and general secretary T. Kameswara Rao noted that the ‘one year contract’ clause in the times of COVID-19 pandemic would deprive aspirants of much-needed job security, despite the new recruits having to put their own lives at risk. They demanded that the recruitment should be done on a permanent basis. The notification also says that 15% weightage would be given to marks at the time of regularisation of service, which means that the recruits would have to look for another notification and sit for competitive examination. These regulations would deter young doctors from taking up the posts, the letter said. The health system needs to be strengthened not only to fight COVID-19 but also other epidemics, which might come up in the future, they added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/pav-opposes-clauses-in-recruitment-of-doctors/article31468710.ece
30 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Miscreants create fake email ID of Collector||A fake email address has reportedly been created in the name of the District Collector, which is being used to send mails and issue directions to district officials. Collector V. Vinay Chand on Wednesday said that the email IDvadarevuchand @gmail.comwas fake, and asked officials not to respond to mails sent from this address. He said that a criminal case has been filed with the police and asked officials to be alert in this regard and inform his personal secretary if anybody received mails from this address.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/fake-email-id-of-vizag-collector-created/article31468228.ece
30 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rebate helps GVMC mop up property tax||The Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) has so far realised Rs. 32.38 crore in property tax after the announcement of the early bird rebate. Of the 47,400 assessees that paid the tax, 15,000 are commercial establishments while the rest are residential, Deputy Commissioner (Revenue) of GVMC M.V.D. Phani Ram said. The collections include vacant land tax too which has been converted to property tax since last year. During the rebate given in the corresponding period last year, GVMC mopped up Rs. 56 crore. However, at that time, the ‘Saukaryam’ and ‘Mee Seva’ counters were functioning. Besides, with the lockdown being in force for over a month, many assessees would have faced issues in payment of tax even if they wanted to benefit from the early bird rebate, officials said. As of now, unless the State Government announces an extension at the eleventh hour, Thursday is the last day for payment of property tax and getting the 5% rebate. Assessees have to pay the entire tax for the 2020-21 financial year in one go to avail themselves of the rebate. The tax may be paid at the ‘Saukaryam’ centre at the GVMC main office from 6 a.m. to 6 p.m., at the zone offices of GVMC, including Anakapalle and Bhimili, from 6 a.m. to 10 a.m. or ongvmc.gov.in.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rebate-helps-gvmc-mop-up-property-tax/article31468720.ece
30 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Suspended Simhachalam priest denies wrongdoing||Godavarti Gopalakrishnamacharyulu, suspended from the position of head priest of the Sri Varaha Lakshmi Narasimha Swamy Devasthanam for taking a person into the temple for ‘darshan’ of the Chandanotsavam ritual on April 26, denied any wrongdoing and claimed that he was being targeted by a section of priests. The annual ritual was strictly off limits for devotees this year for the first time in the temple’s known history, and was performed by a limited number of priests in view of the lockdown. “I do not know the person who tried to gain unauthorised entry into the temple on the day of Chandanotsavam. An attempt has been going on against me from the time of making arrangements for the ritual,” he said. The suspended head priest alleged that the ‘Sthanacharya’, under whose direction rituals are performed, and a section of priests, are responsible for the action against him. He said an issue relating to the entry of a Vedic scholar whose name reportedly did not figure on the list of persons to be allowed for the ritual could be the reason behind his suspension. In a video that is being circulated on social media platforms, he is seen to be claiming that he would resign from his post as head priest following the controversy. Late on Tuesday, Executive Officer M. Venkateswara Rao announced that Mr. Gopalakrishnamacharyulu was being suspended based on an initial inquiry that a man identified as Tirupati Srinu managed to go up to the ‘Rajagopuram’ on the pretext of handing over milk, he said. Archaka Sangham reacts Terming the episode an ‘administrative lapse’, the North Andhra Archaka Sangham demanded that the suspension be revoked. General secretary Ailuri Srinivasa Deekshitulu and assistant secretary Kottalanka Muralikrishna demanded that an apology be tendered to the priests and the suspension immediately revoked. The Executive Officer appointed Devasthanam Executive Engineer Koteswara Rao to conduct a comprehensive inquiry into the issue and submit a report.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/suspended-simhachalam-priest-denies-wrongdoing/article31468705.ece
30 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||CITU seeks financial aid for labourers||A fast was observed at the CITU office on Wednesday on rights of workers and employees during the COVID-19 lockdown, including grant of full pay without loss of leave and financial assistance to migrant workers and others in various sectors. CITU State president Ch. Narsinga Rao deplored the bailouts to the tune of lakhs of crores being handed out to corporates, and demanded that the rights of workers be protected first. “Workers should be provided essential commodities for three months and those in the unorganised sector should be given an assistance of Rs. 10,000 immediately. Migrant workers should be sent home,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/citu-seeks-financial-aid-for-labourers/article31468719.ece
30 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||We are with Harjeet Singh, say city police||Support poured in for the ‘Main Bhi Harjeet Singh’ (I am Harjeet Singh) campaign from Visakhapatnam region, as Commissioner of Police R.K. Meena and other police officers wore the name plate of ‘Harjeet Singh’ on their uniforms to express solidarity with Punjab Sub-Inspector of Police Harjeet Singh, whose hand was chopped off in an attack on police in Patiala on April 12. “We all will be Harjeet Singh, because Harjeet Singh symbolises the two top attributes of a good policeman, which is not meeting violence with violence and showing courage in the face of fire,” the Vizag City Police said on its official Twitter handle on Wednesday. Mr. Harjeet Singh’s hand was reattached post surgery and he is now recovering, it is learnt.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/we-are-with-harjeet-singh-say-city-police/article31468718.ece
30 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two patients from E.G. discharged||Two COVID-19 patients from East Godavari district, undergoing treatment at the Visakha Institute of Medical Sciences (VIMS), were discharged on Wednesday after making a recovery. VIMS Director K. Satya Varaprasad said that of the two patients, a 72-year old man from Rajamahendravaram was admitted to hospital a month ago. Another COVID-19 patient who hails from Kathipudi Junction in East Godavari district had respiratory issues and was treated for two weeks. “With the discharge of the two patients, there are 10 active cases being treated at VIMS,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/two-patients-from-eg-discharged/article31468717.ece
30 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||82 shopkeepers booked in a day||Teams from the Vigilance and Enforcement, Weights and Measurements, and other enforcement agencies conducted raids on 2,695 shops in the district and have booked 810 cases till date, Collector V. Vinay Chand said in a release on Wednesday. The cases were booked for selling essential items at higher prices and indulging in irregularities, he said. He said that on Wednesday, 25 teams conducted raids on 252 shops and booked cases against 82 shopkeepers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/82-shopkeepers-booked-in-a-day/article31468716.ece
30 April 2020||April 30 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||City firm comes up with solution for contact tracing||Xinthe Technologies has launched XACT, an automated contact tracing solution for COVID-19. XACT, pronounced as X-ACT, will augment Aarogya Setu mobile app and complement manual efforts by various government authorities to improve efficacy of contact tracing. Xinthe Technologies, a custom software development and GIS company that developed XACT, has its operations at Visakhapatnam Special Economic Zone, Duvvada. The company has been working on spatial analytics-based solutions for many years in the past for the retail industry and re-purposed it for COVID-19. “It has been doing a wonderful job in automated contact tracing solution during the pandemic,” Software Technology Parks of India Joint Director M.P. Dubey told The Hindu.  Xinthe Technologies CEO, an alumnus of IIT-Madras, Sridhar Panuganti, said: “XACT can be easily deployed in all public offices, airports, railway stations, bus stations, hotels and malls as we have the solution ready today and we are eager to extend our bit to help the world during the pandemic.” He said XACT could predict outbreaks, hotspots and red zones before their occurrence giving health service teams an edge in their plans to fight the menace. Health monitoring Primary investigator of XACT Srikant Jakilinki said: “Beyond contact-tracing, XACT can monitor the health of the traced contacts (heart-rate, temperature, blood and oxygen) from wearables and ensure the traced contacts and the public follow quarantine rules by integrating XACT with GIS expertise of Xinthe.” The company can be reached onwww.xinthe.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/city-firm-comes-up-with-solution-for-contact-tracing/article31468709.ece
30 April 2020||April 30 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||159 RTC buses to ferry migrant workers||The State government, with the help of Andhra Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation (APSRTC), has begun transporting 4,641 stranded agricultural migrant labourers from Guntur district to various places in Kurnool district. The first batch of 159 buses arrived here on Wednesday morning. This is said to be the biggest passenger transport operations during the lockdown period. All the migrant labourers were seated in the bus in compliance with the social distancing norms and buses with twin drivers began the journey on Tuesday night from various mandals in Guntur district. The buses will go back to Guntur on Wednesday to ferry the second batch of labourers, Kurnool RTC Regional Manager T. Venkataramam said. Four-day operation “This operation will continue for four consecutive days and all the labourers stranded in 15 mandals of Guntur district will be sent to their native villages in 24 mandals of Kurnool district,” he added. The second driver will drive the buses back to Guntur. Meticulous planning was done to bring back the migrant labourers, who go for agriculture activity in Rabi season every year that ends mid-April, but they got stranded due to the lockdown this time. “We chose the labourers stranded in the green zones of Guntur district. They were screened before they started their journey,” said BC Corporation Executive Director M. Sireesha, who coordinated the operation. Bunching and boarding Bunching of people from various places was done depending on their destination, she said. With a cut-off date of April 20, a majority of the migrant labourers in Prathipadu (823), Pedakurapadu (302) and Medikonduru (597) and 12 other mandals were prepared for shifting to Kosigi (1,468), Kowthalam (673) and Adoni (266) and 21 others. While 990 of them came from Sattenapalli, 512 came from Achampeta mandal. Ms. Sireesha said Zilla Parishad CEO Venkata Subbaih, along with the Labour Commissioner, worked as a team and DWMA Project Director Murali would provide work under the MGNREGS till the migrant labourers found some work.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/159-rtc-buses-to-ferry-4641-labourers-stranded-in-guntur/article31468185.ece
30 April 2020||April 30 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Third phase of free rice distribution begins||The third phase of free rice distribution to white ration card holders at fair-price shops began across the State on Wednesday. As part of the scheme to ensure the supply of essential commodities to the poor in view of the coronavirus pandemic, the government is supplying 5 kg of rice per person. The distribution began at 43,685 FP shops across the State. In addition to the 28,354 fair-price shops, the government has opened 15,331 additional counters to ensure the social distancing norms at the shops. Biometric details must Apart from the 1,47,24,017 families which have white ration cards, the government has decided to supply the free rice to 81,862 families that have applied for new cards in the recent past. In all, 1,48,05,879 families would be benefited from the scheme. However, the card holders need to provide their biometric details at the fair-price shops to avail of the free rice, as per the Central government guidelines. Moreover, the government has made sanitisers available at the outlets. Card holders will have to sanitise their hands before and after taking the provisions. Rations would be given away at any shop through portability.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/third-phase-of-free-rice-distribution-begins/article31468693.ece
30 April 2020||April 30 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Humane gesture||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/humane-gesture/article31468690.ece
30 April 2020||April 30 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Pay Rs. 40.28 crore towards cloud seeding, HC to AP, TS||Telangana High Court directed Andhra Pradesh and Telangana states to pay Rs. 40.28 crore to a private company towards cloud-seeding operations executed in the undivided Andhra Pradesh. Delivering verdict in a writ petition filed by Agni Aviation Consultants and others seeking clearance of the dues towards cloud-seeding operations conducted from 2007 to 2009, the HC said the two States should pay an interest of 9% per year for the dues. The judgement pronounced by a bench of Justices M.S. Ramachandra Rao and K. Lakshman said AP and Telangana should pay the dues in the ratio of 41.32: 58.68. This was in compliance with the A.P. Reorganisation Act. The petitioner company approached the HC in 2016 stating that it had executed the contract of conducting cloud-seeding in 2007, 2008 and 2009 as per the tender notifications issued by the then AP. The government owed a total of Rs. 40.28 crore towards the work executed, the company contended. As the government did not clear the payment, it issued a legal notice first in 2012 and again in 2014. The bench noted not a single document, along with counter affidavits, was filed by the two States denying claims of the company. The HC rejected the contention of the two governments that in cases of disputes of facts the petitioner should approach a civil court. The HC rejected the ‘curious contention’ of Telangana government that most of the districts where cloud seeding was conducted belonged to AP and hence the bulk of the liability should be borne by that State. The cloud movement would depend upon wind direction. It cannot be said with certainty that cloud seeding operations conducted in a district of AP did not result in rains in adjacent Telangana, the HC said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/hc-pay-rs-4028-crore-towards-cloud-seeding/article31468523.ece
30 April 2020||April 30 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Safe harvest||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/safe-harvest/article31468199.ece
30 April 2020||April 30 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Clarification||In the report “62 AP frontline staff have caught the infection till date: official” published in these columns on April 28 it was inadvertently mentioned that 62 frontline staff have been infected. The actual number of frontline workers infected with coronavirus is 31, according to a clarification issued by the Health Department.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/clarification/article31468694.ece
30 April 2020||April 30 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Driving home a message||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/driving-home-a-message/article31468236.ece
30 April 2020||April 30 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Recruitment||The District Medical and Health Department has called for applications for the post of Senior Medical Officer, Lab Technicians and Technical Officer for walk-in interviews on May 1. The recruitment will be on a contract basis for one year following which the District Committee will have full rights on continuation or termination of contract. The interviews will be held at the office of Principal, Andhra Medical College, at 11 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/recruitment/article31468711.ece
30 April 2020||ADILABAD,TELANGANA||Jamlo’s death eases workers’ hardships||Strange as it may sound but Jamlo Madkam’s death has undoubtedly brought relief to thousands of migrant workers from central and north Indian states who have set out for their distant homes on foot from various parts of Telangana and states further south. They are now able to cover a better part of their journey hitching a ride on trucks with the active support of authorities. The death of the 12-year-old girl, a migrant worker from Chhattisgarh due to dehydration on April 18, has jolted the conscience of authorities. Instead of holding them back, authorities are now requesting crews of lorries passing on the NH 44 to carry the migrant labourers on their long journey home. “We were told about the death of a girl after she walked for three days under the hot sun. We do not want any such incident to happen here. So, we are trying to facilitate as smooth an onward travel as possible,” revealed a police officer manning a check post. Until just a few days back, policemen manning the same check post used to intercept vehicles transporting migrant workers and send them, even as far back as 100 km. There are a few instances of authorities detaining trucks for transporting humans during the last 15 days A group of workers headed by Temal Lal Sahu, a mason from Parsoda village in Balod district of Chattisgarh who used to work in Uppal in Hyderabad, had reached Adilabad on Wednesday morning riding on the carriage of a lorry, his fourth such ride in the last two days. Similarly, Manoj Kumar Vishwakarma, a carpenter from Prayag Raj (formerly Allahabad) in Uttar Pradesh working in Nizampet, also reached the Pipparwada toll plaza, about three kilometres from the inter-State border that Adilabad district shares with Yavatmal of Maharashtra on the NH 44, by hitching rides on trucks. “We walked for about 100 km before policemen at some place on the NH had us loaded on a truck and we were dropped off about 50 km away. We were given a lift two more times before we reached this place,” Mr. Vishwakarma recalled. For some migrants taking rides was a bitter experience. “One driver demanded Rs. 500 from each of us for dropping us just 20 km ahead,” remembered Anil Kumar Sengar, a mason from Balaghat in Madhya Pradesh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/jamlos-death-eases-workers-hardships/article31468525.ece
30 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Brace yourself for hotter days||Blistering hot day starting right from the morning that is then tapering towards cloudy skies towards late afternoon and later, thundershowers accompanied with high winds in some places at dusk. This has been the pattern in the last few days in the twin cities and across several districts of Telangana bringing the temperatures down, but also causing loss and distress to farmers. This may not continue any more. Peak summer with hot days and warmer nights are expected soon. The India Meteorological Department (IMD), however, says that this time, extreme heat waves experienced in the previous years are unlikely. Therefore, we could be in for the usual hot summer with day temperatures peaking to about 43 degree Celsius. “The ongoing thundershowers with heavy winds towards evenings may continue for two more days after which we expect the temperatures to rise, but not abnormally this year,” said IMD scientist A. Sravani on Wednesday. From May onwards, the day temperatures could start to be hovering around 41-43 degree Celsius whereas the night or minimum temperatures could be in the range of 21-27 degrees, she said. Temperatures currently are slightly less than what usually occurs during this time, between 38-40 degree Celsius, when it generally inches upto 40-41 degree Celsius. Night temperatures are in regular pattern of about 25 degree Celsius. With regard to the present rains in most parts of Telangana and Andhra Pradesh, the scientist says these are the usual summer showers caused this time due to a trough forming in West Vidarbha and moving towards North Karnakata and Tamil Nadu. The IMD scientist also revealed that a low pressure area has also formed in the Bay of Bengal near the South Andaman sea and this could be well on course of developing into a cyclonic disturbance in the next 48 hours. The rainfall is concentrated on the Andaman and Nicober Islands for now, she added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/brace-yourself-for-hotter-days/article31468511.ece
30 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||New agriculture policy to make farming profitable||Chief Minister K. Chandrashekhar Rao has instructed officials to guide farmers to cultivate crops in tune with the food habits of the people and also in line with the market demand. He assigned them with a task to study the crops, other than paddy, which would be beneficial to farmers and submit a report by May 5. Mr. Chandrasekhar Rao held a high-level review meeting for the second consecutive day here on Wednesday on the formulation of a new Agriculture Policy for the State with Agriculture Minister S.Niranjan Reddy, Civil Supplies Minister G. Kamalakar, Rythu Bandhu Samithi president Palla Rajeshwar Reddy, Civil Supplies Corporation chairman Mareddy Srinivas Reddy, Agriculture university Vice-Chancellor, Chief Advisor, Chief Secretary, senior CMO, besides other officials. The Chief Minister observed that though paddy is being cultivated in a big way in the State, farmers are going for the coarse variety as the cultivation period is shorter while the major demand is only for fine variety of rice, both within and outside the State and the country. Farmers should be encouraged to go for fine variety of rice, he said. “Other crops that have good demand are groundnut, red gram and oil palm. Identify other such crops with demand, including fruits and vegetables, and decide the extent of land to be used for these crops. Study farming methods, use of fertilizer, whether any change is needed, and come with a report. Also explore if fish farming can be taken up extensively with increase in water availability,” he told the officials. With the abundant availability of irrigation water and 24x7 power supply, the situation changed significantly in the State. Cultivation is taking place under borewells too. If farmers are provided with right guidance, they can make agriculture profitable. Changes for the better could be brought in cultivation methods, selection of crops, use of fertilizer and marketing of the produce. Earlier, farmers used to cultivate crops as per their wishes and when every one went for the same crop, there would be glut in the market and prices would fall. The new agriculture policy should work in the direction of making agriculture profitable, he said. Since it was decided to construct additional godowns with a capacity of 40 lakh tonnes, the Chief Minister instructed the officials to identify the lands. A cold storage facility should be incorporated in the proposed godowns, he said. In the review meeting held on Wednesday, the Chief Minister said that a comprehensive strategy is being finalised to ensure that farmers get appropriate support price for their produce. Paddy cultivation is taking place on a record scale and Telangana would become the rice bowl of India soon but farmers should get remunerative price for their produce, he said. About 22.3 lakh tonnes of fertilizer would be required for the vana kalam (kharif) and fertilizer required for the month of June is available now. Farmers should start purchasing them from now itself, he said, warning those who resort to selling of fake fertiliser, pesticides and seed would be sternly dealt with and cases under the PD Act would be registered against them. The Civil Supplies Corporation should ensure reasonable support price to farmers for their produce while consumers get the processed commodities at reasonable rates, the Chief Minister said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/new-agriculture-policy-to-make-farming-profitable/article31468535.ece
30 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||A challenge thrown to feed the needy||In a heart-warming instance of philanthropy, an innovative challenge thrown by a budding NGO has spurred scores of women in Nizampet area to fill the empty stomachs of homeless and stranded people pushed into destitution due to lockdown. Led by women, families living in apartment complexes at KNR Colony of Nizampet are taking turns to prepare food for the homeless living around the area. They all have taken up the ‘Food Donation Challenge’ thrown by ‘Prahari Trust’, a one-year-old voluntary organisation from the area. “I got this idea after watching the sari challenge on social media, whereby women posted their pictures wearing saris. It occurred to me that a challenge for food distribution would help several hunger stricken souls during lockdown,” said Y. Kanaka Vardhinee from the Prahari Trust, which had already gained a reputation in the area through distribution of clay Ganesh idols, and lake protection activities. Ms. Vardhinee and her brother Y. Raghu Rama Rao, who is the co-founder of the Trust, began modestly by serving 30 meals a day to the starving people living around the colony. “We went around the apartments close by, asking residents therein to chip in by providing cooked meals. Several people expressed their willingness, and started preparing food by turns. Those who could not prepare food at such a large scale opted to donate, and we used the money to prepare lunch in a common kitchen,” she said. The number of apartment complexes with residents willing to provide food has now risen to 15, and 50 kg cooked food, apart from fruits, biscuits, butter milk and food grains, are being supplied every day. From 30 meals, the challenge has grown to 750 to 800 meals per day, Ms.Vardhinee said. “I once provided four kg tomato rice along with butter milk and fruits, and donated money the second time. I was moved to lend my hand after reading somewhere that the lockdown is not the same for everyone, and while a few of us could afford to stay indoors without any issues, the poor are starving on the roads. This challenge has helped me to serve,” said A. Udaya Bhanu, accounts officer in a private firm, who is presently working from home. Though initially food was served in plates, after demarcation of a few areas in Nizampet as containment zones, the NGO has started delivering packed food. The number of participants is growing, and the challenge will continue up to June 3, Ms. Vardhinee said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/a-challenge-thrown-to-feed-the-needy/article31468515.ece
30 April 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||District administrations awaiting orders from State govt.||District administrations across Telangana, which had been taking care of the desperate migrant workers trekking back to their native places following lockdown, are now gearing up to send them back safely. There was some relief among officials responsible for the well-being of the migrant workers staying in shelter camps in Adilabad district following the guidelines on their repatriation to their respective central and northern States issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs on Wednesday. There are about 9,000 such workers put up in various shelters across Adilabad district. Collector A. Sridevasena said the State will soon issue relevant instructions for repatriation of the workers in the light of the guidelines issued by the Central government. “We were actually awaiting such guidelines since the last few days and have been assuring jittery workers of the same,” she recalled as she spoke to The Hindu . Meanwhile, the guidelines in question do not make a specific mention of those migrant labourers who are already on the road, mainly the NH 44, headed for their distant homes on foot. The last few days have seen thousands of them crossing the interState border of Telangana with Maharashtra on Penganga river bridge on NH 44 in Adilabad district. Want to go home In Warangal Urban district, there were about 200 migrant labourers at three shelters arranged by the district administration who have been waiting to return to their native places. They all hail from Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Punjab and Chhattisgarh. There were 60 labourers waiting at Karimabad shelter zone, 30 at Elkathurthy in Hasanparthy mandal and about 95 at Kazipet shelter zone. Warangal Revenue Divisional Officer (RDO) K Venka Reddy said there were about 320 migrant labourers in the district at various shelter zones. “I just saw the news. I have asked the respective tahsildars to interact with the migrant labourers who wish to go back and prepare a list,” he said. Mr Venka Reddy said none of the labourers were interested in staying back and they were all very eager to go to back to their villages. “There are waiting for a chance and some of them escaped devising their own ways,” he said. After the district administration gets orders from the Chief Secretary, they would plan for arranging transport for the migrant labourers, he added. The officials of other districts of erstwhile Warangal district were also waiting for the further orders from the State government. 30,000 workers  The administration of Sangareddy district has identified about 30,000 migrant labourers in the district who have been staying near the work sites and the companies they have been working for. There were no camps organised for the workers. The officials have informed that they were yet to receive any directions from the State government over shifting migrants to their native places and once orders were issued they would make arrangements. In Medak it was identified that there are about 9,200 migrants but they are staying at their places. One shelter is being run at Medak.  [With inputs from S. Harpal Singh (Adilabad), G. Srinivasa Rao (Warangal) & R. Avadhani (Sangareddy)]||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/district-administrations-awaiting-orders-from-state-govt/article31468530.ece
30 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Authorities yet to find source of lab technician’s infection||Six days after a lab technician tested positive for COVID-19 in Jogulamba-Gadwal district, authorities continue to hunt for the infection source. Debriefing by the 40-year-old asymptomatic technician has not helped much, as he has asserted he did not have contact with any of his family members or friends, except his colleagues at the blood bank or government hospital during the lockdown. Possible scenarios Officials are considering at least three possible scenarios, and 14 of his primary contacts which include the superintendent, resident medical officer of the government hospital, and the district nodal officer for COVID-19. The most likely source might be a positive patient whose swabs were collected by the technician while he was on COVID-19 duty, and he may have contracted the coronavirus by ignoring standard protocols, sources told The Hindu . “Though he was wearing personal protection equipment (PPE) while collecting the swabs, he might have contracted the virus while taking off the gear without precautionary measures,” the officer said on condition of anonymity. On April 21, he reported for COVID-19 duty and collected 56 swabs, and another 28 samples on April 22, including his own. He tested positive on April 23. Ambulance trip Another possibility is that he may have contracted the virus when he came to Hyderabad in an ambulance on April 3 to deliver a batch of swab samples at CCMB. “In Nizamuddin Markaz case, it was easy to trace, test and quarantine the returnees, their primary, secondary and tertiary contacts. However, we are unable to trace his source; it has become a challenging task. Police are looking into it and have already analysed his call detail record, apart from questioning him and his wife,” the officer said. After the technician tested positive, the authorities disinfected the entire district government hospital, the blood bank he worked at and all the ambulances. They are also not ruling out the possibility of him getting the virus from any of his asymptomatic colleagues at the blood bank or other hospital staff. Officer’s warning Meanwhile, another officer said district special officer Ronald Rose has warned the medical staff against violations after the technician breached standard protocol and collected his own samples. “Though he tested positive, he was asymptomatic and violated the SOP by sending his samples and that of a sanitation worker,” the officer added.  Though he was wearing PPE while collecting swabs, he might have contracted the virus while taking off the gear without precautionary measures. An officer||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/authorities-yet-to-find-source-of-lab-technicians-infection/article31468501.ece
30 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Citizens distraught as police hold back seized vehicles||Citizens whose vehicles have been seized for violating lockdown are at their wit’s end to get back the vehicles. “I visited the Bahadurpura PS today to reclaim my vehicle. Police said they will release the vehicle only after the end of lockdown,” said Syed Nabi, a resident of Kishenbagh. His vehicle was seized while he was going for a round of food distribution on April 21. At the dozens of checkposts set up by the police, the most prominent banner is that of ‘seized vehicles’. The Charminar is ringed by thousands of vehicles seized from citizens in police stations limits. “The penal amount has not yet been decided. It can be Rs. 500 or Rs. 100. Once the lockdown ends, we will release the vehicles,” said an official guarding a large number of vehicles. On April 22, the Hyderabad Traffic Police laid out the policy for seized vehicles: “Vehicles of 3km rule violators and #lockdown guidelines violators will be seized and produced before Hon'ble court after lockdown. So, please don’t come out of your home.” But that has not deterred people from venturing out. The pleas for release of seized vehicles have been posted on social media as well. To complicate the picture, police officials are not issuing receipts or sending out SMSes. “Luckily, I drove the vehicle to the PS so I know where it is. And despite not having a receipt I know where to recover my vehicle,” said Mr. Nabi. “We are planning to make a representation to the three commissionerates to release vehicles without penalty. Most of the owners are poor or middle class people. This will be very unjust to them,” said Mohammad Shakeel, an advocate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/citizens-distraught-as-police-hold-back-seized-vehicles/article31468508.ece
30 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TS Grameena Bank recalls Rs. 17 crore COVID relief||Telangana Grameena Bank is recalling COVID-19 ex gratia amount totalling over Rs. 17.05 crore it had credited into more than 3.41 lakh erstwhile no frills accounts that were not eligible for the same. The regional rural bank found that 7,506 customers had withdrawn the Rs. 500 relief sum from their accounts before it could be recalled. “We realised that we have accorded credit to 3,41,019 accounts amounting to Rs. 17,05,09,500 that are ineligible and recalled Rs. 500 each from these accounts on April 10,” a statement from the SBI sponsored bank said on Wednesday. These are Basic Savings Bank Deposit (BSBD) or no frills bank accounts that existed prior to the August 2014 launch of the Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana (PMJDY) accounts. Subsequently, they were converted into Jan Dhan accounts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ts-grameena-bank-recalls-rs-17-crore-covid-relief/article31468509.ece
30 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||This Eid, spare a thought for the less fortunate||Come Ramzan month, and it is natural to witness heavy shopping activity. However, with lockdown due to the coronavirus, the way the holy month is being observed has changed. And keeping in with the changed situation, many are calling for Eid celebrations in which there is little buying of clothes. Instead, the money should be used for charitable purposes, is their advice. Many from across India have taken to social media to urge that money used for Eid shopping be used instead to sponsor education of those who cannot afford it or to pay rent for those who find themselves unable to do so due to lockdown. The hashtag #SayNoToEidShopping is seen both on Facebook and Twitter. Messages on WhatsApp have been shared encouraging people to follow this trend. “The lockdown vis-a-vis Ramzan and Eid is perhaps telling people what is more important in life. It is making people more humane, empathetic. This is the reason why instead of using the money I set aside to buy clothes for family, I will perhaps pay school fee for a student whose parents cannot afford it,” says Waheed Ahmed, a techie and resident of Tolichowki. Others like Syeda Sumaira, a homemaker, too expressed similar thoughts. “The privileged already have all they need for Eid. Despite the uncertainty over lockdown, there is merit in avoiding shopping and helping those in need,” she said. However, there are others who disagree. They said that at a time when small businesses are going bankrupt and artisans are out of work, the need of the hour is to support them by engaging in purchases. “Though I appreciate its spirit, I am not convinced by this ‘no buying’ initiative. I want people to buy more so that traders hit by lockdown can be compensated,” says Dr. Syed Faheem, a dentist.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/this-eid-spare-a-thought-for-the-less-fortunate/article31468520.ece
30 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Mother’s love: 19 women stayed put in hospital for their children||At a time when the coronavirus has spread fear and thrown up challenges, even testing the loyalty and love of near and dear ones, around 19 women showed what mother’s love truly is. Despite testing negative, the mothers stayed back at the hospital to take care of their COVID-positive children admitted to the paediatric isolation ward of the Gandhi Hospital here. One among them is the mother of the 45-day-old male baby, touted to be the country’s youngest COVID-19 survivor who was discharged on Wednesday. She was by the infant’s side throughout the 22 days of isolation at the hospital. “She never left his side,” sources said. Hospital authorities said just like her, at least 18 more mothers even after testing negative were taking care of their children battling COVID-19. Doctors and hospital authorities were puzzled when they found out that the 45-day-old baby’s mother did not contract the highly contagious virus despite staying in close contact with him. “She tested negative in three consecutive tests,” authorities said. They along with officials from the district where they reside said that she was allowed to take stay at the hospital as the infant was only a few weeks old and needed mother by his side at all time. So was the case with other women. “The women were provided with protective gear like N95 masks and gloves. They were allowed into the ward as their children needed the support of their mothers,” they said. Besides them, sources said that an old man who tested negative took care of his five-year-old grandson. “Both of them tested negative and were discharged,” sources said.  They were allowed into the ward as their children needed the support of their mothers. Authorities at Gandhi Hospital||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/mothers-love-19-women-stayed-put-in-hospital-for-their-children/article31468500.ece
30 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Rich tributes paid to ‘Waterman of Telangana’, R. Vidyasagar Rao||Rich tributes were paid to Telangana ideologue on the irrigation front R. Vidyasagar Rao on his third death anniversary on Wednesday. Leading the State in paying tributes, Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao recollected how the well-known irrigation engineer had raised voice against the injustice being meted out to Telangana as part of combined Andhra Pradesh. “He rekindled the spirit for separate statehood for Telangana,” the Chief Minister said adding that the State government is pursuing his dreams in the irrigation sector and had achieved remarkable and impactful results already. Mr. Chandrasekhar Rao stated that the irrigation engineers of Telangana took inspiration from Vidyasagar Rao and completed the Kaleshwaram project in a record time of little over three years to make it functional with its head works by filling thousands of minor irrigation tanks, supplementing the Sriramsagar project ayacut. “Telangana State’s emergence as the rice bowl of the country is a true tribute to Mr. Vidyasagar Rao,” the Chief Minister said. Minister for Finance T. Harish Rao, who held the responsibility as Irrigation Minister from 2014 to 2018, said Vidyasagar Rao gave direction to Telangana movement on the water front by accounting every drop of water loss forced upon the region in the combined States in the Krishna and Godavari Basins. Following his vision, the State government has already brought visible results by taking the Godavari water to large tracts of parched lands. Telangana Engineers Joint Action Committee and Telangana Retired Engineers Association, in their tributes, termed Vidyasagar Rao as the “Waterman of Telangana”. “The former Central Water Commission (CWC) engineer is mentor, guide and philosopher of the irrigation department of Telangana,” secretary of Engineers JAC S. Vijaya Kumar said. The two associations paid homage to Vidaysagar Rai by organising a video conference due to the lockdown conditions. Vidyasagar Rao’s demand for justice to Telangana on the water front was based on the authentic facts and figures and he had laid strong basis for the Telangana movement by disseminating information on the issues of injustice meted out in irrigation. Stating that naming of the Dindi lift irrigation scheme after Vidyasagar Rao was a token respect to the ideologue, Mr. Vijaya Kumar said the function hall constructed on the land donated by him at his native place in Jajireddygudem would be inaugurated after the lockdown period.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/rich-tributes-paid-to-waterman-of-telangana-r-vidyasagar-rao/article31468526.ece
30 April 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Herculean task in Khammam||A Herculean task awaits the Khammam district administration to ensure the hassle-free return of more than 30,000 migrant workers presently stranded in the district due to coronavirus lockdown to their native places in various States across the country. The district has an overwhelming number of 42,581 migrant workers, mostly from Maharashtra and several States in north India. Of these, around 30,161 workers are staying in temporary shelters arranged by those, who hired them for various works like farm operations and construction activities across the district. Around 487 migrant workers are housed in a total of 18 State-run relief camps in various parts of the district. Apart from catering to the basic needs of the stranded migrant workers, the district administration has disbursed an amount of Rs. 500 each to around 30,450 migrant workers amounting to Rs. 1.52 crore. A comprehensive action plan will be formulated on Thursday as per the stipulated guidelines to forge effective coordination with the officials of the neighbouring States to ensure smooth inter-State movement of the stranded migrant workers in strict compliance with the due protocols of the Ministry of Health and Home Affairs as well as lockdown norms, official sources said. In Bhadradri-Kothagudem district, around 177 migrant workers are presently sheltered in a total of eight State-run relief camps. Six temporary shelters for migrant workers were set up in the integrated old district and about 700 workers took the shelter in them. Four shelters — one each at Rajiv Gandhi Auditorium, Old Municipal Office, Pulong and Kanteswar have been opened in Nizamabad and two, one at Model School, Sadasivanagar and another at SC Hostel in Kamareddy —are being run under the aegis of the government. Collectors of erstwhile Nalgonda district said they are waiting for a detailed standard operating procedure (SOP) to be issued by the State government, in addition to the MHA guidelines. And then they would start coordinating measures. According to Nalgonda District Collector Prashant J Patil, an approximate 300 persons are in government relief camps at five locations of Wadapally, Nagarunasagar, Mall, Kondamallepalli and Chityal. Total number of migrant workers engaged in industries are about 16,000.  [With inputs by P.Sridhar (Khammam), P. Ram Mohan (Nizamabad) and B.Pradeep (Nalgonda)]||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/herculean-task-in-khammam/article31468531.ece
30 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||A fruitful career comes to an end||Very few among the civil servants get an opportunity to serve in the area they are basically strong at, that too during the pinnacle of their career or towards its end. C. Parthasarathi, who held the position of Secretary (Agriculture) and Agriculture Production Commissioner for five years during 2015-2020, is one such fortunate officer. Mr. Parthasarathi, who was selected to the IAS under the State Civil Service category in 1993, and holding office as Director General of Environmental Protection Training and Research Institute (EPTRI), will now hang his boots on attaining the age of superannuation on Thursday. Having passed B.Sc (Agriculture) and M.Sc (Agriculture-Agronomy), both with distinction from the Agricultural University, he was initially selected to Group-I services in the State. After his selection to the IAS, Mr. Parthasarathi was posted as Joint Collector at Anantapur and Warangal and District Collector at Karimnagar. “However, most satisfying years of my career were in the Agriculture Department as Secretary and APC after formation of Telangana state”, Mr. Parthasarathi said. He was in the thick of action in implementing the State government’s two flagship programmes meant for the farming community – the input support scheme (Rythu Bandhu) and group life insurance scheme (Rythu Bima) from the conceptual stage, following Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao’s decision to implement such interventions. The two had become role models for the country and overseas and the Centre has formulated its Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Yojana based on Rythu Bandhu. “With the support of those at the helm of affairs, the Agriculture department was successful in taking the foodgrains production from 68.22 lakh tonnes in 2015-16 to a whopping 241.41 tonnes in 2019-20 with a rapid increase in the interregnum – 140.71 tonnes in 2016-17; 133.49 lakh tonnes in 2017-18 and 130.65 lakh tonnes in 2018-19 by improving upon delivery systems in the matter of seed, fertilizer, mechanisation and others”, Mr. Parathasarathi said, looking back on the times of highlight of his career. Hosting OECD Seed programme conference, ISTA Congress and attending FAO summit were also among the satisfying moments of his career as they helped him improve the functioning of the Agriculture department, Mr. Parathsarathi said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/a-fruitful-career-comes-to-an-end/article31468522.ece
30 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||NIMS tele-consultation to start from tomorrow||Nizam’s Institute of Medical Sciences (NIMS) will offer tele-consultation facility for non-emergency cases from May 1 on a pilot basis. The service, which would be provided free of charge, will be helpful especially to those who have to travel long distances for the consultation. Out-patient (OP) visits at the institute, offered in the morning, has seen a drop from the usual average of 2,500 a day to 200-300 a day during the lockdown. The tele-consultation initiative will help more people access medical services. Medical superintendent of NIMS, N. Satyanarayana, said the tele-consultation services will start with seven departments with limited appointments and subsequently be extended to other departments. The seven departments include General Medicine, Orthopaedics, Cardiology, Medical Oncology, Neurology, Nephrology and Rheumatology. “This service is appointment-based and can be accessed through any one of the following methods — via NIMS HMIS app available on Google Play store on android phones; NIMS web portal (ttps://www.nims.edu.in) or by booking an appointment on enquiry number 040-23489244 between 9 a.m. and 4 p.m.,” Dr Satyanarayana said. The slot has to be booked at least one day prior to the date of consultation. A confirmation SMS will be sent to the registered mobile number after a slot is reserved. The patient has to keep his/her phone by their side at the allotted time. Doctors of respective departments will call on the registered mobile number between 9.30 a.m and 12.30 p.m. as per the appointment date and time. “If the call is not answered, a new appointment should be sought as per availability,” the medical superintendent said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/nims-tele-consultation-to-start-from-tomorrow/article31468495.ece
30 April 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Two held for rape, murder of minor||Two days after the body of a 17-year-old girl was left at the government hospital in Pebbair, Wanaparthy, Veepangandla police on Wednesday arrested two youngsters. The duo identified as Chatamoni Sai Krishna (24) and Pulamoni Vijay (22) from Kalwakole village in Nagarkurnool, were accused of kidnap, rape and murder of the minor girl, said Wanaparthy SP Apoorva Rao. “For the past two years, Sai Krishna was sexually assaulting the victim with false promises of love and marriage and 20 days ago he got engaged with another woman. He hatched a plan with his friend Vijay Kumar to eliminate the victim,” she said. While Vijay Kumar brought the girl to a mango grove at Govardhanagiri village, the prime accused sexually assaulted and forced her to consume cool drink laced with poison.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/two-held-for-rape-murder-of-minor/article31468512.ece
30 April 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Nodal officers appointed||Hours after the Union Home Ministry has announced modified guidelines related to inter-State movement of people, the State government has nominated two senior bureaucrats to coordinate the movement of stranded persons to and from other States and Union Territories. Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar appointed Panchayat Raj secretary Sandeep Kumar Sultania as nodal officer for the movement of stranded persons. Additional DGP Jitender had been nominated as police nodal officer along with Mr. Sultania and the officers had been asked to follow the standard protocols in taking up the exercise. Meanwhile, the Chief Secretary has decided to address letters to his counterparts of other States seeking information about the people from Telangana stranded in their respective States.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/nodal-officers-appointed/article31468527.ece
30 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Police gear up to send workers home||The Telangana police are gearing up to send migrant workers, and those stranded during the lockdown in the State. The Ministry of Home Affairs on Wednesday issued guidelines allowing inter-State movement of stranded tourists, pilgrims, students, migrant workers and others. It asked all the States and Union territories to designate nodal authorities and develop standard protocols for receiving and sending the stranded people, screening them. Sources in the police department told The Hindu that they were prepared for such a move by the Centre and have already instructed their officers about the coming situation. “We have made all arrangements for smooth passage of migrant workers,” an officer said on condition of anonymity. The officer said that they held a few coordination meetings with seven more departments, including health, municipality and transport and TSRTC. “All background work is done. We have already asked all Superintendents of Police and Commissioners of Police to brief their force on how to handle the situation without any chaos for the safe and hassle-free journey,” he said, adding that they are formalising the modality. The officers have to make sure the people who were ‘safe’ in Telangana in the lockdown should not contract the deadly coronavirus during their ‘most awaited’ journey back home. “We already have contact details of the migrant workers and most of the people who are stuck here. After getting a nod from the State government, they will be shifted in batches,” the top police brass said, adding that they are waiting for the State government’s call on the ministry’s new guidelines.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/police-gear-up-to-send-workers-home/article31468533.ece
30 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Seven from GHMC area test positive||The number of COVID-19 cases in Telangana touched 1016 as seven more cases were reported on Wednesday, all from GHMC limits. Unlike previous days, the break-up of cases from all districts was not mentioned in the medical bulletin issued by the Health department on Wednesday. However, it was stated said that 11 districts including Siddipet and Mulugu have become COVID-free. Of the 1016 cases till date, 582 are active with 409 patients discharged and 25 deaths. Among those admitted in Gandhi Hospital, 10 are in ICU. As per information provided by Health Minister Eatala Rajender’s office, the 10 are suffering from co-morbid conditions. While two are undergoing dialysis, two others have cancer and four suffer from heart ailments. One is on ventilator support and four provided oxygen support. Meanwhile, two patients, a mother-daughter duo of Bhupalpally town were discharged. They were prime contacts of a Markaz returnee who is still undergoing treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/seven-from-ghmc-area-test-positive/article31468498.ece
30 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Reichindia pharma gets Australian certification||A pharmaceutical company, Reichindia Pharma Ltd., Bhongir has secured TGA-Australia accreditation. The unit located at IDA Bhongir, Hyderabad got this accreditation for oral liquids, solid dosages (tablet and powders) and external preparations (ointment and lotions). Ch. Syam Sunder, Managing Director, Reichindia Pharma Ltd., said here on Wednesday that the certification is on a par with PICS, MHRA of UK and European Union. The accreditation process for the five-year-old company took two years and would help the unit to export its products to Australia and over 50 other countries. At present its products are exported to Chile and South Africa.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/reichindia-pharma-gets-australian-certification/article31468502.ece
30 April 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Free mock tests for IIT, JEE, NEET, NTSE students||Learning Tree has introduced an Artificial Intelligence (AI) based online examination that combines adaptive learning technology to deliver a better engagement experience to students aspiring for IIT, JEE, NEET and NTSE, among others. IT principal secretary Jayesh Ranjan launched the programme that provides a simulated environment for aspirants to attempt and take tests. The tests, created by experts, evaluate learners on their subject knowledge and preparedness. The platform uses AI based analytics including Time Management, Stamina, Pacing, Precision, Motivation, Topic Strength and Elimination, a statement said. The yearly subscription fee for these simulation tests is Rs. 500 per student, which is being offered free to students who register onwww.LearningTree.AIduring COVID-19 lockdown, according to CEO of LearningTree NextGen Sasi Kanth Vallepalli.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/free-mock-tests-for-iit-jee-neet-ntse-students/article31468514.ece
30 April 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Man breaks into bakery, flees with cash||A burglar broke into a bakery on the intervening night of April 24-25 and made away with cash. The offence that took place at Karachi Bakery’s MJ Market branch came to light on Wednesday, when the owners opened the store to check its condition. According to Abids ACP G. Biksham Reddy, an unidentified man entered the shop by breaking open the service shutter and decamped with over Rs. 50,000. “The suspect gained entry through the back door that was locked partially,” he said. Soon after getting information from the store management, Begum Bazaar police along with the CLUES Team rushed to the spot and launched a probe. After analysing the video footage of CCTVs inside the store, police said only one person entered the shop and decamped with cash from the counter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/man-breaks-into-bakery-flees-with-cash/article31468513.ece
30 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Apply online for CFO, CFE’||The Telangana State Pollution Control Board, through a press release on Wednesday, asked industries to submit applications for Consent for Operation (CFO) and Consent for Establishment (CFE) online. Applications may be uploaded to ‘https://ipass.telangana.gov.in’ or ‘http://tsocmms.nic.in/TLNPCB’, to be processed and clearances issued. These will be processed by obtaining recommendations of CFE and CEO Committee members through email, the note said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/apply-online-for-cfo-cfe/article31468516.ece
30 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||BJP questions State’s COVID numbers||Telangana Bharatiya Janata Party expressed doubts about the number of COVID-19 patients given out by the government daily in the State and accused it of trying to hoodwink people into believing in smaller numbers by avoiding enhancing the testing of those suspected of carrying the virus. "While we are happy that the number of positive patients is coming down, we believe it is because the government has stopped testing totally. This could lull people into a false sense of security and lead to a dangerous situation in the coming days if the cases spike. The government should come clear on this and Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao should bear the responsibility if things go out of hand,” said party president B. Sanjay on Wednesday. Addressing a press conference after formally taking charge as president, Mr. Sanjay stated that the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) had not called for halting tests and the government should not hide the facts by falsely putting the blame on the guidelines being issued by the Centre. “We have no intention of politicising the issue as both Centre and States are working together to combat coronavirus. But, when Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu are testing in hundreds, which is showing up in rising number of cases, why is the TS government reluctant to do so when up to 2,000 samples can be tested daily," he questioned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bjp-questions-states-covid-numbers/article31468532.ece
30 April 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||For briefly/ GHMC gets melons||The Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) was donated 30 tonnes of watermelons worth Rs. 4 lakh by proprietor of Genius Constructions and managing director of Udaya Heights Private Limited V. Srinivasulu here on Wednesday. The melons were redistributed to sanitation workers by Minister T. Srinivas Yadav and Mayor Bonthu Ram Mohan on the same day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/for-briefly-ghmc-gets-melons/article31468517.ece
30 April 2020||KARIMNAGAR,TELANGANA||226 quintals of maize seized||The Vigilance and Enforcement officials seized 226 quintals of maize being transported illegally from Nanded in Maharashtra, at Sirpalli village in Sarangapur mandal in Nirmal district. Karimnagar Vigilance and Enforcement Additional SP J Rama Rao said that following information about maize and other farm produce being transported illegally from Maharashtra to the State, to secure minimum support price at the procurement centres and marketyards, the officials conducted a check on the borders of the district and seized the vehicle, and handed it over to the marketing officials. He said that traders are procuring maize at cheaper rates in Maharashtra and selling them at higher prices in State marketyards.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/226-quintals-of-maize-seized/article31468539.ece
30 April 2020||P Sridhar,TELANGANA||Radio station steps up fight against coronavirus||The Kothagudem-based All India Radio (AIR) station is spearheading a mass media campaign by broadcasting jingles on social distancing, hand hygiene and other protective measures against coronavirus. The FM radio station in the coal town is supplementing the district administration’s efforts in reaching out to people living in far-flung tribal pockets and the vast coal belt region to enlist their support. As part of the campaign, Kothagudem radio station aired the speech of Collector M V Reddy thrice in the last one month. The 30-minute speech based on a telephone interview by the AIR staff concerned provides an insight into the concerted efforts by the administration to stave off spread of coronavirus in the predominantly tribal-populated district. No new cases All the four COVID-19 positive cases reported in the district last month turned negative and no new cases have been reported from anywhere so far this month, sources said. “We are broadcasting programmes based on excerpts from Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s speech on ‘Saptapadi’ (seven points to tackle the coronavirus threat) and also the Collector’s speech highlighting wide ranging interventions to effectively deal with the COVID-19 threat,” said A. Srihari, Programme Officer, AIR, Kothagudem. Small and catchy jingles in Telugu are being played at regular intervals to highlight the imperative need to strictly adhere to social distancing and lockdown norms besides maintaining hand hygiene to keep the coronavirus at bay, he noted. “We are receiving positive feedback from regular listeners comprising visually challenged persons who are pledging their support to the collective battle against COVID-19,” he remarked.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/radio-station-steps-up-fight-against-coronavirus/article31468504.ece
30 April 2020||WARANGAL URBAN DIST.,TELANGANA||GWMC to distribute masks to all households||With a view to prevent the spread of COVID-19, the Greater Warangal Municipal Corporation (GWMC) has decided to distribute masks to all the households in the city. The GWMC, which proposed to give away two masks to each household, has so far got 74,123 ready for distribution. The plan is to distribute 1.80 lakh masks in the first phase.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/gwmc-to-distribute-masks-to-all-households/article31468537.ece
30 April 2020||April 30 2020 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Frustratingly soppy romance||It’s been over six weeks since cinema halls were closed and there’s no saying when we can head back to the theatres, without the fear of COVID-19. A number of films are holding on and waiting to give the audience a theatrical experience, and a few are looking towards streaming apps. Director Surender Kontaddi’s Amrutharamam is the first Telugu film to directly release on an OTT platform. It began streaming on Zee5 from April 29. There’s convenience in watching a new film at home, than wade through traffic (in pre-COVID scenario) to reach the cinema hall. But unless the film keeps us engaging, it’s easy to move away. The plot of Amrutharamam feels outdated and the narrative tries too hard to prop it up as a saga of ultimate, selfless love. The setting is Sydney, Australia. It could have been anywhere and the story and characterisation would still feel underwhelming. But hypothetically speaking, maybe it’s easier to build a scenario of overtly obsessing over someone in a new country, away from family and friends. The opening minutes give away the story — of a woman who is madly in love. Amrutha (Amitha Ranganath) who lands in Sydney, takes a shine to Ram (Ram Mittakanti) the moment she spots him at the airport. Minutes later, she tells her guardian brother on phone that she felt grounded while on the flight and now (after seeing Ram), she feels like she’s flying! The seriousness with which she declares it is an indicator that she’s going to be too obsessed about him for her own good. Love at first sight is a common trope in cinema but you need to project it in a way that viewers buy that suspension of disbelief. In this case, it required a better lead actor. Ram doesn’t fit the bill and comes off as amateurish even in the crucial scenes. If Amrutha fawning over him isn’t enough, in the later half, there’s an Australian colleague vying for his attention. Newcomer Amitha fares much better, though for the most part we see her ready to burst into tears or cry copiously. We gather that Amrutha comes from a loving family, has several friends and studied in a co-education college in India. What makes Ram special and why is she so drawn to him? We don’t know, and this is the film’s weakness. Having completed his Masters programme, he’s whiling away his time. He also has a pessimistic approach to life, going by his initial banter with his friends. Cinematographer Santosh Shanamoni and music composer Ns Prasu try to make the film a little more palatable with their sense of aesthetics and melody, but it doesn’t help. At one point when Amrutha packs her bags to India, it seems like a good move to give that relationship some breathing space. But no, this is a story of someone who is hopelessly in love and ends up taking an extreme decision. Love stories needn’t be pragmatic. The idea of going to any extent for love holds good, provided the story is narrated in a manner that keeps us invested in the narrative. This one doesn’t make the cut.  (For longer version, check www.thehindu.com)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/frustratingly-soppy-romance/article31468506.ece
30 April 2020||GURUGRAM,||Haryana-Delhi border sealed to curb COVID-19 spread: Khattar||Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Wednesday said the government had taken the “tough decision” to seal the State’s border with Delhi and the movement of people was stopped expect in important cases to prevent the spread of COVID-19. He, however, said the vehicles supplying essential commodities such as vegetables and milk were allowed. High rate of cases Mr. Khattar, in his address to the State, said 28 cases in four districts neighbouring Delhi — Gurugram, Faridabad, Jhajjar and Sonipat — were traced back to Delhi over the past six days. He said these people were either working in Delhi or were their family members, friends or relatives. Mr. Khattar said the infection rate was very high in Delhi and there was a lot of movement of people between Haryana and the national capital. Mr. Khattar said he had sympathy with the people being inconvenienced due to the sealing of the border, but the decision was made to prevent the spread of COVID-19. He added that there was a need to swallow the “bitter pill”, referring to the sealing of the border. Essential commodities “The essential commodities vehicles carrying vegetables and milk are permitted, but only one person is allowed besides the driver. Both need to home quarantine after the duty hours to avoid contacts with others. Similarly, those working in Delhi can stay in the Capital or take leave to stay in home quarantine in Haryana. The Deputy Commissioners have been directed to allow the movement of people only in case it is important,” said Mr. Khattar. Meanwhile, Faridabad administration barred the cross-border movement of people in the district from Wednesday noon. As per the District Magistrate orders, doctors, paramedical staff, policemen and other government employees were not allowed to enter or exit the district after noon. The movement of vehicles with essential commodities and those carrying Union government passes were exempted. Sonipat has already sealed its borders with Delhi barring the movement of government employees and common people, and the supply of vegetables from Azadpur Mandi. Jhajjar administration also reviewed the movement passes issued to the people travelling to Delhi and decided to cut the “unnecessary” movement. Gurugram administration, however, has not issued any orders barring cross-border movement of people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/haryana-delhi-border-sealed-to-curb-covid-19-spread-khattar/article31468461.ece
30 April 2020||GURUGRAM,||Haryana seeks details of stranded students||The district administration here on Wednesday released an email ID for parents of the students stranded abroad to provide details to the authorities. The Haryana government has been furnishing details of the students to help them return. Deputy Commissioner Amit Khatri said the parents can write to the district administration on covid19gurugram@gmail.com with the subject “overseas support”. The parents would be sent Google forms wherein they can furnish the information. Mr. Khatri said the number of such students was relatively high in Gurugram compared to other districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/haryana-seeks-details-of-stranded-students/article31468454.ece
30 April 2020||GURUGRAM,||Medical staff test positive in Gurugram||A paramedical staff from Medanta Hospital and two nurses of Civil Hospital tested positive for COVID-19 on Wednesday, taking the number of cases in the district to 54. Earlier, three nurses and a paramedical staff from Medanta had tested positive during random sampling of the staff. The results for samples of two more staff nurses from hospital are awaited. Chief Medical Officer, Gurugram, J.S. Punia told The Hindu that in wake of the growing number of cases from Medanta Hospital it could be decided to take away COVID-19 tag from the hospital. Sources in the administration said the situation emerging from increasing number of COVID-19 cases from Medanta would be reviewed on Thursday. Meanwhile, 21 people in Civil Hospital were quarantined after two nurses tested positive for COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/medical-staff-test-positive-in-gurugram/article31468455.ece
30 April 2020||New Delhi,||Daily stock dips at Azadpur Mandi||The total daily stock of fruits and vegetables at the Azadpur Mandi has dipped by 2,000 tonnes due to the closure of the Haryana-Delhi border, said authorities. Adil Khan, chairman of the Agricultural Produce Marketing Committee (Azadpur), said the daily procurement of fruits and vegetables at the market after the national lockdown stood usually at 7,000-8,000 tonnes. It was 5,000 tonnes on Wednesday. Border closure “Though the procurement has reduced, the stock of both fruits and vegetables currently available is adequate. The prices too are stable and no fluctuation in the prices of either has been noticed,” he added. According to Mr. Khan, green vegetables such as lady fingers, bitter gourd, ridged gourd, bottle gourd, and cucumbers among others, which are usually supplied from Sonipat in Haryana did not arrive due to the border closure which has been in effect since earlier this week. As many as 11 confirmed cases, one of which has resulted in a death, have surfaced from the mandi — the largest wholesale fruits and vegetables market in Asia — between April 20-26. Though a senior government official put the number of COVID-19 cases connected to it the market at “around a dozen”, Anil Malhotra, member of the marketing panel has alleged there were “at least 20” such cases which need to be probed. According to Mr. Malhotra, a majority of the over 1,400 shops in the market are shut.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/daily-stock-dips-at-azadpur-mandi/article31468457.ece
30 April 2020||New Delhi,||City reports 2 deaths, 125 new cases; doubling time 13 days||Two deaths and 125 new COVID-19 cases were reported in Delhi on Wednesday, taking the toll to 56 and total number of cases to 3,439. Of the total cases, 1,092 people have recovered and there are 2,291 active cases. Health Minister Satyendar Jain on Wednesday said that the doubling time for number of COVID-19 cases in the city has increased to 13 days, which is higher than the national average of 10 days. “It (virus) is not spreading fast. Earlier in Delhi, the doubling time of cases was four-five days,” the Minister told media. He added that as per central government guidelines “people without symptoms or light symptoms can be isolated and treated at home now... they do not have to go to the hospital”. More doctors infected The Minister further informed that although the number of containment zones in the city was increasing, 90% of the areas have not reported new cases. He also said that over 200 people working in hospitals have been infected.  An intern doctor working at Kalawati Saran Children’s Hospital has tested positive for COVID-19, the hospital authorities said on Wednesday. At least 13 staff working at the hospital have tested positive for the virus so far. “The intern is stable,” a hospital official said. Three patients at the hospital have tested positive so far and one of them, a 45-day-old infant, died recently. Also, two more doctors working at Delhi government’s Dr. Baba Saheb Ambedkar Hospital have tested positive, taking the total to at least 37. “One is from the medicine department and the other is from the pulmonary department. Now, at least 37 staff from the hospital have been infected,” a hospital official said. A resident doctor of Lady Hardinge Medical College (LHMC), who was interning at RML Hospital has also tested positive. “She is asymptomatic and has been isolated,” a LHMC Hospital official said. On a related development, 13 family members of an infected dietician working at Lok Nayak Hospital have contracted the virus, a hospital official said. At least six people working at the hospital have tested positive so far.Earlier in the day, an official at Delhi government’s Babu Jagjivan Ram Memorial Hospital, where a total of 75 employees have tested positive, said that no new cases were reported on Wednesday. Days after the Personnel Secretary of District Magistrate (South West) tested positive for COVID-19, two more people working at the office were confirmed infected on Wednesday, an official said. The DM had tested negative and the office was sanitised and is functioning. Meanwhile, the Delhi government ordered all Deputy Commissioners not to send any sample for COVID-19 testing to the National Institute of Biologicals in Noida till May 3 due to “considerable pendency” in testing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/city-reports-2-deaths-125-new-cases-doubling-time-13-days/article31468459.ece
30 April 2020||New Delhi,||After Centre order, Delhi govt. plans movement of migrants||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday said the Delhi government was in the process of formulating a plan regarding the movement of migrant workers to their respective States. Mr. Kejriwal’s statement came in the wake of the Ministry of Home Affairs issuing an order allowing the interstate movement of stranded tourists, pilgrims, students and migrant workers. The Delhi government was also in touch with its counterparts in other States, he said. Buses to be used “The order regarding migrants was passed today by the Union Home Ministry. In this regard, we are talking to other state governments. All of us are in the process of planning this and will inform you about the way forward in a day or two. Until then, you should stay at home and follow the lockdown,” Mr. Kejriwal tweeted. State governments, according to the order, are to make arrangements and utilise buses for the movement of such residents of their respective States. Only the asymptomatic among such individuals, the order stated, will be required to stay in home quarantine after reaching their destinations unless assessment by local authorities requires institutional quarantine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/after-centre-order-delhi-govt-plans-movement-of-migrants/article31468463.ece
30 April 2020||New Delhi,||‘Healthcare workers should demand PPE kits from hospitals’||From the first week of April, the life of Hashir*, a 30-year-old nurse working at Delhi State Cancer Institute (DSCI) turned upside down as he tested positive for COVID-19, got admitted to a government hospital, tested negative twice for the virus, and is currently in a 14-day quarantine. Talking to the The Hindu, the nurse said, “All healthcare workers should be extra careful while working. You can help others only if you are fit and alive.” Addressing fellow healthcare workers, he said, “You should all demand PPE kits even if the hospital is reluctant.” Mr. Hashir said that his family does not know anything about it and he would not have survived had his colleagues not been there for him. “I have not told my family as I do not want them to worry about me. From the time I tested positive, it was my colleagues who stood beside me. From making constant phone calls to getting me things like soap, food, they have done everything. I don’t know what I would do without them,” the nurse who hails from Kerala said. “They even got me Kerala’s cuisine when I was admitted at the hospital. I don’t know how I will pay them back,” he said. DSCI cases A total of 32 people associated with the DSCI have tested positive for the virus so far, including staff, patients and a two-year-old child of a nurse. Though the DSCI is not a COVID-19 treatment facility, the hospital was closed for sanitation on April 1 after a doctor had tested positive. Two of the patients later died. “I was scared for myself as I knew a lot of people had died of the disease. Also, no medicine has been invented yet,” Mr. Hashir said. He also said that if the hospital authorities had provided staff with PPE kits in March, they could stop staff from getting infected “to a large extent”. Virus hotspot The nurse said that when the lockdown was announced in March, they had asked the authorities for PPE multiple times as Dilshad Garden had already become a hotspot for the virus, but in vain. Mr. Hashir added that he is not afraid now and will join duty once his mandatory quarantine period was over. “I also want to go home so that I can tell my parents about all these in person,” he said.  (*name has been changed to protect identity)   I have not told my family as I do not want them to worry about me. From the time I tested positive, it was my colleagues who stood beside me. From making constant phone calls to getting me things like soap, food, they have done everything Nurse||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/healthcare-workers-should-demand-ppe-kits-from-hospitals/article31468469.ece
30 April 2020||New Delhi,||Nurse association wary of rising virus cases||The United Nurses Association’s National Capital Region Chapter (UNA-NCR) and Public Services International (PSI) on Wednesday said that they were concerned at the “spiralling” number of health workers testing positive for COVID-19 in the National Capital Territory of Delhi. They also wrote a letter to the Delhi government “demanding a change of course towards a precautionary approach to this worrying situation”. “Hospitals are enraging as hubs of infection, at least 223 health workers have already tested positive in Delhi and more than 400 are on quarantine, most of them am nurses. If this continues, who will take care of the patients when they need it as many alas are unable to work?” said Joldin Francis, UNA NCR General Secretary. The letter also demanded that the government should institute an empowered task force, that includes medical professionals including nurses’ unions in the public and private sector. “In view of the fact that COVID-19 carriers are also asymptomatic, health workers dealing need to protected and be provided with appropriate PPE as if all patients were -suspected COVID-19 cases. The Government should provide all health care workers with PPE in public hospitals and ensure that there are also provided in private hospitals. That is their right in law,” said Anand Grover, senior advocate and former UN Special Rapporteur on the Right to Health.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/nurse-association-wary-of-rising-virus-cases/article31468466.ece
30 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Police launch ‘Covid Kawach’ in South East||To keep a strict vigil in containment zones of South East district, Delhi Police on Wednesday launched ‘Covid Kawach’, a scheme to check “unwanted movement” of residents and spread awareness about the virus. There are 17 containment zones in south-east Delhi. Under the new scheme, eight e-rickshaws have been hired to patrol the areas. ‘Thanking doctors’ Meanwhile, the South district police performed a ‘parikrama’ of AIIMS as a sign of respect to doctors who are in the frontlines of the fight against COVID-19. Earlier, the New Delhi district police had performed a similar exercise at Bangla Sahib. Atul Thakur, DCP (South), said that the police is also visiting houses of doctors and paramedical staff. “We met doctors at AIIMS and paid a siren tribute to them,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/police-launch-covid-kawach-in-south-east/article31468453.ece
30 April 2020||New Delhi,||Medical student tests positive||A first-year postgraduate female student at Kasturba Hospital tested positive for COVID-19 on Tuesday night, a spokesperson of the North Delhi Municipal Corporation, which runs the hospital, said. The patient is in home quarantine as are the seven doctors and four nurses who were in primary contact with her. The contacts will be tested soon. The student left the hospital after developing symptoms on April 21, following which authorities undertook contact tracing and sanitisation. The patient is asymptomatic, the official added. All the departments of the hospital are functioning. At the Rajan Babu Tuberculosis Hospital, also run by the civic body, a 52-year-old employee, who had gone to a private hospital for dialysis, was sent for testing and found to be infected. At Hindu Rao Hospital, where a nurse was infected, 76 of her contacts have been identified out of which 30 have tested negative so far.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/medical-student-tests-positive/article31468464.ece
30 April 2020||New Delhi,||Sharjeel Imam charged under UAPA||The Delhi Police has added charges under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) against former JNU student Sharjeel Imam, officials said on Wednesday. Imam was arrested allegedly for instigating and abetting riots with his speech delivered on December 13.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/sharjeel-imam-charged-under-uapa/article31468468.ece
30 April 2020||BERHAMPUR,||Call for HIV test on returning migrant workers in Odisha||Social activists working to prevent the spread of HIV have appealed to the Odisha government to test all returning migrant workers for the disease during their stay in quarantine centres due to the threat of COVID-19 infection. The Association for Rural Upliftment and National Allegiance (ARUNA), involved in HIV prevention and rehabilitation of HIV-positive persons in Odisha since 1994, has written to the State government regarding it. According to the organisation, Odisha is now showing declining trend of HIV infection. To strengthen the continuing fight against it, the present situation of documented return of migrant labourers and their 14 day quarantine can also be used as a tool to fight HIV, said Lokanath Mishra, executive committee member of ARUNA. Past studies have revealed that most HIV positive persons in Odisha are migrant workers especially the single-male migrants. According to Mr. Mishra, , till now it has been a challenge for Odisha State AIDS Control Society and its partner bodies to test migrant workers for HIV.  Ganjam most affected In Ganjam district, the most AIDS prone region of Odisha, HIV screening of most migrant workers has not been possible. Majority of HIV positive cases of Ganjam district are migrant workers working in textile mills of Surat in Gujarat. Large numbers of these migrant labourers are left out from HIV tests. In next few weeks a huge number of migrant workers will return back from different States to Odisha including Ganjam. As per order of the State government all of them will have to undergo quarantine for 14 days for COVID-19 threat. ARUNA feels it is an opportunity to screen large number of these migrant workers, who are also vulnerable to HIV infection. “If taken up, this large scale screening of high risk population for HIV in Odisha will set an example before the entire country. It will also significantly reduce further spread of HIV during this critical period of spread of COVID-19,” said Mr Mishra.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/call-for-hiv-test-on-returning-migrant-workers-in-odisha/article31468449.ece
30 April 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Una police using mobile app to streamline people’s entry in H.P.||After a huge rush of people started making a beeline at the borders of Himachal Pradesh following the government’s decision to allow its residents stuck in other States to return home, the police in the border district of Una have taken the lead in using mobile-based app to streamline their entry. Punjab border Una district, which shares border with Punjab, saw as many as 12,579 people returning to the district in 2,765 vehicles between April 26 and April 28 — the highest among all districts in the State. “There has been a rush of people. We have started doing mobile app-based entry of data for persons entering from Una district, which is saving precious time of the public and the police personnel,” said Karthikeyan Gokulachandran, Superintendent of Police, Una  . Mr. Gokulachandran said by use of this technology, the police will be recording the details of people, vehicles etc in the mobile phone, which will be saved at the backend for easy access. “We will do away with paper and ensure the procedure is faster and details are common. The data is getting updated directly at the backend in real time. We do not need to compile it again on Excel or Google sheets now. It saves many manhours, dual entry, time and makes the mechanism more efficient. Also, when we keep updating the information on paper, then we have to compile it and by the time it is done, the dynamics change and the data becomes obsolete,” he said. “Earlier only two counters were entering the data and now we can have 30-40 men entering data standing next to vehicles, easing out the situation,” he added. With e-passes According to government data, around 23,000 people have returned to their home town in their own vehicles across the State after securing e-passes since relaxation orders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/una-police-using-mobile-app-to-streamline-peoples-entry-in-hp/article31468452.ece
30 April 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Rice millers issue appeal to Centre, Punjab govt.||Reeling under losses amid the ongoing lockdown following COVID-19 outbreak, the Rice Millers Exporters Association, Amritsar has asked the Centre and the Punjab government to come for its rescue so that the agro-processing industry can be revived. While assuring the government of its support to overcome the bleak economic scenario presently gripping the nation, the association has urged the State government to immediate release pending refunds of market fee and rural development fund (RDF) to rice miller and exporters, which is around Rs. 100 crore, in a bid to tide over sector's financial crunch. In a letter to Additional Chief Secretary Vini Mahajan, association’s director Ashok Sethi has also requested the government to completely waive off the charging of market fee and RDF for at least for one year on Basmati rice. Mr. Sethi said at present the industry is estimated to have a stock of rice-paddy worth Rs. 9,000 crore and hence there’s an immediate need for relaxation on interest rate by banks. “Relief on bank interest is urgently required for at least six months,” he said. He added that the Central government had been giving the exporters under MSME an interest subvention on bank export limits but it was withdrawn in April this year. “It should be immediately restored ,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/rice-millers-issue-appeal-to-centre-punjab-govt/article31468443.ece
09 June 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Punjab sees a spike with 33 new cases||Punjab on Wednesday saw a spike in fresh cases of COVID-19 as 33 new cases surfaced, taking the total tally to 375 in the State, according to an official statement. State health department said on April 29, as many as 11 new patients were reported from Ludhiana, eight from SAS Nagar, three each from Faridkot and Hoshiarpur districts. Two each were reported from Patiala, Bathinda and SBS Nagar districts while one each surfaced from Jalandhar and Sangrur. The total active cases in the State at present are 252. Punjab has so far seen COVID-19 related deaths. As many as 104 patients have so far recovered, it added. In Union Territory of Chandigarh eight fresh cases were reported, taking the total count to 67.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/punjab-sees-a-spike-with-33-new-cases/article31468444.ece
30 April 2020||GURUGRAM,||7 Haryana districts to decide relaxations at the block level||Expressing satisfaction over his government’s efforts to prevent the spread of COVID-19 infection, Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal on Wednesday said certain relaxations were allowed to the industry in the State as per the Ministry of Home Affairs guidelines after April 20. An estimated 5.5 lakh workers and labourers were engaged in work in the State and brick kilns were allowed to operate employing 2.07 lakh labourers, he said. The Chief Minister said relaxations in the seven most affected districts of Gurugram, Faridabad, Nuh, Palwal, Sonipat, Panipat and Panchkula would be decided at the block level, but the plan for the rest of the State would be at the district level. He informed shops in the villages were allowed to open and in situ units, with the workers staying inside the premises, were also allowed. He also said the Information Technology companies could work with one-third strength and the rest of the industries with half the staff.  ‘308 cases so far’ Mr. Lal said the number of COVID-19 infections in Haryana doubled every 21 days, compared with the national average of eight days. The State has recorded 308 cases of COVID-19 so far, and 224 people out of them have recovered. Besides three deaths, the State has 81 active cases. The situation would have been better had not numbers increased due to a religious congregation in Delhi in March, he claimed. Extra wages The Chief Minister also said the industries, in consultation with the workers, could work for 12 hours, but need to pay the extra wages as per the law. He said that 15,500 migrant workers in relief camps in Haryana were sent back to their respective States after a quarantine period of more than a month.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/7-haryana-districts-to-decide-relaxations-at-the-block-level/article31468442.ece
30 April 2020||Jaipur,||Rajasthan mission puts focus on high-risk groups||A mission to save the lives of people in the high-risk groups has been launched in Rajasthan with the emphasis on identifying old people above 60 years, people suffering from high blood pressure, heart disease, cancer and pulmonary disease, pregnant women and children below 10 years of age living in the COVID-19 containment zones. Additional Chief Secretary (Medical & Health) Rohit Kumar Singh said here on Wednesday that the “mission life saving” would identify the high-risk people at the early stage of COVID-19 infection, track their medical history for targeted attention and treat them on priority. Most of the COVID-19 related deaths in the State have been reported from among the high-risk groups. Of the 27 deceased in Jaipur district, only six were below 30 years of age. Mr. Singh said the mission’s primary objective was to save the lives of the vulnerable to the maximum possible extent. Information about the high-risk groups will be culled from the Mahatma Gandhi Ayushman Bharat health insurance scheme’s data base, non-communicable diseases’ data base, senior citizens’ pension documents, electoral rolls, ration cards and the records of government pensioners. The information will be used for preparing list of patients in each municipal ward and village. “We are also tracking the history of their treatment under the health insurance scheme from the data available for the last four years. The patients will be quickly identified for respiratory and other vulnerabilities like kidney, hypertension, diabetes and similar conditions,” Mr. Singh said, adding that this would enable the doctors to pay special attention to them. Citing an example of indicative numbers in the segmented age groups for one of the large outbreak zones in Jaipur's Ramganj area, Mr. Singh said the highest number of 6,366 people were in age group of 60 to 69 years, while there were 2,866 people of the age of 70 to 79 years, 794 of the age of 80 to 89 years and 114 of the age of 90 to 100 years. The order for initiating the “mission life saving” was issued on Tuesday and sent to all District Collectors and Chief Medical & Health Officers. The mission’s activities will include survey in containment zones, health check-up through mobile OPD vans and passive surveillance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/rajasthan-mission-puts-focus-on-high-risk-groups/article31468448.ece
30 April 2020||JAIPUR,||‘Chariots’ to spread awareness about COVID-19 in Bharatpur||Five e-rickshaws converted into ‘chariots’ are alerting the people about the symptoms of COVID-19 and generating awareness about the measures to contain its spread in Rajasthan’s Bharatpur city. Over 110 persons have so far tested COVID-19 positive in the district and two of them have lost their lives. Superintendent of Police Haider Ali Zaidi, who flagged off the chariots in Bharatpur on Tuesday, said prevention was the best cure for the disease. Mr. Zaidi said the chariots would provide useful information to the public. Similar vehicles equipped with loudspeakers and publicity material are making rounds of the district’s hotspot regions, such as Pahari, Kaman and Nagar. They are also helping the people by supplying food, dry ration kits and essential items during the lockdown. Bharatpur-based Lupin Foundation, which has fabricated the chariots, has also taken the responsibility to assist the “corona warriors” by providing digital thermometers, face shields, face masks, gloves, sanitiser and other equipment to them. The messengers travelling on the chariots have appealed to the people to stay indoors. Lupin Foundation’s executive director Sita Ram Gupta said the people had realised the significance of work done by health workers and police personnel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/chariots-to-spread-awareness-about-covid-19-in-bharatpur/article31468451.ece
30 April 2020||LUCKNOW,||‘U.P. govt. hiding real figures’||Uttar Pradesh Congress president Ajay Kumar Lallu, an MLA from Tamkuhi Raj in Kushinagar, claims the BJP government in the State is hiding the real figures of COVID-19. The Yogi Adityanath government is misleading people through an illusion of numbers, he says in an interview. Excerpts:   You have criticised the Agra model of containment, which is being publicised by the Uttar Pradesh government. What do you think is lacking in the Agra model?  The model they have unceasingly presented before the country, its reality has been exposed. So far, 430 COVID-19-infected patients have been found in Agra. And the way in which the people have been kept at quarantine centres — the video of one such incident recently went viral — has shamed humanity and whole of U.P. Other than Agra, we find a large number of positive cases in Firozabad and Kanpur as well. Testing is not being done on a large scale. The Chief Minister is only misleading the people and not working in the manner he should. The U.P. government has decided to bring back its migrants stranded in the other States. Do you feel this could have been done earlier or is the timing apt? The workers the government has decided to bring back are only those who were kept in quarantine centres. I have received a number of calls from our brothers who are stranded in Telangana and Himachal Pradesh. Twenty-eight days (mandatory quarantine period) have passed but till date the government has not made any preparation to bring them back. The workers are desperate and weeping, their videos are going viral, their families are low on morale and are daily pleading to the CM. We have written many letters, but the government is still not giving us a clear answer on bringing the workers back. But is U.P. prepared to handle a large number of migrants? Does it have the facilities and enough quarantine centres? The workers stranded in other States obviously must be staying inside their homes as part of the lockdown. While planning how to bring them back, arrangements should be made to properly examine them. They can come up with temporary quarantine centres on the sides of highways or use schools, colleges and other institutions. And those who are found positive should be treated while others should be dropped home. Fresh positive cases have been reported from districts such as Prayagraj, Bareilly, Pratapgarh and Pilibhit, declared “corona-free” by the State government a few days ago. The Centre has issued some figures about U.P. Of the 75 districts, 53 have less than 100 isolation beds. Thirty-one districts have positive cases and 34 don’t have ICU facility. What are the preparations? The State government has not set any parameters or made facilities for screening. Not arranged for random testing. They are claiming 3,000 tests are being done daily but not more than 450 tests are being done. Are you saying that the government is hiding the real figures? Of course. This is the illusion of numbers. They are trying to entangle people of U.P. in numbers. If we test people, the reality will come before us. I feel many districts, which the government claims have no cases at all, if there is random testing conducted, cases will come up in large numbers. The speed of testing is slow and is only at some marked places. Many migrants who arrived in U.P. from other States have been escaping from quarantine centres. Is this due to some miscommunication or lack of basic facilities and assurances? Quarantine centres are in a bad shape. I can say with full confidence that it is the various NGOs and local leaders who are providing food to people in quarantine centres. In Fatehpur, Congress people are supplying food. The government is not working the way it should. Even if those under quarantine want to stay, they can’t. There are no facilities, no power or fan or arrangements to stay. I watched a video from Bhadohi where a dog was seen loitering around the place where food was being prepared for such people. The food was unhygienic. People are being compelled to leave the quarantine centres. The lockdown will go on till May 3. This has caused a lot of economic hardship and strained the rural economy. Do you feel the lockdown should be extended beyond this? Apart form lockdown, increased testing and treatment of those infected, there is no other solution to this illness. As of now, the government has made no arrangements. It has fully failed in terms of preparations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/up-govt-hiding-real-figures/article31468440.ece
30 April 2020||Srinagar,||Valley doctors pitch for decent burial of virus victims||A viral picture on Wednesday of the burial of an 80-year-old COVID-19 victim in Srinagar being attended only by a few policemen and not by any family member evoked shock among the locals, who commented profusely on the issue on social media platforms, and a debate for adoption of a better protocol by the administration on burials. Dr. Arshad Hussain, psychiatrist and professor at the Institute of Mental Health And Neuro Sciences-Kashmir, warned of further stigmatisation of people and families afflicted with COVID-19 infections. “If we have to remove stigma from COVID-19 infection, it is imperative to revisit the practice of burials of patients who die of the disease. Such patients are being taken care of by hospital staff, equally posing risk of contracting the disease, and once any patient dies, the ability to infect others is drastically reduced, with, of course, proper care. We can provide these bodies a decent burial,” he said. A resident of Srinagar’s Rainawari, the COVID-19 victim died in the Chest Disease Hospital within a day of her admission on Tuesday. The authorities immediately quarantined all the family members and disallowed their participation in the last rites. The burial picture, circulated by the police, showed policemen helping in digging a grave and lowering the body into it. None of the relatives or neighbours were present. Dr. Hussain said burial in Kashmir was not only a religious act but also had cultural connotations of closure for the bereaved. “The dead almost get a new address in our culture and the graves have an elaborate epitaph. The process of burial itself is very elaborate with lots of cultural sensitivities, including how many people come for burial. It helps in overall grief resolution.”  ‘Burial with precautions’ Dr. Hussain advocated burials “with precautions which are scientific and rational”. “Religious leaders need to take the lead in this. They should inculcate the new norm of social distancing at burials. It becomes important to remove stigma and shame from COVID-19 infection,” he said. Dr. Naveed Nazeer, who heads the Chest Disease Hospital, said, “It was painful to see that the family members and near and dear ones were not able to perform the last rites. Apparently, the patient neither had a travel history nor was a primary contact.” Doctors Association Kashmir president Dr. Nisar-ul-Hassan said in a statement that there was no risk of catching the novel coronoavirus infection from the victims’ bodies. “Cadavers do not transmit disease. There is no evidence of a person being infected from the exposure to corpse. The virus doesn’t survive in the human body after death.” Director General of Police Dilbag Singh complimented the SHO, Rainawari, for performing the burial and the last rites. “The SHO’s team has done commendable community service,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/valley-doctors-pitch-for-decent-burial-of-virus-victims/article31468446.ece
30 April 2020||Berlin,||China to hold legislative session in May||Countries tried to balance how far to ease coronavirus lockdowns on Wednesday, with Germany enforcing mandatory masks in shops, as the crushing global economic cost of the pandemic became clearer. Excitement over moves towards normality is being tempered by fear of fresh outbreaks of a disease that has already killed 2,14,000 people worldwide and infected more than three million. China said its legislature would hold its annual session in May after being delayed by the coronavirus, signalling the communist leadership’s growing confidence in taming the disease that emerged in the country late last year. From Wednesday in Germany, masks were needed to enter shops, which began to open last week after the government declared its outbreak under control. Nose and mouth coverings are already compulsory on buses, trains and trams. Warning against travel However, Germany extended a warning against travel worldwide to mid-June, spelling more bad news for a global aviation industry that has already been forced to cut tens of thousands of jobs. Italy, Spain and France have been the worst affected European countries, with each reporting more than 23,000 deaths but daily tolls appear to be on a downward trend and they are all charting their way out of shutdown. Spain reported a slight increase in its daily death toll from the disease on Wednesday but the government is moving towards a transition out of lockdown by the end of June, having already allowed children out at the weekend for the first time in six weeks. The pressure to ease lockdowns is immense as the world economy teeters on the brink of a huge depression, with demand for goods gutted, travel and tourism hammered and big banks reporting deep falls in quarterly profits. With warnings mounting of a meat shortage in the U.S., the White House said President Donald Trump would sign an executive order compelling meat-packing plants to stay open, despite a string of coronavirus deaths in the industry. The United States has reported its millionth coronavirus case, and at over 58,000 the country’s COVID-19 death toll is by far the world’s highest — surpassing the number of Americans killed in the Vietnam war in the 1960s and 1970s. Chinese state media said Wednesday that the top legislature will hold its annual meeting on May 22, after postponing it from March.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/china-to-hold-legislative-session-in-may/article31468127.ece
30 April 2020||CHENNAI,||Study on China dams brings the Brahmaputra into focus||A new study highlighting the impact of China’s dams on the Mekong river has raised fresh questions on whether dams being built on other rivers that originate in China, such as the Brahmaputra, may similarly impact countries downstream. While China’s southwestern Yunnan province had above-average rainfall from May to October 2019, there was “severe lack of water in the lower Mekong”, the study found based on satellite data from 1992 to 2019. The Mekong flows from China to Myanmar, Laos, Thailand, Cambodia and Vietnam. The Mekong River Commission, which comprises Cambodia, Laos, Thailand, and Vietnam, has said more scientific evidence was needed to establish whether dams caused a 2019 drought. The study released this month said six dams built since the commissioning of the Nuozhadu dam in 2012 had altered natural flow of the river. It was published by the Sustainable Infrastructure Partnership in Bangkok and the Lower Mekong Initiative, which is a U.S. partnership with all the downstream countries besides Myanmar. The study was funded by the U.S. government. ‘Groundless study’ China has maintained that the dams it is building on the river, known as the Lancang there, are “run of the river” dams that only store water for power generation. The Foreign Ministry said the study was “groundless”. Yunnan had also suffered from drought, while the Lancang only accounted for 13.5% of the Mekong’s flows. India has long expressed concerns over dam-building on the Brahmaptura. In 2015, China operationalised its first hydropower project at Zangmu, while three other dams at Dagu, Jiexu and Jiacha are being developed. Indian officials have said the dams are not likely to impact the quantity of the Brahmaputra’s flows because they are only storing water for power generation. Moreover, the Brahmaputra is not entirely dependent on upstream flows and an estimated 35% of its basin is in India. India does not have a water-sharing agreement with China, but both sides share hydrological data. “We have got China to cooperate with us for warnings on how floods are moving down the Yarlung Tsangpo and into the Brahmaputra, so that we can warn our population living in low-lying areas and move them safely to higher ground,” said Gautam Bambawale, who was India’s Ambassador to China until December 2018. “India will continue to raise the issue of river waters in the Brahmaputra with China, as that appears to be the only methodology to ensure what happened on Mekong does not happen on Brahmaputra,” he said. Management problem “India, for the most part, doesn’t have a quantity problem but a management one,” added Ambika Vishwanath, who researches water security and is director of the Kubernein Initiative. “We really need to worry more about activity in China affecting quality, ecological balance, and flood management.” The Mekong study, she added, was not conclusive on the question of how China’s dams had affected quantity of flows. “To state that the basin had less water because of activities in China alone is misleading, mainly because that only considers the water flowing into the lower basin at one station in Thailand,” she said, adding that the study did not consider other dams and water-use along the course of the river. The lower basin isn’t entirely dependent on flows from China, but also receives water from tributaries in all four countries, which the study did not account for.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/study-on-china-dams-brings-the-brahmaputra-into-focus/article31468122.ece
30 April 2020||SCEAUX,||Epidemic shakes France’s faith in a cornerstone: strong govt.||A couple of baguettes tucked under her arm, Maha Rambousek fiddled with a mask that kept sliding off her nose. After a local decree made masks mandatory in public, she quickly stitched it together but was left confused when the policy was overturned two days later by the central government. “I don’t know who’s wrong or who’s right,” Ms. Rambousek said. “And I can’t turn to anybody for certainties.” The measure in Sceaux, a well-to-do suburb just south of Paris, was one of an increasing number of exceptional local challenges to the government’s handling of the coronavirus outbreak, which has shaken confidence in a cornerstone of French society: the primal authority of the centralised state. The city of Perpignan lodged contagious patients in a hotel after the central government told people to self-isolate at home. Officials in the city of Marseille carried out widespread testing of both the sick and healthy even as the government ordered that only the seriously ill be tested. France has suffered the world’s fourth-biggest death toll — now at 23,660 official deaths, behind the U.S., Italy and Spain — a consequence, critics say, of the central government’s failure to anticipate the onslaught of the contagion. That failure and a critical shortage of masks and testing kits led to the virus’s rapid early spread, prompting France to impose one of the world’s strictest nationwide lockdowns, now in its seventh week. Gradual reopening Prime Minister Édouard Philippe announced a tentative plan Monday to gradually reopen the country starting May 11. And he promised that masks and testing would be made sufficiently available. But it was not clear that those steps would halt what polls show is declining confidence in the government’s handling of the pandemic. “Trust in the state has been eroding for some time, since the state is no longer able to respond to the need for security,” said Phillipe Laurent, the Mayor of Sceaux and the secretary-general of the Association of Mayors of France. About a dozen complaints have been lodged by individuals and medical organisations with the French Court of Justice, a special court that hears accusations of government mismanagement. Several officials have been accused of willfully failing to take appropriate measures to combat the virus, endangering people’s lives. The government’s failure to stem the initial outbreak undermined the important social contract between the state and the people, said Pierre Vermeren, a historian. “We have some of the highest taxes and biggest public spending in the world, and the French people accept that because, implicitly, their protection was guaranteed by the state," said Vermeren, who teaches at the University Paris 1 Panthéon-Sorbonne. Critics blame France’s poor showing, at least in part, on the excessive centralisation of the French state, embodied by a president, Emmanuel Macron, who has spoken of his belief in the “top-down” exercise of power and has employed martial language in describing the fight against the virus. Like many leaders, Macron initially derived a boost from the crisis, but that has begun to fade. Nearly 60% of respondents described him as a “bad president” in one recent poll, while another poll showed confidence in the government’s management of the crisis declining steadily to 39% from 55% in the past month.NY Times||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/epidemic-shakes-frances-faith-in-a-cornerstone-strong-govt/article31468125.ece
30 April 2020||Beijing,||Detained Canadians are in good health: China||China said on Wednesday that two Canadians held for more than 500 days in a case that has roiled diplomatic relations were in “good health”, after authorities suspended consular visits over the pandemic. Businessman Michael Spavor and former diplomat Michael Kovrig have been in detention since December 2018, an apparent retaliation for the arrest of Huawei executive Meng Wanzhou in Vancouver on a U.S. warrant. The United States wants Ms. Meng extradited to face trial on charges related to the Chinese telecom equipment maker’s alleged violations of U.S. sanctions against Iran. Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau said last Thursday — on the 500th day of their detention — that consular visits to the men had been blocked due to a lockdown of prisons. Asked for updates on the detained pair, Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Geng Shuang said on Wednesday: “I understand these two people are in good health and the Chinese will always protect their legal rights and interests.” Mr. Geng added that both men have received visits from the Canadian Embassy on multiple occasions, but such visits have been put on hold due to the pandemic. Mr. Trudeau has noted that they “are in a facility in a region that is not particularly affected by COVID-19.” He said that Canada’s Foreign Minister has also protested to his Chinese counterpart over the continued detention of the pair, who are accused of gathering Chinese state secrets.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/detained-canadians-are-in-good-health-china/article31468123.ece
30 April 2020||Geneva,||1.6 billion at the risk of losing jobs, warns ILO||Nearly half of the entire global workforce is in immediate danger of having their livelihoods destroyed by the COVID-19 pandemic, the International Labour Organization (ILO) warned on Wednesday. The ILO said the risk fell on those workers in the informal economy, and three-quarters of them, some 1.6 billion people were at risk in the second quarter of 2020. It said an expected further sharp decline in working hours meant that these workers were in “immediate danger of having their livelihoods destroyed”. In its third report on the coronavirus crisis and the world of work, the ILO warned of the impact on the most vulnerable in the labour market, who are often in the hardest-hit sectors. The 1.6 billion people stand in line to suffer “massive damage to their ability to earn a living,” said ILO director-general Guy Ryder. The ILO said the global workforce was 3.3 billion people, of which more than two billion worked in the informal economy — in jobs characterised by a lack of basic protections, no possibility to work from home and no income replacement during the lockdown. It said that almost 1.6 billion informal economy workers, accounting for 76% of informal employment, were significantly impacted by lockdown measures. The ILO said the worst-affected sectors would be accommodation and food services, manufacturing, wholesale and retail trade, and real estate and business activities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/16-billion-at-the-risk-of-losing-jobs-warns-ilo/article31468130.ece
30 April 2020||Yangon,||‘Myanmar army guilty of rights abuse’||Myanmar’s military must be investigated for possible “war crimes and crimes against humanity” as a conflict with rebels in the country’s northwest ramps up, a UN rights expert said on Wednesday. The military is locked in a civil war against the Arakan Army, an insurgent group fighting for more autonomy for ethnic Rakhine Buddhists. Scores have been killed, hundreds wounded and some 1,50,000 people have fled their homes since the fighting erupted in January last year. “...[T]he Myanmar military continues to escalate its assault in Rakhine State, targeting the civilian population,” the UN official Yanghee Lee said on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/myanmar-army-guilty-of-rights-abuse/article31468129.ece
30 April 2020||Tehran,||No end in sight, says Rouhani||Iran reopened for business despite its persistent COVID-19 outbreak as there was no end in sight to the crisis, President Hassan Rouhani said on Wednesday, as 80 new deaths were announced. His remarks came as the Health Ministry announced that 80 new deaths from COVID-19 had taken the country’s overall toll to 5,957. Ministry spokesman Kianoush Jahanpour said another 1,073 people tested positive for the virus in the past 24 hours.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/no-end-in-sight-says-rouhani/article31468128.ece
30 April 2020||April 30 2020 00:00 IST,||Afghan peace and India’s elbow room||Earlier this month, the United Nations Secretariat held a meeting of what it calls the “6+2+1” group on regional efforts to support peace in Afghanistan, a group that includes six neighbouring countries: China, Iran, Pakistan, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan and Uzbekistan; global players the United States and Russia, and Afghanistan itself. India was conspicuous by its absence from the meeting on April 16, given its historical and strategic ties with Afghanistan, but not for the first time. Left out, but some recovery In December 2001, for example, the Indian team led by special envoy Satinder Lambah arrived in Germany’s Petersberg hotel near Bonn, where the famous Bonn agreement was negotiated, to find no reservations had been made for them at the official venue. In January 2010, India was invited to attend the “London Conference” on Afghanistan, but left out of the room during a crucial meeting that decided on opening talks with the Taliban. In 2020, the reason given for keeping India out of regional discussions on Afghanistan was ostensibly that it holds no “boundary” with Afghanistan; but in fact it is because New Delhi has never announced its support for the U.S.-Taliban peace process. In both 2001 and 2010, however, India fought back its exclusion successfully. At the Bonn agreement, Ambassador Lambah was widely credited for ensuring that Northern Alliance leaders came to a consensus to accept Hamid Karzai as the Chairman of the interim arrangement that replaced the Taliban regime. After the 2010 conference, New Delhi redoubled its efforts with Kabul, and in 2011, Prime Minister Manmohan Singh and Afghanistan President Karzai signed the historic Strategic Partnership Agreement, which was Afghanistan’s first such agreement with any country. New Delhi’s stand As planners in South Block now consider their next steps in Afghanistan, they must fight back against the idea that any lasting solution in Afghanistan can be discussed without India in the room, while also studying the reasons for such exclusions. To begin with, India’s resistance to publicly talking to the Taliban has made it an awkward interlocutor at any table. Its position that only an Afghan-led, Afghan-owned, and Afghan-controlled process can be allowed is a principled one, but has no takers. Kabul, or the Ashraf Ghani government does not lead, own or control the reconciliation process today, comprising the U.S.-Taliban negotiation for an American troops withdrawal, and intra-Afghan talks on power sharing. The U.S.-Taliban peace deal means that the Taliban, which has not let up on violent attacks on the Afghan Army, will become more potent as the U.S. withdraws soldiers from the country, and will hold more sway in the inter-Afghan process as well, as the U.S. withdraws funding for the government in Kabul. New Delhi’s decision to put all its eggs in the Ghani basket has had a two-fold effect: its voice in the reconciliation process has been limited, and it has weakened India’s position with other leaders of the deeply divided democratic setup in Kabul such as the former chief executive Abdullah Abdullah. Meanwhile, India’s presence inside Afghanistan, which has been painstakingly built up since 2001, is being threatened anew by terror groups such as the Islamic State Khorasan Province (ISKP), believed to be backed by Pakistan’s establishment. Intercepts showed that the brutal attack, in March, that killed 25 at a gurudwara in Kabul was meant for the embassy in Kabul, and intelligence agencies had warned of suicide car bomb threats to the consulates in Jalalabad and Herat last December. While the government has said that the novel coronavirus pandemic prompted its decision to clear out both consulates this month, the truth is that a full security reassessment is under way for them. Either way, India’s diplomatic strength in Afghanistan should not appear to be in retreat just when it is needed the most. What dents India’s goodwill The government must also consider the damage done to the vast reservoir of goodwill India enjoys in Afghanistan because of recent events in the country, especially the controversy over the Citizenship (Amendment) Act. The building blocks of that goodwill are India’s assistance in infrastructure projects, health care, education, trade and food security, and also in the liberal access to Afghans to study, train and work in India. Above all, it is India’s example as a pluralistic, inclusive democracy that inspires many. Afghanistan’s majority-Muslim citizens, many of whom have treated India as a second home, have felt cut out of the move to offer fast track citizenship to only Afghan minorities, as much as they have by reports of anti-Muslim rhetoric and incidents of violence in India. While many of these are problems of perception, New Delhi must move swiftly to regain the upper hand in the narrative in Afghanistan. India’s assistance of more than $3 billion in projects, trade of about $1 billion, a $20 billion projected development expenditure of an alternate route through Chabahar, as well as its support to the Afghan National Army, bureaucrats, doctors and other professionals for training in India should assure it a leading position in Afghanistan’s regional formulation. Three major projects: the Afghan Parliament, the Zaranj-Delaram Highway, and the Afghanistan-India Friendship Dam (Salma dam), along with hundreds of small development projects (of schools, hospitals and water projects) have cemented that position in Afghan hearts nationwide, regardless of Pakistan’s attempts to undermine that position, particularly in the South. As a result, it would be a mistake, at this point, to tie all India’s support in only to Kabul or the Ghani government; the government must strive to endure that its aid and assistance is broad-based, particularly during the novel coronavirus pandemic to centres outside the capital, even if some lie in areas held by the Taliban. Making a leap India must also pursue opportunities to fulfil its role in the peace efforts in Afghanistan, starting with efforts to bridge the Ghani-Abdullah divide, and bringing together other major leaders with whom India has built ties for decades. It would be an utter tragedy if the Taliban were to enter the government in Kabul as the U.S. deal envisages, to find the opposing front collapse as it did in 1996. The conversation India’s External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar had with the U.S.’s Special Envoy Zalmay Khalilzad last week, where they discussed India’s “engagement” in the peace process, appears to open a window in that direction. An understanding between Iran and the U.S. on Afghanistan is necessary for lasting peace as well, and India could play a mediatory part, as it did in order for the Chabahar project. Finally, New Delhi should use the United Nations’s call for a pause in conflicts during the novel coronavirus pandemic, to ensure a hold on hostilities with Pakistan. This will be even more difficult than it sounds, given the abyss that bilateral relations have fallen into in the past year over Kashmir and the rise in firepower exchanged at the Line of Control. However, if there is one lesson that the the U.S.-Taliban talks have imparted, it is that both have found it necessary to come to the table for talks on Afghanistan’s future. For India, given its abiding interest in Afghanistan’s success and traditional warmth for its people, making that leap should be a bit easier. Above all, the government must consider the appointment of a special envoy, as it has been done in the past, to deal with its efforts in Afghanistan, which need both diplomatic agility and a firmness of purpose at a watershed moment in that country’s history. suhasini.h@thehindu.co.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/afghan-peace-and-indias-elbow-room/article31468108.ece
30 April 2020||April 30 2020 00:00 IST,||Coping with today, planning for tomorrow||“And once the storm is over, you won’t remember how you made it through, how you managed to survive. You won’t even be sure, whether the storm is really over. But one thing is certain. When you come out of the storm, you won’t be the same person who walked in. That’s what this storm is all about” - Haruki Murakami, in ‘Kafka on the Shore’   As we tackle COVID-19, several issues continue to baffle us. One, does a negative PCR swab test rule out the infection? Even though the PCR test is currently considered the gold standard, it has only 60-70% sensitivity in picking up the infection. Two, can patients become re-infected? Up to 10% of patients in China and South Korea who were discharged from hospitals after recovering from the infection subsequently tested positive by nasal swab PCR. The implications are unclear. Three, do masks for the public help? With increasing evidence of transmission from asymptomatic persons with COVID-19 and the possibility that masks may partially help prevent viral transmission, cloth masks for all public is likely to be recommended. Four, will an early vaccine release help the pandemic? Vaccines, if effective, will be a definitive answer to the pandemic. However, vaccines need to undergo safety and efficacy studies in an animal model followed by human volunteers, which will take up to 12-18 months. Five, is plasma therapy an answer? It is too premature to expect that it will cure the infection. It appears less promising than it appeared initially. Understanding viral dynamics We need to understand that the lockdown has helped only to slow down the progression of the infection and has done precious little to eradicate it. Flattening the curve only gives the healthcare system a breather, to prepare for the onslaught of the virus. The real problems will start when the lockdown ends. At present, infections are doubling every eleventh day in India. Once the lockdown is lifted and life resumes, there is bound to be a surge in the number of cases, with no indication that the exponential growth of the virus will stop. This will cease only if a significant number of the population is infected or immune. In fact, the pandemic will end only when over 60% of the population is infected, leading to herd immunity, or if a vaccine is available, both distant options at this time. We will be in a position to lift the lockdown only if we have had no new cases for at least two weeks. This would wreak havoc on the economy of any country and be detrimental to the health of infected persons, and also deleterious in the management of non-COVID health issues. What are the options? Will a partial and periodic lockdown for weeks help? Can we lock down the entire world till we stop the pandemic? Both of these will lead to massive unemployment and recession and ruin the economy. It appears prudent to try to save lives now rather than stave off a potential future catastrophe. Even when the ban is lifted, several industries may not show revival for up to a year. So the current lockdown, however harsh it may seem, is our best option. Discipline of the community at large, in times like this, is an enormous challenge. Unfortunately, this is a war, albeit without bombs, bullets and tanks, during which we cannot ask for freedom to do whatever we want. Only resilience and perseverance can help. Realistic optimism is key Jim Collins, a business strategist, in his iconic book Good to Great , talks about the ‘Stockdale Paradox’, named after Admiral Stockdale of the U.S. Navy, who was imprisoned and tortured for seven years during the Vietnam War. The psychological duality of ‘balancing realism with steadfast optimism’ defined his endurance and survival. All of us are weathering the same storm, but we are not in the same boat. The implications of this crisis vary from financial catastrophe to emotional black holes. We are on different ships looking to survive, and survive we will. One has to be realistic, yet solid in the belief that ‘this too shall pass’. We need to face this period of turbulence with calm efficiency. “Maturity of mind is defined as the capacity to endure uncertainty” said John Finley, an English historian and mathematician. During a crisis like this, India needs to invest in community education and community participation. Trust in the government is an important component in any emergency health response. An increased expenditure in a robust public health system is important to building trust and confidence. We also need to bolster infectious diseases surveillance. The media and the public health system should ensure that the correct messages reach the common man. Whether the concern is with risk of infections from dead bodies, or the safety of groceries or newspapers, scientific and evidence-based information needs to be disseminated. One should realise that the cure should not do more harm than the disease. Hence, we need to temper enthusiasm about treating COVID-19 with wishful therapies and gather evidence by scientific and randomised trials. Opportunities for innovation While the clear priority right now is to cope with the number of cases and the economic havoc that the pandemic is wreaking, it is also time for the community and the government to take steps to minimise the pain of another pandemic. Humans cope with trauma by repressing its memory. The temptation to forget COVID-19 and move on will be overwhelming. But India must let not let that happen. These crises create opportunities for innovation. We need a vision of a post-COVID-19 economy that is not ‘simply a return to normal’. A new normal can build upon what we have discovered under lockdown, about making a living and living well. Let us work on an economy that conserves earth resources, avoids future pandemics, and enhances physical and mental well-being. Finally, as Thomas Sowell, sociologist and economist at Stanford University, said, it is time to realise that “there are no solutions to managing a crisis of this nature, only trade-offs”. Our destiny is in our hands, so let us keep them sanitised, let us maintain physical distancing, and let us pray for wisdom to make wise choices in this war against the virus. Dr. Ramasubramanian is Consultant, Infectious Diseases, Apollo Hospital, and Director, Capstone Clinic; Dr. Aruna Mohan is Consultant Paediatric Dentist, and Director, Capstone Dental Care||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/coping-with-today-planning-for-tomorrow/article31468117.ece
30 April 2020||April 30 2020 00:00 IST,||A critical study of Trump, the postmodernist||COVID-19 has brokered ideal ring conditions for a straight fight between scientists and postmodernists. So far, the two have been shadow boxing under hypothetical conditions. While there were, indeed, many practising scientists, there was no recorded case of a practising postmodernist, that is till Donald Trump arrived on the scene. Now the fight can get real. Yes, indeed, postmodernism has many known thinkers in its ranks and some of them, in fact, are hugely celebrated. However, outside of theory, neither Jacques Derrida or Jean-François Lyotard, or Jean Baudrillard, or any known postmodernist, ever presented a live case of someone who empirically led a postmodernist life. They had the recipe, but where was the curry? Mr. Trump changed that. As far as one can tell, so far, he is the only celebrated case of an actually functioning, full time, postmodernist person. This is why he should be examined critically, not dismissively, as many tend to do. Divergent views Scientists and postmodernist come to the ring from different training schools and their reactions to COVID-19 illustrate this divergence perfectly. Scientists today are looking for a uniform text to explain COVID-19. They are searching for a fundamental core that would not just help in finding a cure for the disease, but would also add to our knowledge of the virus’s etymology. In-depth comparative analysis is meant to facilitate an overall agreement and, if things go according to plans, major authors, from China to the United States, will come to a consensus. This may, or may not, happen, but that is the goal. Diametrically opposed to this perspective are the postmodernists. Be prepared, they have no patience for science. For them the real is substituted, as in Baudrillard, by the “hyper real” which is related, at best, to the tactile world through the medium of signs. Derrida, the lead singer of postmodernism, declared that a text is a dubious phenomenon as “it hides its composition and the rules of its game….” This concealment allows for meta narratives to pretentiously claim “truth”. Lyotard limpidly articulates the consequence of this view when he states: “Simplifying to the extreme, I define postmodern as incredulity towards meta narratives ....” Now what exactly does this big word “meta narrative” mean? Answer: Anything that is connected to the enlightenment ideal of science and technology, and that also includes contemporary advances in artificial intelligence. Instead of the grand, or meta, narrative of science, postmodernists prefer what Derrida would call “free play”. This is a shifting, flirtatious condition, unconstrained by any methodological principle that science is obliged to work under. There is now no “origin” and no “zero degree”, or, as Baudrillard would argue, we only experience the “hyper real”. If one were to accept Hélène Cixous, it is important that we “fly”, under such conditions, on independent propulsion. A more radical reading might even conclude that scientific theories are patriarchal and gender laden. Finally, as the bestselling author, Helene Hegemann, said, “There is no such thing as originality, only authenticity.” If the author is authentic to the self, every text is as good as any other. Where does all of this leave science? Under a rock! Trump and ‘authenticity’ Now watch how Mr. Trump is actually a living, breathing, in fact, a breathtaking postmodernist. He is not faithful to any one position, but can move freely between them without constraint because he believes, and so do his followers, that he is truly authentic. Mr. Trump initially commended the Chinese when COVID-19 first entered the U.S. and said he had “very good conversations” with Xi Jinping and had “much respect for him”. He soon changed tack and accused China of being “knowingly responsible” for spreading the disease which he said was, after all, a “Chinese virus”. Mr. Trump has also sounded messianic on many occasions. At one time he confidently proclaimed that, “One day, it’s like a miracle — it [COVID-19] will disappear.” As recently, as two weeks back he prophesied: “I said it is going away — and it is.” He wished hard that COVID-19 would up and leave so that on “Easter Sunday, and you’ll have packed churches all over our country.” Evidence for any of this? None. Yet, on another register we must admit that Mr. Trump was being authentic because everything he said was straight from the heart. Likewise he pumped up the demand for hydroxychloroquine, calling it a “game changer” and a “gift from heaven”. When he was confronted by contrary evidence from the other corner of the ring, by Dr. Anthony Fauci (the scientist heading the White House’s COVID-19 Task Force), Mr. Trump retorted, “I am not a doctor. But I have common sense.” He was, in other words, in close contact with the “hyper real”. There were speculations, at one time, that perhaps it was not all hyper real. He was probably rooting for hydroxychloroquine because he has financial interest in Sanofi, a pharma company that produces the drug. But that would be too realistic an explanation. This is why, true to his postmodern condition, he has now dumped his once near complete conviction in hydroxychloroquine and is seriously dating cleaning agents instead. He seems to be quite sure these liquids can knock out COVID-19 virus “in a minute…by injection inside”. This frightened disinfectant companies, including the producers of Lysol, to issue a public notice warning people not to put cleaning liquids into their blood stream. Such “scientific” reactions leave Mr. Trump undeterred as he is not faithful to any text. He sways, bobs and weaves by instincts that come straight from the heart. There have been some facile comparisons between Mr. Trump and other world leaders who have shown dictatorial tendencies. The big difference between them lies in the fact that Mr. Trump believes in nothing for more than a short duration. On the other hand, those like Jair Bolsonaro (Brazil), or Rodrigo Duterte (the Philippines), have long-term commitments to a single point of view. Mr. Bolsonaro, for example, has remained steadfast in his dismissal of COVID-19 as a threat. He has been consistently contemptuous, from start to finish, of any attempts to curb the virus. It was as if SARS-CoV-2 was just a little grit in one’s mouth. Mr. Trump, as we have seen, is different. He has playfully toyed with different texts and recommended a variety of cures, always reading out of hyper-real situations that spring authentically from inside him. Would Derrida or Lyotard, or any postmodernists, ever have known that one day, sitting in their corner, pugilistic as ever, would be Donald Trump, the President of the United States? Dipankar Gupta is Retired Professor, Jawaharlal Nehru University||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-critical-study-of-trump-the-postmodernist/article31468111.ece
30 April 2020||April 30 2020 00:00 IST,||Limitations of online learning||India has been under lockdown in a desperate attempt to contain the COVID-19 pandemic. Even when the lockdown gets lifted eventually, the government may not allow large congregations in restricted physical spaces, including campuses. Universities and colleges were in the middle of the second semester of their academic year when the lockdown was enforced. There was anxiety, particularly about the graduating batches of students, lest the ongoing session should be declared a ‘zero semester’. This prompted a number of local initiatives. There were attempts from individual teachers to keep their students engaged. A few universities made arrangements for teachers to hold their classes virtually through video conferencing services such as Zoom. The transition to virtual modes was relatively less difficult for those institutions that had, even prior to the lockdown, adopted learning management system platforms. All the above were well-meaning attempts to keep the core educational processes going through this period. Strategy to enhance enrolment? An April 13 report quoted the UGC Chairman as saying that to maintain social distancing, e-education was the only way out. This was clearly meant to prepare the higher education community for the exigencies of a protracted period of closure of campuses. However, close on the heels of this, he was also quoted as saying that online education was likely to be adopted as a strategy to enhance the gross enrolment ratio in higher education. This prompts many questions about the appropriateness of what may be an effective contingency measure to tide over the pandemic crisis to be deployed as a long-term strategy for enhancing enrolment in higher education. One, how far will online education help support greater access to and success in higher education among those who are on the margins? Two, how equipped are digital forms of education to support the depth and diversity of learning in higher education? Three, is there an unstated political motivation for this shift in strategy? Higher education has an influx of students who are first-generation aspirants. They have no cultural capital to bank on while struggling their way through college. Access is not merely enrolment. It also includes effective participation in curricular processes, which includes negotiating through language and social barriers. These students are also from the other side of the digital divide which makes them vulnerable to a double disadvantage if digital modes become the mainstay of education. Unless they receive consistent hand-holding and backstopping, they tend to remain on the margins and eventually drop out or fail. It is therefore necessary to think deeply and gather research-based evidence on the extent to which online education can be deployed to help enhance the access and success rates. What learning involves Acquisition of given knowledge that can be transmitted didactically by a teacher or a text constitutes only one minor segment of curricular content. It is this segment that is largely amenable to online and digital forms of transaction. But learning in higher education means much more than this. It involves development of analytical and other intellectual skills, the ability to critically deconstruct and evaluate given knowledge, and the creativity to make new connections and syntheses. It also means to acquire practical skills, inquire, seek solutions to complex problems, and learn to work in teams. All these assume direct human engagement – not just teacher-student interaction, but also peer interactions. Deconstructing given knowledge in relative isolation is never the same as doing it in a group. Arguably, some of this can, to some extent, be built on to a digital platform. But curricular knowledge has a tendency to adjust its own contours according to the mode of transaction and the focus of evaluation. It gets collapsed into largely information-based content when transacted through standard structures of teaching-learning and examination. While digital forms of learning have the potential to enable students to pursue independent learning, conventional and digital forms of education should not be considered mutually exclusive. Online learning needs to be understood as one strand in a complex tapestry of curricular communication that may still assign an important central role to direct human engagement and social learning. Institutions of open and distance learning (ODL), established during the mid-1960s to 1980s, were a consequence of explorations for less expensive models for provisioning access to higher education. ODL may also have been considered by governments at that time “as a safe strategy (in the light of instances of campus turbulence) for managing mass aspirations for higher education without necessarily effecting large congregations on campuses” (Menon, 2016). One wonders whether there is a similar motivation behind the enthusiasm for online education. Shyam Menon is a Professor at the Central Institute of Education, University of Delhi and former Vice Chancellor, Ambedkar University Delhi||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/limitations-of-online-learning/article31468119.ece
30 April 2020||April 30 2020 00:00 IST,||A greater impact on women||Early signs are that SARS-CoV-2 poses a greater direct health risk to men, and particularly older men. But the pandemic is exposing and exploiting inequalities of all kinds, including gender inequality. In the long term, its impact on women’s health, rights and freedoms could harm us all. Women are already suffering the deadly impact of lockdowns. These restrictions are essential, but they increase the risk of violence towards women trapped with abusive partners. Recent weeks have seen a global surge in domestic violence. At the same time, support services for women at risk face cuts and closures. This was the background to my recent appeal for peace in homes around the world. Since then, over 143 governments have committed to supporting women and girls at risk of violence during the pandemic. Every country can take action by moving services online, expanding domestic violence shelters and designating them as essential, and increasing support to frontline organisations. The United Nations’ partnership with the European Union, the Spotlight Initiative, is working with governments in more than 25 countries on these and similar measures. But the threat to women’s rights and freedoms posed by COVID-19 goes far beyond physical violence. The deep economic downturn accompanying the pandemic is likely to have a distinctly female face. Unfair, unequal treatment The unfair and unequal treatment of working women is one reason why I went into politics. In the late 1960s, as a student volunteer doing social work in poor areas of Lisbon, I saw women in very difficult situations, doing menial jobs and carrying the weight of their extended families. I knew this had to change – and I have seen important change in my lifetime. But decades later, COVID-19 threatens to bring back these conditions for many women. Women are disproportionately represented in poorly paid jobs without benefits, as domestic workers, casual labourers, street vendors, and in small-scale services like hairdressing. The International Labour Organization estimates that nearly 200 million jobs will be lost in the next three months alone – many of them in these sectors. And just as they are losing their paid employment, many women face a huge increase in care work due to school closures, overwhelmed health systems, and the increased needs of older people. And let’s not forget the girls who have had their education cut short. Even at the best of times, women do three times as much domestic work as men. That means they are more likely to be called on to look after children if businesses open while schools remain closed, delaying their return to the paid labour force. Entrenched inequality also means that while women make up 70% of healthcare workers, they are vastly outnumbered by men in healthcare management, and comprise just one in every 10 political leaders worldwide. We need women at the table when decisions are taken on this pandemic, to prevent worst-case scenarios like a second spike in infections, labour shortages, and social unrest. Women in insecure jobs urgently need basic social protections, from health insurance to paid sick leave, childcare, and unemployment benefits. Looking ahead, measures to stimulate the economy, like cash transfers, credits, loans and bailouts, must be targeted at women.  The pandemic has made it clear that women’s unpaid domestic labour is subsidising both public services and private profits. This work must be included in economic metrics and decision-making. We will all gain from working arrangements that recognise people’s caring responsibilities, and from inclusive economic models that value work at home. This pandemic is not only challenging global health systems, but our commitment to equality and human dignity. With women’s interests and rights front and centre, we can get through this pandemic faster, and build more equal and resilient societies that benefit everyone.  António Guterres is the Secretary-General of the United Nations||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-greater-impact-on-women/article31468113.ece
30 April 2020||April 30 2020 00:00 IST,||President under probe||Brazilian President Jair Bolsonaro’s decision to sack the country’s federal police chief has come back to haunt him. First, Sèrgio Moro, one-time Bolsonaro ally and Justice Minister, announced his resignation in a press conference, accusing the leader of trying to interfere in the federal police. Then the Attorney-General moved the Supreme Court seeking authorisation for a probe into Mr. Moro’s allegations. On Tuesday, the top court approved a 60-day probe into the President’s actions. The police were reportedly investigating two of the President’s sons, both public officials, over alleged fake news dissemination, corruption and mafia group ties. While the President and his sons have dismissed the allegations, the move to quickly replace the police chief with a “friend” of one of the President’s sons, has strengthened Mr. Moro’s claim that the President wants someone in the police “from whom he can collect intelligence”. The probe comes at a time when the President’s handling of Latin America’s largest coronavirus outbreak is already under fire. Mr. Bolsonaro, who wants the economy to be reopened sooner, sacked his Health Minister Luiz Henrique Mandetta earlier this month over disagreements. Mr. Bolsonaro is not new to controversies. From his incessant attacks on political rivals, activists, environmentalists and sexual minorities to the controversial handling of the Amazon fires, he has triggered sharp criticism. But this time, he is perhaps facing his biggest crisis as President. Mr. Moro and Dr. Mandetta were relatively popular figures in his Cabinet. The alliance with Mr. Moro, a former judge, had been particularly strong. Last year, a media report showed that Mr. Moro had colluded with the prosecutors who led a corruption investigation against former President Lula da Silva. Lula was convicted in 2018 when he was leading in the presidential election. His exit enabled an easy win for Mr. Bolsonaro. With Mr. Moro’s resignation, Mr. Bolsonaro has lost a powerful ally, and is now surrounded by his unpopular far-right Cabinet colleagues and family. Hundreds are dying from COVID-19 and the government appears to be clueless about its containment. Brazil’s economy is expected to contract 5.3% this year, a sharp fall from the government’s rosy projections made earlier. Mr. Bolsonaro’s approval ratings are also steadily falling. Left-wing Senators have already launched a campaign to impeach him. According to a recent poll, while 45% Brazilians support his impeachment, 46% want him to resign. All these point to an isolated, unpopular President who is losing allies and followers and facing a police probe at a time when the country is going through grave political, economic and health crises.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/president-under-probe/article31468104.ece
30 April 2020||April 30 2020 00:00 IST,||Strategic shift||On March 28, only 130 districts of India’s 736 had reported COVID-19 cases. The Health Ministry’s strategy then, after the national lockdown, was to ensure State supervision of those who manifested symptoms — as well as their high-risk contacts — and who had a travel history. Suspected high-risk contacts or those likely to have been exposed to the infection were subjected to varying degrees of State quarantine. Those not showing signs of the disease or ‘mild’ manifestations, were put in care centres and those noticeably sicker, in hospitals. The idea always was that if the sick and their contacts were segregated from the community long enough, the transmission chain would be broken and the disease extinguished. As April ends, the number of affected districts stands at 401 and confirmed cases have risen by a 1,000 a day; the daily death count hovers between 50 and 60. In a containment strategy tweak, those with a mild form of the disease, or are presymptomatic, would have the option of home quarantining. But their homes ought to have self-isolation facilities, a full-time caregiver, and daily health-status reports given to the district surveillance officer. The Health Ministry has not explained what prompted this relative relaxation. However, anecdotal evidence suggests doctors and health-care workers have been disproportionately vulnerable to the infection and a single case leads to entire hospitals being shut down. Unlike in the U.S. and western Europe, India’s hospitals are not yet clogged with seriously ill patients. It could be due to India’s relatively low case-count and also people not turning up fearing infection. Allowing home quarantine could be seen as health authorities inferring that quarantining in public facilities posed more risks. The presymptomatics (mild illness) and asymptomatics (no signs) did not benefit from treatment and were potent virus spreaders, and therefore endangered the staff and health workers. They also stretched State resources in maintenance. The Ministry also found that among those who tested positive, there were two presymptomatics or asymptomatics for every symptomatic. The disease spread, it appears, is now beyond the ability of the state to contain, by quarantine, and it was far more prudent to fortify health workers and hospitals with the best facilities available to handle patients. Officially, there is no community transmission in India but at this magnitude of cases, it does not practically matter. Gujarat, Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh and Delhi are powering the spread of cases and only consistent declines here can broach discussion on the end of the pandemic. From a month ago, India, on paper, is equipped with better supply channels of personal protective equipment, infusion pumps (for oxygen), hospital beds, laboratories for testing and PCR kits. If the lockdown is lifted on May 3, the rationale behind the government’s containment strategy will be put to a stringent test.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/strategic-shift/article31468103.ece
30 April 2020||April 30 2020 00:00 IST,||India and the Chinese Missile||The launching of a Chinese satellite foreshadowing the development of a long range nuclear missile within the next few years has led to apprehension that the Chinese threat to India’s security has increased and to the feeling that steps should be taken to develop similar weapons in the country. The Defence Minister said in the Lok Sabha that, since the decision not to make nuclear bombs in India was unchanged, no investigation had been made of our capacity to make the bomb and its delivery system. This caused an uproar among the Opposition parties which wish to make political capital out of this issue. It is unfortunate that there has been no rational debate in Parliament as to whether China really poses the kind of nuclear threat to India which would justify enormous expenditure on the development of an Indian counter-weapon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/india-and-the-chinese-missile/article31468112.ece
30 April 2020||Mumbai,||Banks borrow Rs. 2,000 crore from RBI for mutual funds||Commercial banks have borrowed Rs. 2,000 crore from the liquidity window that was offered by the Reserve Bank of India for mutual funds (MFs), so far, latest data released by the central bank showed. On Monday, the RBI had announced a special window of Rs. 50,000 crore for mutual funds in view of the redemption pressure that the fund houses are facing. Exclusive for MFs Funds availed under this facility will be used by banks exclusively for meeting the liquidity requirements of MFs, RBI had said. The scheme was made available from April 27, 2020 till May 11, 2020 or up to utilisation of the allocated amount, whichever is earlier. “There are two issues currently — liquidity and crisis of confidence. The move to provide liquidity is fabulous but one needs to address the root cause as well,” Aashish Somaiya, managing director and chief executive officer, Motilal Oswal Asset Management. “Banks are risk averse and so will be selective on taking the papers on their books. There is stress that will lead to redemptions and hence a signal needs to be given out [by regulators, government] that no mutual fund or for that matter no NBFC is going down,” Mr. Somaiya added. The window was opened by RBI after Franklin Templeton Mutual Fund decided to wind up six debt funds that have combined assets under management of nearly Rs. 26,000 crore, on account of illiquid, low-rated instruments in their portfolio, last week. The fund house had said that it decided to wind up the schemes to preserve the value at least at the current levels, as it was getting eroded due to a combination of redemption pressures and mark-to-market losses. These stemmed from the lack of liquidity on account of the COVID-19 impact on the markets.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/banks-borrow-rs-2000-crore-from-rbi-for-mutual-funds/article31468093.ece
30 April 2020||Washington,||U.S. economy shrinks 4.8% in Q1, fall sharpest since 2009||The U.S. economy shrank at a 4.8% annual rate last quarter as the COVID-19 pandemic shut down much of the country and began triggering a recession that will end the longest expansion on record. The Commerce Department said the gross domestic product (GDP), the total output of goods and services, posted a quarterly drop for the first time in six years. And, it was the sharpest fall since the economy shrank at an 8.4% annual rate in the fourth quarter of 2008 in the depths of the Great Recession. Forecasters said the drop in the January-March quarter will be only a precursor of a far grimmer GDP report to come for the April-June period, with business shutdowns and layoffs striking with devastating force. The Congressional Budget Office has estimated that GDP will plunge this quarter at a 40% annual rate. That would be, by a breathtaking margin, the bleakest quarter since such records were first compiled in 1947. It would be four times the size of the worst quarterly contraction set in 1958. In just a few weeks, businesses across the country have shut down and laid off tens of millions of workers. As the economy slides into what looks like a severe recession, some economists are holding out hope that a recovery will arrive quickly and robustly once the health crisis has been solved. Increasingly, though, analysts say they think the economy will struggle to regain its momentum even after the viral outbreak has subsided.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/us-economy-shrinks-48-in-q1-fall-sharpest-since-2009/article31468095.ece
30 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Ally with PSUs, governments to sell housing units: Gadkari||With a huge inventory of unsold units in cities, the real estate sector could get the liquidity it needs by tying up with governments and public sector undertakings (PSUs) that require housing for their employees, Union Minister Nitin Gadkari said. The real estate sector could work with the Centre, State governments and PSUs to completely or partially sell their unsold units for use by their employees, he said. He was participating in an online seminar of the National Real Estate Development Council (NAREDCO) on Wednesday. Pressed by NAREDCO members for a relief package for the sector, he said the government was working on an overall package. Mr. Gadkari, who holds the portfolios of Road Transport and Highways and Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises, said though he was not the Minister concerned for the housing sector, he had some suggestions to help the sector. Earlier, NAREDCO president Niranjan Hiranandani raised the concern of low demand in the past one year and a half, saying that “many real estate companies are facing a liquidity crisis.” Fighting financial crisis Mr. Gadkari said, “We will win the fight against COVID-19. After that, we will have to fight the financial crisis. Even before COVID-19, the condition of the sector [real estate] was not good.” He also suggested increasing the tenure of housing loans, while citing the example of road infrastructure projects.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/ally-with-psus-governments-to-sell-housing-units-gadkari/article31468099.ece
30 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Urge ratings agencies to push back assessment of MFIs’||Microfinance industry association Sa-dhan has written to the Reserve Bank as well as to SEBI, requesting that ratings agencies such as Crisil and Care Ratings be directed to push back their assessment of microlenders by three months due to the impact on operations following the COVID-19 outbreak. Ratings agencies usually revise ratings of microlenders after 12 months. These ratings are important as they determine the creditworthiness of MFIs, helping banks in their decision-making process on lending to microlenders. “Though the government has allowed MFIs to function in a limited manner, the ground-level situation is not conducive for regular functioning. MFIs are unable to complete the annual closing of accounts related work and take up the audit. This is an unprecedented situation for the entire economy and also the microfinance sector,” P. Satish, executive director of Sa-Dhan, said in the letters to the two agencies. He added that some ratings agencies were seeking to give fresh ratings to MFIs based on incomplete and insufficient information, and an absence of field assessment. He reasoned that any fresh rating would, therefore, be erroneous and incorrect. “It is necessary that rating agencies should wait for the situation to normalise in the country and normal economic activities to resume before giving a fresh rating to MFIs.” ‘15-month rating period’ “The most appropriate course of action at this juncture would be to extend the existing rating period from 12 to 15 months, so that fresh assessment can be done and renewed rating can be assigned after the normal operations resume in the microfinance sector,” the letters to the regulators dated April 28, stated.  Agencies must wait for normal economic activity to resume before giving a fresh rating||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/urge-ratings-agencies-to-push-back-assessment-of-mfis/article31468091.ece
30 April 2020||MUMBAI,||Sensex up 2% as financial, technology stocks rise||Equity benchmarks rose for the third straight session on Wednesday as financial and technology stocks witnessed huge buying interest, pushing the indices up nearly 2%. The 30-share Sensex gained 605.64 points, or 1.89%, to close at 32,720.16. The index has gained nearly 1,400 points in the last three trading sessions. The gains on Wednesday were led by the HDFC twins — HDFC and HDFC Bank — followed by stocks like HCL Technologies, State Bank of India, ICICI Bank, Bajaj Finance, Infosys and TCS. The broader Nifty ended the day at 9,553.35, gaining 172.45 points, or 1.84%. The India VIX index dipped a little over 4% on Wednesday. Falling virus cases “Falling rates of new COVID-19 cases, combined central bank and government actions and partial opening up of economy across the world has lifted the sentiments globally,” said Siddhartha Khemka, Head - Retail Research, Motilal Oswal Financial Services. Overseas investors were net buyers at Rs. 722 crore on Wednesday, as per provisional numbers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/sensex-up-2-as-financial-technology-stocks-rise/article31468088.ece
30 April 2020||Mumbai,||Rupee rises on strong equities, weak dollar||The rupee gained 52 paise against the dollar to end the day at a four-week high level of 75.66 on the back of strong domestic equities and weakening dollar. The rupee opened strong at 75.94 compared with the previous close of 76.18. It touched the day’s high of 75.60, before closing at 75.66, up 52 paise from Tuesday’s close. This is the third straight session of gain for the domestic currency, which has appreciated around 1% against the dollar this week. “Rupee extended gains during late Asian trades on Wednesday beyond 76 on likely overseas inflows into local stocks amid Facebook-Jio deal related flows, Fed policy due tonight and ECB on Thursday,” said Jateen Trivedi, senior research analyst (commodity & currency), LKP Securities. “Investors are cautious before major policy announcements. Not much is expected from the Fed with regard to change in policy but the statement will be of utmost importance.” The dollar fell ahead of the Federal Reserve’s policy announcement later on Wednesday and the European Central Bank’s meeting on Thursday. The dollar index was trading 0.28% down at 99.58.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/rupee-rises-on-strong-equities-weak-dollar/article31468090.ece
30 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||SC orders tax refund of Rs. 733 cr. to Vodafone Idea||The Supreme Court on Wednesday directed the Income Tax department to refund Rs. 733 crore for the assessment year 2014-15 to telecom major Vodafone Idea. A Bench led by Justice U.U. Lalit ordered the department to pay the amount to Vodafone within four weeks subject to any proceedings that the department may deem appropriate to initiate in accordance with law. The Bench also directed the I-T Department to conclude as early as possible the proceedings relating to the demand for refund by the telecom firm and the scrutiny of income by the I-T Department with respect to assessment years (AYs) 2016-17 and 2017-18.  Earlier years Vodafone Idea, formerly known as Vodafone Mobile Services Ltd., had sought Rs. 4,759.07 crore in tax refund for AYs 2014-15, 2015-16, 2016-17 and 2017-18. The firm had earlier unsuccessfully moved the Delhi High Court seeking a direction to the department to process and grant refunds for the AYs 2014-15 to 2017-18, along with interest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/sc-orders-tax-refund-of-rs-733-cr-to-vodafone-idea/article31468096.ece
30 April 2020||MUMBAI,||Hexaware Technologies Q1 net up 26%||Hexaware Technologies, a Mumbai-based IT and business process management company, reported a 26% growth in net profit to Rs. 175 crore for the first quarter. However, the company has suspended the guidance provided earlier for FY20. The profit was reported on a 22% growth in revenue to Rs. 1,541.8 crore during this period. “As digital transformation becomes imperative in the current environment, I am confident that our strategic focus and robust execution capabilities will drive our growth going forward,” said Atul Nishar, chairman, Hexaware Technologies Limited. Operating margin contracted 180 basis points sequentially to 11.6% during the quarter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/hexaware-technologies-q1-net-up-26/article31468094.ece
30 April 2020||Chennai,||Sundaram Home cuts deposit rates||Sundaram Home Finance has revised the interest rates on deposits with effect from May 1. Interest rates on fresh deposits and renewals for senior citizens stand revised at 7% from 7.5% per annum for deposits of 12 and 18 months’ tenures and to 7.25% (7.75%) a year for deposits with 24, 36, 48 and 60 month tenures. The interest rate for individuals has been revised to 6.75% (7%) a year for 12 / 18 months and to 7% (7.25%) for 24, 36, 48 and 60 month tenures. For trusts, the interest rate stands revised at 6.75% (7%) for 12/18 months, 7% (7.25%) for 24 months and 7.25% (7.75%) for 36, 48 and 60 months deposits.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/sundaram-home-cuts-deposit-rates/article31468097.ece
30 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Amazon offers credit service to shoppers||Amazon on Wednesday announced ‘Amazon Pay Later’, a new credit service in India that will allow shoppers on its platform to get instant credit to buy products as well as pay bills. “Customers can also use this credit to complete their bill payments on Amazon.in,” the company said. Amazon Pay Later offers the option to repay in the subsequent month at no additional fees, or in EMIs up to 12 months at nominal interest rates. “Amazon Pay Later is a unique service that will help customers expand their access to credit and experience most convenient option of making payments. It empowers them to manage their monthly spends better,” Mahendra Nerurkar, CEO, Amazon Pay India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/amazon-offers-credit-service-to-shoppers/article31468102.ece
30 April 2020||CHENNAI,||Rijiju assures more support for UTT||The Union Sports Minister Kiren Rijiju lauded sportspersons for their contributions to the COVID-19 relief measures during a video-conference with table tennis coaches of the Sports Authority of India on Wednesday. “They have made huge contributions. Not just financially, but also creating awareness among the youth about COVID-19 and putting up videos on fitness. All this shows how active sportspersons are. Hopefully, we don’t have to wait long for sporting action [to get back],” said Rijiju. He said that Indian paddlers will definitely win a medal at the Olympics and the World Championships, one day. “If we can win a medal [two bronze] in the Asian Games (2018) there is no reason why we cannot win a medal in bigger events,” he said. Exhorting corporates to support TT, Rijiju said, post COVID-19, he will do his best to ensure that the next edition of Ultimate Table Tennis League has more support. “We’ll have a UTT that is grand, with more support and in fully-packed stadiums,” the Sports Minister said, while extending total support to the sport like providing coaches, intensive training and more facilities. Clear target “We have a clear target that might be called ambitious. We want India to be in the top 10 in the [overall] medals tally. We will do it. We have huge potential. Our paddlers will also contribute to some medals,” he said with reference to the 2028 Los Angeles Olympics.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/rijiju-assures-more-support-for-utt/article31468306.ece
30 April 2020||MUMBAI,||Ageless Sharath looks beyond Tokyo||Even as the sports fraternity is still coming to terms with the deferment of the Tokyo Olympics by a year owing to the COVID-19 pandemic, Sharath Kamal, the torch-bearer of India’s table tennis movement, has taken it in his stride and planning ahead. Sharath is now exuding confidence that he will be able to stretch his career till the 2022 Commonwealth Games in Birmingham. “After Rio 2016, I had decided to take a call in two years. After the Commonwealth Games (in 2018), I thought I was in good shape to keep going till the 2020 Olympics. Now that Tokyo has been postponed at least till July-August 2021 and there’s just nine months’ gap between Tokyo and Birmingham, I am looking forward to Birmingham,” said Sharath during a live chat with Sportstar on Instagram. Fruitful two years Less than three months shy of turning 38, Sharath is in no mood to hang up his boots. In fact, he has been at his best in the last two years, having recorded various firsts. After registering his first career victory over a top-10 ranked player (Japan’s Koki Niwa) in 2018, Sharath reached his career-best World ranking of 30 in January 2019. He then broke Kamlesh Mehta’s long-standing record of eight National Championship titles in Cuttack. He followed it up with his first ITTF tour title in over a decade by winning the Oman Open last month. With that, he overtook fellow paddler from Chennai G. Sathiyan to retain the honour of being India’s highest-ranked player in the World, at No. 31. Sharath explained the secret of his longevity and peaking with age. “With sports science having evolved and experts like Ramji Srinivasan (strength and conditioning coach) being around, I am in a much better shape to look after my body, he said. Pick and play “Besides, I have been careful in picking and choosing my tournaments ever since I returned to India from Germany (where he was based for almost a decade) in 2016. All of this has helped me spend much more time at home, have a calmer mind and actually live up to the adage of age being nothing but a number.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ageless-sharath-looks-beyond-tokyo/article31468251.ece
30 April 2020||Bengaluru,||A welcome break for Delgado and family||Bengaluru Football Club (BFC) midfielder Dimas Delgado is thankful for small mercies in this time of crisis. After spending six weeks indoors in his home at Barcelona (Spain), Delgado was able to take his daughter Alexia outdoors for an hour. It was a welcome break, as Spain — among the worst-hit countries by the coronavirus pandemic — eased strict restrictions to allow children outside. “It was great for Alexia to step out. It is not easy for anyone to stay indoors 24 hours a day. Especially so for kids, because they are used to going to school and playing with friends,” Delgado said. Certain government-imposed rules, however, still apply. “You can take only one toy — we took a ball — and kids cannot play with each other. While it is important for Alexia to have some fun, you have to follow the rules and take precautions to stay safe,” Delgado said. The 37-year-old is worried for Spain, where the death toll has exceeded 24,000. “Ever since I landed here a couple of months ago, we have been getting very horrible news every day. Our nation has suffered so many deaths. Things are slowly getting better, but it’s still quite scary,” Delgado said. State of affairs The distressing state of affairs has helped Delgado gain perspective on what truly matters in life. “We’ve learnt some big lessons through this experience. Before the coronavirus outbreak, we gave importance to going out and spending money. This is not what life should be about. Earlier, we may not have understood the importance of friends and family, but now we do. We miss them a lot, and we will meet them one day. Spending time with loved ones is the most important thing in life,” Delgado said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/a-welcome-break-for-delgado-and-family/article31468243.ece
30 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Jayakumar — the man behind Andhra’s rise||Unfancied Andhra reached the Ranji Trophy quarterfinals from the Elite group for the first time last season. It lost to eventual champion Saurasthra but Andhra made a strong impression upsetting a few bigwigs on its way to the knockout round. And the man behind transforming this bunch of also-rans into a crack outfit is former Kerala medium pacer G. Jayakumar. Jayakumar has over the years earned quite a reputation as a technical coach, mentoring the likes of M. Vijay, Dinesh Karthik, R. Ashwin and Sanju Samson along the way. For Jayakumar — who also coached TNCA club Chemplast — taking over a Ranji Trophy side was a fresh challenge. But the start wasn’t great as Andhra flattered to deceive in the one-dayers and T20 matches.  “Andhra didn’t have a great start with the white ball. But there were a few games which we could have won. For me it was taking the positives from those failures. To be honest I didn’t do anything extraordinary with the boys. They were all young and talented and at this level all you need to do is a little fine-tuning. “During the pre-season camp I was able to imbibe a sense of discipline and hardwork among the boys. The boys were receptive to my style and it started showing in the results,” he said. “We backed our strength — the medium pacers — and prepared wickets to suit our bowlers. “We had a great run in the Ranji Trophy winning four matches and finishing at the top. A lot of credit should also go to Hanuma Vihari for the way he captained the side.  “Ricky Bhui took over in Vihari’s absence and he was influential both as a player and captain. If not for injuries we would have given a better fight to Saurasthra in the semifinals. Nevertheless it was a good performance from a young side,” added Jayakumar, who played 25 First Class matches for Kerala between 1987 and 1995.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/jayakumar-the-man-behind-andhras-rise/article31468489.ece
30 April 2020||April 30 2020 00:00 IST,||Bhutia live!||Catch former India captain and AFC Hall of Fame winner Bhaichung Bhutia in a live chat on Sportstar’s Instagram handle ( @sportstarweb ) on April 30 (Thursday) at 6 p.m. IST.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bhutia-live/article31468241.ece
30 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Carlsen makes semifinals||Mangus Carlsen overcame a horrific start to beat Ian Nepomniachtchi 3-2 and became the first player to qualify for the $250,000 Magnus Carlsen Invitational online chess semifinals on Tuesday. Carlsen took over six minutes on Move 7 in the first game, committed a blunder, immediately lost a knight and eventually resigned on the 28th move. His victory in the third game helped him force the match-deciding Armageddon game, which he won with white. Alireza Firouzja beat Anish Giri 2.5-1.5.  Sixth-round results: Magnus Carlsen (Nor) bt Ian Nepomniachtchi (Rus) 3-2; Alireza Firouzja (FIDE) bt Anish Giri (Ned) 2.5-1.5 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/carlsen-makes-semifinals/article31468252.ece
30 April 2020||Bengaluru,||KSA donates to Rs. 5 lakh to CM Relief Fund||The Karnataka Swimming Association contributed Rs. 5 lakh to the Chief Minister Relief Fund COVID-19 here on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ksa-donates-to-rs-5-lakh-to-cm-relief-fund/article31468253.ece
30 April 2020||ANANTAPUR,||ADCA raises funds to help the needy||Anantapur District Cricket Association (ADCA) has an amount of Rs. 2 lakh from its members to donate to Rural Development Trust to help the needy during the current lockdown. The contributions have come from association members, former and current players, members as well as the umpires and scorers Association. The cheque was handed over to RDT programme director Moncho Ferrer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/adca-raises-funds-to-help-the-needy/article31468487.ece
30 April 2020||April 30 2020 00:00 IST,||Irrfan Khan: An actor who could do anything, become anyone||It was this same cruel month of April back in 2002. Irrfan Khan, despite more than a decade of struggle, and the popular Tony and Deeya Singh serial Banegi Apni Baat behind him, had only just begun to make an impression on the Hindi cinema audience. But London-based director Asif Kapadia, who had directed him in his award-winning debut feature The Warrior in 2001, told me that Irrfan was “the Indian Benicio del Toro, Sean Penn, Gary Oldman or Vincent Gallo… He can do anything he wants...I look forward to seeing him fly.” He said this for a piece I was doing back then for Outlook magazine. As that flight got cruelly grounded on Wednesday, for one of India’s finest actors and truly international talent, I look back with wonder at how prophetic Mr. Kapadia had been back then. In the more than 15 years that followed, one has witnessed some of the most trailblazing performances from Irrfan. Alternate hero Irrfan’s appeal lay in precisely what he could not be: a textbook Hindi film idol. He was an alternate hero. One wondered if Bollywood would be able to accommodate the Jaipur boy’s unusual persona. It did. He was an actor first who later went on to acquire the charm of a mainstream star without losing his rootedness. An actor who could transcend nationalities and appeal to a global audience. An actor who could do anything, become anyone. Most importantly, Irrfan was always there for young filmmakers despite being courted by international giants like Ang Lee, Michael Winterbottom and Danny Boyle. It wasn’t easy to arrive at this point in life. His debut itself was jinxed: a cameo in Mira Nair’s Salaam Bombay (1988) got chopped at the editing table. He struggled hard but the battle didn’t leave him weary or bitter. “The recognition is making me feel pampered. It is as if all these years of acting were worth it,” he told me in one of the interviews. He would look back at his time in the National School of Drama in Delhi as one that provided him an atmosphere to “think and be involved in the craft of acting in a concentrated manner”. He appreciated the TV years that got him to practise in front of the camera and got him work. National Award The films that got him acclaim were Tigmanshu Dhulia’s Haasil (2003), Vishal Bhardwaj’s Maqbool (2004) and Ms. Nair’s The Namesake (2007). In Haasil , a love story set against the backdrop of small-town college politics, he played a student leader who betrays the young hero but walks away with the audience’s heart. In Maqbool , he was smouldering as the Indian Macbeth nursing forbidden love and longing for his boss’s moll. And he was just as unforgettable as the gentle, introverted Bengali professor Ashoke, trying to strike roots and make a life in an alien land in The Namesake . In Paan Singh Tomar (2012), he played the eponymous character of a steeplechase champion-turned-dacoit with forcefulness, daring, simplicity as well as humour. It won him the National Award for Best Actor. He was bestowed with a Padma Shri in 2011. With Irrfan less was always more. He could enter and live a character, depicting the many nuances with just a few words and expressions. Irrfan let his eyes talk all the way as the eccentric widower Saajan in Ritesh Batra’s The Lunchbox (2013). He was terse and spot-on as the cop Ashwin Kumar, leading the double murder probe even as his own marriage is on the verge of a collapse in Talvar (2015). In The Warrior (2001), the challenge for Irrfan was to depict the journey of a brutal warrior to redemption, with minimal tools at hand. Understated, deadpan Understatement extended to his comic and romantic roles as well, as seen in his fabulous chemistry with Konkona Sen Sharma as a mismatched couple in Anurag Basu’s Life In A Metro (2007). He was perfect with his timing, both comic and romantic as the straight-faced cab owner Rana with whom the father-daughter duo, Amitabh Bachchan and Deepika Padukone, travel all the way to Kolkata from Delhi in Shoojit Sarcar’s Piku (2015). I haven’t seen another actor use the deadpan to such a great effect. Personal touch Every interview with him was marked with his personal touch. Questions were posed even as mine were answered: “Why do you post so many food pictures on Facebook?” “How is The Hindu doing in Mumbai?” “What is the state of the nation like?” “Where is India heading?” He and his wife Sutapa Sikdar — who gamely let us call him the thinking woman’s sex symbol after his light romantic turn in Piku — defined the secular, liberal bedrock that India has always stood upon and will hopefully continue to do so in the future. I remember Irrfan writing a piece for me once about fringe groups trying to curb freedom of expression. The exchange we had on it lies saved in my email inbox. I pulled out one para from it which still resonates. He wrote: “It’s really sad to see that after so many years of civilisation, of evolution, religion is not helping us coexist. The basic philosophy of every religion is pure but it’s getting abducted and misused by those who control the masses. My point is, why give so much importance to an individual’s religion at all?” Last time The last time I met the couple was for an interview together before the release of his film Qarib Qarib Singlle (2017). It had been a busy day for him giving pre-release interviews, wolfing down a late lunch and deciding on his wardrobe for a promotional trip to Delhi. There was the usual banter but he also looked pale. Who was to know then that the neuroendocrine tumour would be detected just a few months later, in March 2018, and it would be our last meeting. In a curious way, I have associated my own journey in film journalism with that of Irrfan’s in cinema. He has provided me some of the most treasured memories. He was the one who made me go all the way to Madh Island for an interview to mark his golden 50s. My first top league international film festival was the Toronto International Film Festival in 2013 in his good company. Irrfan was the toast of India there with The Lunchbox and his new film Qissa , that didn’t just premiere there but also went on to bag the Netpac award. He was the one to have generously got me my most cherished interview ever — with the rebellious Iranian actor Golshifteh Farahani — with whom he was shooting in Jaisalmer for Anup Singh’s The Song of Scorpions . The final stretch The last film I saw and reviewed before the lockdown was his — Homi Adjania’s Angrezi Medium . On Friday, March 13, at PVR Juhu. He can’t not be in my thoughts when I walk into a multiplex next to view a film. In the midst of the helpless feeling engulfing the world at large, the unfairness of his death will be difficult to reconcile with. After all, this was just the first act of his long journey into cinema. Who will script the next two acts now?||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-life/irrfan-khan-an-actor-who-could-do-anything-become-anyone/article31468240.ece
30 April 2020||April 30 2020 00:00 IST,||A loner with a great appetite for learning at NSD||While he managed to get admission into National School of Drama (NSD), Irrfan took a while to shed his shy, introverted personality. His NSD friends remember him as someone who did not mingle much with others. There was a quieter but focused side to him. It is also possible that since he was from a small town, he was perhaps a bit uncomfortable in the presence of others who came from big cities. The NSD men’s hostel was located on Vakil Lane. ‘Hostel mein bilkul bekaar sa kamra tha uska , chhota sa , kone mein ,” his friend Tigmanshu Dhulia says. Tishu, as his friends and now Hindi film industry colleagues call him, was two years junior to Irrfan (class of 1989). Most first-year NSD students apparently had to share rooms, with a couple of them staying in each room. But Irrfan had managed to get one of the two single rooms. Actor Vipin Sharma, also an NSD graduate (class of 1983), has the same reaction when he remembers Irrfan’s room. “It was in the corner, and we had to pass by his room to go to the bathroom. There was a window. I have that image of Irrfan, sitting inside the room or by the window, smoking beedi .” Vipin believes that Irrfan deliberately chose that room. “From the beginning he seemed aloof, but maybe he needed his space,” he says. “In retrospect, I now think that is the reason why he chose that room. Perhaps he wanted to stay in his own world.” Irrfan’s class had a total of 18 students, most with scholarships, and all coming from different parts of India. Two close friends Irrfan would go on to make were both from big cities — Mita Vashisht from Chandigarh and Sutapa Sikdar from Delhi. The students would spend long, intense hours with each other — holding adda s at the teashop at Mandi House, eating parathas at 2 a.m., arguing, competing, rehearsing plays and collaborating. Speaking about Irrfan, Mita remembers not noticing him in the beginning. “He was a lanky guy with a curly mop of hair, really skinny, with bags under his eyes. But he had an incredible grin. It was a very shy grin and completely wicked. And he had this voice. I am someone who likes textured voices. It wasn’t a deep voice; it was a twangy voice like a banjo.” Mita recalls an anecdote from when they were still in the first year. One morning, Mita and Irrfan came to blows in class. She cannot recall what they fought over, but this much she remembers: “He said something and I said something. Next thing I knew, we were hitting each other and the class had to draw us apart.” Another person I spoke to about Irrfan Khan was his NSD teacher Ram Gopal Bajaj — affectionately called Bajjo Bhai — who was also a graduate of NSD (class of 1965). “Irrfan sabse sehma hua tha ,” Bajjo Bhai recalls. “I see a connection between him being lean, with bulging eyes, angry and yet sehma hua ke kuch kar nahi sakta . My feeling is that Irrfan didn’t have a friend in class, except for Sutapa. He was basically a loner and that is why I noticed him.” And then he adds, “There was some kind of inner gentleness in that boy, which perhaps carries on.” However, Irrfan did stand out in one way. He thought hanging out, drinking chai at adda s, having late night conversations and arguments with classmates was a waste of time. Since Sutapa was from Delhi, she had been exposed to theatre and the arts. She could see the hunger in Irrfan to learn fast, the desperate desire to catch up with the rest of his peers, and soak up as much as possible so he could be at par with them. Tishu agrees. “I have seen Irrfan’s growth over the years,” he says. “He had come from Jaipur, where he didn’t have a lot of exposure to philosophy and ideas. But by watching, observing, reading and discovering world cinema, he grew rather fast. I have many friends, but in Irrfan, that development is remarkable.” “He would always be reading books; there was always the latest script of a play in his hand,” Sutapa added. “I don’t remember any other classmate who would carry so many scripts and books in their hand.” Tishu and Irrfan first connected over their common interest in films. Tishu was seriously interested in directing films and wanted to use the NSD training as a stepping-stone to the Hindi film industry. And Irrfan wanted to act in films. They would spend a lot of time watching and talking about Hollywood films starring actors like Robert De Niro and Al Pacino, and the works of Martin Scorsese. Together they would discuss other international filmmakers, such as Rainer Werner Fassbinder. One thing Irrfan’s NSD classmates remember is his obsession with Naseeruddin Shah. In the 1980s, the young students at NSD had a few role models — actors with independent spirits who were pioneers in the new wave or parallel cinema movement, and Naseer was definitely one of them, along with Shabana Azmi, Smita Patil and Om Puri. “We would all tease him about it,” Mita Vashisht says. “It was like, ‘ Arre yaar Irrfan, Naseer ko chhod do (‘Please, Irrfan, forget about Naseer’).’ But it was how he wanted to approach a role, the way he wanted perform. We often saw Naseer in his performances.” Irrfan was honest enough to confess to Naseeruddin Shah how much the senior actor had inspired him. “I am glad he didn’t try to become another Naseeruddin Shah, and discovered his own identity,” Naseer says.  (This is an excerpt used with permission from the book Irrfan Khan: The Man, The Dreamer, The Star by Aseem Chhabra, printed by Rupa Publications .)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-life/a-loner-with-a-great-appetite-for-learning-at-nsd/article31468237.ece
30 April 2020||April 30 2020 00:00 IST,||Your funny friend calls||Comic Sorabh Pant is in search of some relative peace in his house, even if for a brief while. He asks his screaming kids to play in the corridor outside his house, and waits for the kitchen to quieten. (“Why is someone or the other in this house always washing vessels, why are there so many vessels!” — incredulity makes his voice go a pitch higher.) Only now can he begin recording. As we approach the 38th day of complete lockdown, and third month of global social distancing, it has become clear to stand-up comedians like Sorabh that performing live shows for filled auditoriums — their bread and butter — will not be feasible for a while: at least six months, conservatively speaking. “We anyway had one foot inside the door for digital content. And now, some of us have realised we quickly need to move online,” says the Mumbai-based comic. After experimenting with live shows on Zoom, Instagram and YouTube, Sorabh will now be hosting ticketed shows every morning from next week. Breaking new ground “We’re trying new formats online, streaming and live online shows, but it’s too early to say what will really work,” says Kanan Gill. He is one among over 80 comedians who got together to perform at the Stay Home For India comedy festival, which was hosted on Tanmay Bhat’s YouTube channel this month. He adds, “We can’t just adapt what we do on stage, online. We need more online content, but whether it is through live streaming or pre-recorded shows, that is the question.” This gives way for a new art form to evolve, says Chennai-based comedian Bhargav Ramakrishnan, aka Baggy. “Everybody is on Instagram Live. But as a comedian, it is not quite the same as performing in front of an audience is. If we keep doing it, this format is going to evolve. Social media lives will move away from trying to ape a show and become a new medium in itself, with which artistes can experiment.” Evam, which kick-started Chennai’s standup comedy scene, is now experimenting with online open mics every week. Co-founder Karthik Kumar has just wrapped up a Zoom call with 60 stand-up comedians all across India — Mumbai, Delhi, Bengaluru and Chennai — before this interview. “We were discussing how to optimise a live stand-up on Zoom: how to sell tickets, the optimum distance from the mic, the lighting at home that best reflects your expressions (since here you can’t be expressive with the full body) and so on,” he says. He goes on to explain how on these calls with 40-80 people in the audience, it becomes the job of the producer, who is also the moderator, to help the comedian with the audience feedback and reaction. “He will manoeuvre whose window can be seen, and mute people causing ambient noise.” The comics are also figuring out how to change the pace with which they present, as there is bound to be some sort of lag in the audience response. “For someone like me who talks very fast, online lives are a good exercise in improving timing,” says Sorabh. After his world tour of North America, England, Singapore, Bangkok, Hong Kong and Vietnam, scheduled this May got cancelled, Sorabh held one show on a cross-country video call with a small set. Based on this experience, he says, “I am working on creating a separate one hour of stand-up, well actually ‘sit-down’ comedy show purely targeted at a Zoom audience.” If not stand-up, what else? “We have been in denial for a while now, but the conviction with which we are approaching online shows is strengthening. It is a question of survival,” says Karthik. Yet, it is not as if live shows are easy. “One of the biggest fears is that somebody could record the show without your permission,” says Sorabh. The logistics for online shows are tough as well — tickets don’t sell for a price as high as they do for live gigs, which means the number of shows needs to be increased, says Sorabh. Which is why he is putting his other skills to use: “I started out as a writer before a comedian, and so I am pulling all forces out to write a lot of content,” says Sorabh. He currently has a podcast on Audible Suno, Comedian in Quarantine ki Kahaniyaan , where he discusses his life under lockdown. “The one thing that I keep telling people is to stop deluding yourself to think that this will end anytime soon. We need to prepare ourselves for at least a year into the future,” Sorabh says. His words of warning don’t mean much to some who would rather wait it out than worry about transitioning to online platforms. Chennai-based Aravind SA, popularly known as SA, is in fact enjoying the lockdown. Despite his loyal fan following online (over 500k subscribers on YouTube and more than 200k followers on Instagram), SA believes that his energies remain the best during live stage shows. “Nothing beats that experience. The best way of supporting an artist is by going to a show and buying a ticket,” he says. Acknowledging that it will be difficult for people to group together even post lockdown, he still maintains that online platforms are just the cherry on top of the comedy sundae. “It’s more about legitimacy and being part of that ecosystem. Putting something on an online platform will not improve you; putting yourself on a stage will.” The I Was Not Ready, Da comedian recently belted out short viral videos on YouTube, talking about birthdays, Google CEO Sundar Pichai, and how dating is like investing in mutual funds. By doing this, he has made sure he remains in public memory, as well as provide some much-needed laughs in these troubled times. And who knows the significance of that better than Bengaluru-based Danish Sait. The comedian’s fan base has shot up to 400K followers on Instagram the last month, thanks to his quarantine special videos parodying Bengaluru- and Malayalam-accents. “It is a little unfair to just expect everybody to throw a special out there, if they can’t perform live. It’s expensive, and sometimes you just don’t have the material and the legs to run with,” says Danish, who did improv shows in Bengaluru during pre-COVID-19 days. “We would hold four shows in a venue like Alliance de Francaise which seats about 300 people. Post the lockdown, to sell 1,200 tickets, we will have to do more shows and reduce the duration of the show. We won’t seat 300 people in the room, maybe 150 with spacing between them,” he says. Because at the end of the day, they all want to get back on stage. There is an irreplacable, palpable energy in the room when performing for an audience face-to-face. Says Danish, “It’s a massively different thing to listen to a band on YouTube versus watching them play live. There are some acts that you need to watch live, right?”  With inputs from Srinivasa Ramanujam, Gowri S and Aparna Narrain||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/your-funny-friend-calls/article31468073.ece
30 April 2020||April 30 2020 00:00 IST,||Extended welcome||Picture the climax sequence of the Academy Award-winning film Argo . Except, unlike Ben Affleck’s Tony Mendez in the film, luck runs out for the protagonist in this story — Michael Coyle, 33, a native of Missouri, USA. As he looked up at the cabin crew relaying safety instructions in the aircraft he was seated in, barely hours after Prime Minister Narendra Modi went on air to declare that India was entering a 21-day lockdown in March, Coyle breathed a sigh of relief. An architect working for the US government, he had come to India on an architectural exploration trip of the many cultural sites, only to end up being caught in the crossfire between an unforgiving virus and a Government on the backfoot. Yet, here he was, seated comfortably inside, perhaps, the last flight out of the country, and he made the mistake of believing his luck would last. The plane developed a snag; five hours of uncertainty later, the airline crew grounded the flight and the American national found himself out of options as he stood outside Delhi’s Indira Gandhi International Airport. The next morning, on March 25, Indian airports slammed shut as the country entered a lockdown phase that continues till date. Collateral damage Coyle’s is just one of the stories of foreign nationals stranded in India, although he still found a silver lining. A travel agent helped him secure accommodation as long as he continued to front the cash and provided proof that he had not contracted COVID-19. Coyle now awaits the day he can finally fly home. However, many others cannot consider themselves as lucky. Last week, police authorities in Dehradun, Uttarakhand, rescued six foreign nationals — all tourists from USA, France, Ukraine, Turkey and Nepal — from a cave in Rishikesh. The stranded tourists had retreated to the cave after they ran short of money and the private lodges they had been staying in booted them out. “There were many stuck all over India. Some had no money, and could not even afford to pay for food. Others were looking for some cheap accommodation to help them get past the lockdown. I picked up two men, a 60-year-old and a 28-year-old, who were sleeping inside a park. They are from Spain. Their hostel had kicked them out after lockdown,” says Nikhil Gupta, operations head at DatStop Hostel, a six-month-old entity in Vasant Kunj, Delhi. Pitching in DatStop was one of the few lodging properties in the capital that kept its doors open in the initial days after lockdown (it continues to do so). “We have around 23 people currently in our property. Around five or six of them are Indians, the rest are foreigners. There have been people from Germany, Mexico, USA, France, Argentina, the Philippines, Spain and the UK among others. Some of the embassies have also been arranging evacuation flights, so we have had at least 20 people fly back home. Yet there are more calls everyday,” adds Nikhil. Low-cost accommodation and guests staying in them invariably became the collateral damage in the crisis post-lockdown. Budget hotel chain OYO, which came under fire after reports of guests being thrown out of properties, put out a statement reaffirming their commitment to provide shelter to stranded tourists. “OYO is currently in touch with over 15 diplomatic missions in India and has already helped stranded foreign tourists from USA, Brazil, Belgium, Portugal, Australia, Chile, Argentina, Thailand and Indonesia,” the company said in an email response to The Hindu ’s queries attributed to an OYO spokesperson, adding that the firm “continues to identify hotels than can be of service in this hour of need”. Fighting the good fight In the case of mid-market hotels, guests who were already being accommodated have been allowed to stay on, although this is not the case even in a few luxury hotels, where guests had been asked to leave prior to lockdown with hotels choosing to manage properties with a skeletal staff. “Any guest who was staying with us prior to the lockdown has been given concessional rates to stay in the same hotel or a similar/higher category of one of our hotels in the vicinity. This is keeping in mind those hotels wherein operations have not been temporarily suspended as per Government regulations,” says Rattan Keswani, deputy managing director, Lemon Tree Hotels, a mid-market player in the Indian hospitality sector. Properties like the Taj Group and Club Mahindra Holidays, on the other hand, did their bit by offering properties to be used as quarantine facilities and accommodate frontline workers. Notably, the iconic Taj Mahal Palace in Mumbai took in doctors and hospital staff working in places like Bandra, Kalyan and Marol as the frontline workers were facing restriction and opposition in the residential colonies they lived in. This was until six members of the hotel staff tested positive for the virus a couple of weeks ago. While established hotel chains can afford to show generosity in this hour of crisis without unreasonable fear of crackdown by local authorities, it is the small-scale players who have taken up the bulk of the task of accommodating stranded tourists, even if it means facing resistance in the society they operate in. “We have been appreciated by embassies but neighbours continue to report the presence of foreign nationals from time-to-time, especially when a new member joins us, and the police have to drop in to check if everything is in order. We understand the neighbours are worried, so we ensure social distancing inside the property and only admit people with medical certificates and a letter stating they are a guest of the embassy,” says Nikhil. He adds: “These people have now become like a family to us.”  Safe at a distance Hotels across the world have been offering ‘quarantine packages’ for stranded travellers and evacuees returning home. In cities like Hong Kong, which has a high population density and where most dwellings are no bigger than 500 square feet in area, room occupancy rates in even the four and five-star properties are over 60%. In Europe, where the peak of the virus’ impact has started showing a declining trend, posh properties, like Le Bijou in Switzerland, have offered rooms complete with in-house COVID-19 testing facility and round-the-clock availability of medical care. In Southeast Asian countries like Thailand and Singapore, and also in Australia, hotels have slashed the rates of room rents by 20-40% in a bid to help people wanting to self-isolate, and such moves have resulted an uptick in room occupancy in the month of April, especially in Singapore, which is currently experiencing another surge in the number of COVID-19 cases. In crisis-hit New York, the Four Seasons hotel in March opened its facility to provide accommodation to frontline medical staff, a trend which was replicated by other major star hotels elsewhere.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/extended-welcome/article31468080.ece
30 April 2020||April 30 2020 00:00 IST,||Lockdown lyrics||Words from Cuddalore. Saxophone from Delhi. Mixed and mastered in Puducherry. ‘Postcard’ is a multi-city effort. The soothingly lyrical Tamil track, released on April 10 on Chennai-based musician Karthik Manickavasakam’s YouTube channel, is in essence a message of reassurance from one friend to another: “The world will swell beyond four walls / My friend, till then, just hold on.” In contrast to these lyrics is Amogh Balaji’s ‘Here we go again’, released as the clock struck 12 between April 28 and 29. The electronic number deliberately reflects the same sense of monotony that the title suggests, and yet manages to stay playful. It is the fifth track released by the Chennai singer-songwriter since the lockdown began, and just one among many that the city’s indie musicians have penned down and belted out in the past 38 days. Says Amogh, still groggy with sleep after his late-night release, “I have been learning and experimenting with EDM music — Lofi, Deep House, Techno — during the lockdown. This one is about the endless repetitions of our daily lives these days… Have you heard any reports of the lockdown being extended again?” Of all the lively, engaging tracks released from his home studio, including ‘Quaroutine’ and ‘Now We Depart’, it is only the latest one that shows some sign of strain. Not all the songs coming out of Chennai revolve around the current situation, however. Take, for instance, Sarah Black, whose soulful track ‘Suicidal’ has been taking her fans by storm ever since its release on Spotify on April 27. Despite its title, the song is actually a heartfelt, supportive pick-me-up, with strong and simple lyrics that are given their due by the 18-year-old artiste’s clear, penetrative voice. The voice, which is but a tool serving powerful lyrics in ‘Suicidal’, got to show off its impressive range and be the star in her earlier track ‘Ocean’, which was released on April 11. While Sarah’s ‘Ocean’ is all praise for a mysterious woman, Nitika Kurian, in her number ‘Blue’, sings of her love for the ocean itself. Released on March 27, the flirty track with hints of jazz and soft rap interlude is Nitika’s second song so far, after ‘Phoenix’ that was released in 2019. Better together Karthik, who is waiting out the lockdown at his parents’ house in the town of Panruti in Cuddalore district, says over a phone call, “From composition to recording to release, ‘Postcard’ was a matter of three days. It felt like the need of the hour; so many of my friends were talking of mood swings and being stuck at home. Everyone was sharing memes about it; no one was saying it will be okay. I wanted to tell myself that, which is how this song came about.” The piano segment in the track is software-simulated, he says, but the saxophone was played live by Aniket Chaturvedi in Delhi, while the mixing was done by Nalinidevi Vittobane at her home studio in Puducherry. The vocals are Karthik’s, in this track as well as in ‘Dinam dinam’, his “Quarantine Single #2” released on April 25. Featuring a subtle interplay of the flute by Aniket and the electric guitar by Mumbai-based Brijesh Joshi, this track has been some years in the making. At least, the thought behind it has. “I penned it down some years ago, but never managed to write a fitting conclusion until now.” He is not the only one taking advantage of the extra time at hand. City band Oxygen has finally released its fusion track ‘Shakti’, which has been a hit at all of its performances. Featuring keys by C Girnandh, traditional Indian percussions and konakkol by KS Ramana, bass guitar by Carl Fernandes, drums by Bharath Gopal and flute by Lalit Talluri, all brought together by Bob Phukan at Aura Studios, the number is slow, heady and increasingly complex. Much like the times we live in.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/lockdown-lyrics/article31468059.ece
30 April 2020||April 30 2020 00:00 IST,||Strategy is key||Board games and card games are back in a big way — haven’t you heard? The only difference is that they are being played on the phone, as people across the country rediscover old favourites — from Monopoly to Ludo — with friends and family via apps. The latest to join the bandwagon, and this time with a local twist is the popular card game Donkey/ Ass. However, to know what is different about the advanced app version of it, Kalutai, deserves to be downloaded and played, says well-known entrepreneur-politician Sam Paul, the brains behind the reinvented version. “We have been playing the game for the last 15-odd years in my family. It’s so addictive and we easily get through 40 games a day as it just takes five to seven minutes for one game. All you need is a 52-card deck, but our version also involves a certain amount of planning and strategising that goes behind figuring out how to win,” says Sam, who is also spending his time in lockdown. “It struck me that an online version would be an amazing way to learn these decision-making skills and also have fun while doing it,” he adds. Released under the banner of his Paulsons Group, the gaming app Kalutai (Donkey in Tamil) has been in development for over three years and with tech teams across two different continents — but it was a complete coincidence that its launch is happening during the lockdown, says Sam. “We began conceptualising it quite sometime ago, and there have been multiple levels of coding and design that has gone into making this accessible to play. There are different modes as well: playing with friends, playing with people online across the world, practising offline with bots, creating custom game rooms for friends/ family and there’s a chat option as well as voice chat to boot, which can be used to taunt opponents!” grins Sam. The motive is not to be the last person standing, and finish off all the cards as soon as possible. The last person with cards in their hands is the Kalutai! “It is optimum for four players to play together, or a single person against bots,” Sam states. The game was released earlier this week by cricketer Badrinath Subramaniam, and will be available for free download for a short period of time on Android and iOS. Sam concludes with a word of advice for entrepreneurs and businessmen dealing with the lockdown. “Honestly, the best thing to do right now is to stay patient. I know it’s difficult to do so, and there are lots of people predicting how things will play out over the next few months, but the reality is that nobody knows for sure. Please stay put and be safe for now.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/strategy-is-key/article31468066.ece
30 April 2020||April 30 2020 00:00 IST,||Santa wants socks for Christmas||Santa Claus has finally learnt to live-chat — his tech-savvy elves taught him how. And now every afternoon at 1, he sits at his office in Rovaniemi, Lapland in Finland, flanked by his two helpers, interacting with people from around the globe, across time zones. “It is 6 degrees Celsius today, quite hot. Winter time is planning on going on a long summer holiday,” says Santa, as he settles down in his comfy wooden chair and gets ready to chat on his official website. Santa’s office was opened in June 1992, and ever since, visitors have been able to meet the jolly old man every day of the year. But on March 23 this year, the doors to his office had to be temporarily shut as a precautionary measure for COVID-19. But he did not want to disappoint his many followers or put an end to a practice that has been on for more than two decades. “We will be streaming these live chats every day until life goes back to normal and we are able to open our doors again for everybody here in Rovaniemi,” says Santa, adding, “There is too much sorrow and anxiety in the world nowadays. I hope we could help all those in need. I wish we could create happiness and joy for everyone, especially children.” In the hour-long session, Santa and his helpers, reply to questions and warm messages that pour in from around the globe. No matter how old you are, it really is exciting when you see them read your name and message. The questions range from “Does Santa like to surf?” and “How to plant a sapling?” to “What is Santa’s favourite drink?” (It is reindeer milk by the way and hot chocolate). Then there are compliments: “I calculated your age is around 1,744 but you don’t look a day older than 100.” Santa enjoys reading letters that he receives from his friends of all ages and they also tell him about their lives, dreams and wishes. Santa Claus Village might be closed, but the elves led by the big man are already preparing for Christmas which, as of today, is just 238 days away. “So remember to be good,” he reminds. And what would Santa like for Christmas? He looks thrilled as this is not a question he often receives. “I’d love to receive lots of happiness and health. This year, especially, good health is what we can all wish for. And I would love to see children with happy faces,” he says and after a pause asks, “May I add one more? It would be perfect if I receive a new pair of woollen socks. My foot size is 12 medium triple plus.”  The live stream takes place every day at 1 pm (Finland time) which is 3.30 pm IST. You can join the conversation on www.santaclausoffice.com or on Instagram.   Cap on head, suit that’s red  Santa wears a deep blue cap when he sleeps. It has the sun, moon and the northern) lights on it.   Often, Santa has porridge and strawberries for breakfast.  He loves the sauna, snow sports and also surfing, though he admits he is not a very talented surfer.  Tonttu is the Finnish word for elf. Santa’s oldest elf is around six centuries old. The older elves busy themselves with work in the archives department.  Santa loves reindeer milk with a dash of honey. This is the secret to him and his elves living on and on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/santa-wants-socks-for-christmas/article31468083.ece
30 April 2020||April 30 2020 00:00 IST,||Happiness arrives in a box||Ramzan looks very different this year. However, restaurants across the city are finding innovative ways to serve iftar , with thoughtfully curated packs, which can be delivered to customers’ homes. To counter the economic and practical myriad challenges posed by COVID-19, menus are cost-effective and focussed on traditional comfort food. Abid’s “This year, we have made sure that our prices are less than the previous year, mainly due to the crisis,” says Abid Zahid, of Abid’s. The restaurant has only take-away, and has limited the iftar box combo to four varieties this year. They have also come up with a nombu kanji combo. Priced at Rs. 150, this includes 350 ml of kanji , spring rolls and samosa . They also offer haleem , Hyderabadi dum biryani and khubani ka meetha .  Abid’s, Spurtank Road, Chetpet   Contact: 9841284703  Al Souk The iftar box here has a selection of Turkish, Arabian and Egyptian dishes, such as chicken kabsa , Egyptian chicken sambusek , mahalabia (a creamy milk pudding) and karkade , a drink made with hibiscus. “During this period of uncertainty, I wanted the iftar box to be special, affordable and value for money,” says Mohamed Moiz, managing partner. All orders are to be placed before 5.30 pm.  Al Souk, Nungambakkam   Contact: 9884995557  Shiraz Art Cafe Iranian chef Nasrin Karimi, who runs the Shiraz Art Café, has been curating thoughtful meals for customers all through the lockdown. For the month of Ramzan, she has three different meal combos: mutton, chicken and vegetarian. All these meals come with a complimentary serving of 500 ml of nombu kanji .  Prebook your meals a day ahead. She has partnered with Dunzo for delivery within a five-kilometre radius on Fridays and Sundays.  Shiraz Art Cafe, Neelangarai   Contact: 9840572126  Bayleaf “Last year, we had a Ramzan special menu for only one weekend, but this year, we have come up with combo boxes for the entire month,” says Abhyuday Purkayastha, who runs Bayleaf, a Bengali-speciality restaurant. They include chicken biryani , along with a kebab, raitha and dessert. There is also a version with naan , and chicken samosas . For the vegetarians there is paneer gravy and vegetable samosa . Take-away and home delivery is available from noon to 3 pm and from 5.45 pm to 9.30 pm.  Bayleaf, Gopalapuram   Contact: 28114557     Novotel Chennai Chamiers Road Chef Kalaiselvan, executive chef, Novotel Chennai Chamiers Road, got together with his team to curate an affordable iftar . The box includes Hyderabadi mutton dum biryani , chicken tikka , dal makhani , rumali roti , saffron rice kheer and is priced at Rs. 699.  Novotel Chennai Chamiers Road, Nandanam   Contact: 7824808009||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/happiness-arrives-in-a-box/article31468054.ece
30 April 2020||April 30 2020 00:00 IST,||Friends from afar||While the whole of Mumbai stays indoors, thousands of flamingoes are frolicking by the Thane Creek. They can be seen from afar, a haze of pink that quivers under the sun. If you look closer, you can see them move on their elegant stick-like feet, their long necks bent low, and bills probing the slush for food. Most of us may not be able to see the birds now, but they sure do not seem to be missing us. According to Rahul Khot, Assistant Director, Bombay Natural History Society, who heads long term ecological studies on migratory birds around Mumbai, the flamingo count was at one lakh in February this year. “Currently, we estimate their numbers to be 1.25 lakh,” he says. This is a yearly phenomenon in Mumbai, according to Khot. “90% of them are lesser flamingoes. They breed in the Kutch region of Gujarat, and come here to feed on the blue green algae, tiny crustacean, molluscs and insects present in the water,” he says, noting that the rest are greater flamingoes, which fly all the way from West Asia and Africa. “Every year, flamingoes migrate to Mumbai around September with the number peaking around March,” he adds. Can the rise in number of flamingoes be attributed to the lockdown, which has brought out more birds elsewhere in the country due to reduced noise and pollution levels? “No, it’s not that simple,” says Khot, adding that the birds have increased in number over the last three decades. A sight to behold Last year, as many as 1.34 lakh flamingoes descended in Thane Creek. Khot attributes this to “loss of suitable habitats, the nutrient load in the water that makes it a rich feeding ground,” and the newly-created Thane Creek Flamingo Sanctuary that has provided “additional protection” to the birds and its habitat. If not for the pandemic, many of us would have taken a boat ride on the creek to watch these pink beauties. “You can see them from places such as Sewri, the wetlands located behind TS Chanakya and NRI Complex and even while travelling from the Vashi bridge. They will be feeding on nearby mudflats during low tide,” explains Khot. The flamingoes will be on their way back home in May or June. It may be too late for us but the good news is that they will be back next year.  A pink-hued festival The BNHS conducts various programmes to raise awareness on flamingoes; among them is the Flamingo Festival. The last one was held in 2017 in Sewri Jetty. They also take people on bird watching expeditions on boats in Airoli and Navi Mumbai. However, this year, these events stand cancelled.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/friends-from-afar/article31468076.ece
30 April 2020||April 30 2020 00:00 IST,||Ghost of the city||For most birders, the question, ‘Which is your favourite bird?’ can often induce a sense of dread that makes them sweat profusely. For me, it doesn’t. I know what my favourite bird is: the owl. But I love all owls, so to pick one is difficult. If you’ve been following my articles from the very beginning (can’t thank you enough!), you’ll remember that I began this series with the Spotted Owlet, and soon followed it up with the Barn Owl. Today’s spotlight is on the Indian Scops Owl. My first encounter with this bird was way back in June, 2013 (my wee years of birdwatching), when one evening, a friend, Soma, told me about this family of five owls — two adults and three juveniles — in her backyard in Malibu Town, Gurugram. I rushed there the next morning and managed to find all five on a majestic Saptaparni tree. With butterflies in my stomach and a heartbeat that refused to slow down, I knew then that this was a special encounter. The Indian Scops Owl is quite a common species (not as common as the Spotted Owlet though), in urban developments but has learnt to camouflage and hide from civilization for its safety. More than being seen, they are heard with a feeble whuk of a frog-like call. Most birdwatchers tend to hear them first and see them later but it was the other way around for me. I did not hear this bird until later that year on a dark winter morning while on a run at Lodhi Gardens. Owls tend not to call after sunrise, unless troubled. Unlike the Spotted Owlet and Barn Owl, they are generally found in the more dense trees, close to tree barks or inside dark tree hollows, which helps them camouflage, considering their brown body colour. It is a widespread resident across forests and well-wooded areas of the Indian Subcontinent south of the Himalayas. In Delhi, you’ll see them in Vasant Kunj, Hauz Khas, the Ridge and other such biodiversity-rich areas. In this small species (23-25 cm), individuals can be very variable in colour from pale grey-brown to warm rufous brown with finely streaked underparts, a thin black line around the facial disc, and dark brownish-orange eyes. Its scientific name, Otus bakkamoena , has been derived from the Latin word otus , meaning small-eared and bakkamoena from the Sinhala name Bakamuna for various owls. Unlike the two other common species found in the city, Spotted Owlet and Barn Owl, this bird has two tufts of feathers on the top of its head, very much like cat-ears. They are in fact called ear-tufts but it’s baffling that these have nothing to do with owl’s actual ears. The Indian Scops Owl is mostly nocturnal, usually sleeping during day and becoming active in the late hours of the evening, when it sits on trees near lampposts and hunts down small rodents and insects. A keen eyesight and incredible sense of hearing makes owls formidable hunters. Their sensitive, directional hearing often leads them to their prey even though the latter may be concealed. The family of Indian Scops Owl that I came across at my friend’s was my first proper sighting of an owl. I spent an entire day taking notes on this species. While the juveniles were curious, the adults were weary — yes, parenting is the same across species. There was never a time when an adult was not watching and correcting these young owls. The parents took turns sleeping and taking care of their young — not an easy task. One of the juveniles was as curious about us as I was about it, and it flew and perched on a door right next to my chair. The day was special for two reasons: I never thought I'd see so many owls together at one place, and I was introduced to my friend's daughter Alisha, who sat next to me on a chair and was my owling partner for the day. The writer is the founder of NINOX - Owl About Nature, a nature-awareness initiative. He is the Delhi-NCR reviewer for Ebird, a Cornell University initiative, monitoring rare sightings of birds. He formerly led a programme of WWF India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/ghost-of-the-city/article31468433.ece
30 April 2020||April 30 2020 00:00 IST,||Extended welcome||Picture the climax sequence of the Academy Award-winning film Argo . Except, unlike Ben Affleck’s Tony Mendez in the film, luck runs out for the protagonist in this story — Michael Coyle, 33, a native of Missouri, USA. As he looked up at the cabin crew relaying safety instructions in the aircraft he was seated in, barely hours after Prime Minister Narendra Modi went on air to declare that India was entering a 21-day lockdown in March, Coyle breathed a sigh of relief. An architect working for the U.S. government, he had come to India on an architectural exploration trip of the many cultural sites, only to end up being caught in the crossfire between an unforgiving virus and a Government on the backfoot. Yet, here he was, seated comfortably inside, perhaps, the last flight out of the country, and he made the mistake of believing his luck would last. The plane developed a snag; five hours of uncertainty later, the airline crew grounded the flight and the American national found himself out of options as he stood outside Delhi’s Indira Gandhi International Airport. The next morning, on March 25, Indian airports slammed shut as the country entered a lockdown phase that continues till date. Collateral damage Coyle’s is just one of the stories of foreign nationals stranded in India, although he still found a silver lining. A travel agent helped him secure accommodation as long as he continued to front the cash and provided proof that he had not contracted COVID-19. Coyle now awaits the day he can finally fly home. However, many others cannot consider themselves as lucky. Last week, police authorities in Dehradun, Uttarakhand, rescued six foreign nationals — all tourists from USA, France, Ukraine, Turkey and Nepal — from a cave in Rishikesh. The stranded tourists had retreated to the cave after they ran short of money and the private lodges they had been staying in booted them out. “There were many stuck all over India. Some had no money, and could not even afford to pay for food. Others were looking for some cheap accommodation to help them get past the lockdown. I picked up two men, a 60-year-old and a 28-year-old, who were sleeping inside a park. They are from Spain. Their hostel had kicked them out after lockdown,” says Nikhil Gupta, operations head at DatStop Hostel, a six-month-old entity in Vasant Kunj, Delhi. Pitching in DatStop was one of the few lodging properties in the capital that kept its doors open in the initial days after lockdown (it continues to do so). “We have around 23 people currently in our property. Around five or six of them are Indians, the rest are foreigners. There have been people from Germany, Mexico, USA, France, Argentina, the Philippines, Spain and the UK among others. Some of the embassies have also been arranging evacuation flights, so we have had at least 20 people fly back home. Yet there are more calls everyday,” adds Nikhil. Low-cost accommodation and guests staying in them invariably became the collateral damage in the crisis post-lockdown. Budget hotel chain OYO, which came under fire after reports of guests being thrown out of properties, put out a statement reaffirming their commitment to provide shelter to stranded tourists. “OYO is currently in touch with over 15 diplomatic missions in India and has already helped stranded foreign tourists from USA, Brazil, Belgium, Portugal, Australia, Chile, Argentina, Thailand and Indonesia,” the company said in an email response to The Hindu ’s queries attributed to an OYO spokesperson, adding that the firm “continues to identify hotels than can be of service in this hour of need”. Fighting the good fight In the case of mid-market hotels, guests who were already being accommodated have been allowed to stay on, although this is not the case even in a few luxury hotels, where guests had been asked to leave prior to lockdown with hotels choosing to manage properties with a skeletal staff. “Any guest who was staying with us prior to the lockdown has been given concessional rates to stay in the same hotel or a similar/higher category of one of our hotels in the vicinity. This is keeping in mind those hotels wherein operations have not been temporarily suspended as per Government regulations,” says Rattan Keswani, deputy managing director, Lemon Tree Hotels, a mid-market player in the Indian hospitality sector. Properties like the Taj Group and Club Mahindra Holidays, on the other hand, did their bit by offering properties to be used as quarantine facilities and accommodate frontline workers. Notably, the iconic Taj Mahal Palace in Mumbai took in doctors and hospital staff working in places like Bandra, Kalyan and Marol as the frontline workers were facing restriction and opposition in the residential colonies they lived in. This was until six members of the hotel staff tested positive for the virus a couple of weeks ago. While established hotel chains can afford to show generosity in this hour of crisis without unreasonable fear of crackdown by local authorities, it is the small-scale players who have taken up the bulk of the task of accommodating stranded tourists, even if it means facing resistance in the society they operate in. “We have been appreciated by embassies but neighbours continue to report the presence of foreign nationals from time-to-time, especially when a new member joins us, and the police have to drop in to check if everything is in order. We understand the neighbours are worried, so we ensure social distancing inside the property and only admit people with medical certificates and a letter stating they are a guest of the embassy,” says Nikhil. He adds: “These people have now become like a family to us.”  Safe at a distance Hotels across the world have been offering ‘quarantine packages’ for stranded travellers and evacuees returning home. In cities like Hong Kong, which has a high population density and where most dwellings are no bigger than 500 square feet in area, room occupancy rates in even the four and five-star properties are over 60%. In Europe, where the peak of the virus’ impact has started showing a declining trend, posh properties, like Le Bijou in Switzerland, have offered rooms complete with in-house COVID-19 testing facility and round-the-clock availability of medical care. In Southeast Asian countries like Thailand and Singapore, and also in Australia, hotels have slashed the rates of room rents by 20-40% in a bid to help people wanting to self-isolate, and such moves have resulted an uptick in room occupancy in the month of April, especially in Singapore, which is currently experiencing another surge in the number of COVID-19 cases. In crisis-hit New York, the Four Seasons hotel in March opened its facility to provide accommodation to frontline medical staff, a trend which was replicated by other major star hotels elsewhere.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/extended-welcome/article31468423.ece
30 April 2020||April 30 2020 00:00 IST,||Santa wants socks for Christmas||Santa Claus has finally learnt to live-chat — his tech-savvy elves taught him how. And now every afternoon at 1, he sits at his office in Rovaniemi, Lapland in Finland, flanked by his two helpers, interacting with people from around the globe, across time zones. “It is 6 degrees Celsius today, quite hot. Winter time is planning on going on a long summer holiday,” says Santa, as he settles down in his comfy wooden chair and gets ready to chat on his official website. Santa’s office was opened in June 1992, and ever since, visitors have been able to meet the jolly old man every day of the year. But on March 23 this year, the doors to his office had to be temporarily shut as a precautionary measure for COVID-19. But he did not want to disappoint his many followers or put an end to a practice that has been on for more than two decades. “We will be streaming these live chats every day until life goes back to normal and we are able to open our doors again for everybody here in Rovaniemi,” says Santa, adding, “There is too much sorrow and anxiety in the world nowadays. I hope we could help all those in need. I wish we could create happiness and joy for everyone, especially children.” In the hour-long session, Santa and his helpers, reply to questions and warm messages that pour in from around the globe. No matter how old you are, it really is exciting when you see them read your name and message. The questions range from “Does Santa like to surf?” and “How to plant a sapling?” to “What is Santa’s favourite drink?” (It is reindeer milk by the way and hot chocolate). Then there are compliments: “I calculated your age is around 1,744 but you don’t look a day older than 100.” Santa enjoys reading letters that he receives from his friends of all ages and they also tell him about their lives, dreams and wishes. Santa Claus Village might be closed, but the elves led by the big man are already preparing for Christmas which, as of today, is just 238 days away. “So remember to be good,” he reminds. And what would Santa like for Christmas? He looks thrilled as this is not a question he often receives. “I’d love to receive lots of happiness and health. This year, especially, good health is what we can all wish for. And I would love to see children with happy faces,” he says and after a pause asks, “May I add one more? It would be perfect if I receive a new pair of woollen socks. My foot size is 12 medium triple plus.” The live stream takes place daily at 3.30 p.m. IST. You can join the conversation on Santaclausoffice.com or on Instagram  Cap on head, suit that’s red  Santa wears a deep blue cap when he sleeps. It has the sun, moon and the northern) lights on it.   Often, Santa has porridge and strawberries for breakfast.  He loves the sauna, snow sports and also surfing, though he admits he is not a very talented surfer.  Tonttu is the Finnish word for elf. Santa’s oldest elf is around six centuries old. The older elves busy themselves with work in the archives department.  Santa loves reindeer milk with a dash of honey. This is the secret to him and his elves living on and on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/santa-wants-socks-for-christmas/article31468424.ece
30 April 2020||April 30 2020 00:00 IST,||Screen time with Gandhi||“In India there are are two big things: one is cinema, the other is Gandhi. Both started their journey simultaneously. My interest in Gandhi was roused after reading Bapu’s autobiography The Story of My Experiments with Truth that was gifted to me at Gandhi Darshan in Delhi,” says Narendra Kaushik. A journalist-turned-professor, Kaushik did his Ph.D. on ‘Gandhian values in Hindi cinema’ and has now penned the book Mahatma Gandhi in Cinema . For Kaushik, Associate Professor, Journalism & Mass Communication, JECRC University, Jaipur, this book that has over 250 pages, has taken over three years to write. Snippets of the text are now on the Cambridge Scholar Publishing website and after the lockdown, copies in hard cover will reach bookstores. Based on his research for his thesis, he reworked the structure and manner of communication to make the writing less scholarly in nature. The book brings to light the transformation of Gandhi over the years. It’s not all a rosy image though, as he has examined certain parts of his life, such as his role in Baghat Singh’s execution, differences with Subhas Chandra Bose, and his role in the Partition. An ardent film watcher, Kaushik, who began his career with the Mid Day in Delhi, says he watches movies at home on OTT platforms, and hasn’t been to a theatre in years. Excerpts from a conversation.  Would you say that Bapu has, by and large, been projected correctly in Hindi cinema?  It’s a mixed bag. Mahatma Gandhi’s principles found more resonance in the 1940s, 1950s and 1960s. He exited the cinema screen after the arrival of superstar Rajesh Khanna and later Amitabh Bachchan. There was a revival of a sort after Lage Raho Munnabhai . But it did not last very long. Filmmakers have portrayed truth, untouchability, swadeshi, and equality of religions more honestly. There are films like Raja Harishchandra, Phir Subah Hogi, Shriman Satyawadi, Satyakam, Do Aankhen Barah Haath, Sujata, Achhut Kanya, Ankur, Manthan, Dharti Ke Lal, Jaag Utha Insaan, Padosi, Train to Pakistan, Road to Sangam, Lagaan , and Swadesh which conformed to one or more of his principles. But when it comes to violence, Hindi filmmakers have taken the most liberties. It’s understandable. The Bollywood of the 1970s, '80s and '90s sustained itself mainly on the lost-and-found narrative, and vendetta. Even Lage Raho Munna Bhai which resurrected him in 2006 takes liberties with non-violence. If you are talking about biopics on Gandhi, there are none. Gandhi only covers his political struggle completely disregarding his childhood and adolescence. Benegal’s Making of the Mahatma focuses on his sojourn in South Africa while Gandhi My Father juxtaposes him with his eldest son Hari Lal.  What were the challenges in writing this book ?  There were quite a few. For one, reading about Gandhi is in itself a challenge. Almost every hour of Gandhi’s life is well-documented. There is so much information available that it becomes difficult to understand what to pick and what to leave out. Moreover, there wasn’t one Gandhi. There were multiple Gandhis. For instance, on untouchability, the Gandhi before the 1920s was half-casteist, while in later years he became a crusader against untouchability. He did not allow his second son Mani Lal to marry Fatima, in South Africa, but in his later years he allowed his youngest son Devdas to marry Lakshmi, daughter of C. Rajagopalachari.  Tell us how films like Naya Daur and Lage Raho Munnabhai conveyed Gandhian thoughts?  Gandhi was against heavy machinery. He believed it would unemploy human beings. Naya Daur in fact, rolls out with a quote from the Mahatma on the subject. It juxtaposes bus (machine) against tonga (human labour) whereby the latter ultimately triumphs. Munnabhai goes by his conscience, tells truth to Janvi and exhorts others to speak the truth. A tapori (vagabound) resurrects Gandhigiri. The term may be an innovation of Raju Hirani but the concept is as old as Gandhi.  What is the relevance of the book at a time when right wing fundamental forces are instilling fear in the minds of minorities?  Gandhian ideology is much more relevant today than what it was in pre-independent India. The Father of the Nation made it incumbent upon the majority to look after the minority. It is high time that we go beyond these isms and wings and start looking at everything from a human angle. Gandhi did it. He belonged to neither of the camps. Though there is an attempt by both to appropriate him.  Which is your favourite Gandhi film?   Lage Raho Munnaibhai . Agreed, it dumbs down the message of the Mahatma. But in the process takes it to the hoi polloi. Moreover, it introduced the Mahatma to a younger generation. Shahrukh’s Swades and Dharmendra’s Satyakam are also class acts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/screen-time-with-gandhi/article31468431.ece
30 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘We must do our duty, can’t be scared’||Under the scorching afternoon sun, five Delhi Police officers stand guard outside a quarantine centre in Sultanpuri that is currently home to dozens of people brought in from the Nizamuddin centre. “Duty comes first irrespective of the deployment,” said the officers who have been tasked to maintain law and order. Wearing masks, gloves, as well as head and shoe cover, the constable and head constable-rank officers shared what it is like to be deployed outside a centre with high health risk and how their families are coping with the deployment. Taking precautions At the gate, a constable maintains record of all people entering and exiting the centre, including medical staff. “I try to touch the pen or the register as little as possible,” he said. There is also a fever gun and a bottle of sanitiser next to the register on the table. A tent has been set up near the gate where the officers are able to keep their belongings along with a few extra shoes and head covers. There is also a charpoy where the men can take a break. “It is a 12-hour-long shift. We come at 8 a.m. and leave at 8 p.m. Thereafter, we get 24 hours of rest. This will continue for a week and then our deployment will change to another location,” said a head constable-rank official. Unable to go home However, they will not be able to go back home. The officers on duty outside the quarantine centre have been provided rooms in hotels or guest houses. As soon as they reach their rooms, one for each official, most of them call their families immediately after bathing and changing. “The first thing my wife asks me is whether I had to touch any person. I calm her down and tell her everything is fine and that we take necessary precautions,” said an officer. A constable-rank woman official posted at the gate said she has two daughters aged 16 and 18 who understand that she has to go for duty and there is no looking back. “ Kaam hai to kaam hai, darr nahin saktey isme (If there’s work, there’s work. We can’t feel scared),” she added. A young constable, who is from Aligarh, said that his mother is scared for his well-being. “If we deny our duty then who will work? We joined the force to serve the nation. It needs us now. We will not back down,” he said. While admitting that there is nothing above duty, the officers shared a few grievances, including not being provided sanitisers at every checking point. They are available only at the main gate. “The quality of masks is also not very good. It keeps getting torn. We are also given limited gloves and masks because of which we have to keep sanitising the gloves,” said a head constable.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/we-must-do-our-duty-cant-be-scared/article31468416.ece
30 April 2020||New Delhi,||HC declines to stay NBE’s decision||The Delhi High Court has declined to stay the National Board of Examination’s (NBE) decision to extend the training of doctors, who are in the final year of training of the Diplomate of National Board (DNB), on the ground that it has been adversely impacted by the ongoing pandemic. The High Court’s order came on petition by doctors in the third /final year of the training of the DNB course, conducted by the NBE. They joined the DNB course between April and June 2017 and were scheduled to complete their training between April and June this year. The doctors have challenged the NBE’s notice which states that their training has been adversely impacted by the ongoing pandemic and it has been decided to extend the period of training of all DNB/Fellowship National Board students, whose tenures were ending between April 1 and June 30, 2020, in all specialities, by six weeks and until further notice. The court, in its order, issued notices and sought response of the Centre and NBE on the petition and listed the matter for further hearing on May 14. The court said given the pan-India impact of the NBE’s notice, it would be appropriate to seek the authorities’ response.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/hc-declines-to-stay-nbes-decision/article31468409.ece
30 April 2020||New Delhi,||Response of govt. sought on plea questioning quarantine norms||The Delhi High Court on Wednesday sought response of the AAP government on a plea by one of the 72 families, which had contact with a COVID-19 infected pizza delivery person, claiming that he was put under quarantine for over 30 days. Justice C. Hari Shankar issued notice to the Delhi government on the petition by photojournalist Amit Bharghava who was put under quarantine from midnight of March 24-25, when he had first contact with the delivery person, till April 28 — for a period of over 30 days as against the stipulated 14 days. Mr. Bharghava also claimed that he has not been tested for the virus since he was put under quarantine. He said his efforts to avail of private testing were also in vain, as he was unable to consult a doctor in person during his quarantine period, and labs will not test without a prescription. Cites revised guidelines The petition pointed out that the “Revised Guidelines on Clinical Management of COVID-19” dated March 31 issued by Ministry of Health & Family Welfare, provides for “asymptomatic direct and high-risk contacts of a confirmed case should be tested once between day 5 and day 14 after contact”. “Respondent has failed to test the petitioner for COVID-19 which is essential to his right to life and health as guaranteed under Article 21 of the Constitution. Petitioner was unable to avail of testing either, though he attempted to,” the plea said. He sought direction to the authorities to formulate a policy that enables people in home quarantine to access private labs for COVID-19 testing, so that they do not need to burden the government hospitals for free tests.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/response-of-govt-sought-on-plea-questioning-quarantine-norms/article31468410.ece
30 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Police action an attempt to instil fear: Kawalpreet||Kawalpreet Kaur, president of the Delhi unit of All India Students’ Association (AISA) on Wednesday said that Delhi Police’s action of seizing her mobile phone was an attempt to instil fear and intimidate students for their activism. Delhi Police on April 27 had seized Ms. Kaur’s mobile phone in connection with investigations into the north-east Delhi riots. Stating that as a student activist she had remained active in mobilising students against attacks on public funded institutions, movements on social and gender justice and participated in peaceful demonstrations against the CAA, NPR and NRC, Ms. Kaur termed the police action as “outrageous.”  In a statement Ms. Kaur said: “Delhi Police’s action of seizing my phone is outrageous and is an attempt to instil fear among us all. Worse is that all this is happening at a time when the entire world is in lockdown faced with a pandemic and it is difficult to hold mass protests and access legal help... let us stand united against the intimidating tactics of Delhi Police amidst lockdown.” ‘Struggle must go on’ “It is deeply shocking and disturbing to know that the police is trying to intimidate me for my activism, for speaking in defence of the Constitution. Our struggle to uphold our Constitution and democratic rights must go on despite the government’s attempt to intimidate and silence voices of democracy and peace,” the statement read. The students’ association on Tuesday had alleged that the seizure memo handed to Ms. Kaur cited a First Information Report with a “slew of charges including the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/police-action-an-attempt-to-instil-fear-kawalpreet/article31468411.ece
30 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Do not charge rent from vendors: Cong. to govt.||The Delhi Congress on Wednesday wrote to Lieutenant Governor and Chief Minister of Delhi not to charge license fee/rent from small shopkeepers, kiosk and vendors in the NDMC and MCD areas and demanded that a monthly relief of Rs. 6,000 be extended to them. Delhi Congress president Ch. Anil Kumar, in his letter, wrote that vendors are being asked to pay the monthly license fees by the NDMC though they have been out of work since the lockdown. “When the whole of Delhi is under lockdown, the NDMC should not charge monthly license fees from the kiosk vendors, small shopkeepers and vendors, who are out of business now. Right now, they are struggling to get their daily meals and it is illogical and insensitive on the part of the NDMC to demand rent,” said Mr. Kumar. He added that the Delhi government is paying a monthly sum of Rs. 6,000 to registered autorickshaw and e-rickshaw drivers who are out of work and has requested the government to extend the relief to vendors as well. The Congress, in a statement, also alleged that medical staff in hospitals are working in difficult conditions as they are not being provided essential protective gear and equipment. Mr. Kumar quipped that the Chief Minister has been making tall talks on television but the ground reality in Delhi government hospitals has been pathetic as the medical staff is working without proper facilities. The government needed to immediately shore up the health sector, and provide proper facilities to the doctors, nurses and other medical staff, they urged in the statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/do-not-charge-rent-from-vendors-cong-to-govt/article31468419.ece
30 April 2020||noida,||3 new COVID-19 cases in Gautam Buddha Nagar||Three more people tested positive for COVID-19 in Gautam Buddha Nagar on Wednesday, taking the total number of cases in the district to 137, officials said. Two patients were also discharged from hospitals.  Among the new patients, two are women, aged 52 and 23 years, both residents of Sector 8 JJ Colony while the third is a 35-year-old man, resident of Sector 122 in Noida. The recovery rate of patients is 59.12%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/3-new-covid-19-cases-in-gautam-buddha-nagar/article31468422.ece
30 April 2020||New Delhi,||LoP calls for dismissal of DMC chief for his remarks||Leader of Opposition in the Delhi Assembly Ramvir Singh Bidhuri on Wednesday demanded that Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal dismiss Delhi Minorities Commission (DMC) Chairman Dr. Zafarul Islam Khan from his post for allegedly making “anti-national remarks.” Mr. Khan claimed that his views had been distorted on a few electronic media forums and many false statements/opinions had been attributed to him. BJP leader Vijender Gupta wrote to Lieutenant Governor alleging that in a social media post, addressed to Kuwaiti authorities Mr. Khan had “defamed the country and threatened the people of India of dire consequences.” In a statement, Mr. Khan said, “On 28 April 2020, I issued a tweet on my twitter handle. Nothing more should be added to this tweet as done by some media establishments. This tweet is in the background of how the issues of Muslims have been dealt with in our country, be it lynching, riots, media bashing or redressal of their problems in political and administrative processes.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/lop-calls-for-dismissal-of-dmc-chief-for-his-remarks/article31468420.ece
30 April 2020||April 30 2020 00:00 IST,||Life lessons||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/life-lessons/article31468414.ece
30 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Policeman found dead in washroom||A 59-year-old head constable was found dead inside a toilet in the barracks in New Police Lines at GTB Nagar on Wednesday. No note has been recovered, police said. A senior police officer said that the deceased has been identified as a head constable posted in the IT Cell. After the information was received, officers reached the spot and found him dead inside the toilet. The body was moved to Babu Jagjivan Ram Hospital for a post-mortem and inquest proceedings have been initiated. The deceased is from Rajasthan’s Alwar.  Suicide prevention helpline:Sanjivini, Society for Mental Health, 011-4076 9002, Monday-Saturday (10 a.m.-7.30 p.m.)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/policeman-found-dead-in-washroom/article31468417.ece
30 April 2020||New Delhi,||Check violation by CWG village residents: HC||The Delhi High Court has asked a nodal officer to check on violation of lockdown guidelines and social distancing norms by the residents of Commonwealth Games Village (CWGV) near Akshardham Temple and report it to the authorities concerned. The High Court was hearing a fresh application by one of the residents alleging violation of lockdown and social distancing norms by the residents of the locality. Justice Yogesh Khanna said the nodal officer will act with the aid and assistance of the Facility Management Service Agency and CWGVAOA (CWG Village Apartment Owners’ Association) staff to keep a check on any violations within the village. It asked the nodal officer to file a report within four weeks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/check-violation-by-cwg-village-residents-hc/article31468408.ece
30 April 2020||New Delhi,||Jatin- Tiwari||Excluding MCD employees from the list of corona warriors was “condemnable and inhuman”, said State BJP chief Manoj Tiwari. BJP leader Ramvir Singh Bidhuri demanded that MCD workers be included under the government’s Rs. 1 crore compensation scheme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/jatin-tiwari/article31468421.ece
