12-03-2021||Today's||Redesigning India’s reservation system||In a political sense, India’s system of caste reservation is in robust health. Caste quotas have strong popular support — one 2018 survey in Uttar Pradesh found that 69% of adults approved of them, including a majority of forward castes. The new 10% quota for the economically weaker sections of the forward castes appears similarly popular, as do sub-quotas for the Extremely Backward Castes. The enthusiasm for reservation extends to relatively prosperous peasant groups — Jats, Patels and Marathas, among others — whose demands for quotas have led to confrontations either with groups with existing quotas or challenging the Supreme Court’s 50% limit on reservation.Meanwhile, the social scientific evidence for the positive effects of reservation is strong and getting stronger. Caste discrimination remains common in rural India, and even after nearly a century of quotas, caste is highly predictive of socioeconomic outcomes even after accounting for other factors such as parental occupation and education. Moreover, the imposition of quotas leads to broadly distributed welfare gains for the targeted groups. In a recent article, I found that the implementation of the Mandal Commission report in the 1990s increased the educational attainment of the average Other Backward Classes (OBC) adults by a year and their probability of holding a government job by six percentage points, with the largest gains coming among those with modestly educated fathers. Similarly, concerns that reservations lead to a decline in institutional efficiency appear overblown. For instance, in a recent article, I found that lower caste Indian Administrative Service (IAS) officers perform better than others in implementing anti-poverty programmes.However, there is no denying that there is widespread cynicism about the reservation system among working politicians and within the Indian middle-class. They see reservation as a political “goodie’’ rather than an idealistic effort to create a more just society. The concerns can be grouped under two main headings. That the reservation system is “divisive” and that it is “unfair.” While both terms can be used as coded ways of dismissing all low-caste activism, both have some basis in fact. Reservation has probably encouraged that tendency of Indian political debate to focus on the entitlements of groups rather than individuals, and on the distribution of existing opportunities rather than the creation of more opportunities. Moreover, the nearly exclusive focus on a single ascriptive trait, caste, necessarily creates situations where the system does not promote the broad principles of fairness. There are many individuals from non-listed groups (some of whom are members of religious minorities) who have access to only limited social and educational opportunities, while there are many others who are able to produce caste and non-creamy layer certificates despite having access to very extensive social and educational opportunities. A few such “anomalies” are inevitable in any system of social entitlements, but when they proliferate, they threaten the legitimacy of the system in a fundamental way.In the mid-1990s, the system of racial preferences in the United States went through a similar crisis of legitimacy, with many arguing that it should fade away after 25 years. President Bill Clinton, in a nationally televised speech, famously suggested that the system should be reformed rather than abolished —“mend it, don’t end it”. Many dismissed this as a typical piece of obfuscatory political rhetoric, but it captured a fundamental truth — that positive discrimination can lead to important advances in societies with deep-seated social inequalities, but that such systems must be periodically examined and redesigned.As the various challenges to the 50% ceiling and specific caste listings make their way through the courts, India has a chance to rebuild the link between reservation and social justice. The most obvious reform would be to reduce the number of relatively wealthy beneficiaries. This could be done both by enhancing enforcement of the existing creamy layer system (widely thought to be defective) and by refusing to grant reservations to relatively prosperous castes on purely political grounds.A more ambitious reform would be to abolish the artificial distinction between “merit” and “quota”, and access each application holistically. The current system is indifferent to the level of social disadvantage of those who are not members of a quota category and assumes that the disadvantages of those within each category are the same. At the same time, the system is also indifferent to the qualifications of quota candidates (except relative to each other), as long as they clear a low minimum.Alternatively, one could define a “disadvantage factor” for every candidate, incorporating both family background and income and the social challenges faced by their community. This disadvantage factor would then be added to the “merit factor”, derived from exams to give an overall score. Such a system would allow for fine-grained adjustments based on the latest social scientific evidence about the socioeconomic status of particular communities and the relative role of group or individual factors. It would also change conversations around reservation from binary demands at the group level (“we are disadvantaged”) to questions of scaling at the individual level (“how disadvantaged is this person relative to other people?”). Such a system would enable the reservation system to return to its original purpose of making India a more just society. Whether politicians will give up a potent way to reward vote-banks, is, of course, another question.Alexander Lee is an associate professor of political science, University of RochesterThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/redesigning-india-s-reservation-system-101615561660236.html
12-03-2021||Today's||India must reject the one nation-one election idea||Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi has revived his call for simultaneous national, state and local elections, saying that “one nation, one election” was not “just an issue of deliberation”. Deliberation on this issue is not likely to favour the PM’s viewpoint, which is why he has declared it to be a “need of the country”, without any evidence of such a need. Besides, the PM’s ideological affinity to the adage of “one nation, one everything”, there seems to be no rationale for such an exercise.The PM has cited two justifications. First, that repeatedly conducting elections is a costly affair, and holding elections simultaneously will make them less expensive. Second, that “frequent” elections mean that the model code of conduct (MCC) is frequently in place, which purportedly prevents the government from carrying out developmental activities.These justifications are not supported by data. But it is more important to understand the underlying premise of what the PM is saying — that constitutional principles and democratic norms are contingent on money and administrative convenience. If one were to expand on this premise, should one discard an independent judiciary because it is simply too expensive to construct buildings for courts or pay salaries to judges? Should one do away with hiring and training police officers because the constitutional duty to protect life and property is turning out to be too expensive? The Constitution’s obligations do not come with a price tag.Parliamentary democracy is part of the basic structure of the Constitution, as is federalism. The most important facet of parliamentary democracy is that elected legislatures are tenured, and that the government of the day is only lawful as long as it enjoys a majority in the legislature. In other words, parliamentary democracy is sustained by time-bound elections, regardless of how much they cost and regardless of whether these are in tandem with other state elections or not.Similarly, the Constitution demarcates subjects on which the states alone are competent to legislate or administer, without interference from the Centre. State governments do not function at the pleasure of the Union government but the tenure of the state legislature. If a state legislature fails to throw up a government, then the Constitution provides a simple solution to this instability — re-elections. It is unfair to the voters of a state to wait for a government simply because the PM prefers that all elections be held together.The PM has also sought to include local body elections within the scope of his proposal. Local bodies are governed by statutes enacted by the states and are constituted differently in different states. The Constitution exclusively empowers state legislatures to legislate on issues concerning “local government”, and elections to these local bodies are overseen by the state election commissions, which are independent of the Election Commission of India. The underpinning assumption is that the complexity of local body elections requires separate administrative machinery and special oversight.History offers lessons too. India was the first country in the world that did not gradually expand the right to vote, and instead, embraced the egalitarian principle of universal adult franchise. Many members in the Constituent Assembly were sceptical of universal adult franchise and what it would mean in a country where the vast majority of citizens were impoverished, illiterate and had little experience with formal institutions of democracy. And yet, India held its first elections immediately after adopting its Constitution. It is unthinkable that our founders would have restricted franchise simply because it was too expensive or inconvenient, despite the fact that the young Republic was still reeling from the horrors of Partition, and had recently fought its first war with Pakistan. Subsequently, India has organised non-simultaneous elections despite financial crises, wars, armed insurgencies and communal pogroms. If administrative convenience and financial expediency were not a consideration then, they are definitely not a valid justification in New India.Modi has repeatedly referred to MCC as a roadblock to continuous developmental activity. This is not credible at all. MCC does not bar developmental or routine activity. Modi has argued that India constantly being in “election mode” has hampered developmental efforts. In fact, it is not the whole country that is constantly in election mode, but the PM, Union ministers and other “national leaders” of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) who are so. Their insistence to canvass even in local body elections has caused this alleged policy paralysis.One nation-one election will also mean the total annihilation of regional parties. A data-based analysis by Praveen Chakravarty points to the fact that where Union and state elections are held simultaneously, between 1999 and 2014, there was a 77% chance that voters choose the same political party. This would favour larger, more organised national parties than regional or hyperlocal parties and mean the destruction of India’s cherished multi-party system in favour of a unipolar electoral field. The absence of regional parties will mean that regional concerns are left without a voice at the decision-making table.The BJP has begun the process of manufacturing public opinion in favour of “one nation, one election” by holding webinars and carrying out public outreach. The matter has also been referred to the Law Commission of India to “work out a practicable roadmap” for simultaneous elections. Note that the Commission has not been asked to explain what harm “one nation, several elections” has caused. Instead, it is assumed that simultaneous elections are constitutionally valid, and the only thing preventing them is the absence of a “practicable roadmap”.The BJP’s tendency to treat India’s diversity as somehow dangerous will severely damage federalism and parliamentary democracy. By choosing to sacrifice constitutional principles at the altar of imaginary efficiency, it will put India’s democracy under severe strain.Asaduddin Owaisi is Member of Parliament from Hyderabad and president, AIMIMThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/india-must-reject-the-one-nation-one-election-idea-101615558600563.html
