24-03-2021||Today's||March 25, 1971: When the Indian subcontinent changed||On March 25, 50 years ago, the Pakistan army led a genocidal crackdown in Dhaka, which changed the course of the history of the Indian subcontinent. It led to the Liberation War, the division of Pakistan, and the creation of Bangladesh.President Yahya Khan asked the Commander of the Pakistan Army’s Eastern Command and the governor of East Pakistan, General Tikka Khan, to “sort out” the Bengali population seeking greater autonomy. “Operation Searchlight” was unleashed as darkness descended on Dhaka on March 25. That night, the Pakistan army launched murderous assaults on the police lines, Dhaka University’s Jagannath Hall, Iqbal Hall, and girls hostel, Rokeya Hall, as well as in the Hindu-dominated areas of old Dhaka. By the morning of March 26, some 7,000 Dhaka residents lay dead. From then on, the independence of Bangladesh became inevitable.Pakistan’s Hamoodur Rehman Commission conveniently pinned the blame for the Pakistan army’s defeat in erstwhile East Pakistan to atrocities, corruption, and cowardice. The moral turpitude of the officers of the Pakistan army might have precipitated Bangladesh’s Liberation War, but it was not the main reason for the Pakistan army’s defeat. General Tikka Khan, who ordered and supervised the crackdown and killings of March 25, 1971, had none of President Khan’s vices. The failures attributed to the Pakistan army trivialise the magnitude of oppression and alienation of the people of Bangladesh; their constant humiliation ever since the time they opted to be a part of Pakistan. They also absolve the Pakistan political class of the stigma of defeat.The genocide in Bangladesh started even before the March 25 crackdown. Upon the postponement of the session of the National Assembly of Pakistan on March 1, Sheikh Mujibur Rahman called for civil disobedience. In response, in Rangpur, the Awami League brought out a procession, which was fired upon by pro-Pakistan Biharis encouraged by the local administration. From then on, and until the liberation of Bangladesh, nearly 20,000 houses were demolished and approximately 50,000 people killed in genocidal attacks on Rangpur’s population. Researchers have so far identified 35-40 mass execution fields at Rangpur. In the nine months until the liberation of Bangladesh, an estimated three million people died, and 200,000 women suffered sexual violence by the Pakistan army and its accomplices.Pakistan was created on imperfect foundations, made possible by Mohammad Ali Jinnah’s guile, popular mobilisation, mistakes made by contemporary politicians, and the feeling among a large section of India’s population that they constituted two nations. The British, Jinnah, and leaders of the Congress all contributed to India’s Partition.Once created, Pakistan needed nurturing and a common purpose. Unfortunately, its leaders were not equal to the task. The country was a geographic anomaly. The binding element between its two wings was not sufficient to hold it together without an inspirational effort. This was never attempted.The remarkable success that Jinnah had in mobilising public opinion in favour of the idea of Pakistan and in selling the two-nation theory, blinded Pakistan’s political elite to the pull of the linguistic factor as a binding force among the peoples constituting erstwhile East Pakistan. The political leaders there indeed felt that Islam was an important imperative in deciding their political future, which is why they had supported the creation of Pakistan. That did not mean, however, that the Bengali leaders were committed to Urdu as the national language of Pakistan. Yahya Khan’s decision to postpone the Constituent Assembly indefinitely, notwithstanding the sweeping Awami League electoral victory, created conditions for a showdown. Accounts of what happened in Dhaka in March 1971 indicate that after the Pakistan Army retreated to within the cantonment, a non-cooperation movement involving the whole of the civilian population took hold of East Pakistan. General Tikka Khan arrived in Dhaka on March 7. The chief justice of East Pakistan, Badruddin Ahmad Siddiki, refused to swear him in as the new governor. The administration, judiciary, and police all refused to obey the orders of the Pakistan establishment, and effectively began reporting to Sheikh Mujibur Rahman, whose call for the creation of a new nation came on March 7 in a speech at the Ramna Race Course in Dhaka. Public expectation was that he would declare Bangladesh’s independence. What he said was somewhat short of that. He declared the start of a liberation struggle. The die was cast. Independence was then only a matter of time. The Mukti Bahini was a decisive factor in India’s quick victory and the liberation of Bangladesh: The Pakistan army surrendered on December 16, 1971, less than two weeks after the war broke out. The brilliant Indian campaign benefited from the support of the people of Bangladesh, but its victory was also hastened by the mistakes of Pakistan’s ruling elite.What is the foremost lesson of the March 25 massacre? Nation-building needs inclusiveness. It is important never to alienate the people, for discontent can change quickly to anger, and then to hatred. What happened to Pakistan is an object lesson of how not to ruin a nation. The fractured psyche of the people of Bangladesh created a fractured Pakistan, transforming the map of South Asia.Jayant Prasad is a retired diplomatThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/march-25-1971-when-the-indian-subcontinent-changed-101616593040387.html
24-03-2021||Today's||Reducing the cost of Covid-19 vaccines is desirable and possible||There was finally light at the end of the Covid-19 tunnel in November 2020 when the world saw the emergence of the first vaccines. With India home to a vibrant vaccine industry, major vaccine developers contracted Indian vaccine players.Based on the interim results on safety and efficacy, Indian health authorities gave emergency use approvals even before large-scale trials were completed. The government embarked on the vaccination programme in a calibrated manner, and even roped in the private health care providers. By taking upon itself the task of supplying vaccines, black marketing, which would otherwise have happened in a grossly supply-deficient situation, has been avoided.India now has to vaccinate a large percentage of the population, even as the next wave of infection is looming large. The country needs about 2 billion doses to achieve herd immunity by vaccinating at least 70% of its 1.39 billion people. But current prices will pose a huge burden of over ₹30,000 crore just for procurement of vaccines — any reduction will not only help the budget of health authorities, but also be a stimulus to encourage vaccination further.With only two brands approved for emergency use to date, the government had to negotiate prices. Starting at ₹200 per dose for Covishield and ₹295 for Covaxin, the prices for both have now been fixed at ₹150 per dose. An additional ₹100 is compensated to private service providers. The price of ₹250 per dose is indeed affordable for those who wish to avail of private facilities, even as the jab continues to be given free at public hospitals and dispensaries.But any reduction in the vaccine cost will further boost the vaccination drive.For the Covishield vaccine, the research and development (R&D) costs have mostly been incurred by the developers, Oxford University/AstraZeneca, and technology has been transferred with the intent of securing large quantities for the Covax facility. Clinical trial costs have not been significant as it has been only phase 3 bridging studies with a smaller number of participants, based on phase 1/2 results of AstraZeneca. On the other hand, Covaxin has had to bear the full cost of their Phase 1, 2 and 3 studies by including the required number of participants. Incidentally, the clinical trial costs in India are much lower than in Western countries.The manufacturing process of the live adeno virus vectored vaccine, Covishield, is relatively simple and the virus grows well in cell culture giving good yields. The process for the inactivated vaccine, Covaxin, is a bit longer since there are several downstream unit operations. The vaccine business is largely a fixed cost business with higher volumes driving costs down. For Covid-19 vaccines, the high requirement is both an incentive for the industry and a major factor for cost reduction.The vaccine presentation is in 10-dose and 20-dose vials which, when compared to single-dose vials, further reduces costs, both in manufacturing and distribution. The expenditure is only till the first leg — from the company to the warehouses. Thereafter, the costs are mostly incurred by states. There are also no major marketing costs since the supplies are made directly to the government.The prices of vaccines supplied by the Indian industry to Unicef for quantities far lower than Covid-19 requirements are in the sub half-a-US dollar range. Therefore, why must the cost for the government be in the $2-3 range? It is reasonable for the vaccine industry to price the vaccine at ₹60-70 per dose as against the existing ₹150 per dose. This would cover all costs, including capital loading for additional investments made for ramping up the manufacturing capacities.The vaccine industry must rise to this challenge. As a trade-off, companies could be allowed exports after meeting in-country commitments, and this would fetch them much higher prices. That will be a win-win.K V Balasubramaniam is former managing director, Indian Immunologicals Ltd. NK Mehra is an ICMR emeritus scientist and former Dean of AIIMS, New Delhi The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/reducing-the-cost-of-covid-19-vaccines-is-desirable-and-possible-101616593038616.html
24-03-2021||Today's||India’s true self-reliant entrepreneurs||Atmanirbharata is India’s new economic policy. Nirbharata means reliance, and atma means the self. The Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan, announced by Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi, following the lockdown announced on March 24, 2020, calls for India’s economic mission to be based on self-reliance. Recently, the PM extolled the virtues of the private sector over the public sector, emphasising the services it provides, the employment it generates and its contribution to reducing poverty.Atmanirbharta rests on a particular idea of entrepreneurship. The notion of entrepreneurship goes back to classical political economy: Economists Richard Cantillon and Jean-Baptiste Say emphasised risk-taking and initiative to exploit opportunities with an eye to financial gain. The word “entrepreneur” in French means “to grab” or “take control” but it also has elements of “adventurer” in English and “self-motivated” from the Sanskrit atmaprerna.So the classic vision of an entrepreneur is an individual actor who is able to take risks, weigh pros and cons, make quick decisions and staying afloat while riding out the highs and lows of market forces. They should be tenacious and play the long game and build businesses that not only make them richer but benefit employees and others too. In more recent times, the economist Joseph Schumpeter emphasised the need for the entrepreneur to be innovative, able to think of a new way of doing things. Today, many economists consider such innovation needs a whole micro-climate to thrive, of angel investments, bank loans, regulatory mechanisms, bankruptcy laws, and basic infrastructure.In the PM’s vision, Atmanirbhar Bharat would be based on five pillars: Economy, infrastructure, technology, demography and demand. This seemed an acknowledgement that the self in self-reliance was not an atomised self-maximising individual, but one engaged in complex relationships, aiming to grow and fly high among the dense network of community, market and State, and given a safety net if the risk-taking failed.On the same day that the PM promised benefits of Atmanirbharta, Vinod Kumar, a young man from Uttar Pradesh, was found walking home, a journey of 1,500 kms. He had left Mumbai to return to his village after the lockdown because, as he told journalist Barkha Dutt, if he was going to die anyway, he may as well die at home. He had a BSc degree, but finding no prospects in his state had migrated to Mumbai, where he worked as a street hawker. In other words, Vinod Kumar was an entrepreneur. But Vinod and millions of other Indians, who take risks and travel far looking for work and opportunity, are not called entrepreneurs but only the less glamorous “migrant worker”. The pandemic should force us to rethink these distinctions.India’s migrant workers, part of the broader vast group of informal workers, are a key component in the engine that keeps India’s economy growing. They construct new buildings, repair cars, drive taxis, manufacture tools, clean homes, make products and take on almost any work that will pay a wage. They live on daily earnings, have a small stock of rations, and try and save enough to invest in a better future. They travel to India’s cities but return regularly to rural homes to help with harvests, vote and maintain social bonds. The scholar Jan Breman calls them “footloose labour”, constantly on the move in search of opportunities. And it is just as well they do, for, without them, there would be no Indian economy.This demographic of 100 million citizens are estimated to make up about one-fifth of India’s total workforce have no security of income, employment, or benefits of paid leave or health care. Their abundant numbers make their supply seemingly inexhaustible. No wonder little thought was given how they would cope when the country was locked down at a notice of four hours. No transport, no emergency rations, not even drinking water was made available. Footloose labour was simply cut loose.But this absence of any support from the three pillars on which our lives rest — State, community and market — revealed the real essence of India’s migrant entrepreneurs. Remarkably few blamed the government or their employers, despite the complete mismanagement of trains and transport. Instead, the risks and benefits of undertaking an arduous journey were carefully weighed and decisions, quickly and boldly taken. Their only reliable assets were their own two feet; so they took control of their situation by walking home, surviving by remarkable ingenuity in the face of the toughest odds. As their own accounts during the journey reveal, they supported each other, travelling in groups, sharing food and information, creating solidarity and their own safety nets.Oxford Languages, in recognition of the PM’s use of the term, announced Atmanirbharta as the Hindi Word of the Year 2020 because it “validated the day-to-day achievement of the countless Indians who dealt with and survived the perils of a pandemic”. Yet recent reports of Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan announced with fanfare the arrival of Apple, Amazon and Tesla to help India’s recovery. If there is one lesson from lockdown, it is that the entrepreneurial spirit dwells not just in corporate corridors but on the dusty roads trodden by the millions who have atmanirbharata and atmaprerna at the core of their atma. They are among our most valuable of resources and should be nourished and supported, not used and discarded at will or just paid lip service to in speeches.Maitreesh Ghatak is professor of economics at the London School of Economics (LSE). Mukulika Banerjee is an associate professor of anthropology at LSEThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/indias-true-self-reliant-entrepreneurs-101616593037356.html
24-03-2021||Today's||Proposing a new climate agenda for India||In the first part of this article, I argued that India needs to define its climate policies in ways that meet diplomatic, developmental and climate interest simultaneously. Current proposals for a pledge of net-zero emissions by 2050, particularly if bound in law, would likely win us diplomatic credit, but risk our development future, and ironically, may not, in practice, accelerate our transition to a low-carbon future. India has an opportunity to claim leadership by being ambitious, by shifting the spotlight to concrete immediate actions, backed by credible institutions, with long-term pledges, net-zero or otherwise, as a supporting element.Our starting point for what India should do lies in two observations. India’s greenhouse gas emissions are growing, and, because complex energy and economic systems take time to turn around, will grow for some time. The trick for countries with growing economies is to shorten that turnaround time and lower the level at which our emissions will peak. To do so, we have to focus on squeezing more development out of less carbon. In addition, India’s domestic political choices are, invariably, going to be driven by our development future, and not by mitigation objectives alone; Indian citizens are unlikely to be willing to sacrifice development for mitigation. But the good news is that, in many cases, we don’t have to. We have to bring together development and mitigation through our development choices — how we urbanise and how we industrialise. While net-zero may be useful for a country where emissions are on the downward slope, a focus on development pathways is more helpful for a growing country like India with a choice between development futures.To operationalise this focus on development pathways requires three steps. First, identify and build a future pledge around sectoral transition plans for key areas of the economy in order to achieve a low-carbon future. These plans will require emphasising different aspects depending on the specifics of the sector. For example, to accelerate the electricity sector transition requires fixing distribution companies, transitioning from coal while protecting coal communities, and enhancing investment in renewable energy investments. In transport and buildings, attention to urbanisation patterns, behavioural choices such as public transport, and incentives for more electric vehicles in transport will bear fruit. Limiting emissions from industry is a longer-term prospect because technologies are nascent, and will require international collaboration for new technology and approaches. Notably, attention to sectoral transitions likely sends a clearer and more direct signal to the private sector on the need to shift investment patterns than does a broad and diffuse economy-wide net-zero target.Second, build and strengthen India’s domestic institutions for climate governance. While this may seem boring and bureaucratic, India’s governance, like most other countries, is designed for silo-based decisions. The climate crisis requires both looking across boundaries — electricity decisions may be tied to decisions on urban policy, transport systems, and building design, for example — and a strategic focus on future pathways and possibilities. Here a climate law can be useful, but it should be one tied to identifying linkages between development needs and low carbon opportunities, and harnessing all levels of government toward realising these opportunities.Notably, institutions for low-carbon development pathways are not the same as those designed to maximise mitigation. Net-zero-oriented institutions are built around setting and tracking compliance with carbon budgets. Development pathway focused institutions are aimed at identifying opportunities for low-carbon development, ensuring cross-sectoral collaboration, and enabling shifts by smoothening obstacles. India needs to focus on building a State capable of addressing this challenge. Cutting and pasting from net-zero-focused legislations of other countries will not get us there.Third, because ultimately we do face finite global limits on carbon emissions, India also needs to develop economy-wide targets that signals how much we will contribute globally. But these should be built on top of the first two steps, not the cart that purports to lead the horse. And our economy-wide targets should emphasise near-term actions, in the next five to 10 years. A growing global chorus of critics is pointing out that net-zero emissions targets are not as ambitious as they seem, because they rely on future promises rather than current action, and on uncertain technologies to remove greenhouse gas emissions from the atmosphere. Indeed, their main merit is political — they create the appearance of dramatic change, while allowing flexibility for governments to avoid being pinned down to more important immediate actions. The Indian road to leadership should be based on specific near-term actions, institutional strengthening, and a combination of mid- and long-term targets. Longer-term targets, including net-zero, can, and should, be clarified and strengthened as we learn by doing over time, as part of our transition to a low carbon future. This three-part agenda is a more complicated vision of a climate ambitious India than one simply built around a net-zero target. But it is one that is more consistent with the long-term welfare and prospects of India’s citizens. This is a complexity worth embracing and arguing for in this year’s fraught context of climate diplomacy.Navroz K Dubash is a professor at the Centre for Policy Research, and the editor of India in a Warming World: Integrating Climate Change and Development. The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/proposing-a-new-climate-agenda-for-india-101616509257944.html
24-03-2021||Today's||Net-zero emission targets are a hollow pledge||The year 2021 promises to be a blockbuster for global climate politics. The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) will release its report this year, updated national pledges on emission limits are expected, and all this is on the table at a climate Conference of Parties in the United Kingdom (UK) in November. Not least, a re-invigorated Joe Biden-led United States (US) has placed the climate crisis near the top of its foreign policy agenda.There is plenty at stake for India, including diplomatic, economic and climate outcomes. There is global pressure on India to telegraph its intentions as early as the US-hosted Climate Leaders Summit in April, or a UK-hosted G-7 Summit in June.What should India say and do?The options are nicely framed in recent articles. In one corner are those such as parliamentarian Jayant Sinha, who writing in the Economic Times, calls for India to project climate leadership by boldly pledging to reduce its “net” emissions (emissions minus uptake of emissions) to zero by 2050, backed by a climate law. Sinha argues this will make India “hypercompetitive”, attract investment and create jobs. Others advocate net-zero through softer statements of intent.In the other corner are former Indian climate negotiators Manjeev Singh Puri (in The Hindu) and C Dasgupta (in the Business Standard), who remind us of the long-standing principle of “common but differentiated responsibility” that requires richer countries to lead and argue against any pledge that risks prematurely limiting Indian energy use for development. Puri also flags the threat of future carbon taxes imposed by the European Union on countries such as India.Both arguments seem compelling, but can they both be correct in their identification of India’s key interests? What is India’s way forward? The answer lies in a close look at India’s diplomatic, developmental, and climate interests.Calls for an Indian “net-zero” announcement are aimed at signalling boldness and, thereby, reaping diplomatic gains. What counts as bold? US climate envoy John Kerry has stated that nothing less than “net-zero” emissions pledges from all the major emitting economies would suffice and the UK has also called for net-zero targets. This call comes from an important IPCC-defined aspirational benchmark of global net-zero global emissions by 2050, but notably this does not imply net-zero by 2050 for each country, eroding any differences across nations.Clearly, an Indian pledge of net-zero by 2050 would confer brownie points on India. And allow us to cock a snook at China, by being 10 years ahead of their net-zero by 2060 pledge. Net-zero legislation would be icing on the cake, transporting India into the rarefied territory of climate champions.However, could these diplomatic gains come at the cost of domestic developmental objectives? We simply do not know conclusively if achieving net-zero emissions by 2050 will cost India developmentally. But we can say that current models uniformly show Indian emissions rising, in many cases through 2050. Without dramatic changes in policy and technology, India, at least, needs the option of increasing emissions to develop.Analysis by the International Energy Agency illustrates the scale of change — an immediate and dramatic shift is required to shift Indian emissions from stated policies to sustainable development, much more than is true with other regions. And this dramatic shift would still only get us to net zero by 2065; 2050 would be even harder. Moreover, although Indian per capita emissions are an eighth of those in the US and less than a third of those of China, Indian emissions would have to decline starting now, and never again reach levels achieved in 2019.These considerations lead India’s negotiators to remind us that it would be deeply unfair to expect equivalently stringent pledges from all countries. Undoubtedly, the emergence of new economic opportunities and technologies could dramatically change the landscape, and there may be space for an aspirational statement toward net zero. But, given the information we have today, it would be gambling with the developmental future of India to lock ourselves into a hard net-zero deadline.Which brings us to India’s climate interests. Given India’s vulnerability to the climate crisis, it is strongly in our interests to support enhanced climate action. And to be credible, we also have to do our part, and not only sit back and wait for wealthier countries to act. But ironically, it is not clear that advocating a hard net-zero pledge is the right answer. A recent article in Nature argues that to be more than “mere announcements”, they need content on scope, fairness and detailed plans. There is a real risk net-zero by 2050 will be a hollow pledge that will only serve diplomatic needs, but do little to actually shift India’s emissions future.Instead, India needs a path that shows how a focus on opportunities for low-carbon development is more likely, in practice, to deliver emissions reductions than abstract future 2050 pledges. In the second part of this series, tomorrow, I will outline an Indian approach that meets our diplomatic, developmental and climate interests simultaneously.This is the first of a two-part series on India and climate policy.Navroz K Dubash is a professor at the Centre for Policy Research, and the editor of India in a Warming World: Integrating Climate Change and Development.The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/netzero-emission-targets-are-a-hollow-pledge-101616423931009.html
