26-03-2021||Today's||Can Quad working groups lead to an Asian NATO?||Leaders of Quad — Australia, Japan, India and the United States (US) — made history recently with their first summit. They also made news with their plan to distribute Covid-19 vaccines in the Indo-Pacific — made in India, the pharmacy of the world. But obscured by the big announcements was the formation of three working groups, which will keep the cooperation going between summits and meetings, potentially fostering over time a habit, an institution.Quad was born as a habit. For nine days after a tsunami struck seven Indo-Pacific rim countries on December 26, 2004, a group of officials from Australia, Japan, India and the US had congregated on a conference call to coordinate their rescue and relief operations. Called the Tsunami Core Group, they met at an appointed time every day for calls that lasted no more than 40 minutes, as recounted by Marc Grossman, the top US diplomat who chaired the group. One of their “primary objectives” was “putting itself out of business”.The group was shut down on January 5, 2006. But it had sown, by then, seeds of a habit that would grow over a period of time to become the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue. Popularly called Quad now, its leaders joined hands for another leap of faith in the shadow of another global catastrophe.This time, the group has no intention of “pushing itself out of business”. In fact, it wants to grow and that’s what the three groups will do. They are the Quad Vaccine Experts Group, the Quad Climate Working Group and the Quad Critical and Emerging Technology Working Group.The Covid-19 vaccine group has a use-by-date — the end of the year — to submit its recommendation and it will then phase itself out or will presumably fall into disuse once the pandemic has been brought under control.The other two groups face no timelines, and can continue for a long time, forging that habit. The working group on climate won’t see its work wind down any time soon. Couched in non-enforceable terms of “cooperation”, “coordination” and “advancing”, the group’s brief is tied to the Paris Agreement. And consider this: Three of the Quad members are among the world’s 5 most-polluting countries — the US is at number 2, India at 3 and Japan at 5.The group on critical and emerging technology has set an expansive agenda, which includes “coordination on technology standards development, including between our national technology standards bodies and working with a broad range of partners”. That work cannot have an early wrap-up date, what with technology evolving continuously. Is it going to call it a day after dealing with 5G and Huawei, for instance?Australia, Japan, India and the US do quite a lot bilaterally and trilaterally; three of them are treaty allies. The three working groups, if taken seriously, can potentially set Quad on course to the kind of formalisation that some have said is its inescapable future, an Asian North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO).yashwant.raj@hindustantimes.comThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/can-quad-working-groups-lead-to-an-asian-nato-101616761472561.html
26-03-2021||Today's||Restoring the broken oversight mechanisms of Parliament||India’s Parliament recently passed the National Capital Territory of Delhi (Amendment) Bill, 2021, which significantly increases the powers of the Lieutenant-Governor (L-G) of Delhi. The bill requires the elected Delhi government to seek the opinion of the L-G before taking executive action. This is a major amendment that significantly alters the way the government in Delhi functions. It also recasts India’s federal construct and makes the Centre even more powerful than it already is, while chipping away at the power from the duly elected government in Delhi.Despite the nature of the sweeping changes this bill proposed, it was not sent to a parliamentary committee, and there was no formal consultation with stakeholders, civil society, or experts before it was quickly rushed through both Houses of Parliament. The bill, first reported by media early this month, was introduced in the Lok Sabha on March 15 and passed by both Houses by March 24. Even before citizens had any time to absorb its implications or make up their mind, the bill was already on its way to becoming law.For a parliamentary democracy, this is unusual. Typically, bills of such significance are sent to parliamentary committees for closer scrutiny. Unfortunately, sidelining committees is increasingly becoming the norm in India. Over the last few years, Parliament has been sending fewer and fewer bills to committees. Data compiled by PRS Legislative Research shows that only 25% bills were referred to committees in the 16th Lok Sabha (2014-2019) as compared to 60% in the 14th (2004-2009) and 71% in the 15th Lok Sabha (2009-14).This trend is worrying. In the constitutional scheme of things, Parliament is supposed to maintain oversight on the government and keep its power in check. By circumventing due diligence in Parliament, we run the risk of weakening democracy.While fewer bills have been going to committees, data also shows that Parliament has been working more in recent years, discussing bills for longer durations and passing more bills than before. The 16th Lok Sabha (2014-19) for instance, worked for over 1,615 hours, 20% more than the previous Lok Sabha, and passed 133 bills, 15% more than the 15th Lok Sabha. Interestingly, even in the case of the NCT amendment, the Rajya Sabha stayed back till 9:30 pm to finish its deliberations and pass the bill before adjourning.So, if Members of Parliament (MPs) are spending more time on direct deliberations on the floor of the House, why is bypassing committees a cause of worry?Spending more time on direct discussions is not a substitute for committee deliberations. There is rarely enough time for a thorough analysis of any legislation on the floor of Parliament. Most MPs are also not subject matter experts on the topics being discussed — they are generalists who understand the pulse of the people but rely on advice from experts and stakeholders before taking decisions. What committees are meant to do is help MPs seek expertise and give them time to think about issues in detail. This is why the committee system was expanded in 1993.Today, we have several committees in Parliament — each dealing with a different subject matter. All committees have MPs representing different parties, in roughly the same proportion as their strength in Parliament. When bills are referred to these committees, they are examined closely and inputs are sought from various external stakeholders, including the public. By virtue of being closed-door and away from the public eye, discussions in committee meetings are also more collaborative, with MPs feeling less pressured to posture for media galleries.Although committee recommendations are not binding on the government, their reports create a public record of the consultations that took place and put pressure on the government to reconsider its stand on debatable provisions. The Companies Bill, 2009, is an example of a legislation that was withdrawn, and later reintroduced with significant changes, due to the issues flagged by the committee that examined it.In the Indian system, unfortunately, it is not mandatory for bills to be sent to committees. It’s left to the discretion of the Chair — the Speaker in the Lok Sabha and Chairperson in the Rajya Sabha. In countries such as Sweden and Finland, all bills are sent to committees. In Australia, a selection of bills committee, which includes members from the Opposition, is tasked with identifying the bills that should go to committees. It is perhaps time for India to mandate a similar requirement to avail the benefits of the committee system that we have taken for granted so far. By giving discretionary power to the Chair, the system has been especially rendered weak in a Lok Sabha where the ruling party has a brute majority.Mandating scrutiny for every bill passed is not a big ask. It is necessary to uphold the quality of legislation, and by extension, the quality of governance in the country. A strong committee system is probably the only way to ensure Parliament’s relevance in the law-making process.Rohit Kumar is the co-founder and Bhavani P is an associate at Young Leaders for Active Citizenship (YLAC)The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/restoring-the-broken-oversight-mechanisms-of-parliament-101616761470187.html
26-03-2021||Today's||Why India’s polity has adopted the logic of Nyay||The Trinamool Congress (TMC) has announced a minimum income scheme for the poorest families of Bengal in its election manifesto for the upcoming state elections, as has the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) in Tamil Nadu. The Congress, in Kerala and Assam, has also talked about a minimum income guarantee scheme, and the Bharatiya Janata Party too has promised a variant of income assistance in its election manifesto.Political parties of all hues, across states, are embracing the idea of a basic minimum income for citizens. It may be tempting to dismiss this as hollow election propaganda. But it is no coincidence that different parties have all converged on this one core idea. View this along with the other recent nativistic policy announcements by the governments of Haryana and Jharkhand to reserve jobs in their states for local citizens, and there emerges a larger pattern.“Household income” is perhaps the most critical political, economic and social issue in the country today. The jobs and income situation is staggeringly dismal. In the absence of any other concrete and immediate solution to boost incomes or create new jobs, political parties are seeking to address this issue by providing income assistance to citizens in the form of cash and/or in the form of job reservations.The idea of a basic minimum income in India has so far been discussed primarily as an economic idea to reform government welfare delivery and make it more efficient in the form of cash transfers. This is a misplaced positioning of the idea.The notion that no family should fall below a certain minimum income threshold, which can guarantee a life of dignity and respect in society is, foremost, a political-philosophy construct. A basic minimum income is not an efficiency tool for governance to replace in-kind welfare with cash assistance. It is a doctrine for a harmonious society where the gap between the haves and the have-nots does not become so enormously large that it threatens to erupt into violence and cause social disorder. Politics is the medium to resolve the contests of such forces and hence, the idea of a basic minimum income in a society should primarily be championed by political leaders.In India, the idea of a basic minimum income was first articulated to the mass public and championed politically during the 2019 elections, when the then Congress president, Rahul Gandhi, unveiled the Nyuntam Aay Yojana (Nyay) initiative. Under Nyay, the woman head of the poorest 20% of India’s families would get ₹6,000 a month as income assistance for her family directly in her bank account or through some other easily accessible window.The logic behind the numbers of Nyay was that in today’s India, a family needs a basic minimum income of ₹12,000 a month to lead a life of dignity and respect, which represents the 20th percentile of the household income distribution in India. The poorest one-fifth of India’s households, on average, earn only ₹6,000 a month. Hence, the gap between their average current earnings and what it takes to live a life of dignity is ₹6,000 ( ₹12,000- ₹6,000) a month. Nyay was envisaged as a federal scheme to be funded by both the Centre and the states and implemented by the states.A cheeky counter-factual would be that had India elected the Congress in May 2019, and had a functioning Nyay scheme by April 2020, when the pandemic hit, millions of families may not have had to struggle to eat or millions of migrants may not have been desperate to walk back to their homes for food and income. A sudden lack of income was the biggest damage inflicted on families by the lockdown and Nyay would have provided the required safety net.A Nyay-type programme is perhaps even more critically required in post-Covid-19 times where economic recovery is extremely skewed in favour of the wealthy and exacerbates India’s already large income inequality. The finance minister took great pride in announcing a positive headline Gross Domestic Product (GDP) growth in the October to December 2020 quarter. But, even in the shorter month of February 2021, 28 million families, with absolutely no other source of income, pleaded for work at paltry minimum wages under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS). This was the highest demand for MGNREGS work in the last seven months, just when India’s economy was apparently recovering strongly. Clearly, these 28 million families did not experience any of the robustness of the economic recovery that the government waxed eloquent about. A recent report indicated that 75 million more Indians may have slipped back into poverty post-Covid, just when the financial markets have blessed the richest Indians with even greater wealth.The basic income proposals announced by the various parties may vary in its details from Nyay but the idea is the same. However, in a post-Goods and Services Tax (GST) era, states have very little fiscal autonomy or the money to be able to fund and implement their own income schemes on a large-scale. Hence, any version of an income scheme designed and funded only by the state without assistance from the Centre will be limited in its impact.The very idea of a minimum basic income is to set an income floor and provide a cushion for people that slip below it. The resurgence in Nyay-type ideas is neither mere populism nor a coincidence. It is a manifestation of the ominous income inequality that threatens to rupture our social disorder.I recall a meeting in 2019 when Rahul Gandhi told some of us, “Political parties will soon have to address income inequality with a concrete plan such as a minimum income threshold”, which laid the origins for Nyay. Similar to his early warning about Covid-19, his call for a political embrace of a minimum income initiative has proved to be prophetic.Praveen Chakravarty is a political economist and senior office-bearer of the CongressThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/why-india-s-polity-has-adopted-the-logic-of-nyay-101616761469050.html
26-03-2021||Today's||India’s Covid-19 fatality rates — low in south India, high among migrants||When the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) arrived in India, many feared that the health indicators of the population and under-resourced health care facilities would lead to high Covid-19 mortality. More than a year later, India is among the countries with lower than expected mortality rates from Covid-19, despite infection rates of over 50% in many parts of the country.In a new study, we set out to use the best available data to measure the infection fatality rate from Covid-19 and how it varied across the country. Notably, most popular claims about India’s mortality rate have relied on an imperfect statistic called the case fatality rate (CFR). The CFR divides the number of positive Covid-19 tests by the number of Covid-19 deaths — but this measure almost always overstates the actual infection fatality rate, because so many people with mild symptoms are never even tested. Instead, we set out to measure the Infection Fatality Rate (IFR) — the probability that an individual who gets the coronavirus at a given age will die — which is a key input in thinking about vaccine planning and activity restriction.Also Read | Second surge of Covid-19 infections quicker than first waveBut even such a basic statistic is not easily measured. Measuring IFR requires carefully designed studies that test for Covid-19 antibodies in random samples of thousands of people. Such seroprevalence studies have primarily been run in richer countries, but India has run a number of its own since the pandemic began. We combined data from major serostudies in Mumbai, Karnataka, and Tamil Nadu, and matched these to administrative reports of Covid-19 deaths in each location. We also used records from random samples of migrants returning to Bihar on special trains in response to the national lockdown; positively tested individuals were tracked, and we know how many of them died.We focused in particular on age-specific fatality. It is widely known that Covid-19 is more severe for the elderly. We wanted to know how fatality in India compares with fatality in other countries, at the same age. This isolates anything special about the susceptibility of Indians to severe infection or access to healthcare.Our calculations suggested that infection fatality rates were lower in many parts of India than in richer countries. Middle-aged men infected with Covid-19 were half as likely to die in Mumbai than in a sample of high-income countries, 88% less likely in Karnataka, and 96% less likely in Tamil Nadu.It must be noted that under-reporting of Covid-19 deaths in India can explain some of this gap, but is very unlikely to explain all of it. Excess mortality in Mumbai was twice as high as the number of reported Covid-19 deaths — enough to close the IFR gap with richer countries. But in Tamil Nadu, Covid-19 deaths would have to be undercounted by a factor of 30 to explain the gap, suggesting that undercounting cannot be the whole story.Also Read | India’s daily Covid-19 count surpasses 59,000 for the first time since Oct 17When we looked at migrants returning to Bihar, we found a starkly different story. The fatality rates among older positive-testing migrants was twice as high as in richer countries. Among younger migrants, it was even worse: over 1% of Covid-19-positive migrant men under the age of 49 died in the followup period, an age group with negligible mortality in other countries. The severe economic and physical distress during the arduous return journey, piled on top of their poorer baseline health may have made migrants highly vulnerable to death after infection. The same phenomenon could explain why mortality was higher in Mumbai than in the southern states — because Mumbai’s outbreak was concentrated among a poor slum population with poor health and worse access to care.A final striking finding that emerged from our study was that the elderly in India faced a smaller relative mortality disadvantage than in other countries. Most of India’s mortality advantage occurred among those over the age of 60. Our study cannot explain why this was the case, but one explanation likely has to do with the types of people who make it to old age in India relative to in other countries. Many of the most vulnerable may already have died, leaving a relatively robust group of elderly survivors, who further may have immune systems strengthened by a lifetime of viral exposure.We also do not know the exact reasons for the terrible mortality rates among returning migrants. After a year of economic crisis, it is crucial to identify patterns of economic distress that could raise vulnerability to severe infection. Another key puzzle is why infection fatality rates were so different in Mumbai, Karnataka, and Tamil Nadu.As vaccines are disseminated, the end of this pandemic is hopefully in sight. Research on patterns of infection and mortality will be essential not only for current vaccination planning, but also to understand and prepare for the future pandemics that will surely emerge.Paul Novosad is associate professor of economics at Dartmouth College. Rebecca Cai is a research associate at Development Data Lab. Anup Malani (University of Chicago), Vaidehi Tandel (IDFC Institute), and Sam Asher (Johns Hopkins University) also worked on this article.The views expressed are personal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/indias-covid-19-fatality-rates-low-in-south-india-high-among-migrants-101616737587636.html
