31-03-2021||Today's||What the battle of Nandigram says about Bengal’s politics||All eyes are on Nandigram. The constituency will see a high-stakes electoral battle between West Bengal’s chief minister (CM) Mamata Banerjee and her friend-turned-foe Suvendu Adhikari, purported to be the most influential strongman in the region. This has rapidly turned into a battle of egos and perception for Banerjee’s Trinamool Congress (TMC) and Adhikari’s new political home, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). While it is easy to get caught up in the media frenzy, a close look at how the contest in Nandigram has unfolded offers clues into the changing pattern of West Bengal’s politics.As I have argued earlier, much of the state’s politics is predicated upon the control of the gram panchayats. This system, perfected during Left rule, ensures that the access of citizens to the State is mediated through a powerful gram panchayat, effectively requiring significant territorial control of villages for large-scale policy implementation.To understand the importance of Adhikari in this system, it is useful to look closely at the organisation or “disorganisation” of the TMC. Left rule in West Bengal was unique in India’s party system due to its level of organisational strength and professionalisation. While it employed local strongmen and had its share of charismatic faces, the Left sought to instil devotion to the party above all — so much so that voters would mockingly call Left rule in Bengal a dalatantra (“rule by party”).When the TMC surged to power in the 2011 state elections (but really in the 2008 panchayat elections), it had to manufacture a model of stable territorial control without the organisational coherence of the Left. What emerged was an inchoate collection of strongmen and their factions coalescing around the charismatic persona of Banerjee who could guarantee such ground-level control. Adhikari was among the best at this job. In the 2018 panchayat election, Adhikari ensured that the TMC was elected unopposed in 23% of gram panchayat ward-member seats, and that it had a strike rate of 79% in contested seats in his East Midnapore district. In 2019, even as the BJP swept surrounding areas en route to 18 out 42 parliamentary constituencies, it only managed to win two out 20 assembly segments in the parliamentary constituencies of Tamluk, Kanthi, and Ghatal — where Adhikari wields significant influence.Given the strong anti-incumbency faced by the TMC on the ground, it may seem odd that the BJP has been so welcoming of Adhikari and other “tough elements” from the TMC. But the BJP’s willingness to take in defectors is acquiescence to the need for ground-level control to win in West Bengal.When Adhikari switched sides to the BJP, and Banerjee forced a contest against him, it became natural to wonder to whom Nandigram’s TMC supporters were beholden. In 2019, the TMC won 63% of the vote in Nandigram as compared to 30% for the BJP. Is Adhikari so important to the TMC on the ground that he can take 15-20 percentage points of vote share with him to the BJP?Given the large-scale defections from the TMC to the BJP in the run-up to the election, this question is relevant for us to understand the extent to which such defections can dent the TMC. Indeed, the Congress too has a well-chronicled history of internal factionalism and party defections, something the BJP has readily taken advantage of in states such as Madhya Pradesh and Tripura.But the TMC differs in one key respect — the party structures its political appeal around the charisma of Banerjee (not unlike the modern-day BJP around Narendra Modi at the national level), whereas the Congress remains factionalised at the state level. This is something Adkhikari seems to have understood as well. While his campaign started with focusing on his previous work in the constituency, it soon became apparent that Banerjee’s larger-than-life image could not be defeated.Fighting for his political life, Adhikari and the BJP have turned to Hindu-Muslim polarisation, with Adhikari claiming that the re-election of Banerjee as CM will turn the state into a “mini-Pakistan”. This is all the more shocking as Adhikari was highly popular in the Muslim community as he presided over a TMC organisation with significant Muslim presence. This is to say nothing of the farmer protests in Nandigram that led to the ouster of the Left, which were also seen as a picture of Hindu-Muslim unity.Like so many politicians before him, Adhikari has cynically understood the political power that comes from communal division. Today, the fact that a quarter of Nandigram’s population is from the Muslim community and detailed “demographic” calculations in Nandigram — namely the significantly larger Muslim population in the larger Nandigram 1 block as compared to Nandigram 2 block — are splashed across newspapers in India. With just 16.5% of the population of Nandigram from the Scheduled Caste or Scheduled Tribe population, it is a sign that this polarisation has moved past its “subaltern” phase. This is also a sign that the BJP will seek to manage the internal contradictions of political defection and caste division through explicit Hindu-Muslim polarisation. I cannot predict who will win Nandigram, but I can predict one thing: Nandigram will never be the same again.Neelanjan Sircar is an assistant professor at Ashoka University and senior visiting fellow at the Centre for Policy ResearchThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/what-the-battle-of-nandigram-says-about-bengal-s-politics-101617191813083.html
31-03-2021||Today's||China’s plans on Tibet and border infra will pose a threat to India||Tibet is under the spotlight after the Lianghui, or “Big Two”, as the plenary sessions (March 4-11, 2021) of the National People’s Congress (NPC) and Chinese People’s Political Consultative Conference (CPPCC) are referred to. Among the documents approved at this session are the 142-page, 70,000-character 14th Five Year Plan (2021-2025) and the Long Range Objectives through the Year 2035 for National Economic and Social Development of the People’s Republic of China. The document, whose English version is yet to be released, sets out China’s national strategic intent and identifies core areas of national security and development with a definite focus on strategic science and technology programmes in the frontier areas. It approves projects of specific significance to India, shifting them from the realm of speculation, or potential concern, to imminent threats. These will put India under additional military pressure. The recent plenum decisions also reveal that China is turning Tibet into a military redoubt which, within some years, will become a centre of long-term pressure on India.Setting at rest speculation regarding China’s plans for the Brahmaputra (Yarlung Tsangpo), the document confirms that a number of hydroelectric projects will be built along the river’s lower reaches and that a massive dam — three times the size of the Three Gorges Dam in Sichuan province — will be constructed on the Great Bend on the Brahmaputra. The dams to be constructed on the young and fragile Himalayas will pose an ever-present danger to those living downstream, and adversely impact the livelihoods of millions of people who reside in the Indo-Gangetic plain. The related construction activity, as well as a huge influx of labourers, technicians and engineers, will raise temperatures on the Tibetan Plateau and accelerate the retreat of Tibet’s glaciers, which are the source of the Indus and a number of rivers that feed into the Ganga.One consequence will be the reduced flow of water. The Mekong River will be similarly impacted.Notwithstanding the ongoing talks for reducing tension along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) and rebuilding of ties, the 14th Five Year Plan (2021-2025) and the Long Range Objectives-2035 mentions a number of strategic military projects that are planned for completion. Many of these will reinforce China’s existing border defence infrastructure in Tibet and directly augment the capabilities of the People’s Liberation Army (PLA). The G219 and G331 national highways are to be upgraded and extended to run parallel to the G318 Sichuan-Tibet Highway, which will also be upgraded and runs along China’s borders with India. The transportation network and Tibet’s links to the mainland will be expanded with the completion of the new Chengdu-Lhasa railway line and development of Shigatse (Rikaze), Tibet’s second largest city, as a rail transportation hub. The Chengdu-Lhasa railway will be the second strategic one connecting Tibet to the mainland and will be a high-speed railway.At least 20 new border airports are planned to be built by 2025. Identified among these are airports at Tashkurgan and Longzi. Tashkurgan is at the extreme west of China and the last stop before the Karakoram Pass. It comes under the jurisdiction of the Hetian Military Sub-District, subordinate to the South Xinjiang Military District. The construction of the airport signals that China is increasing its capabilities in this area. It elevates the level of threat to Daulet Beg Oldi and the Depsang Plains. The additional airport at Longzi in Shannan County will similarly add to the People’s Liberation Army Air Force (PLAAF)’s capabilities in the middle sector of LAC and the Yadong area. India will have to contend with a much-improved strategic border defence infrastructure and considerably enhanced Chinese military presence that will pose a long-term potential threat. China’s 14th Five Year Plan and the Long Range Objectives—2035 clearly point to a fraught and possibly dangerous period in India-China relations that lies ahead.Jayadeva Ranade is former additional secretary, Cabinet Secretariat, Government of India, and president, of the Centre for China Analysis and StrategyThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/chinas-plans-on-tibet-and-border-infra-will-pose-a-threat-to-india-101617191632382.html
