02-02-2022||---||GST question mark on cryptocurrency transactions||New Delhi, February 2If the Budgetary announcement of a 30 per cent tax on income from an asset with no legal status stumped the common man, cryptocurrency service providers are clueless about the GST that has to be paid.As it is, cryptocurrency service providers such as Coinswitch Kuber, CoinDCX, BuyUCoin and Unocoin faced raids from the Directorate General of GST Intelligence (DGGI) which allegedly detected evasion of Rs 70 crore.Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman had announced a 30 per cent tax on income from cryptocurrency and a 1 per cent TDS on their transaction. However, the Government was unable to table a Bill on the issue in two successive sessions of Parliament as experts are divided on whether cryptocurrency is currency, commodity or service.If the GST of 18 per cent assumed by the raiding party is taken as benchmark, sources said such a high level combined with the tax and TDS will be a major deterrent for young investors who are flocking to cryptocurrency intermediaries.At the time of the raids in January, DGGI had said the service providers were charging a commission for exchange of bitcoins but were not paying GST tax. The DGGI had intercepted these transactions and subsequently carried out the investigations.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/business/gst-question-mark-on-cryptocurrency-transactions-366450
02-02-2022||New Delhi||Next year’s Income Tax return to have separate column for crypto income||Income tax return forms from next year will have a separate column for making disclosures on gains made from cryptocurrencies and paying taxes, Revenue Secretary Tarun Bajaj said on Wednesday.The government will from April 1 charge a 30 per cent tax plus cess and surcharges, on such transactions in the same manner as it treats winnings from horse races or other speculative transactions.In an interview with PTI, Bajaj said gains from cryptocurrencies were always taxable and what the Budget proposed is not a new tax but providing certainty over the issue.“The provision in the Finance Bill is related to taxation of virtual digital assets. It is to bring certainty in taxation of cryptocurrencies. It does not convey anything on its legality which would come out once the Bill (on regulating such assets) is introduced in Parliament,” he said.The government is working on legislation to regulate cryptocurrencies, but no draft has yet been released publicly.In the meanwhile, a central bank-backed digital currency will start circulating in the next fiscal to usher in cheaper, more efficient currency management.The 30 per cent plus applicable cesses and surcharge of 15 per cent on income above Rs 50 lakh will have to be paid on income from cryptocurrencies, he said adding the income tax return form from next year will have a separate column to declare gains from crypto.“Next year ITR form will show a separate column for crypto. Yes, you will have to disclose,” he said.The launch of ‘Digital Rupee’ by RBI as well as a 30 per cent tax from April 1 on profits from digital asset transactions, including cryptocurrencies and non-fungible tokens (NFTs) was announced by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman in her budget speech on Tuesday, as the country keeps pace with the global move toward virtual financial instruments.“The Government was very clear that it has to push for a tax on income from crypto assets. So we have brought in maximum rate and levied 30 per cent, with an applicable surcharge. We have also brought in TDS, so we will now track the transactions,” Bajaj said.The Budget 2022-23 also proposed a 1 per cent TDS on payments towards virtual currencies beyond Rs 10,000 in a year and taxation of such gifts in the hands of the recipient. The threshold limit for TDS would be Rs 50,000 a year for specified persons, which include individuals/HUFs who are required to get their accounts audited under the I-T Act.The provisions related to 1 per cent TDS will come into effect from July 1, 2022, while the gains will be taxed effective April 1.Also, no deduction in respect of any expenditure or allowance shall be allowed while computing income from transactions in such assets. It has also specified that losses from the transfer of virtual digital assets will not be allowed to be set off against any other income.No deduction has been allowed since cryptocurrencies and virtual digital assets do not have any economic value, except the underlying technology, Bajaj said.The crypto market in India grew 641 per cent in the year through June 2021, according to an October report by industry research firm Chainalysis.“It was always taxable, I am not saying it’s not a new tax, I’m bringing certainty in tax. Now if you show crypto in the ITR form, you will have separate head crypto and it will charge you 30 per cent tax,” he said, adding that the message behind the Budget announcement is that crypto is taxable.Gains from crypto are chargeable to income tax even at present, Bajaj said, adding the Assessing Officer will assess the ITR based on crypto income that the assessee has shown.“If somebody says it’s a long-term capital gains tax (LTCG), he may say no it’s not LTCG tax, it is a business income and hence liable to 30 per cent tax,” he said.With regard to taxability of cryptocurrency prior to April 1, 2022, Bajaj said, “For transactions before April 1 you will show in some head in your ITR and the Assessing Officer will do an assessment for you”.Giving example, he said currently trading in the derivative is not considered as investment or capital gain but is treated as business income.“The Assessing Officer will take a call on what head crypto gains should be charged,” the Secretary said.Bajaj said the new currency that RBI will bring will also have the underlying blockchain technology.“So, what we are also saying is that since it doesn’t have economic value, we will not allow set-off of losses or carry off loses.”  Bajaj said currently some people are showing crypto gains as income and paying taxes, but some people are not doing it. With TDS provision introduced, transaction information will reach tax department automatically.  #UnionBudget||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/business/next-years-income-tax-return-to-have-separate-column-for-crypto-income-366436
02-02-2022||New Delhi||Allowing tax returns update for 2 years by paying extra tax not an amnesty scheme: Revenue Secretary||The two-year window provided to taxpayers to disclose omitted income and correct mistakes made in income tax returns, is not an amnesty scheme, Revenue Secretary Tarun Bajaj said on Wednesday emphasising that an additional 25 per cent tax will have to be paid on income that wasn’t previously disclosed.The scheme, proposed in the Union Budget presented on February 1, recognises that taxpayers may have for genuine reasons missed out on declaring an income and the window gives them a chance to amend their returns, Bajaj told PTI in an interview.The window will be a permanent feature, allowing taxpayers to correct any discrepancy or omissions in their ITRs within two years of filing, subject to payment of taxes.An additional 25 per cent on the due tax and interest would have to be paid, if the updated income tax return (ITR) is filed within 12 months, while the rate will go up to 50 per cent, if it is filed after 12 months, but before 24 months from end of relevant Assessment Year.How this works is, if someone forgets to show an income of Rs 50,000 and the tax on it is Rs 15,000. Then he/she will have to pay 25 per cent or 50 per cent extra tax (depending on when the updated return is filed) on the Rs 15,000.Bajaj said since small investors are indulging in a lot of financial transactions, there are chances that they genuinely miss out on showing certain income in ITR. Also, some people may have gone abroad and have not been able to file returns, they will get a chance to file returns.“Small investors have entered the stock market, people have entered the crypto market. So, genuinely you may miss out on certain income to be shown. So, if your return filing last date is July-end and by December-end you can file a revised return. After that, you don’t even have a chance to do it.“The whole idea is, one, we give a chance to people if they realise they have made a mistake they can correct the mistake. But at the same time, if it comes to the notice of the tax department that taxes have not been paid, then action will follow. So once we start issuing notices, then you don’t have this option (to file an updated return). If people start taking chances like that (by not filing the correct ITR originally), it will not work,” he said.Currently, if the I-T Department finds out that some income has been missed out by the assessee, it goes through a lengthy process of adjudication, and the new proposal would repose trust in the taxpayer.The provision of filing an updated return will remove the “rough relationship” between a taxpayer and tax officer, who would have otherwise issued a notice asking for a penalty on due taxes.“It is not telling the taxpayer that you will get a chance (to file ITR after ½ years). We are charging this extra tax because otherwise, a genuine taxpayer can also say that we will file later. It is not an amnesty scheme. It is going to be part and parcel of I-T law after it is passed by Parliament,” Bajaj said.In her Budget speech, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman had said that the I-T Department has established a robust framework of reporting of taxpayers’ transactions and some taxpayers may realise that they have committed omissions or mistakes in correctly estimating their income for tax payment.“With this proposal now, there will be a trust reposed in the taxpayers that will enable the assessee herself to declare the income that she may have missed out earlier while filing her return,” she said.  #budget 2022||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/business/allowing-tax-returns-update-for-2-years-by-paying-extra-tax-not-an-amnesty-scheme-revenue-secretary-366433
02-02-2022||Mumbai||Sensex rallies nearly 700 points, Nifty above 17,750||Equity benchmark Sensex surged nearly 700 points on Wednesday to recapture the 59,000-level, as the post-Budget rally continued for the second session with intense buying in banking and financial stocks.Supportive global cues also propped up the domestic indices, traders said.The 30-share BSE Sensex closed 695.76 points or 1.18 per cent higher at 59,558.33. Likewise, the NSE Nifty jumped 203.15 points or 1.16 per cent to end at 17,780.00.IndusInd Bank was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, spurting over 5 per cent, followed by Bajaj Finserv, HCL Tech, Bajaj Finance, Kotak Bank and Axis Bank.On the other hand, Tech Mahindra, Nestle India, Maruti and L&T were among the laggards.Of the Sensex constituents, 21 shares closed higher while 9 were in the red.India’s Budget for 2022-23, with higher allocation to infrastructure, is likely to provide a boost to the ongoing economic recovery through a sharp increase in capex spending, according to experts.Elsewhere in Asia, Japan’s Nikkei closed with healthy gains.Several Asian markets, including China, Hong Kong and South Korea, were shut for the Lunar New Year holidays.Stock exchanges in Europe were trading in the green in mid-session deals.Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude rose 0.27 per cent to USD 89.40 per barrel.Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) remained net sellers in the capital markets, pulling out Rs 21.79 crore on Tuesday, as per provisional data. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/business/sensex-surges-over-400-points-in-early-trade-nifty-breaches-17-650-level-366384
02-02-2022||---||Budget growth-oriented, fine balancing act, says India Inc||New Delhi, February 1The Budget is growth-oriented and exudes a fine balancing act with an increase in capital expenditure while maintaining fiscal discipline, industry said today.Corporate leaders and industry bodies described the Budget as business-like and devoid of any populism, with an emphasis on improving the ease of doing business and reviving economic growth by catalysing demand and investments."The Budget scores high on several counts — consistency, capex-led growth, transparency in numbers and continues the focus on simplifying the taxation policy,” said FICCI president Sanjiv Mehta.CII Director-General Chandrajit Banerjee welcomed the commitment shown towards boosting investments, creating jobs and maintaining tax stability. CII Northern Region Chairman Abhimanyu Munjal appreciated the balancing done to soothe the economy as well as boost it.Bhavdeep Sardana, Chairman of CII Punjab, felt the setting up of finance startups in agriculture and rural enterprises for the farm produce value chain will provide a much-needed boost to the agri startups and food processing industry.Stage set for rapid progress post-pandemicI congratulate FM @nsitharaman Ji for a growth-oriented and forward-looking #Budget for the masses. It sets the stage for rapid progress post-pandemic — Anil Agarwal, chairman, Vedanta groupBrevity has always been a virtue. @nsitha raman’s shortest Budget address may prove to be the most impactful — Anand Mahindra, chairman, M&M groupThe 35% hike in capital expenditure will drive infra and jobs — positive rhetoric with no negative surprises — balanced Budget — Kiran Mazumdar-Shaw, Biocon chiefIndustry hails the govt’s commit-ment towards boosting investments, creating jobs and improving ease of doing business — Chandrajit Banerjee, DG, CII||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/business/budget-growth-oriented-fine-balancing-act-says-india-inc-366283
02-02-2022||---||Amazon-Future dispute: SC sets aside Delhi High Court orders||New Delhi, February 1In a major relief to Future Group, the Supreme Court on Tuesday set aside three Delhi High Court orders, including the refusal to stay the final arbitral award which had restrained Future Retail Ltd from going ahead with its Rs 24,731-crore merger deal with Reliance Retail and ordered a fresh adjudication.A Bench led by Chief Justice of Indian NV Ramana also quashed the high court’s February 2, 2021 order to Future Retail Ltd (FRL) to maintain status quo in relation to the merger deal.The top court set aside the March 18 HC order upholding the EA’s award and imposing a cost of Rs 20 lakh on it as well as its directors. It also quashed the October 29, 2021 HC order declining to stay an arbitration tribunal decision refusing to interfere with the Emergency Award (EA) of the Singapore International Arbitration Centre (SIAC). The EA had restrained FRL from going ahead with the merger deal.The top court remanded the pleas of Future Group companies relating to arbitral award on the merger deal with Reliance Retail back to the Delhi High Court for a fresh and speedy adjudication on merits uninfluenced by the observations made by it.Major relief for Future Group #amazon future dispute||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/business/amazon-future-dispute-sc-sets-aside-delhi-high-court-orders-366282
02-02-2022||Visionary Budget||Union budget 2022-23: Leader speak||Budget will change the scale of India’s economy. It will be helpful in making India the world’s leading economy under the leadership of PM Modi by exploiting the opportunities that have arisen globally post Covid pandemic — Amit Shah, Union Home MinisterNothing but old jumlasIt is nothing but an attack on government subsidies... old jumlas (rhetoric) have been glorified. The salaried and middle classes waited in anticipation for a budget to help them through their troubles, but got nothing — Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, Congress gen secyGrowth-orientedThe Budget is growth-oriented, and outlines the government’s focus on Atmanirbharta (self-reliant India) and Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s vision for development and pro-people reforms — Rajnath Singh, Defence MinisterSuper rich sparedBudget for whom? Richest 10% own 75% of the wealth. The bottom 60% own less than 5%. Why are those who amassed super-profits during the pandemic, while joblessness, poverty & hunger have grown, not being taxed more? — Sitaram Yechury, CPM general secretaryNothing for common manPeople had high expectations amid Covid, but they’ve been disappointed. There is nothing for general public. Nothing to tackle price rise. — Arvind Kejriwal, Delhi CM & AAP convenerTowards self-relianceLeveraging the power of technology, the National Digital Health Ecosystem will significantly enhance ease of living for citizens and create a healthier India. The Budget will prove effective in making a self-reliant India — Mansukh Mandaviya, Union Health MinisterPoor to benefitThis is a Budget to realise the Modi government's vision of social justice, equality, respect and equal opportunities for all. It is primarily for the welfare of the poor. I thank the government for such inclusive and all-round welfare Budget — JP Nadda, BJP presidentFocus misplacedThe Budget is a statement of account... which you can read anyhow, but the intention and its focus, I found it misplaced. If the government wants, it can provide relief to people in this bad situation. But if you read the figures only, it is insufficient — Sachin Pilot, Cong leaderSavings will be hitAll work and businesses have come to a standstill. There is a historical recession, lakhs of jobs have been lost. Income of the people has decreased. They are relying on their savings. Now another Budget by the BJP has come to bite into the savings of the people — Akhilesh Yadav, Samajwadi Party chiefTowards new IndiaThe Budget will give impetus to infrastructure development. It is a Budget to promote modern infrastructure in the country, which will lay the foundation for a new India and improve the lives of 130 crore Indians. — Nitin Gadkari, Union MinisterInflation will riseNo announcement has been made for national project status to the Eastern Rajasthan Canal project. This Budget will increase inflation, fill the pockets of industrialists and empty the pockets of common man, farmer and labourer. — Ashok Gehlot, Rajasthan CMGolmaal budgetI am totally upset after seeing the Budget. The false propaganda that has been propagated through the dais of the Parliament is wrong. It is a 'golmaal budget' which has no respect for the farmers and the poor. — K Chandrasekhar Rao, Telangana Chief MinisterBid to cut compliance burdenThe Budget appears to be growth-oriented by an increase in the capital outlay of Rs7.5 lakh crore, fiscal deficit capped at 6.4 per cent and efforts are being made to reduce compliance burdens and improve ease of doing business. — Ronojoy Dutta, IndiGo Whole-Time Director & CEONet connectivity will improveThe announcement around the 5G spectrum auction and 100% fiberisation with public private partnership model will provide the required impetus to build upon ubiquitous and reliable Internet connectivity. — Nitin Bansal, Ericsson India managing director||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/nation/union-budget-2022-23-leader-speak-366281
02-02-2022||Farm credit target increased to Rs18 lakh cr||Union budget 2022-23: Quick notes||The government has increased the agricultural credit target to Rs18 lakh crore for the 2022-23 fiscal from Rs16.50 lakh crore for the current fiscal. “Of the Rs 16.50 lakh crore target this year, 75 per cent has been disbursed,” said Rajesh Verma, Secretary, Department of Financial Services. About Rs7.36 lakh crore agri-credit has been disbursed to farmers during the first six months of the 2021-22, according to the Economic Survey. During the 2016-17 fiscal, an amount of Rs10.65 lakh crore was disbursed.New scheme PM-DevINE announced for NEA new scheme, Prime Minister’s Development Initiative for North-East (PM-DevINE), was announced in the Budget for the Northeast with an allocation of Rs1,500 crore. Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman said PM-DevINE will be implemented through the North-Eastern Council. It will fund the infrastructure, in the spirit of PM Gati Shakti, and social development projects based on the needs of the Northeast, a release said. This will enable livelihood activities for youth and women, filling the gaps in various sectors, she said.Rs288 cr for training bureaucrats in India, abroadA budget of over Rs288 crore has been allocated to the Union Personnel Ministry for the training of bureaucrats, both in India and abroad. Besides, Rs44.25 crore has been allocated under “administrative reforms and pensioners’ scheme”, including for modernisation of offices. Of the Rs288.14 crore, Rs210.75 crore is for the upgradation of the Lal Bahadur Shastri National Academy of Administration in Mussoorie to a centre of excellence and augmentation of training facilities and other centres.Anti-dumping duty on Chinese steel to goThe Union Budget has proposed revocation of anti-dumping duty on some steel products imported from various countries, including China, following pleas from the domestic industry that was faced with high prices. "Certain anti-dumping and CVD on stainless steel and coated steel flat products, bars of alloy steel and high-speed steel are being revoked," said Sitharaman. Anti-dumping duty on certain steel products from China was imposed in 2018 and was followed by a similar cess on some other steel products from Vietnam, Korea, Brazil, China and Germany in 2019.No tax up to Rs10 lakh for Covid treatmentThe Finance Bill has notified that income-tax will not be charged on the amount received by a taxpayer for medical treatment from employer or from any person for treatment of Covid-19 during FY 2019-20 and subsequent years.Rs106 cr for Buddhist monastery in NepalThe Union Ministry of Culture will provide Rs106 crore to International Buddhist Confederation (IBC) for establishing a Buddhist Monastery in Lumbini, Nepal. The ministry welcomed the outlay of Rs 3,009.05 crore proposed for it in the Budget. It said of the total outlay, Rs 1,080.34 crore had been allocated to the Archeological Survey of India (ASI). An amount of Rs 532.55 crore has been allocated for implementation of the central schemes of the ministry including Kala Sanskriti Vikas Yojana.Deep Ocean Mission gets massive pushIndia's deep ocean mission that seeks to explore vast marine living and non-living resources has received a massive boost in the Union Budget with the Finance Minister allocating Rs 650 crore for the initiative. The overall allocation to the Earth Sciences Ministry has increased to Rs 2,653.51 crore in 2022-23 from the revised estimates of Rs 2,369.54 crore in the previous Budget. . The Budget Estimates of this year include Rs 450 crore on capital expenditure. Sitharaman has allocated Rs 650 crore for the Deep Ocean Mission in the Budget for 2022-23.Modi mingles with Oppn membersPrime Minister Narendra Modi walked across the aisle to greet Opposition members after congratulating Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman for presenting her fourth successive Budget. Modi seen interacting with Trinamool Congress leaders Sudeep Bandyopadhyay and Saugata Roy in the Well of the House after the Lok Sabha was adjourned for the day. Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi walked out of the Lok Sabha soon after the presentation of the Budget. The PM also warmly greeted Congress leader Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury.Govt may tweak TDS norms on sale of propertyOne per cent TDS will apply on a non-agriculture immovable property of over Rs 50 lakh on the basis of sale price or the stamp duty value, whichever is higher, after an amendment to the Income Tax Act. Currently, the TDS is deducted basis only the consideration value of the immobile properties. There is an inconsistency in the Act regarding levy of tax deduction at source (TDS). The Finance Minister proposed the amendment to do away the anomaly in the law. As per the provisions, TDS is to be deducted on the amount of consideration paid by the transferee to the transferor.Ganesha Puja on Budget dayEvery Finance Minister starts his/her Budget day with Ganesh puja at the corridors of the Finance Ministry in the North Block, offering flowers to the lord, before heading to Parliament for Budget presentation. "It's a custom, untold and unwritten in our ministry, but every minister has adhered to it without any exception over the years, no matter what his religious belief is,” a retired senior official of the ministry.Govt to borrow record Rs. 11.6l crThe government will borrow a record Rs. 11.6 lakh crore from the market in 2022-23 to meet its expenditure requirement to prop up the economy. This is nearly Rs. 2 lakh crore higher than the current year's Budget estimate of Rs. 9.7 lakh crore. Total market borrowings of the government for 2022-23 are estimated at Rs. 11,58,719 crore, according to the Budget document.Rs. 200 cr aid for AfghanistanIndia has set aside Rs. 200 crore in its Budget for Afghanistan. It is learnt that the special allocation is a signal of India’s commitment to the Afghan people and the money may be spent on paying for old projects, scholarships and providing aid to the Afghan people. Last year, Rs. 350 crore was allocated, but the revised estimate put the amount at Rs. 200 crore.Rs. 6,292 cr for other countriesIndia has allocated Rs. 17,250 crore to the MEA, of which Rs. 6,292 crore is for development assistance to countries in neighbourhood as well as in Africa and Latin America. Bhutan has got maximum outlay of Rs. 2,266 crore, Mauritius Rs. 900 crore, Nepal Rs. 750 crore, Myanmar Rs. 600 crore, Maldives Rs. 360 crore, Bangladesh Rs. 300 crore and Sri Lanka Rs. 200 crore.RSS demands crypto ban Even as the Centre plans to tax cryptocurrency, Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh-affiliate Swadeshi Jagran Manch suggested that after taxing cryptocurrency, the government should move towards banning it Push for green energy: The Finance Minister announced that the government would bring a battery-swapping policy to boost the use of electric vehicles in the country and interoperability standards would be formulated.Diesel to be dearer by Rs. 2Diesel will cost Rs. 2 per litre more from October 1 after the Budget proposed levied additional excise duty on fuel sold without blending it with ethanol or biodiesel. “Blending of fuel is a priority government's priority. To encourage the efforts for blending of fuel, unblended fuel shall attract an additional differential excise duty of Rs. 2 per litre from the October 1,” said the FM.Focus remains on Swachh BharatThe Union government appears to have kept its focus on its flagship Jal Jeevan Mission and the Swachh Bharat Mission (Gramin) while making allocations in the Budget for the Department of Drinking Water and Sanitation. Out of the total budgetary allocations of over Rs. 67,221 crore, the two centrally sponsored schemes account for Rs. 67,192 crore.Rs. 13,134 cr for Social Justice MinistryThe Social Justice and Empowerment Ministry, which caters to the welfare of the Backward Classes and those with disabilities, was allocated Rs. 13,134 crore, a 12% increase from the last fiscal. An amount of Rs. 11,922 crore has been allocated for the Department of Social Justice and Empowerment and Rs. 1,212 crore for the Department of Empowerment of Persons with Disabilities.Targeting 60 lakh jobs: The Emergency Credit Line Guarantee Scheme (ECLGS) unveiled to help MSMEs extended till March 2023. With this, the government is targeting 60 lakh jobs in next 5 years. The MSME sector has hailed the move. Focus on SC welfareThe welfare of Scheduled Castes appears to be the prime concern in the allocation for Central schemes in the Union Budget for Social Justice Ministry. Of the total allocation of over Rs. 11,922 crore for the ministry, the largest allocation is under the head ‘Umbrella Scheme for Development of Scheduled Castes’ with over Rs. 8,710 crore.Rs. 3,050 cr for Ayush MinistryThe Ministry of Ayush has received an allocation of Rs. 3,050 crore a slight increase of 2.69 per cent from 2021-22 when Rs. 2,970 crore was earmarked. An amount of Rs. 306 crore has been set aside for the Central schemes, while Rs. 110 crore has been allocated for statutory and regulatory bodies. Autonomous bodies have been allocated Rs. 1,759 crore.Metro projects get Rs. 19,130 crThe Centre has allocated Rs 19,130 crore for various metro projects in the country. The same was Rs 18,978 crore last financial year. Union Minister Hardeep Singh Puri earlier said 723 km of metro network was operational in 18 cities, and additional over 1,000 km of network was coming up in various cities. Six new proposals were also being evaluated, he said. #BUDGET #union budget||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/nation/union-budget-2022-23-quick-notes-366277
02-02-2022||New Delhi||Relief for co-op societies, tax slashed to 15%||The government on Tuesday announced Rs 900-crore allocation in the Budget for the newly set up Ministry of Cooperation for the 2022-23 fiscal, besides slashing Alternate Minimum Tax (AMT) on cooperative societies to 15 per cent and surcharge to 7 per cent.Of the total allocation, a significant amount of Rs 350 crore has been provided for digitisation of Primary Agriculture Cooperative Societies (PACs), while Rs 274 crore for an umbrella scheme “Prosperity through Cooperatives”. For the first time, a separate allocation of Rs 11 crore has been provided to Vaikunth Mehta National Institute of Cooperative Management. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/business/relief-for-co-op-societies-tax-slashed-to-15-366266
02-02-2022||Ravi S Singh||Budget: Despite rise in unemployment, 25% cut in rural job scheme allocation||New Delhi, February 1The Union Budget 2022-23 has increased the fund allocation for the Department of Rural Development to over Rs 1,35,944 crore, but allocation for the flagship Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme is at least 25 per cent lower than revised estimates of the previous year.The Centre has allocated Rs 73,000 crore for MGNREGA for 2022-23. This is 25.51 per cent less than the revised estimate of Rs 98,000 crore.The move has surprised many considering the scheme proved a major job generator during the lockdown period in 2020. Only yesterday the Economic Survey noted that the demand for work under Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme was an indicator of rural labour markets.Aruna Roy, president, National Federation of Indian Women, said, “The country is facing an all-time high job crisis and the government did not think it necessary to allocate substantially for MGNREGA so that more work days could be provided to the distressed families. With current funds, after deducting expenses, the money will not be enough to provide even 25 days of work.” #BUDGET||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/business/despite-rise-in-unemployment-25-cut-in-rural-job-scheme-allocation-366265
02-02-2022||---||Budget: Major portion of  labour funds goes to pension scheme||New Delhi, February 1The Union Budget proposes an allocation of about Rs 3,587 crore more than the preceding Budget for the Labour and Employment Ministry of which Employees Pension Scheme for Workers accounts for the lion’s share.The total allocation is Rs 16,893.68 crore against Rs 13,306.50 crore in 2021-22. However, in the revised estimate for 2021-22, the allocation was increased to Rs 14,248.72 crore.A perusal of segment-wise allocation in the Budget is generally defined by highest allocation of Rs 8,485 crore under the head of Employees Pension Scheme for Workers, which was Rs 7,364 crore in the previous Budget.The scheme forms part of a cluster of Centrally-sponsored social security schemes for workers. Cumulatively, under the umbrella of the Central sector schemes for workers, the allocation is Rs 16,084.10 crore.The underbelly of the allocation for the ministry, however, is that under the head of Establishment Expenditure of the Centre, it is Rs 619.18, an increase of Rs 68.68 crore in just one year.In effect, the dark side is in the context of Union Government’s repeated calls to narrow down the Budget’s annual fiscal deficit with regard to the GDP.Total outlay Rs16,893.68 cr #BUDGET||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/business/major-portion-of-labour-funds-goes-to-pension-scheme-366262
02-02-2022||---||Rs 9,259 cr for special purpose vehicle AIAHL||New Delhi, February 1With a special focus on building infrastructure for regional air connectivity, Finance Minister Niramala Sitharaman has proposed to revive 20 airports across the country in the next financial year. The Ministry of Civil Aviation has been allotted Rs 10,667 crore, which is almost three times last year's budgetary estimate of Rs 3,224.67 crore.Air India Assets Holding Limited (AIAHL), a government-owned special purpose vehicle set up in 2019 to handle Air India's debt and non-core assets, has received budgetary support of Rs 9,259 crore for the next financial year.During 2021-22, since the government incurred high expenses on the account of disinvestment of Air India, the revised estimate of the ministry's expenses for the year jumped to Rs 72,652 crore. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/nation/9-259-cr-for-special-purpose-vehicle-aiahl-366259
02-02-2022||Shubhadeep Choudhury||Mega infra push: 400 Vande Bharat trains, 8 ropeway projects planned||New Delhi, February 1The national highways network will be expanded by 25,000 km in 2022-23. Over Rs 20,000 crore will be mobilised through innovative ways of financing to complement the public resources.Four hundred new-generation Vande Bharat trains with better energy efficiency and passenger-riding experience will be developed and manufactured during the next three years. The Railway Ministry has been allocated budgetary support of Rs 140367.13 crore.Contracts for eight ropeway projects of 60 km will be awarded in 2022-23. Ropeway service may be introduced in congested urban areas, where conventional mass transit system is not feasible.While rolling out the schemes in her Budget speech in Parliament today, Finance Minister Minister Nirmala Sitharaman said these schemes were part of the government’s ambitious “PM Gati Shakti” project.Underscoring the key role the government expected the PM Gati Shakti project to play in infrastructure development, Sitharaman said the project was a “transformative approach” for economic growth and sustainable development. “It is driven by seven engines, namely roads, railways, airports, ports, mass transport, waterways, and logistics infrastructure. All seven engines will pull forward the economy in unison,” she said. The projects pertaining to these seven engines in the National Infrastructure Pipeline will be aligned with the PM Gati Shakti framework. Sitharaman proposed to increase the outlay for capital expenditure by 35.4 per cent over the previous year (from Rs 5.54 lakh crore in the current year to Rs 7.50 lakh crore in 2022-23). It is 2.9 per cent of the GDP.Speeding up with PM Gati Shakti||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/nation/mega-infra-push-400-vande-bharat-trains-8-ropeway-projects-planned-366258
02-02-2022||Mukesh Ranjan||Eye on security, MHA share up by 11%||New Delhi, February 1With internal security remaining a priority of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government, the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) has been allocated a little over Rs 1.85 lakh crore in the Union budget for 2022-23, which is nearly 11 per cent higher than the allocation of Rs 1.66 lakh crore in the last Budget for the current financial year.Incidentally, however, the capital expenditure for 2022-23, the MHA budget has proposed increase of only 5 per cent from Rs 15,924 crore in 20-21-22 to Rs 16,753 crore in 2022-23. The lion’s share of the Budget allocation for the MHA has gone to the police, as it is proposed in excess of Rs 1.17 lakh crore for the coming financial year. Of this, Rs 10,500 crore has been allocated for capital expenditure, marginally higher than the last year. In 2021-22, the allocation for the police stood at Rs 1.03 lakh crore with Rs 9,715 crore being capital expenditure.The Central Armed Police Forces (CAPF) like the CRPF, BSF and ITBP have been allocated substantial funds for improving the infrastructure along the international borders.The 2022-23 Budget allocation to the MHA, helmed by Union Home Minister Amit Shah, is Rs 1,85,776.55 crore, nearly Rs 20,000 crore or about 11.5 per cent more than the current fiscal, which is Rs 1,66,546.94 crore.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/nation/eye-on-security-mha-share-up-by-11-366256
02-02-2022||Kolkata||Mamata Banerjee: 'Pegasus spin' Budget||Terming the Union Budget presented in Parliament on Tuesday as a “Pegasus spin Budget”, West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee said it had got nothing for the common people who were being crushed by inflation and unemployment.Banerjee’s principal chief adviser Amit Mitra claimed there was no direction for financial growth in the Union Budget and it was “either a hoax or lack of goodwill”.The Opposition BJP supported the Budget as “pro-people” and asked the TMC government to come out with a white paper on the amount of investment that had materialised in the state in the last 10 years.Banerjee said the Centre was lost in “big words signifying nothing”. — PTIZero-sum budgetIt is a zero-sum Budget and has nothing for the salaried class, middle class, the poor and the deprived, the youth, farmers and MSMEs. — Rahul Gandhi, Cong leaderNothing for peopleThe Budget has zero for common people, who are getting crushed by unemployment and inflation. The government is lost, in big words signifying nothing — a Pegasus spin Budget. — M Banerjee, WB CM #BUDGET #mamata banerjee #Pegasus||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/nation/didi-pegasus-spin-budget-366253
02-02-2022||Aditi Tandon||Nirmala Sitharaman's 90-min speech, little Opposition intervention||New Delhi, February 1Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Tuesday presented India’s second digital Budget, attracting frequent applause from the treasury benches and very little intervention from the largely mute Opposition.But for a few swipes Trinamool Congress’ Sugata Roy took on the occasion, the Opposition looked fidgety but staid.Congress president Sonia Gandhi, Samajwadi Party patron Mulayam Singh Yadav, SP chief Akhilesh Yadav, AAP’s Bhagwant Mann and all other Punjab MPs barring former minister Manish Tewari, were conspicuous by their absence.PM Modi frequently thumped his desk, giving a cue to the ruling side to follow.Announcements on river-linking, digital university, digital rupee, natural farming, eased insurance policy for the differently abled and e-passports saw the highest level of excitement on the treasury side. Opposition leaders, including Rahul Gandhi, A Raja (DMK), Sugata Roy (TMC) and Supriya Sule (NCP), were, however, seen gesturing in disinterest wondering what the applause was about.Sitharaman’s 90-minute speech was mostly matter of fact except once when it quoted the Mahabharata to argue for righteous taxation. Opposition leader Mallikarjun Kharge was quick to denounce the Budget as “one for Dronacharya and Arjuna, and not Eklavya”.Show of bonhomie #BUDGET #nirmala sitharaman||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/nation/90-min-speech-little-oppn-intervention-366251
02-02-2022||---||Congress: Unkindest cut on food, fertiliser subsidies||New Delhi, February 1The Congress on Tuesday described the Union Budget 2022-23 as the most capitalist one ever delivered and slammed it for “the unkindest subsidy cuts”.Citing the slashed subsidy for food, fertilisers and petroleum, former Finance Minister P Chidambaram said welfare of the masses had been “thrown to the winds”.The former FM lamented the reduced food subsidy (Rs 2,86,219 crore in 2021-22 to Rs 2,06,481 crore in 2022-23); fertiliser (Rs 1,40,000 crore to Rs 1,05,000 crore) and petroleum (Rs 6,517 crore to Rs 5,813 crore) as the “most unkindest cut in the subsidies meant for the poor”.Chidambaram said the total subsidy bill had been cut by 27 per cent.The Congress said the government behaved and acted as though it was on the right path and had delivered on the issues that mattered to the common people.“This is false. I was astonished that the Finance Minister was outlining a plan for the next 25 years, which she called the ‘Amrit Kaal’. The government seems to believe that the present does not need any attention and the people living in the present can be asked to wait patiently until the ‘Amrit Kaal’ dawns. This is nothing, but mocking the people of India, especially the poor and the deprived,” said Chidrambaram.He said the Budget did not factor in the reality that India’s economy had not yet recovered to the level of the pre-pandemic year of 2019-20, and the loss of jobs in Covid years.It’s most capitalistThe Budget speech was the most capitalist one ever read by a Finance Minister. The FM has mastered the jargon of capitalist economics. — P Chidambaram, former FM #p chidambaram #union budget||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/business/congress-unkindest-cut-on-food-fertiliser-subsidies-366243
02-02-2022||---||Union Budget 2022-23: It's people-friendly, progressive, main focus on jobs, says Modi||New Delhi, February 1Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday hailed the Union Budget 2022-23 as “people-friendly” and “progressive”, and said it created new opportunities for more jobs and growth, besides addressing the welfare of the poor and strengthening national security by way of border development avenues.Noting that vibrant border development was critical to national security, PM Modi mentioned the ‘Parvatmala’ project for better connectivity and transportation of hilly regions of Himachal Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir, Uttarakhand and the Northeast.“It is important for border villages to become vibrant. This is critical for national security,” the PM said, hailing new announcements on green jobs. He congratulated Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman for a “people-friendly and progressive Budget” and said the proposals brought new hope for development in the midst of a once-in-a-century pandemic.“The Budget presents several new possibilities for more infrastructure, more investment, more growth and more jobs,” the PM said.Especially noting the digital and infrastructure push in the Budget, he said modernisation of sectors through technology such as kisan drones, Vande Bharat trains, digital currency, digital banking units, 5G service roll-out and digital health mission would benefit youth, middle class and the poor.The PM mentioned the Budget proposals on pucca houses, water, toilets and gas connections for the poor and high-speed internet connectivity, and said “an important part of this Budget is welfare of the poor”.The PM also spoke of the Budget being pro-farmer, noting that natural farming would be promoted in states on the banks of the Ganges – Uttarakhand, UP, Bihar, Jharkhand and West Bengal — to help purge the Ganges of chemicals and ensure farmers’ welfare.“Budget proposals also ensure that farming becomes profitable and new opportunities arise in this sector. Farmers’ incomes will get a boost, with special funds to promote farming start-ups and new packages for the food processing industry,” the PM said, adding proceeds against MSP procurement worth Rs 1.25 crore were already being directly transferred to the accounts of farmers.New possibilities beckonThe Budget presents several new possibilities for more infrastructure, more investment, more growth and more jobs.It is important for border villages to become vibrant. This is critical for national security. — Narendra Modi, Prime Minister #narendra modi #union budget||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/business/union-budget-2022-23-its-people-friendly-progressive-main-focus-on-jobs-says-modi-366241
02-02-2022||---||Union Budget 2022-23: Funding for solar cells enhanced||New Delhi, February 1Underlining India’s commitment to reduce its carbon footprint, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman today proposed several near-term and long-term actions, including an additional allocation of Rs 19,500 crore for Production Linked Incentive (PLI) for manufacturing high-efficiency modules for achieving the goal of 280 GW of installed solar capacity by 2030.The risks of climate change are the strongest negative externalities that affect India and other countries, she said, stressing that low carbon development strategy was an important reflection of the government’s strong commitment towards sustainable development. “To facilitate domestic manufacturing for the ambitious goal of 280GW of installed solar capacity by 2030, an additional allocation of Rs 19,500 crore for Production Linked Incentive for manufacturing high-efficiency modules, with priority to fully integrated manufacturing units from polysilicon to solar PV modules, will be made,” she saidBesides, co-firing of five to seven per cent biomass pellets in thermal power plants will result in CO2 savings of 38 MMT annually. This will also provide extra income to farmers and job opportunities to locals and help avoid stubble burning in agriculture fields, she said. “Moving towards zero carbon emissions is the central government’s vision. This will move the country on a sustainable development path,” Sitharaman said, adding power saving measures would be promoted among businesses.“We will promote a shift to use of public transport in urban areas. This will be complemented by clean tech and governance solutions, special mobility zones with zero fossil-fuel policy, and EV vehicles,” she said.Thumbs up from experts #climate change #Environment #nirmala sitharaman #solar energy #union budget||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/business/funding-for-solar-cells-enhanced-366240
02-02-2022||---||Union Budget 2022-23: Paradigm change in urban planning||New Delhi, February 1A high-level committee of reputed urban planners, urban economists and institutions will be formed to make recommendations on urban sector policies, capacity-building, planning, implementation and governance.Stressing that urban planning cannot continue with a business-as-usual approach, Sitharaman said it was important to reimagine cities as centres of sustainable living with opportunities for all, including women and youthStating this in her Budget speech, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman said up to five existing academic institutions in different regions would be designated as centres of excellence for developing India-specific knowledge in urban planning and design, and to deliver certified training in these areas. These centres would be provided endowment funds of Rs 250 crore each. In addition, AICTE (All-India Council for Technical Education) will take the lead in improving syllabi, quality and access of urban planning courses in other institutions.The minister said it was needed to re-imagine the cities as centres of sustainable living with opportunities for all, including women and youth. “For this to happen, urban planning cannot continue with a business-as-usual approach. We plan to steer a paradigm change,” she said.Sitharaman said the government would promote a shift to use of public transport in urban areas. This would be complemented by clean tech and governance solutions, special mobility zones with zero fossil-fuel policy, and electric vehicles (EV). A battery-swapping policy would be brought out for EVs and inter-operability standards would be formulated. The private sector would be encouraged to develop sustainable and innovative business models for “battery or energy as a service”. This will improve efficiency in the EV ecosystem.Support would be provided to the states for urban capacity building. Modernisation of building byelaws, town planning schemes (TPS), and transit oriented development (TOD) would be implemented. This will facilitate reforms for people to live and work closer to mass transit systems. The Central government’s financial support for mass transit projects and AMRUT scheme would be leveraged for formulation of action plans and their implementation for facilitating TOD and TPS by the states, the FM said.Sitharaman said by the time of India would complete 100 years of Independence in 2047, nearly half of the country’s population would be living in urban areas. Thus, orderly urban development is of critical importance, she added.5 centres of excellence on cards #BUDGET #nirmala sitharaman #union budget||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/business/paradigm-change-in-urban-planning-366239
02-02-2022||New Delhi||Education outlay up, online university, e-portal for skill development on cards||Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman today highlighted the need for quick adoption of digital learning and importance to regional languages in higher education institutions as well as schools.The FM said a digital ecosystem for skilling and livelihood, the DESH-Stack e-portal, would be launched to empower citizens to skill, re-skill or up-skill through online training.Presenting the Budget, Sitharaman announced a digital university to provide access to world-class quality universal education to students across the country with a personalised learning experience at their doorsteps.The overall financial allocation for the education sector for 2022-23 has increased to Rs 1.04 lakh crore from Rs 93,224 crore (BE) in 2021-22 as the minister laid emphasis on digital modes of education to reverse learning losses caused by the pandemic. The revised estimate for 2021-22 is Rs 88,001 crore. The digital university will be built on a networked hub-and-spoke model, with the hub building cutting-edge ICT expertise. “A digital university will be established to provide access to tools across the country for world-class universal education with personalised learning experience. This will be made available in different Indian languages and ICT (Information and Communication Technology) formats,” Sitharaman said, adding the best universities in India would collaborate on the project. “We recognise the need to provide supplementary education and build a resilient mechanism for education delivery,” she said.“One class, one TV channel of the PM E-Vidya will be expanded from 12 to 200 TV channels. This will allow states to provide education to students of Classes I to XII in regional languages,” the FM added. — TNSMajor boost to school education #BUDGET #union budget||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/business/education-outlay-up-online-university-e-portal-for-skill-development-on-cards-366238
02-02-2022||Ajay Banerjee||Amid LAC standoff, fortifying defence via modernisation||New Delhi, February 1In view of rising threats from China and India’s own expansion in the Indo-Pacific, a hike in allocations for modernisation of military, infrastructure and other defence projects has been proposed in the Budget.The ‘capital head’ of the defence budget for the year 2022-23 will be Rs 1,52,369 crore. This represents an increase of Rs 17,308 crore (12.18 per cent) over the allocation of Rs 1,35,060 crore for the present fiscal.Overall, the budget for the Ministry of Defence, including the three armed forces, coast guard, DRDO, the Border Roads Organisation (BRO) and pensions, is Rs 5,25,166 crore. This is about 13.31 per cent of the total budget of the country. The allocation for pension amounts to Rs 1,19,696 crore.The total defence budget represents an enhancement of Rs 46,970 crore (9.82 per cent) over allocation for this year — Rs 4,78,196 crore. The capital allocation for the Indian Air Force is Rs 55,586 crore, Navy Rs 47,590 crore and the Army Rs 32,015 crore.In order to give push to indigenous domestic enterprises, the Finance Minister said 68 per cent of money for acquisition made by the services was meant to be used for indigenous items. The capital budget for the BRO has been increased to Rs 3,500 crore, which will go into building bridges, roads and tunnels in the Himalayas.In what could be important for research and development (R&D), a sum of 11,981 crore has been allocated. Of this budget, start-ups and academia private industry will be allowed to claim 25 per cent. The private industry will be encouraged to take up design and development of military platforms and equipment in collaboration with the DRDO and other organisations.Also, for the fledgling private military equipment making industry, an independent nodal umbrella body will be set up for meeting wide-ranging testing and certification requirements. “The increase in the overall capital budget reflects the government’s resolve towards sustainable enhancement in the modernisation and infrastructure development,” a statement by the MoD said.The newly created seven Defence Public Sector Undertakings (DPSUs) will be given Rs 1,310 crore.Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, in a series of tweets, said the Budget would give a fillip to ‘Make in India’, boost demand and build capacities for a stronger, prosperous and confident India.9.82% hike in budgetFocus on tunnelsThe capital budget for the BRO has been increased to Rs3,500 crore, which will go into building of bridges, roads and tunnels in the Himalayas #China #indian defence #LAC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/business/amid-lac-standoff-fortifying-defence-via-modernisation-366231
02-02-2022||Aditi Tandon||Budget 2022-23: Thrust on mental healthcare||New Delhi, February 1The Union Budget has proposed to raise health sector allocation by nearly 17 per cent, setting aside a major chunk of Rs 747 crore for the ambitious Pradhan Mantri Ayushman Bharat Health Infrastructure Mission that seeks to prepare all 734 districts for future challenges and pandemics.Two years into the pandemic, major focus areas in Budget are digital and mental health and the need to invest in both segments. A National Digital Health Ecosystem and National Tele Mental Health Programme will be launchedOverall allocation has gone up from Rs 73,932 crore in the Budget estimates of 2021-22 to Rs 86,200 crore in the BE of 2022-23, a rise of 16.59 per cent. Of this year's allocation, Rs 3,200 crore is only for health research.Major focus areas in the Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman's Budget speech were digital and mental health and the need to invest in both segments — a learning of two years of the Covid-19 pandemic. A National Digital Health Ecosystem and National Tele Mental Health Programme will be launched. Also an integrated architecture will be created to improve women and child health and nutrition indicators.This architecture will include Mission Shakti (for women's health), Mission Vatsalya (for the care of pregnant women); Saksham Anganwadis (empowering anganwadis to improve child health) and Poshan 2.0 (to improve dismal child nutrition indicators). Two lakh anganwadis are to be upgraded to Saksham Anganwadis.The above announcements follow National Family Health Survey-5 findings on dismal rate of improvement in child health indicators.The FM said the three missions were recently launched to provide integrated benefits to women and children and these schemes would be strengthened. The Ayushman Bharat Digital Mission, launched by PM Narendra Modi in September last year, was part of the Budget speech. It entails maintenance of patient records in a digital format for easy access by doctors and bringing hospitals, doctors, pharmacies and labs on a single online platform for citizens to choose.On mental health, the FM said, "To better access to quality mental health counselling and care services, a National Tele Mental Health Programme will be launched. This will include a network of 23 tele mental health centres of excellence.”Major allocations  #BUDGET #nirmala sitharaman #union budget||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/business/thrust-on-mental-healthcare-366229
02-02-2022||Vibha Sharma||Budget 2022-23: Sowing seeds of digi-farming||New Delhi, February 1Aiming to give digital push to the farm sector, the Union Government, in the Budget presented today, proposed delivery of high-tech services to agriculturists in public-private partnership mode and use of ‘Kisan Drones’ for multiple activities.Even as the FM laid emphasis on promoting agri diversification through adoption of technology in allied sectors, experts questioned her ‘silence’ on the assurance made to farmers by BJP top guns on doubling their income by ’22The government laid emphasis on diversification through farm-based start-ups and promoting chemical-free natural farming throughout the country, with special focus on 5-km stretches on the banks of the Ganga in the first stage of the scheme.Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman said the government would promote the use of ‘Kisan Drones’ for crop assessment, digitisation of land records and spraying of insecticides. A fund with blended capital, raised under co-investment model, will also be facilitated through NABARD to finance start-ups for agriculture and rural enterprise, relevant for farm produce value chain.“The activities for these start-ups will include support for FPOs (farmer producer organisations), machinery for farmers on rental basis at farm level and developing technology, including IT-based support,” she said. Sitharaman said the government would procure 1,208 lakh tonnes of wheat and paddy from 163 lakh farmers at minimum support price (MSP) during the current fiscal. “About Rs 2.37 lakh crore will be paid directly into the accounts of farmers as MSP,” she said.As 2023 has been announced as the International Year of Millets, she said, the government would support post-harvest support for enhancing domestic consumption of millet products. The FM said to reduce the dependence on imports of edible oils, a rationalised and comprehensive scheme to increase domestic production of oilseeds would be implemented.There, however, was no word in the Budget speech on doubling the income of farmers by 2022, as had been “assured” by top BJP leaders, including Prime Minister Narendra Modi. “This is really disappointing,” said farm experts, also pointing to “reduced” MSP and other subsidies.Asserting that all expectations from the Budget had “come crashing down”, agriculture expert Devinder Sharma said: “They should have told us what happened to the assurance of doubling farm income by 2022. What about legalising MSP? Rather, the MSP allocation has been cut from Rs 2.48 lakh crore to 2.37 lakh crore,” he maintained.Prof Sudhir Panwar, agriculture expert and former member of the Uttar Pradesh Planning Commission, said after the repeal of the three farm laws, the government “seemed to have preferred the status quo approach”.Scheme AllocationPlan for land record management States will be encouraged to adopt Unique Land Parcel Identification Number to facilitate IT-based management of records. The linkage with the National Generic Document Registration System with the ‘One Nation, One Registration Software’ will be promoted.Budget break-upUnprecedentedThe provisions made for agricultural diversification, promotion of organic farming, Kisan Drones, irrigation and agricultural research will bring about a paradigm shift in the farm sector. — Narendra Singh Tomar, Agriculture Minister||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/business/sowing-seeds-of-digi-farming-366222
02-02-2022||New Delhi||Budget 2022-23: Tap water supply to 3.8 crore households||The Jal Shakti Ministry has been allocated Rs 86,189 crore, an increase of 24 per cent from Rs 69,052 crore in 2021-22. The Drinking Water and Sanitation Department has been allocated Rs 67,221 crore while 18,967.88 crore has been earmarked for “Water Resources, River Development and Ganga Rejuvenation”.The Finance Minister said Rs 60,000 crore had been allocated to provide tap water connections to 3.8 crore households in 2022-23 under the Jal Jeevan Mission.  #BUDGET #nirmala sitharaman #union budget||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/business/tap-water-supply-to-3-8-crore-households-366217
02-02-2022||---||No crypto law, but 30% tax on digital assets||NEW DELHI, FEBRUARY 1Despite the absence of a law on cryptocurrencies and lack of clarity on their regulation, Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman proposed a 30 per cent tax on any income from the transfer of virtual digital assets in the Union Budget.The crypto ecosystem welcomed the proposal as it felt this measure was one step towards legitimising its use. However, some felt it will adversely impact investment and dealing in digital assets.Sitharaman justified the tax because there has been a phenomenal increase in transactions in virtual digital assets which have made it imperative to provide for a specific tax regime.There will also be no deduction in respect of any expenditure or allowance except the cost of acquisition while computing this income. Also, the loss from transfer of virtual digital assets cannot be set off against any other income. Estimates put the number of crypto investors between 1.5 and 2 crore.In order to capture the transaction details, Sitharaman also proposed TDS on payment made for transfer of virtual digital at 1%. Gift of virtual digital assets is also proposed to be taxed in the hands of the recipient, she said. Security agencies have expressed concerns over the misuse of digital coins on Dark Web for terror acts, drugs trafficking and money laundering.Gift recipient also to be taxed #BUDGET #cryptocurrencies #nirmala sitharaman||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/business/no-crypto-law-but-30-tax-on-digital-assets-366216
02-02-2022||Sandeep Dikshit||Union Budget 2022-23: Capex push||New Delhi, February 1The Union Budget has proposed Rs 2 lakh crore increase in government capital expenditure and extended Rs 1 lakh crore interest-free loan to states in order to target growth of 8.2 per cent in 2022-23. With anticipated growth of 9.2 per cent in the current fiscal, the economy would have recovered 101.3 per cent of the pre-pandemic output of 2019-20 by March 31, 2022.Also read: No crypto law, but 30% tax on digital assetsSeven focus areasPM Gati Shakti I Inclusive Development I Productivity Enhancement I Sunrise Opportunities I Energy Transition I Climate Action I Financing of investmentsPresenting the Rs 39.45 lakh crore Budget in the Lok Sabha, the Union Finance Minister left personal income tax rates untouched, increased tax deductions for investments in national pension schemes for government employees but imposed a 30 per cent tax on income from virtual digital assets. In an attempt to enthuse the real estate sector, long-term capital gains tax has been capped at 15 per cent instead of the earlier band of 15 to 35 per cent.Editorial: Focus on spending: Budget banks on infra push to sustain economic recoveryThere was little room for concession as the fiscal deficit for 2021-22 slipped by 0.1 per cent to 6.9 per cent and is projected at 6.4 per cent in 2022-23. Moreover, interest payment and servicing of debt rose by Rs 1.26 lakh crore to nearly Rs 9.5 lakh crore in 2022-23. While sops for the middle class were few, the big picture from the Budget was the increase in outlay for capital expenditure by 35.4 per cent to Rs 7.5 lakh crore in 2022-23 with Sitharaman claiming that the effective capital expenditure will be Rs 10.68 lakh crore, or 4.1 per cent of the GDP. As joblessness became a concern and privatisation its subtext, the target from disinvestment for 2022-23 is a scaled down Rs 65,000 crore and instead of the Rs 1.75 lakh crore budgeted for 2021-22 , the realisation was Rs 78,000 crore.A hike of Rs 1 lakh crore is for extending National Highways by 25,000 km, an extra Rs 20,000 crore in capital expenditure for the Railways and Rs 1.5 lakh crore for the defence sector. And, a Gati Shakti masterplan will guide big private investment in seven sectors of the Rs 100 lakh crore National Infrastructure Pipeline. These are roads, railways, airports, ports, mass transport, waterways, and logistics infrastructure.SENSEX SURGES 848.40 POINTS2nd session of gains in rowCLOSES AT 58,862.57Hoping to evoke a matching response from the private sector to spur job creation, the government extended the production linked incentive scheme (PLI) to the manufacturing of solar modules. The Budget also extended for one year the concessional corporate tax of 15 per cent on newly incorporated manufacturing companies.Looking into the difficulties faced by the industry, the Budget announced the scrapping of anti-dumping duty on certain steel products from China.All talk of 100 smart cities in the earlier Budgets was replaced by the announcement of a high-level panel to be set up for urban planning, new and modern building bylaws and increased promotion of public transport in urban areas. Similarly, there was no mention of doubling farmers’ income. Instead, the Budget spoke of “a wave of technology in agri sector’’ such as kisan drones, natural farming along the Ganga river corridor and six projects on river interlinking, including the Rs 44,605 Ken-Betwa plan.In the social sector, Rs 60,000 crore will be allocated for access to tap water to 3.8 crore households and 80 lakh houses will be completed in 2022-23 under PM Awas Yojana. The allotment for MGNREGA remained nearly equal to that of last year’s Rs 73,000 crore despite revised estimates for the current year coming at Rs 98,000.Proposals at a glance39.45 lakh cr: Total expenditure outlayRs11.6 lakh cr: Govt to borrow from marketInfra & manufacturingNational highway network to be expanded by 25,000 km100 PM Gati Shakti terminals to be set up in next three yearsHousing & urban planningRs48,000 crore allotted for Prime Minister Awas YojanaIn 2022-23, 80 lakh houses will be completed under the YojanaTaxation & NPS accountUpdated Income Tax returns can be filed within two yearsSurcharge on long-term capital gains capped at 15%Tax deduction limit increased to 14% on employers’ contribution to NPS account of state government employeesAgriculture sector2022-23 has been announced International Year of MilletsTelecommunicationSpectrum auction in 2022 for rollout of 5G networkContract for optical fibre in villages under BharatNet, PPP modeCOSTLIER: Umbrellas I Imitation jewellery I X-ray machines I Parts of electronic toys I Headphones I Imported items I Solar cellsCheaper: Apparel I PCs/laptops I Cut & polished diamonds I Methyl alcohol I Cocoa beans I Cellphone camera lens I Phone chargersMinistry-wise allocations (Rs. crore)(source Budget document)Looking 25 years onThis Budget gives the blueprint to steer economy over Amrit Kaal: from India at 75 to India at 100. — Nirmala Sitharaman, Finance Minister #BUDGET #nirmala sitharaman #union budget||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/business/union-budget-2022-23-capex-push-366214
02-02-2022||New Delhi||Budget gives massive push for capex to revive demand, create jobs||The Union Budget has proposed Rs 2 lakh increase in Government capital expenditure and extended a Rs 1 lakh interest-free loan to states in order to target growth of 8.2 per cent in 2022-23.With anticipated growth of 9.2 per cent in the current fiscal, the economy would have recovered 101.3 per cent of the pre-pandemic output of 2019-20 by March 31, 2022.Read alsoHoping to evoke a matching response from the private sector to spur job creation, the Government extended the production linked scheme (PLI) to manufacturing of solar modules. The allocation of Rs 19,500 crore will add to the PLI announced for Rs 3,46,827 crore on these 14 PLI schemes. The Budget also extended for one year the concessional corporate tax of 15 per cent on newly incorporated manufacturing companies.Presenting the Budget in Lok Sabha, the Union Finance Minister left personal income tax rates untouched, increased tax deductions for investments in national pension schemes for government employees but imposed a 30 per cent tax on income from virtual digital assets.In an attempt to enthuse the real estate sector, long term capital gains tax has been capped at 15 per cent instead of the earlier band of 15 to 35 per cent.There was little room for concession as the fiscal deficit for 2021-22 slipped by 0.1 per cent to 6.9 per cent and is projected at 6.4 per cent in 2022-23. Moreover, interest payment and servicing of debt rose by Rs 1.26 lakh crore to nearly Rs 9.5 lakh crore in 2022-23.While sops for the middle class were few, the big picture from the Rs 39.50 lakh crore Budget was the increase in outlay for capital expenditure by 35.4 per cent to Rs 7.5 lakh crore in 2022-23 with Sitharaman claiming that the effective capital expenditure will be Rs 10.68 lakh crore, or 4.1 per cent of GDP.As joblessness became a concern and privatisation its subtext, the target from disinvestment for 2022-23 is a scaled down Rs 65,000 crore and instead of the Rs 1.75 lakh crore budgeted for 2021-22 , the realisation was Rs 78,000 crore.Of this, a hike of Rs 1 lakh crore is for extending National Highways by 25,000 km, an extra Rs 20,000 crore in capital expenditure for the railways and Rs 1.5 lakh crore for the defence sector. And, a Gati Shakti masterplan will guide big private investment in seven sectors of the Rs 100 lakh crore National Infrastructure Pipeline. These are roads, railways, airports, ports, mass transport, waterways, and logistics infrastructure.In a nod to the difficulties faced by the industry, the Budget announced the scrapping of anti-dumping duty on certain steel products from China.All talk of 100 smart cities in the earlier Budgets was replaced by the announcement of a high-level panel to be set up for urban planning, new and modern building by-laws and increased promotion of public transport in urban areas. Similarly, there was no mention of doubling farmers’ income. Instead the Budget spoke of “a wave of technology in agri sector” such as kisan drones, natural farming along the Ganga river corridor and interlinking of six rivers including the Rs 44,605 Ken-Betwa project.In the social sector, Rs 60,000 crore will be allocated for access to tap water to 3.8 crore households and 80 lakh houses will be completed in 2022-23 under PM Awas Yojana. The allotment for MNREGA remained nearly equal that of last year’s Rs 73,000 crore despite revised estimates for the current year coming at Rs 98,000.The newly-minted Ministry of Cooperation under Amit Shah received Rs 900-crore while the Alternate Minimum Tax (AMT) on cooperative societies was cut to 15 per cent and surcharge to 7 per cent.  #UnionBudget||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/business/budget-gives-massive-push-for-capex-to-revive-demand-create-jobs-366198
02-02-2022||New Delhi||Budget 2022: Centre to borrow more to spend more||The central government will borrow about Rs 11.6 lakh crore from the market in 2022-23 to keep on the course of its plans to maintain the expenditure for its social welfare schemes and fund the ambitious capital outlay proposed for 2022-23. This is nearly Rs 2 lakh crore higher than the current fiscal’s estimate of Rs 9.7 lakh crore.In order to earn gross tax revenues of Rs. 27.50 lakh crore in 2022-23, the central government is pinning its hopes on increasing GST revenue to Rs. 7.83 lakh crore from Rs. 6.78 lakh crore in the current fiscal. This means an increase of Rs 1 lakh crore on the expectation of a further uptick in economic activity. The other major tax is from income and other expenditures. The Government expects to garner Rs. 14 lakh crore in 2022-23 from Rs. 12.30 lakh crore or a rise of Rs. 1.7 lakh crore.“The Budgetlacks any tangible measures to increase revenue generation even though capital expenditure plans have gone up significantly and the fiscal deficit estimate suggests that the government is relying too much on strong growth to help drive fiscal consolidation,’’ said rating agency Moody’s.Already, interest payment will rise from Rs. 83,7186 crore to Rs. 97,000 crore in 2022-23 and repayment of debt will rise to Rs. 7 lakh crore from Rs. 6 lakh crore.Gross borrowing for 2022-23 will be Rs 14.95 lakh crore as against Rs 12 lakh crore budget estimate for 2021-22. For the current financial year, gross borrowing has been revised downwards by nearly Rs 2 lakh crore to Rs 10,46,500 crore. Some of this has been achieved by rolling over bonds worth Rs. 1.2 lakh crore that were due for payment.Gross borrowing includes interest and repayment of past loans which will reach 9.4 lakh crore in 2022-23 as against Rs. 8.13 lakh crore in the current fiscal. #Budget2022||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/business/budget-2022-centre-to-borrow-more-to-spend-more-366187
02-02-2022||New Delhi||Budget: 30 per cent tax on income from cryptocurrency, virtual assets; 1 per cent TDS on buy/sale||Giving clarity on taxation of cryptocurrencies and other virtual assets, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Tuesday proposed a 30 per cent tax on income from transactions in such assets.Also, to bring such assets under the tax net, she proposed a 1 per cent TDS (tax deducted at source) on transactions in such asset classes above a certain threshold.Gifts in crypto and digital assets will also be taxed, she said.The tax proposals will come into effect from April 1 after the passage of the Union Budget in Parliament.Meeting demands from large sections of industry, she said the RBI will launch a 'Digital Rupee' based on blockchain technology in 2022-23.Experts said the 30 per cent tax levied on income arising from the sale of cryptocurrency is similar to the tax rate on winnings from lottery, game shows, puzzles etc.Digital currency and assets like NFTs (non-fungible tokens) have gained traction globally over the last couple of years. Trading in these assets has increased manifold with cryptocurrency exchanges being launched. However, India did not have a clear policy on either regulating or taxing such asset classes.NFTs are unique digital assets with verified ownership rights and the details are stored on a blockchain.Nangia Andersen India Chairman Rakesh Nangia said the government has walked the talk on a stable and predictable tax regime and transfer of virtual digital assets have been brought under the taxation ambit.  #Budget2022 #cryptocurrency||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/business/budget-30-pc-tax-on-income-from-cryptocurrency-virtual-assets-1-pc-tds-on-buy-sale-366139
02-02-2022||New Delhi||India to get its own digital currency by RBI next year: FM||Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Tuesday announced the launch of India's own digital currency by the RBI next year that will be based on Blockchain technology, while the much-expected Cryptocurrency Bill is yet to see the light of the day.With this, India will join certain countries that have their own central bank digital currency (CBDC) that refers to the virtual form of a fiat currency."Digital rupee to be issued using Blockchain and other technologies by the RBI starting 2022-23. This will give a big boost to the economy," said Sitharaman in her Union Budget 2022-23 speech in Parliament.The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has already been deliberating upon various aspects relating to the central bank digital currency and private crypto currencies.The central bank has been working on modalities for central bank digital currency. However, it has expressed reservations on private cryptocurrencies.RBI Governor Shaktikanta Das has already said that cryptocurrencies are a very serious concern from the macro-economic and financial stability perspective.CBDCs are presently mostly in the hypothetical stage, with some in proof-of-concept programmes.However, more than 80 per cent of central banks are looking at digital currencies.China's digital RMB was the first digital currency to be issued by a major economy. On September 27, 2021, Tajikistan announced the creation of a CBDC with the Fantom Foundation, and Nigeria was the first African country to launch its CBDC on October 25.The Bank of America said in its recent report that a US CBDC would differ from the digital money currently available to the public because it would be a liability of the US Federal Reserve, not a commercial bank, and so would have no credit or liquidity risk.The US Fed has also published a discussion paper on the benefits and risks of a CBDC.Earlier, the Indian government was slated to introduce new regulations for cryptocurrency during the Winter Session of Parliament, which kicked off on November 29.The session ended without seeing the 'The Cryptocurrency and Regulation of Official Digital Currency Bill, 2021'.--IANS #Budget2022 #cryptocurrencies||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/business/india-to-gets-its-own-digital-currency-by-rbi-next-year-fm-366120
