20-04-2021||Patna||‘Govt working overtime to smoothen oxygen supply, Remdesivir orders placed’: Bihar health minister||Amid a shortage of medical oxygen and Remdesivir anti-viral drug reported from various parts of Bihar, including capital city Patna, state health minister Mangal Pandey on Monday said efforts were underway to ensure adequate supplies and the situation is being monitored daily.“We are increasing the supply of oxygen but the situation is still not such that the private hospitals could keep stock. Our priority is to ensure regular daily supply. Some of the hospitals want to keep stock but that is not possible at present as the demand is growing everywhere in the country. No forecasts can be made about the pandemic which has stumped us all,” said Pandey.The minister said that three tankers of liquid oxygen had arrived on Saturday, followed by five on Sunday and seven are likely to arrive by Monday evening. He said the administration is expecting a further increase in the demand in the days to come.“There is no fixed requirement at present. A requirement of a patient for eight litres of oxygen could drop to four litres or increase to 16 litres from morning to evening. The number of patients in hospitals also varies. But we are doing everything possible to ensure the supply of oxygen. The oxygen plants at the PMCH, NMCH and DMCH are also functional but they too have a limited capacity of 40-50 cylinders,” he added.The minister said that efforts were also underway to ensure the supply of Remdesivir. “I have also urged Union chemical and fertilizer minister Mansukh Mandaviya for some extra procurement for Bihar and he has assured all help. I am also directly in touch with the companies producing Remdesivir. The centre has already capped the price, stopped export and given permission for doubling production. All this will work,” he added.The minister said that 1,200 vials of Remdesivir have been received while the government has already ordered 50,000 more through the Bihar medical services and infrastructure corporation Limited (BMSICL). “The supplies are also regulated as it is provided only on doctors’ prescription and Aadhaar Card,” he added, ruling out any possibility of black marketing due to limited and regulated supply.The acting superintendent of the Nalanda Medical College Hospital (NMCH), Dr Vinod Kumar Singh, wrote to the health department last week to relieve him of the additional charge due to a shortage of oxygen cylinders in the state’s first dedicated Covid hospital. However, since then, the situation has improved at the NMCH, which now plans to increase the number of beds.While Singh wrote about the oxygen shortage, many other hospitals in the state capital are battling a huge shortage of oxygen and ventilators. Many private hospitals in Patna also discharged patients due to lack of oxygen or pasted notice that they could discharge patients if the stocks don’t arrive in time. Those who can afford are also taking patients to Delhi by air ambulance.Many suppliers of oxygen cylinders are also at their wit’s end, as those taking cylinders are not returning. “We were providing oxygen cylinders to the needy on a humanitarian basis. We had 42 cylinders and all have gone and now nobody is returning as they fear they would not get it again if they require it. We cannot supply to others,” said Sanjeev Deora of Marwari Seva Samiti.One of the biggest private hospitals in Patna, Ruban Hospital, is also facing the heat with a huge rush of patients. “We increased our capacity to 160 beds but we have 175 patients. For oxygen supply, the administration had been helping us but we lack ventilators as most of the patients reach here in critical condition. We have just 40. I have urged even the central authorities to arrange ventilators or divert from those places where they are lying unused. Now, oxygen cylinders are also in short supply while the number of patients is spiralling,” said Dr Satyajeet Singh, proprietor of the hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/govt-working-overtime-to-smoothen-oxygen-supply-remedesivir-orders-placed-bihar-health-minister-101618926638496.html
20-04-2021||Patna||Bihar unveils interest-free incentive scheme to promote women entrepreneurs||Bihar government on Monday cleared the release of ₹200 crore under the Mukhyamantri Mahila Udyami Yojana, a scheme to encourage entrepreneurship among women through cash subsidies and interest-free loans, each up to ₹5 lakh, for starting a business. This was part of Nitish Kumar’s chief pre-poll promises, popularised as Seven Resolves part-2, said state officials.Two other similar schemes were also approved by the state cabinet chaired by chief minister Nitish Kumar on Tuesday, which aim to encourage entrepreneurship among the scheduled castes/scheduled tribes and extremely backward classes and also amongst the young population of all castes. The state cabinet also approved the release of ₹400 crore for these schemes on the same day. The beneficiaries of the three schemes, except the women and those from the SC/ST category, will be charged token 1% interest on the loans provided. All the beneficiaries are deemed to pay back the loan in 84 equal monthly instalments after one year of the cash transfer, said officials. The three schemes were among the nine proposals of different departments, which were approved by the cabinet.Additional chief secretary, industries, Brijesh Mehrotra said the cash incentive will be doled out in two instalments in the current fiscal depending on the business needs and the old practice of releasing at least three instalments will be discontinued. The candidates will get three months to apply for the scheme possibly after May 15.Social analyst Tarkeshwar Ojha said the Nitish Kumar government was generous with innovating schemes but they didn’t have the desired impact since doing business in the state was not easy owing to “deterioration in law and order, high cost of land and bureaucratic red-tape”.Akhilesh Kumar, an automobile dealer says there were only 240 women among the 21,112 applicants, who applied for incentive under the CM’s rural transport scheme launched in 2020. He feared women may not again participate in huge numbers in the new scheme. “Schemes for other classes might be lapped up in the job-scarce state like Bihar,” he added.Media in-charge of Bihar Pradesh Congress Committee (BPCC) Rajesh Rathore alleged that the government had failed miserably in keeping up its employment-generation promises. “What happened to the CM’s call to provide jobs to all migrants during their return last year? They had to leave the state... Bihar would have developed a lot, had the government been sincere in executing even 5% of the cabinet decisions,” claimed the Congress leader.Janata Dal (Unite) leader and former minister Neeraj Kumar, however, dismissed the allegations and stated that Nitish Kumar was committed to “honest implementation” of the project. “And seven resolves are the schemes that the CM is committed to implement. He has been monitoring their implementation personally,” he said.In other important decisions taken on Tuesday, the cabinet raised the state contingency fund to ₹8,732.10 crore from the existing limit of ₹350 crore. The transport department’s proposal to incentivise the retailers of vehicles for selling registration numbers of choice also got its approval.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-unveils-interest-free-incentive-scheme-to-promote-women-entrepreneurship-101618918777818.html
20-04-2021||Patna||Bihar battles Covid-19: Shops in Patna to follow odd-even formula||Patna administration has ordered shops in the district to open on three days a week following an odd-even formula and it also staggered the timings of their operation to prevent crowding amid the alarming surge in Covid-19 cases in Bihar. The state reported 7,487 new Covid-19 cases on Monday including 2,672 in Patna alone, said officials.Patna district magistrate (DM) Chandrashekhar Singh on Monday divided all shops into three categories and said essential commodity-related businesses will now be allowed to operate daily till 6pm, an hour less than the earlier deadline of 7pm. These include outlets selling medicines, grocery, vegetables, automobile parts, construction materials, petrol pumps, e-commerce and telecom operations.Put in the second category, shops selling electrical goods, furniture and jewellery and saloons are allowed to operate on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays, while shops dealing in clothes, footwear, utensils, sports and agriculture equipment will be allowed to operate on Tuesdays, Thursdays and Saturdays.A team of officials will monitor the implementation, the DM said. “Residents should buy commodities from their nearest area. Wearing a face mask is mandatory for all. Shop owners are responsible for maintaining social distancing at their shops. Those shops found violating norms will be shut down.”All educational institutions, cinema halls, shopping malls, clubs, gymnasiums, stadiums and parks in the district will remain closed till May 15, said Singh.“No university or college will conduct any exam during the closure period. Educational institutions are supposed to only conduct online classes,” he added. All government offices have been ordered to close by 5pm and night curfew will be in force from 9pm to 5am during the period. However, there is no restriction on inter-district or interstate movement. The order comes in the backdrop of an unprecedented spurt in Covid-19 cases in the last one month and the addition of 8,690 new cases in the last 24 hours, taking the tally of active cases closer to 50,000 in the state. Chief Minister Nitish Kumar ruled out a lockdown in the state and asked district officials to take measures to ensure there was no crowding and Covid-appropriate behaviour was followed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-battles-covid-19-shops-in-patna-to-follow-odd-even-formula-101618901498716.html
