22-04-2021||Patna||Bihar relying on MGNREGS to employ migrants returning from big cities||Bihar government has directed that all migrant workers returning to the state amid the second wave of Covid-19 infections are given job passes and work under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA) among other central schemes, said officials.C P Khanduja, director and commissioner, MGNREGA, said the rural development department has already received approval for creating 20 crore man-days of work under the scheme for the new fiscal year and plan to raise it to 30 crore man-days anticipating higher work demand due to the influx of migrants. Respective district magistrates (DMs) have been given the responsibility to gainfully employ the returnees, said the official.MGNREGA guarantees a minimum 100 days of unskilled work to rural households at wages fixed by the Centre. The central scheme was extensively used last year to provide temporary jobs to many of the roughly 2.5 million migrants who returned home during the Covid-induced lockdown last year. Bihar, home to one of the largest migrant workforce, is again relying on the scheme to engage migrants returning from industrialised states such as Delhi, Maharashtra and Haryana during the ongoing second wave of the virus.Khanduja said funds were not a problem now since the Central government was expected to release ₹1,000 crore as wage instalment for 5 crore man-days in the first quarter. A MGNREGA man-day refers to a day of work provided to a beneficiary under the scheme.In generating man-days, Bihar was much behind fellow states like Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal and Rajasthan with huge migrant populations.In the last fiscal Bihar created 22 crore man-days; whereas UP created 39 crore, Bengal 41 crore and Rajasthan 45 crore.“We performed as per our target,” Khanduja said, adding there were issues regarding delayed fund flows from the Centre in January and February this year. “The state’s government initially targeted 18 crore man-days in the last fiscal, which was revised to 20 crore man-days. In February, it was revised to 22 crore,” he said.Khanduja said Bihar created 7 crore man-days in May and June last year, which was a record of sorts. “It shows there was high job creation when migrants were returning home after the Covid-19 lockdown was imposed,” he said.The opposition however pointed out that a very few migrant workers got 100 man-days of work under the scheme even last year. State Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) president and former minister Jagdanand Singh said the scheme failed to meet the job demand of the migrants due to “flawed implementation” and alleged “discrepancies” at the block and panchayat levels.“...The government is not able to provide 100 days of work to even 10% of job card holders as against the number of those registered because there are a lot of gaps in the system of work demand by labourers. There is no transparency,” he said.The MGNREGA commissioner said low wages under the scheme in comparison to the wages offered by the state government was a big reason for lesser job demand. As against ₹198 per man-day under the scheme, unskilled labourers were paid ₹304/day by the state, as per the revision effective from April 1, 2021.Singh doesn’t agree fully, he says a lot needs to be fixed in the implementation of the scheme before raising the wage question.“Government should first tell whether the panchayat bhawans maintain registers detailing how many people sought jobs? ... Besides, why does the government not publicise the projects to be undertaken at the local level to attract workers? Has the state taken up the issue of low wage rate under MGNREGS with the Central government despite Bihar’s rate being much lower than many other states?,” Singh questioned.Education minister Vijay Kumar Chaudhary, when asked about the state’s lower rating in terms of man-days, said, “There has been a quantum jump in job card holders and work has been given as per demand.”Professor Nawal Kishore Choudhary, noted economist and former principal of Patna College, said the man-days generated by Bihar last fiscal shows the government has lagged behind in giving jobs under the MGNREGS.“Bihar is largely a migrant state and creating only 22 crore man-days of work was a poor show in the face of huge inflow of migrants,” he said. He also pointed out that dependence on MGNREGS is flawed since the job guarantee scheme was meant for unskilled workers, whereas many returning migrants were skilled and semi-skilled workers.‘Government had carried a skill mapping but no white paper was issued on how many jobs have been created and employment provided to semi-skilled and skilled workers in the last one year. The migrant problem is persisting because semi-skilled and skilled workers are not getting matching jobs and the MGNREGS is unable to fully absorb the unskilled workers,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-relying-on-mgnregs-to-employ-migrants-returning-from-big-cities-101619080189775.html
22-04-2021||Patna||500 doctors, health workers at top Patna hospitals infected in second Covid wave||More than 500 doctors and health workers of the two leading hospitals in Patna -- AIIMS and Patna Medical College and Hospital (PMCH) -- have been infected with coronavirus during the ongoing second wave, sources said.Altogether, 384 employees of AIIMS Patna, including doctors, nurses, sanitation workers, have been infected during the second wave so far, its Medical Superintendent CM Singh told PTI. PMCH Superintendent Dr Indu Sekhar Thakur said more than 125 of its employees have tested positive so far.He said the list includes 70 doctors and over 55 nurses and other health workers.AIIMS and PMCH along with another state-run medical establishment, Nalanda Medical College and Hospital, are catering to a large number of Covid patients in the state capital. The PMCH superintendent said that the hospital authorities have arranged separate isolation spaces for its infected employees.PMCH, the century-old premier hospital of Bihar, has a facility of around 105 beds for Covid patients barring its staff and all are occupied at present, Thakur said.AIIMS Patna has expanded its bed capacity to 250 and all the beds are occupied. The PMCH superintendent said that due to the infection of many staffers, the hospital is facing a manpower shortage."But since leave of all the staff has been cancelled, we are managing the functioning of the Covid wards," he said.Meanwhile, the Bihar chapter of the Indian Medical Association (IMA) has published a list of 40 doctors across the state with their phone numbers for assistance to the needy. "Our doctors are providing treatment over the phone to patients who are primarily in home isolation," its state president Dr Shahjanand Singh said.Singh, a surgeon, is himself on the list of doctors helping the needy during the crisis. The IMA Bihar chief said these doctors are available over the phone from 10 am-12 noon and 4-6 pm.Bihar is witnessing a second surge of coronavirus like the rest of the country. As per the health bulletin issued on Wednesday, a total of 12,222 more people tested positive, while 56 lost their lives due to the deadly disease. The state has a total of 3,54,281 Covid cases while the death toll stands at 1,897 Bihar has 63,745 active cases of coronavirus at present.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/500-doctors-health-workers-at-top-patna-hospitals-infected-in-second-covid-wave-101619070608984.html
22-04-2021||Patna||‘No beds,’ say packed Patna hospitals amid Covid-19 spike||Amid the surging Covid-19 cases, finding a bed in a hospital with oxygen facility is turning out to be an impossibility in Patna, which has four medical college hospitals, something few cities in the country can match, besides the private nursing homes, registered or unregistered.HT visited at least 15 hospitals and almost everywhere it found notices announcing “no beds” put up prominently.“I had to first buy an oxygen cylinder for ₹18,000 and then admit my husband to a private nursing home, as no nursing home was ready to admit him due to uncertainty of oxygen supply. One of them agreed on the condition that oxygen supply would be my concern. In the government hospitals, seats are only available for VVIPs,” said Kavita Srivastava, a resident of Friends Colony.Oxygen supply is a big concern for private hospitals. Kin of several patients are already weighing options of shifting them to Delhi. “You ask the government, and they say everything is fine, while the situation is so bad that even for a thermometer or a steam inhaler, one has to keep running from one medical shop to another, let alone oxygen,” said Ravish Kumar, a resident of Patna City area.Ravish Narayan (48), a Covid-19 patient and a resident of Danapur, had to face an even more harrowing ordeal. After his health deteriorated on Tuesday evening, his family rushed him to a leading hospital near their residence in Rajabazar area. Despite their pleas, they were advised to take him home. “There is no vacant bed, and he will be managed better at home,” they were told.As the night progressed, his condition worsened, with oxygen levels dipping to dangerous levels, leaving him gasping for every breath that he took. Their efforts to find “a bed with oxygen cylinder” also failed in hospitals. After hundreds of frantic phone calls to friends and beyond, Narayan was finally accommodated at a private hospital. Currently, he is struggling for life.The attendant of another patient said he had to cough up ₹54,000 for a Remdesivir injection. “I paid as I needed it. My doctor had asked for it. I was left with no choice but to pay. Remdesivir has become like liquor in dry Bihar. It is officially not available, but the black market provides the facility of home delivery. What I am saying is no hearsay. I have myself paid for it and I am thankful that the black market at least makes it available,” he says, not wishing to be identified.With the number of fresh Covid-19 cases creating a record each day, the situation is likely to aggravate further. AIIMS is the first choice for patients in Patna, but it has limited number of beds and VVIPs hardly leave enough space for common people.Rajabazar’s private hospital was packed to capacity on Wednesday when HT visited the facility. “There’s no bed at all,” a hospital employee on duty said. At AIIMS, patients and attendants were seen waiting for admission, without success.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/no-beds-say-packed-patna-hospitals-amid-covid-19-spike-101619030324593.html
