23-04-2021||Patna||Bihar presents its oxygen plan in HC||The Patna High Court on Friday said there is deficiency in supply of medical oxygen for treating Covid-19 patients in Bihar and directed that the shortfall be met through proper coordination between the state and the Centre at the earliest.Presenting its action plan, including status of oxygen supply before the court, the Bihar government’s senior counsel, Ranjit Kumar, told the bench of Justice Chakradhari Sharan Singh and Justice Mohit Kumar Shah that adequate oxygen was available as per the requirement of existing oxygenated beds, while it is striving for more in view of increase in demand due to spike in Covid-19 positive cases.Additional solicitor general KN Singh said the Centre has allocated 194 metric tonnes (MT) of medical oxygen to the state, which the state would require to lift. “However, so far the state was getting less supply, may be due to logistics problems,” he said.The counsel for the state government said the state was also planning to augment oxygen availability, including by installing pressure swing absorption (PSA) oxygen plant and a proposal for this has also been sent to the Centre. Earlier, the state government had demanded 300 MT from the Centre.“At present, PMCH and NMCH plants produce oxygen at the rate of 300 litres per minute, while Darbhanga, Muzaffarpur, Bettiah and Madhepura medical college and hospitals have a capacity of 280 liters per minute. Besides, Pawapuri hospital will have its functional from May 1, while those at Gaya and Bhagalpur will get operational from May 21. Together, the capacity will go up to 2620 litres per minute,” he said.The bench, however, told the state counsel to let the people know what the state has and what it does not have in the public domain through portal and newspaper advertisements. It also sought to knwo why the state suffered shortage mid-April when it claims no shortage today.The court had earlier sought to know the state action plan, including availability and the mode and manner in which the state planned to supply to different dedicated Covid hospitals and dedicated Covid healthcare centres, as also private hospitals. The shortage of oxygen was also corroborated by the report of the registrar general of the HC on the death of Gagan Mishra, an HC officer, reportedly, because of unavailability of oxygen in various hospitals in the city of Patna. The court had asked for a report.Taking serious note of the facts mentioned in the report regarding the paucity of oxygen in the State, which is a crucial medical requirement and an essential critical component for treatment of COVID-19 patients, the bench had requested Ranjit Kumar to seek detailed instructions from the State of Bihar in respect of the effective steps which have been taken and are proposed to be taken to tide over the situation arising out of reported acute shortage of medicinal oxygen in the state of Bihar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bihar-presents-its-oxygen-plan-in-hc-101619195817670.html
23-04-2021||Patna||HC raps state govt, orders to make public available Covid beds at NMCH||The Patna High Court has directed the state government to make it public that all the 500 beds at the state’s first dedicated Covid hospital, Nalanda Medical College Hospital (NMCH) in Patna, are open for Covid-19 patients. Just two days ago, the court was told that he NMCH had 160 beds and that the hospital found it tough even to manage that number due to shortage of oxygen supply. Its acting superintendent even threatened to resign on the issue. However, the Bihar State Human Rights Commission (BSHRC), which was directed by the HC to get an inspection of the NMCH done, told the court Wednesday evening that there were 500 beds, including 400 with oxygen facility and 70 ventilators, available at the hospital, as all the non-Covid patients had left, while 175 were occupied with Covid patients. Surprised, the bench of Justice Chakradhari Sharan Singh and Justice Mohit Kumar Shah asked as to why there was bed shortage when the NMCH alone had 500 beds available. “Telling the court that 325 beds for Covid patients are vacant at NMCH is farce, absolute farce. If 325 beds are vacant, make it public It will be a big help. People don’t know if it is really so,” the court said and the state government’s counsel Ranjit Kumar to ensure information about vacant beds at the NMCH was made public and the status of oxygen supply was provided. The court was also informed by another counsel that on April 17, NMCH had shown a total capacity of 160 beds for Covid-19 patients, 146 general 146 and 14 ICU beds. The next hearing in the case is again scheduled for Friday. During the course of previous hearing, the court was also informed that two hospitals, namely Medanta and Rajendra Nagar Eye Hospital in Patna, are going to be utilised for admitting and treating Covid patients. ESIC Hospital at Bihta will also be fully equipped to deal with Covid rush. On Monday, the court had observed that “in the wake of this extraordinary and alarming situation prevailing in the State, different organs are required to act in unison to meet the present challenge posed by the outbreak of second wave of Covid-19 pandemic”. “Serious issues have been raised about deaths taking place in various government and private hospitals because of lack of supply of oxygen. This court cannot overlook such aspects. If the court reaches a conclusion that Covid patients have been or are being allowed to die because of lack of oxygen supply, it will surely intervene and pass appropriate orders in this regard,” the HC said. The court also took note that an officer of HC succumbed to Covid for want of oxygen supply in the hospitals. “We direct the Registrar General, Patna High Court, to submit an exhaustive report to this Court explaining in detail the circumstances in which the said HC officer died,” it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/hc-raps-state-govt-orders-to-make-public-available-covid-beds-at-nmch-101619177275523.html
