29-04-2021||Patna||Bihar oxygen crisis: Hospitals lack cryogenic tanks, not enough tankers to lift Central allotment||Bihar’s capital city, Patna, is among the few towns in the country with four medical college hospitals, besides hundreds of private nursing homes and other hospitals. However, amid the surge in Covid-19 patients, only three of such health facilities have cryogenic storage tank – a basic requirement for big hospitals, a central government report has found. As a result, full utilisation of hospital beds is not happening due to lack of oxygen supply, the report submitted to the Patna High Court. According to the report, the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (Patna), Employees’ State Insurance Corporation (ESIC) Hospital, and a private Paras Hospital in Patna have a cryogenic storage tank each for oxygen. Even old and big hospitals like PMCH, IGIMS and the state’s first dedicated Covid-19 hospital NMCH don’t have the facility. Creating new facilities will take time, the report added. The government’s announcement to convert Medanta-Jai Prabha Hospital, which has come up on the government land, into a Covid hospital has also remained a non-starter. The bench of Justice Charadhari Sharan Singh and Justice Mohit Kumar Shah was informed that Medianta did not have an oxygen supply facility at present, and it could at best ensure a 50-bed-facility. The facility created for Covid-19 patients at the Pataliputra Sports Complex also remains unused. The report stated that the Patna Medical College Hospital (PMCH) has 1750 beds but nearly 1,000 remained unused for want of oxygen, while Bihar was unable to lift its full quota of 194 mt of oxygen allocated by the Centre. In fact, Bihar has hardly lifted around 100 mt of oxygen allocated under the central quota, as it does not have tankers. At PMCH, just 450 beds out of 1750 are used for Covid-19 patients, while 50 are reserved for staff who may get infected and 250 for other ailments.With most of the hospitals dependent on oxygen cylinders for the supply, the issue of hoarding and black-marketing also came up before the bench. Some of the voluntary organisations also said they need oxygen as they have cylinders to supply to the needy. The three-member technical team had been constituted by the Centre on the directive of the Patna HC to examine the facilities available at the hospitals in Patna. The team was headed by Dr Umesh Kumar Bhadani of AIIMS, Patna. Two days ago, the Indian Medical Association (IMA) wrote to chief minister Nitish Kumar about the selective supply of oxygen to some big private hospitals and said that lack of oxygen supply could force closure of around 90 private hospitals in the city, causing risk to the lives of admitted Covid and non-Covid patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-oxygen-crisis-hospitals-lack-cryogenic-tanks-not-enough-tankers-to-lift-central-allotment-101619691762740.html
29-04-2021||Patna||In Bihar, one vice-chancellor holds charge of four universities||One vice-chancellor (VC) holding charge of four universities may not appear feasible to many but is a reality in Bihar. On Wednesday, Lalit Narayan Mishra University’s (Darbhanga) VC Professor Surendra Pratap Singh was given charge of one more university – Aryabhatta Knowledge University (AKU), Patna - to take the total number of universities under his charge to four, HT has learnt.“I am a performer. At Pataliputra University, I did what was not done in the last two-and-half years. As long as the additional charge is there, I will discharge my duties with full devotion,” he said after taking charge at AKU. The post at AKU fell vacant after pro-VC SM Karim, who was officiating as the acting VC by the Raj Bhawan, was reportedly asked to resign over the controversy surrounding the continuance Rajiv Ranjan as the registrar. Karim tendered his resignation after accepting Ranjan’s resignation. The Raj Bhawan issued the notification Wednesday, accepting Karim’s resignation as acting VC and handed over additional charge to SP Singh. The registrar at AKU is also under additional charge from another university. AKU was set up in 2010 to regulate all technical institutions by bringing them under one umbrella. It has been without a regular VC since September 20, 2020, when the term of Arun Kumar Agarwal ended. Since then, Karim had been holding the additional charge of VC. Earlier, Bihar Raj Bhawan had also given SP Singh the additional charge of Pataliputra University and Maulana Mazharul Haq Arabic and Persian University in Patna in addition to LNMU to make it four. Besides Singh, TM Bhagalpur University VC Neelima Gupta is also holding the additional charge of Munger University, while BRA Bihar University VC Hanuman Prasad Pandey holds the additional charge of Nalanda Open University (NOU). This is not the first time when any VC has been given charge of up to four universities in Bihar. It also happened during the time of former Bihar Governor late Devanand Konwar when the government and the Raj Bhawan were at loggerheads over the appointment of VCs and the matter landed up in the Supreme Court. Meanwhile, in view of the pandemic, the vice-chancellors of LNMU and TMBU have moved a proposal to the Raj Bhawan for advancing the summer vacation in universities to May. Earlier, Patna University teachers association and employees association had also approached the VC for it. However, the Raj Bhawan has not yet taken any decision on it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/in-bihar-one-vice-chancellor-holds-charge-of-four-universities-101619670941650.html
