15-07-2020||News||Why water and sanitation must remain top priorities | Opinion||Could the coronavirus pandemic be the catalyst needed to aggressively pursue the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) for water and sanitation? Water, sanitation, and hygiene (WASH) services are critical in protecting us during infectious disease outbreaks. Washing hands was one of the key messages when the Swachh Bharat Mission (SBM) goals were set five years ago. The SDGs constitute 17 main goals, most of them interconnected. But the fate of SDG-6, to “ensure availability and sustainable management of water and sanitation for all” is critical now. This contributes significantly to economic development, poverty reduction, education, and, most important, at this point in time, health.While rural India was declared open-defecation-free (ODF) on October 2, 2019, we now need to sustain the gains made under SBM to ensure that the health and hygiene benefits continue to be realised. It is critical that ODF behaviour is sustained, and every village/ward has access to solid and liquid waste management. Aligned to that, SBM Phase II both in rural and urban, brings challenges which are likely to be tougher. SDG Target 6.1 requires achieving universal and equitable access to safe and affordable drinking water for all by 2030. While this is a difficult target, the current pandemic may have encouraged governments to prioritise the supply of clean water. The government had demonstrated the willingness and vision to address water woes months ahead of the pandemic. Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi flagged the growing water crisis even as the country neared the target of achieving ODF status, and declared that around ~3.5 trillion would be spent under the Jal Jeevan Mission (JJM), aimed at providing potable water to all households by 2024.The plan was to make JJM merit-based. A contest between state governments for central funds was proposed, which meant that states would be rewarded with funds based on commitments and outcomes. Besides, the central government also announced that it would be co-opting non-governmental organisations to help village councils and their sub-committees to manage the planning and running of the local water supply system.There are challenges both because of the scale of operation of the programme as also finances, and both are turning out to be more difficult in this current crisis. Historically, only 35 million Indian rural households have access to functional tap water. We have a total of 185 million households, which means we will have to cover four times more households in the next five years. After supplying water, we need to plan for the reuse of the grey water, or discharged water. Both these would have to be taken care of through the convergence of different government schemes. A study on financial requirements and gaps for achieving the SDGs in India, conducted in 2015, at the behest of United Nations Development Programme and the ministry of environment, forest and climate change assessed that to achieve the SDG Target 6.1 would take ~4 lakh crore (2015-22) and Target 6.2 (related to sanitation and hygiene) would need ~1.56 lakh crore (2015-19). The expenditure on rural sanitation had increased at an annual growth rate of more than 20% over the last 10 years. This public financing, coupled with support from the World Bank ($1.5 billion loan for the rural mission), helped India to ensure that everyone in rural areas has access to improved sanitation, leading to the success of reduction of open defecation by 2019.Providing adequate access to sanitation facilities did not end when onsite technologies were built (twin pits and septic tanks) under the mission. SDG Target 6.2 was upgraded to include the safe disposal or offsite treatment of excreta. This meant additional resources and a new time frame. SBM Phase II addresses this in the rural context, getting positioned as a unique convergent and co-financing model wherein, apart from budgetary allocations from the Centre and states, funds will come from the 15th Finance Commission, the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS) and private sector participation. The government had declared that phase II of SBM Rural, to be implemented from 2020-21 to 2024-25, will see investment to the tune of ~1,40,000 crore.However, when things were right on track, Covid-19 struck and government budgets have gone haywire as resources have been reallocated to contain the spread of the virus and help those affected by it. So, water and sanitation have taken a back seat in the list of priorities. Based on a three-fold categorisation of ministries/departments, expenditure in several of these have been restricted to within 15-20% of that budgeted for FY21 in the April-June quarter — both SBM (Rural) and SBM (Urban) ministries fell within the 15% bracket.There is evidence that similar viruses (but no evidence yet to suggest that SARS-CoV-2) can remain infectious for days to weeks in untreated wastewater (faecal matter included). Conventional wastewater treatment processes could reduce the risk, posed by the SARS-CoV-2 virus through untreated wastewater. While there have been no reported cases of Covid-19 due to contact with faeces of an infected individual, human waste is hazardous, contains numerous pathogens and so should be safely managed in all settings during and post the pandemic.SDG Targets 6.1 and 6.2 remain relevant during this pandemic with their focus on hygiene, sanitation and provision of water, all of which impact the health of communities. Both central and state governments must direct spends to these areas — even in these difficult times.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/why-water-and-sanitation-must-remain-top-priorities/story-cd1AXNdjJh82S8gu1FrjPK.html
15-07-2020||News||Covid-19: From the US, lessons on what not to do | Opinion||The United States (US), which has the most expensive health care infrastructure in the world, remains, by far, the country most affected by the coronavirus pandemic with more than 3.5 million cases and around 140,000 fatalities as of July 15. Sadly, more than six months after the onset of the pandemic, the US appears to be far from flattening the infections curve.These problematic conditions were created by a seriously flawed response to Covid-19 from its initial identification until today. There were 10 major deficiencies, all of which provide lessons on what not to do. One, decisions were made politically, rather than scientifically. This failure began at the top with President Donald Trump. He was initially dismissive of the coronavirus comparing it to the seasonal flu. He appointed Vice-President (V-P) Mike Pence to head a task force to advise on what to do but gave it no real authority.Two, no national plan, backed by law, was devised to address the pandemic. The V-P’s task force developed guidelines for states and localities for testing, tracking and treatment of the virus; sheltering in place; and, the use of masks and social distancing to prevent its spread. These were only guidelines, not mandatory rules or law. Three, the pandemic was treated as a state and local issue. There was no standardised federal intervention on the pandemic. The governors and local officials were made responsible for handling it. As a result, the approaches and results varied considerably from state to state.Four, there was limited national access to testing, medical equipment and supplies. The federal government furnished a nominal amount of these, but the supplies and supply chain were woefully insufficient. The states were left to source these, and fought among themselves, to acquire these materials from overseas and private sources.Five, there were mixed messages related to the pandemic. The task force held regular briefings until the country began to reopen and Trump essentially silenced it. He commandeered those briefings and used them to grandstand, argue with the press, contradict the medical experts, and even promote unproven drugs. Six, there was a push towards a rapid reopening. Trump was always opposed to sheltering in place. He started suggesting considering reopening the country shortly after people started staying at home. He also tweeted to his millions of followers to liberate states such as Virginia and Michigan where he felt the governors might resist or be too slow in reopening. Trump appeared to be driven solely by his re-election possibilities, at the cost of public health.Seven, reopening one part, based on relative success in another, ignored the nature of the disease. The original hotspots for the pandemic were primarily states and urban cities in the Northeast and Midwest and in California. By mid-May to early June, the spread was weakening in those locations and appeared to have peaked around the country. So states such as Georgia, Florida, Texas and Arizona moved ahead with relatively rapid re-opening. As a consequence, they became and are the new hot spots.Eight, the US had no uniform enforcement mechanisms. The extent to which states enforced sheltering at home, wearing of masks and social distancing varied sharply. In some states such as Georgia and Texas with Republican governors and large cities with Democratic mayors, the governors only recommended these actions to battle Covid-19, while the mayors required them by law.Nine, a misplaced prioritisation of economic concerns over health concerns. The reopenings were done almost solely to stimulate the economy which had cratered due to the pandemic. This had huge costs. Ten, and perhaps most important, there has been the consistent rejection and discounting of expert advice. From the outset, Trump minimised the advice of experts such as internationally-renowned infectious disease and task force member Dr Anthony Fauci, and constructed his own alternative version of reality.Overall and with a few exceptions in hard-hit states where individual governors demonstrated leadership, the US has managed Covid-19 reactively rather than proactively. A large part of this failure must be attributed to Trump who, after months of not wearing a mask, has only recently been seen in public wearing one, and who continues to insist that, at some point, the pandemic will just disappear.Trump is a role model of what not to do personally, politically and professionally in response to a pandemic. His coronavirus playbook is a template for current and future national leaders on how not to fight a pandemic.These are the primary lessons that India and other countries can learn from the US’ disastrous handling of this situation. India must pay heed, as cases are continuing to rise, indicating that possibly the toughest lockdown in the world did not yield the outcomes that had been anticipated. Sometime shortly, India will pass the grim milestone of one million cases to become the third nation to do so, after the US and Brazil.That is bad news for India. There is a silver lining in the cloud though. That is because of its much lower fatality rate. Moreover, according to Indian government officials, 80% of active cases are from 49 of the country’s 720 districts, which mean a vast majority of the cases are restricted to less than seven per cent of the districts. By taking a targeted approach to testing, tracking and treatment to flatten the curve in these hot spots and ensuring no spread beyond these areas, the impact of the pandemic can be minimised going forward.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/covid-19-from-the-us-lessons-on-what-not-to-do/story-V7mtUsyNHqPoWEkDVlsO6K.html
15-07-2020||News||Neither East, Nor West, Only China | Opinion||“Neither East, nor West” was Ayatollah Khomeini’s slogan for the reconstruction of a post-revolution Iran. This no longer seems to hold in Tehran, if fresh reports of a wide-ranging strategic pact between Iran and China are any indication. Though neither side has officially confirmed details, the Iranian cabinet has signed off on an agreement that has been in the works since President Xi Jinping’s visit to Tehran in January 2016.Even if the leaked details are not yet agreed upon, they reveal a direction and scope that should cause major concern to India. Under a 25-year pact, China will invest $400 billion in Iran’s petroleum sector as well as its core infrastructure — banking, telecom, ports, airports, high-speed railways, metro and free-trade zones. Iran will become a crucial pivot of China’s Belt and Road Initiative (BRI), linking China to Europe. A military dimension envisages joint military exercises, joint training, joint research and development of weapons. China will get assured supplies of Iranian oil, gas and petroleum products at highly discounted prices.Iran moving closer to China should not come as a surprise. United States (US) President Donald Trump, on a collision course with Iran, walked out of the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA) signed in 2015 between Iran and P5+1 (Germany) and the European Union. The plan had the potential of gradually closing Iran’s nuclear weapons window and reviving its economy through lifting sanctions and de-freezing its assets. Instead, Trump again imposed crippling sanctions and the European signatories — Germany, France and the United Kingdom (UK) — though unhappy with the US withdrawal, showed timid resolve. Iran’s economy, based on petroleum exports, has contracted severely; investments have dried up for fear of sanctions; and the pandemic has taken a heavy toll. Iran clearly needs an economic lifeline as well as international support to counter the US-Israel axis. China is willing to provide both, and in a larger strategic landscape, the two can align interests with Russia. As proof of its intent, and perhaps an indication of the coming pact, China recently opposed US efforts in the United Nations Security Council to extend an arms embargo on Iran and, on July 14, reiterated its support for JCPOA.However, this proposed long-term alignment with China has its opponents. Former president Mahmoud Ahmadinejad has led the criticism, and, oddly, found support from Prince Reza Pahlavi, the late Shah’s son; an example of a revolutionary mindset combining with a deep sense of Persian superiority. There are fears that Iran’s valuable natural resources will be mortgaged to an untrustworthy partner. Religious hardliners point to China’s repression of the Uighur Muslims. The Majlis — the Iranian parliament — is now dominated by conservatives; most reformist candidates were disqualified by the regime as it circled the wagons in the face of rising public discontent. These conservative members are likely to react strongly to any suggestion of ceding sovereignty to China for economic gains when the pact is put to them. The Supreme Leader, however, supports the proposed deal. This, combined with the attraction of economic prosperity, makes it difficult to say where this needle will stop. All of this, however, is only cold comfort to India. China’s increased political and economic influence on Tehran can squeeze us on several fronts. First, Tehran has watched our growing proximity to the US and Israel with a resentful sullenness. The cutting of oil imports and delays in project implementation have further shown the limits of the bilateral relationship; “civilisational links” can only take us only so far and no more. Iran’s pact with China will strengthen the perception that we are in “the other camp”. Given our energy dependence and large diaspora, great power rivalry would not be our preferred game in West Asia.Second, China’s influence will facilitate better relations between Iran and Pakistan, already evident in the conciliatory attitude shown by Pakistan to militant attacks from across the border in Balochistan. The two could also narrow their differences on Afghanistan, with a direct impact on India’s interests. Third, Chinese investment in ports and railways can hamper India’s plans to get access to Central Asia and beyond through Iran. The report that India will no longer be part of the Chabahar-Zahidan railway project foreshadows this scenario. Iran’s ambassador in Islamabad has spoken of a “golden ring” of China, Russia, Iran, Pakistan and Turkey and of a western arm to the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC)+ that would link Gwadar and Chabahar to China by rail through Pakistan. Further, our own economic limitations and the shadow of US sanctions will make it difficult for Indian companies to compete in Iran, particularly if the hundred proposed projects are aligned to a Chinese economic paradigm. Fourth, even if the Chinese do not get a major slice of Chabahar, they are keen to participate in the development of Bandar-e-Jask, the port outside the Straits of Hormuz. Iran envisages Jask as its main oil-loading point in the near future; it can then close the Straits without harming its own exports. In a worst-case scenario, Jask could become another Chinese dual-use port and with Gwadar and Djibouti threaten India’s energy and maritime security in the Arabian Sea. All of this may not happen, but we cannot afford to wait for the Majlis to kill this deal, or for Joe Biden to become US president and wean Iran away from China. Our interests are immediate: A strong outreach to Iran with expedited work on Chabahar and its integration into the North-South Transport Corridor as well as a vigorous follow-up on Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s successful 2015 Central Asian visit would be timely initiatives to consider.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/neither-east-nor-west-only-china/story-1R51QEx2HRos1s2RKNIPbM.html
15-07-2020||News||Home isolation has instilled confidence in people to face the infection | Analysis||The steep increase in the number of Covid-19 patients at the end of May led the Delhi government to tweak its strategy. It started focusing more on home isolation of the positive cases. The basic premise was that, with limited health resources and a rising number of infections, mild cases would block services for critical patients. This strategy worked well. The Delhi government identified more Covid-19 patients for home isolation, while simultaneously augmenting hospital care for serious patients. As a result, around 80% of patients opted for home isolation over quarantine facilities.The Arvind Kejriwal-led government released easy-to-understand guidelines and videos for spreading awareness. These guidelines have instructions for patients, caregivers, and community, with tips on nutrition, monitoring of health parameters, and are easily implementable at home. The details are available on its website at https://delhifightscorona.in/home-isolation/On June 19, the lieutenant governor scrapped home isolation due to the fear of people under home quarantine not following proper guidelines, and, thus, increasing the chances of turning into spreaders. It/He made institutional quarantine mandatory for the first five days. The Delhi government, along with its citizens (such as Resident Welfare Associations or RWAs), raised objections to the change, forcing the Delhi Disaster Management Authority to revert to the old arrangement. This was a great relief for Delhi.But why home isolation? With a stressed health system, it is a win-win situation, both for citizens and the government. As expected, unlock 1.0 saw a spurt in cases, but it was brought under control. The government devoted energy to make people aware of ways to learn to live with the virus. Such awareness campaigns helped reduce the stigma around the pandemic. The normalisation of Covid-19, with increasing confidence among people that patients could recover in the comfort of their homes, made it possible for the Delhi government to pursue an aggressive testing strategy.The government allows positive cases to opt for home isolation if their home has a separate airy room with a toilet. The medical team guides the family and patient on proper protocols, and monitors the health status of the patient(s) on a daily basis. Being in close proximity to the family keeps the patients psychologically upbeat, provides the necessary emotional environment for quick recovery, and allows them the choice of food of their taste and requirement. It also brings dedicated family support to fight the emotional or physical distress.The patients are advised to be careful if they feel breathlessness; have co-morbidities such as diabetes, hypertension, cancer, kidney or liver issues; are pregnant; or are above 65 years of age and may require immediate in-person medical attention. The community plays an important role, too. RWAs support families in sanitisation, garbage collection, mitigating stigmatisation, helping during emergencies, and arranging food and medicines.Sometimes there are procedural delays in reaching out to the home isolated patients by designated health care providers. To address this, the Delhi government has empaneled non-governmental organisations and deputed doctors who volunteered to support the home isolated cases. If health care providers fail to reach patients, they can call Delhi government’s telemedicine helpline: 011-61193786.The Delhi government is reviewing its Covid-19 strategy on a regular basis. To address the most critical factor, of breathlessness, which is the major cause of mortality among Covid-19 patients, it has decided to provide pulse oxymeters to home isolated patients, on a returnable basis. This will, depending upon the patients’ condition, help the government to provide them oxygen cylinders and concentrators, or shift them to the hospital.The quarantine period has been reduced from 17 days to 10. This has further eased the conditions for home isolation, encouraging more people with mild symptoms to come forward for testing. Home isolation has instilled confidence in people to face the infection, as they are now more aware about the virus and ways to face it.Delhi is learning to live with the new norms and, a mature response from the state government has helped reduce the initial panic to a large extent.Seema Upadhyay is a programme manager at the Population Foundation of India. The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/home-isolation-has-instilled-confidence-in-people-to-face-the-infection/story-TyM8Bk75Agc7CC9gQMoAyK.html
15-07-2020||News||Don’t blame dense cities. They have been resilient||The Covid-19 pandemic has upended the world as we know it. In the subsequent blame game, dense cities occupy pole position. Prima facie, this looks like a fair accusation given the extent of the outbreak in Mumbai, Delhi, New York and London. However, a more granular look at the data suggests that this is not accurate. High densities and agglomeration effects, the secret sauce of successful big cities, are precisely what make them vulnerable to threats such as pandemics. Social interactions are higher in cities, and an infected person is likely to come in contact with a larger number of people, say while commuting on a train, thus hastening the spread of the disease in cities such as Mumbai and New York. But what are we to make of similarly dense cities that were able to control and contain the outbreak? Seoul, with a population density of 16,000 persons per square kilometre, had far fewer cases than New York. Taipei, whose density is comparable to New York, did not suffer from a serious outbreak. Other Asian megacities such as Hanoi, Hong Kong and Bangkok have done well too. In New York itself, Manhattan, the densest of the five boroughs has the lowest number of infections. Data suggests that in terms of share of population with Covid-19, rural counties such as Trousdale in Tennessee, with one in eight people, outstripped New York with one in 44. A World Bank study of the outbreak in China shows that population densities in cities are not correlated to the spread of the virus. Very dense cities such as Beijing, Shanghai and Tianjin have remained relatively unscathed. Clearly, density is not the sole culprit, if at all. As the urbanist Richard Florida has pointed out, we must not conflate density with overcrowding. To paraphrase Robert McDonald of Nature Conservancy, there is a difference between a 500 sq ft apartment in Mumbai occupied by two people, versus the same space occupied by 10 people in a slum — the latter sets the stage for the rapid spread of infectious diseases. Needless to say, a dense urban population does not imply low per-capita square footage. The latter occurs due to bad urban policies. What else might explain the conundrum? A recent study on metropolitan counties in the United States (US) suggests that socio-economic factors and levels of education were better at explaining outcomes related to mortality and spread of infection. It also suggests that dense urban areas may, in fact, have benefited from better public awareness and consequent behavioural adaptation, such as wearing masks, due to the immediacy of the threat. Obviously, big cities, even in India, have much better health care facilities, including large public and multi-speciality hospitals, and health professionals, compared to other places because these require economies of scale to be viable.Studying policies for tackling Covid-19 adopted by different countries, regions, and cities gives us further insight into why some were extremely successful. The biggest explanatory variable, besides socio-economic factors and State capacity, appears to be previous experience (including by osmosis) with infectious disease, be it in Vietnam, Taiwan, Japan, or Kerala. These places simply took the disease more seriously. The suite of measures they undertook includes aggressive testing, tracing, isolation, clear communications, hand hygiene and extensive mask-wearing. Once these measures were in place, even super-dense slum clusters such as Dharavi in Mumbai, where over 800,000 people live in an area of 2.4 square kilometres, have turned the corner. At the time of writing, there are visible signs of the curve being flattened. Every crisis is an opportunity to rebuild better. Instead of calls for de-urbanisation, building resilient cities is the need of the hour. The more immediate policy responses that will earn large dividends in India include: One, addressing crowding by increasing per-capita consumption of floor area by drastically reducing regulatory barriers to construction. Two, administratively, the crisis has taught us that a pandemic response cannot be federally-mandated and requires a decentralised, proximal, and accountable response. To enable this, city leaders need to be empowered. Three, social protection systems need to be redesigned to protect the poor and vulnerable in urban areas, in addition to the current focus on rural settlements. Four, countries such as India with large out-of-pocket expenditures on private health care must restore the balance between health care and robust public health that focuses on improving health outcomes for all — only a capable State can deliver the latter. Covid-19 is neither the first nor the last public health crisis to hit cities. Everything from the Black Death to the bubonic plague to the Spanish flu, not to mention world wars and terror attacks, have ravaged cities in the past. Each time, people worried that it was the end of big cities, only to watch them re-emerge stronger and more vibrant. This time will be no different. The demise of dense cities is greatly exaggerated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/don-t-blame-dense-cities-they-have-been-resilient/story-4HJrLnUyT0N3UdzI6y4mWI.html
