30-07-2020||News||NEP expands choice and empowers students | Opinion||The National Education Policy (NEP) for India has finally been presented to the public after much consultation. The democratisation of the education conversation, in itself, is a victory for it sets a precedent for policymaking.NEP leads with three radical changes that will bring much-needed relief from the tunnel vision of restricted student potential. The first is the exit and re-entry of students in universities. We all live with uncertainty — but this should not be a reason to lose out on one’s degree. Combined with the ability to transfer credits across universities, this gives true freedom to students to find their best fit. The second is multi-disciplinarity, across schools and higher education. Students can choose any subjects, all subjects are equal, and the concept of streams has been disbanded. This truly frees up students to work to their talents rather than to an administrator’s diktat. The third is the flexibility given in board exams. Again, more choice, more chances to get it right. This is support to students to be their best selves in a way that had not been enabled before. NEP has also recognised the urgency of foundational learning and upgraded it to a mission.There are many other things that NEP gets right, such as the focus on teacher training for schools, the fund for educating girls, and the freedom for university course length, among others. Creating a framework for teachers to only teach and not be co-opted for other duties is good, as is the emphasis on supporting the less able. The intent is to breach gaps that have been untended for too long. There is so much to be said and done here, and it is already too little too late — but every effort must be appreciated. The challenge is to get it right.The challenge to get it right is even more so in the troublesome parts of the policy. Language gets quick attention. While we know that home language learning leads to better outcomes, English brings social and economic mobility. The resourcing of multilingual education is highly welcome, while the early learning only in the home language will not be easy — unless they let the teacher have the freedom to use any language that works for their students, not driven by mandate.Teacher resource reinforcement and training is another area where the right words have been used, but in the post-pandemic paradigm, we have seen that teachers need far more, especially with the shift to technology-driven pedagogies. Technology remains an area of promise, but there is inadequate clarity. The National Technology Forum has to move beyond buckets such as AI/ML and talk of teaching and learning, of impact and student progress — and this needs to be led by an educator lest we fall into the trap of current edutech, which has a market, but does not meet the values and principles so well elucidated in this NEP.The most interesting change in NEP is the renamed PARAKH. This aims to redesign assessment and standardise the 60 education boards across the country. More cooperation across boards is on the anvil. This is first being done via a voluntary test for university admission, which is a great way to get data to calibrate board outcomes. This, combined with the other proposed changes in assessment, is the key that will transform education to make it relevant, consistent and therefore usable. This can only be achieved with the network approach proposed in this NEP and needs careful planning ahead.There are some glaring gaps in NEP that could have been fixed. One is the transition between schools and universities. With multiple choices and multi-disciplinarity must come some support in making those choices for the young. This must be a part of the structural shift and needs resources, training and a clear place in the changed structure. Faculty training in university teaching remains a huge gap too. The National Research Foundation has been enabled to unshackle research, the acknowledgement of Research Universities and Teaching Universities boosts it too. But it only highlights the gap in support to teaching in universities.The toughest criticism that NEP will face is that it is idealistic. This gap between vision and tasking will need more than action plans and implementation strategy — it will need champions. To define these, showcase them, to give clear outcomes without becoming prescriptive in the delivery is going to be the task of a few champions. Without these champions, all the good envisaged in the visionary document will collapse at the point of delivery. For example, the middle school goals seem wonderful, but impractical. Even if educators agree, they will need to be convinced of how this will work in the context of their school. This job lies ahead.Between the draft and the launch, NEP has demonstrated its resilience and future-readiness in the face of the pandemic. Now that educators have experienced a paradigm shift, the vision of NEP seems a manageable challenge. It brings choice, it needs champions. It brings a vision, it needs implementors to match.Meeta Sengupta is an adviser, writer and speaker on education policy and leadership practice who curates conversations for sustainable solutions and impactThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/nep-expands-choice-and-empowers-students/story-Qig5zWy9BN5AVZAu13VFRI.html
30-07-2020||News||The infectiousness of SARS-CoV-2||The coronavirus pandemic is unprecedented, and has infected 16.8 million in at least 180 countries in seven months. India has reported 1.5 million cases and 34,000 deaths. By April end, 0.78% of India’s 1.3 billion population was infected as per the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) studies. By mid-July, 24% of Delhi’s 20 million population was infected as per the National Centre for Disease Control’s (NCDC) sero-surveillance survey.Sero-prevalence studies from many countries indicate that the infection numbers are about 20-50 times more than the test positives reported in the same areas. This implies that the number of very mild and asymptomatic cases is much higher, and is not captured by the health system.Yet, this fast-spreading virus does not infect all the members of an infected person’s family. On an average, only 10-20% of family members develop the infection after one infection in their family. This rate of secondary cases in a close contact in the family is called household Secondary Attack Rate (SAR).A global literature review we conducted at the Indian Institute of Public Health Gandhinagar (IIPHG) on SAR showed that the rate is variable — from 4.6% to 50%. Infection rates are higher among the spouse or partner of the primary case and elderly members of the family, but it is lower in children. But most studies showed that 80-90% family members do not develop Covid-19 after a primary case is diagnosed in the family.Early ICMR data indicates SAR in India is 6%, which means that 94% of family members did not develop Covid-19 even when one member tested positive. This is surprising as the virus is infectious and we are told that one can get infected during a brief five-10 minute exposure at public places such as shops, vegetable vendors or banks. Studies have shown that a person with Covid-19 is most infectious two days before symptoms appear. This means a person begins infecting others on an average at least three to five days before being diagnosed, when no one around them at home is using masks or maintaining social distancing.Family members are in close contact with each other, sleeping, eating and living in close proximity. In spite of this close contact with an infected person, only 10-20% family members get infected as per most studies published in scientific literature globally.This is surprising for a highly infectious disease. This tells us something about the infectiousness of the virus and individual immunity against disease.One obvious interpretation is that around 80% people who remain uninfected in a family are resistant or not susceptible to the coronavirus in spite of close contact without any precautions. This contradicts the notion of a highly infectious disease agent. A low SAR rate of 10-20% questions the assumption that everyone is susceptible to the infection because no one has immunity against it.One competing explanation is that most cases are very mild with a low viral load, which carries a lower risk of transmission. Only 7-15 % of cases have a moderate or high viral load, which leads to the transmission of infection in many others. But such families will be few, and 85% people with mild disease will not have secondary cases in their families.A similar phenomenon is observed in epidemics caused by other new viruses, such as chikungunya, that saw 1.4 million cases and thousands of deaths in India in 2006. Even then, not all family members were affected and many people in the community did not fall ill even though the mosquitoes that transmit the disease were ubiquitous. The explanation there also seems to be that many people have resistance to the new infection and individual-centric immunity or resistance plays a critical role in the transmission of the disease in a population even in the case of new infections.What is the implication of the finding that a large proportion of the population is resistant to Covid-19? British neuroscientist Karl Friston from University College, London, has modelled data from many European countries and proposed a new concept called “Immunological Black Matter”. He suggests that a large proportion of the population is not exposed to the virus or are not susceptible to the infection. The practical implication of this is that with 20-30% infection rates or sero-prevalence in the community, the city or area will start seeing effects of herd immunity as about 50-60% of the population is not susceptible to the infection. It seems this is what is seen in cities such as Ahmedabad (central zone) where the sero-prevalence has reached 28%, and in Delhi where the sero-prevalence has reached 23% in July.This does not mean that people should stop taking precautions to prevent transmission as social distancing and masks must be used until the epidemic completely disappears. But given the fast spread of this largely asymptomatic infection, other cities will follow the course of Ahmedabad and Delhi and will soon reach effective herd immunity.Conducting more sero-surveillance in various cities will give a better understanding of the infection prevalence and how far we are from effective herd immunity. We need local epidemiological and public health studies to understand the disease dynamics. The “vocal for local” call by Prime Minister Narendra Modi should also be interpreted to mean generation and use of local data for disease modelling, and not just using global and imported models.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/the-infectiousness-of-sars-cov-2/story-QhTBa4DKqkN0cIov3q5dVP.html
30-07-2020||News||Why the anti-defection law has failed to deliver||The ongoing political crisis in Rajasthan is neither new nor uncommon. Turbulence in governments — involving the “switching of sides” by elected representatives — has been increasingly frequent in recent months. The past year has seen the toppling of two state governments in Karnataka and Madhya Pradesh amid allegations of political defections and horse-trading. There has also been turmoil in Goa and Manipur. The phenomenon in question — i.e., bringing down an elected government by depriving it of its majority through the defection of Members of the Legislative Assembly (MLAs) — goes back a long way. To resolve this problem, in 1985, the Constitution was amended to include the Tenth Schedule (also known as the anti-defection law). The anti-defection law provides that members of political parties who disobey the whip or vote against the party in a confidence motion, will face disqualification. As recent events have made clear, however, the Tenth Schedule is no longer an effective check on the phenomenon of defection, and an urgent reconsideration is required.There are a few reasons why this is so. The first is that the defecting MLAs have found a way around the restrictions in the Tenth Schedule. Instead of formally “crossing the floor” or voting against their party in a confidence motion, they resign from the party. This brings down the party’s strength in the House, and the government is toppled. A few months later, when by-elections are held, the same MLAs then stand for election on the ticket of the opposition party, and are returned to the assembly. This, it should be clear, is defection in all, but the most formal sense. Unfortunately, in their recent judgments, the courts have failed to stop this practice (although, arguably, the language of the Tenth Schedule does not leave much room to the judiciary). The second reason is that no matter how well-drafted a constitutional provision is, ultimately, its implementation depends upon constitutional functionaries acting in good faith. As BR Ambedkar pointed out soon after the framing of the Constitution, every constitutional text can be subverted if those charged with running the affairs of government are inclined to do so. In recent times, it has become clear that the major constitutional actors involved in times of constitutional instability — i.e., the governors and the speakers — do not act in good faith. In every constitutional crisis over the last few years, governors have acted like partisan representatives of the political party that appointed them, and have flouted constitutional conventions with impunity (from deciding which party to call first to form the government in a hung house, to ordering — or refusing to order — floor tests to prove majorities). Thus, despite the fact that the governor — as an unelected functionary — is supposed to play a minimal role in the affairs of the state, the individuals in that position have interfered on behalf of their erstwhile political parties. Speakers have done little better. Third, the judiciary itself has not proved up to the mark. For example, during the Karnataka crisis last year, the Supreme Court (SC) — while ostensibly passing a “balanced order” — effectively overrode the provisions of the Tenth Schedule. It said that rebel MLAs, whose disqualification petitions were being considered by the Speaker, could not be compelled to participate in the proceedings of the House. The rebels were happy for they did not have to obey the party whip. This reduced the effective majority of the government. More recently, the Rajasthan High Court effectively injuncted the Speaker of the Rajasthan Assembly from acting upon disqualification notices, despite clear SC precedent to the contrary. As observers have pointed out, if it is the case that horse-trading is in progress, then an indefinite injunction on the Speaker’s ability to act under the Tenth Schedule will only provide further fillip to such actions. The last — and most under-discussed — aspect is the presence of money in politics. It has been widely reported that huge sums of money are offered to MLAs to desert their parties and bring down the government. This is enabled by the existence of electoral bonds, which allow for unlimited and anonymous funding to political parties. Under the electoral bond scheme, phenomenal sums of money have been donated to political parties over the last two years. Unfortunately, a petition challenging the constitutionality of the electoral bond scheme has been pending in SC for the last two years. Despite multiple election cycles, the apex court has taken no action upon it. In sum, therefore, the anti-defection law needs to be improved (there have been suggestions, for example, that disqualification or resignation should be accompanied by a five-year-long bar from standing for elections again). More crucially, however, the legally-sanctioned influence of big money in politics must be curtailed. If these steps are not taken, Indian democracy risks dissolving into a sham quickly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/why-the-anti-defection-law-has-failed-to-deliver/story-JtDhlEFHZ8VPpnNBD7Fv9J.html
30-07-2020||News||At the root of today’s crisis, an intellectual void, writes Ram Madhav||Weak minds discuss people; average minds discuss events; strong minds discuss ideas,” said Greek philosopher Socrates. People and events dominate public discourse because they matter to the bread and butter issues of the people. But then, as Jesus Christ said, man does not live by bread alone. He needs ideas — “God’s word,” according to Jesus. We need strong minds to germinate transformative ideas. There will be times when humanity yearns for such ideas. The coronavirus pandemic is one such occasion when the world is desperately looking for fresh ideas to shape its future. Historically, Europe has been the intellectual kernel of mankind. Several avant-garde ideas originated in the minds of European philosophers and thinkers. In the last few centuries, all the important political ideas that impacted the world extensively came from Europe. From John Locke’s Enlightenment thinking to Karl Marx’s Marxism, from the Utilitarianism of Jeremy Bentham and John Stuart Mill to the Social Contract tradition of Thomas Hobbs, from Edmund Burke’s Conservatism to Frederick Nietzsche’s Nihilism — Europe produced many grand political ideas in the last two centuries. The democratic institutions that evolved during the same period are also the product of the continuous churning in Europe’s intellectual milieu. One grand idea that India contributed to world political thought in the last century was Mahatma Gandhi’s non-violence. From Martin Luther King Jr to Nelson Mandela to Barack Obama — the list of leaders who admired and adopted non-violence as a political ideology is long. Interestingly, after India’s successful experimentation with non-violence in 1947, dozens of countries adopted it and subsequently secured independence. Most of those countries became democracies and the world witnessed a “democracy boom” by the end of the last century. The collapse of the erstwhile Soviet Union and the end of the Cold War also helped further democratisation.But the dawn of the 21st century saw matters drifting fast. Democratic deficit and fatigue are setting in with alarming speed. Authoritarian regimes have bounced back with a vengeance. Terrorism, that acquired new dimensions and legitimacy towards the end of the last century, has led to the resurgence of the politics of violence. The first quarter of the 21st century witnessed the rise of “wolf warriors” and “lone wolfs”. It is in this political climate that the Covid-19 has struck the world. It has affected all existing political systems, authoritarians and democrats alike, diminishing the credibility of each one. A leaderless and rudderless world is emerging out of these two-decades of churning culminating in the pandemic. What the post-pandemic world needs is not just a new leadership, but also ideas for a new world order.Regarded for long as the crown jewel of democratic liberalism, the United States (US) is yielding ground quickly and significantly, signalling the decisive decline of those values in the world. In the last three decades, at least two dozen countries have turned authoritarian.Authoritarian regimes such as China have emerged powerful during the same period. Authoritarianism does not affect the people of the respective countries alone. It puts a lot of pressure on others too. Democracies, by very nature, become vulnerable to the onslaught of authoritarianism. In the process, they too gradually turn to authoritarian measures to ward off the challenge of authoritarian regimes. The net result will be a world less liberal and less democratic.There is a silver lining in the cloud though. Authoritarian regimes, although seemingly dominant at the moment, cannot sustain themselves for long. China is ageing fast. The one-child norm of the 1980s and 90s has skewed its demography. In a decade’s time, it will turn into an evening economy. So will other authoritarian regimes in West Asia for a variety of reasons. With their financial fortunes plummeting due to falling oil revenues, these authoritarian sponsors of terrorism are wilting precariously.The next 10 years will be crucial for the world. It has to not only build new leadership, but also come up with new ideas and agendas. It is here that India has a golden opportunity. India’s handling of the Covid-19 crisis has revealed the brighter side of its leadership and society. The combined efforts of the government led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, extensive efforts by its ubiquitous bureaucracy, and the exemplary discipline and commitment of its 1.3 billion people have helped India manage the pandemic in a manner that has set an example to others.India’s Covid-19 experience has highlighted its inclusive nationalism and humanist development vision. These can serve as the ideas for building a new agenda in a post-Covid-19 world. The pandemic has made many countries insular. That has led to the rise of more authoritarianism in the world. India stood out with its inclusivist democratic policies that have seen the government’s popularity going through the roof. This, together with humanist globalism as against materialist and militarist authoritarianism, can set a new agenda for the emerging global order.India has a decade to prepare itself to play a leading role in building such a world order. That is what the Prime Minister Modi calls Aatmanirbhar Bharat (self-reliant India) and Agenda 2030.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/at-the-root-of-today-s-crisis-an-intellectual-void/story-t1qTt1r3vwHeFteUuYupdP.html
