01-10-2020||West Bengal||Idol-makers ask Bengal government for financial aid ||The virus has not spared the clay magicians whose fingers conjure up idols revered by millions. Over a thousand potters, mainly idol-makers, from East Burdwan’s Kalna and Nadia’s Phulia took to the streets on Wednesday demanding financial help from the state government as their industry is reeling under the outbreak of Covid-19 and the resultant lockdown. The artisans organised the rally in Kalna under the banner of the All India Anunnata Kumbhakar Samity, which has around 16 lakh members in Bengal, and demonstrated in front of the local block development office (BDO). They demanded a monthly aid of Rs 7,500 for each of their families from the state government. The demand from artisans follows the Bengal governments’ decision to provide a monthly dole to priests and also help Durga Puja organisers with Rs 50,000 each. “The government has come forward to help priests and clubs (Puja organisers) but there is no word on us,” said an artisan who took part in the rally in Kalna. “We have been struggling to survive since April as there is hardly any demand for idols. Usually, every year, we look forward to Durga Puja for the bulk of our annual earnings, but this year the organisers have ordered smaller idols. There has been a huge drop in the number of Vishwakarma and Ganesh Pujas (and hence idol orders and revenue) this year. We are going through difficult times and can hardly survive,” said Benoy Kumar Paul, the Burdwan district president of the samity. Flagging their demands, Paul said: “We want the state government to pay us a monthly financial help of Rs 7,500 per family from April onwards (with retrospective effect) and help us get loans at low interest rates after the market revives.” “Artisans have got very few orders for clay models of Durga, while potters are facing a huge drop in the demand for clay pots. As not all food and tea stalls are open, the potters are not getting enough orders (for clay cups and utensils) to meet the cost required to keep their businesses running,” he added. A leader of the samity said they had already written to the minister of state for micro, small and medium enterprise and textile, Swapan Debnath, for financial help. They have also planned to meet chief minister Mamata Banerjee in Calcutta with their plea next week. “We had written to the minister on September 2 but we are yet to get any response. Therefore, we planned to meet the chief minister at her residence in Calcutta next week,” said Bipul Paul, the secretary of the samity in Hooghly. In these tough times, artisans had nowhere to go except the government, Munna Pal, an artisan in Nadia’s Phulia and a working committee member of the samity, said. “The state has helped hawkers, folk singers, priests with financial aid but we have been ignored. Only the government can save us in our time of crisis. We also want cards for artisans so that we can get the benefit of welfare schemes of both the state and central governments,” Pal added. Artisan Saikat Malo of Kalna said they were making hefty compromises in 2020 to survive. “I have accepted the fact that I will sell a Durga idol for Rs 9,000 this year when I had sold a similar one for Rs 18,000 last year. I have no option but to sell it at half the price because I don’t have many orders this year. The state government has come forward to help clubs with Rs 50,000 each but we are not getting any such benefit,” Malo rued.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-356
01-10-2020||West Bengal||Land given for Bagdogra airport expansion ||The Bengal government on Wednesday cleared the decks for the expansion of Bagdogra airport as chief minister Mamata Banerjee handed over 104 acres of land to the Airports Authority of India for the project. The demand for the expansion of the airport’s infrastructure was raised in several quarters in the past few years following a steep rise in the number of flights and passengers. The rise in the passenger count had made the AAI draw up plans for the expansion of the terminal building and allied infrastructure. But it took time for the state government to arrange for the land. The AAI, for the first time, paid Rs 25 crore to the state as compensation. It needed to be paid to a tea garden, from which the land had been acquired. “We have handed over the land that was required for the airport. It will help in the expansion of the Bagdogra airport that has recorded an exponential growth in terms of the number of passengers in the past few years,” Mamata said at an administrative review meeting of Darjeeling and Kalimpong districts on Wednesday. The meeting was held at Uttarkanya, the branch secretariat of the state in Siliguri. Apart from providing land for the airport’s expansion, Mamata tried to reach out to the hill population and the Rajbanshi community. She gave a grant of Rs 175 crore to the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration and land documents of 64 forest villages in the GTA area, which have been converted into revenue villages. Engagement letters for jobs of home guards were handed over to 161 former militants of the Kamtapur Liberation Organisation. The chief minister provided the Rajbanshi Bhasha Academy with Rs 5 crore and the West Bengal Rajbanshi Development & Cultural Board with Rs 10 crore. On Tuesday, Mamata had announced homes for tea estate residents in the Jalpaiguri and Alipurduar districts. Political observers said she was playing the development card by trying to meet some long-pending demands. “She has simultaneously come up with additional financial allocations for several bodies and agencies that are engaged in the development of various regions or communities. It is evident that the chief minister wants to reach out to people living in the hills and the plains,” according to one. Mamata is keen on winning back the support of Rajbanshis, whose support can be the decisive factor in close to half of the 54 Assembly seats in north Bengal, the observer said. Mamata’s announcements have this clear, he said. On Wednesday, Mamata said the medical college in Cooch Behar would be named after Maharaja Jitendra Narayan (one of the erstwhile kings of Cooch Behar) and the second campus of Cooch Behar Panchanan Burma University (that will come up in Mathabhanga) will be named after Pachanan Burma (a revered statesman from the Rajbanshi community). She handed over 50 acres for the second campus. Mamata addressed another issue of the hills — the right of people who live in forest villages. For some time, there was a demand that the rights of such people be protected according to the forest rights act as it has been done in the neighbouring districts of Alipurduar and Jalpaiguri. In the course of her review meeting, Mamata met another old demand of Jalpaiguri residents and laid the foundation stone of a medical college and hospital. She inaugurated the second phase of work on a Rs 6 crore project to renovate Graham’s Chapel in Kalimpong. The chief minister instructed Rajiva Sinha, the outgoing chief secretary, to look into the demand for constituting a separate block in Banarhat of Jalpaiguri. Banarhat in the western Dooars is surrounded by tea gardens and is part of the Dhupguri block now. Residents of Banarhat and adjoining areas joined in a celebration on Wednesday evening. Local Trinamul leaders held a rally in the presence of Mitali Roy, the Trinamul MLA from Dhupguri.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-357
01-10-2020||West Bengal||Bengal Covid count: an eventful month||September turned out to be the most eventful month for Bengal in terms of the Covid-19 pandemic with 94,271 new cases and 1,730 deaths on one hand and 91,489 recoveries and nearly 13.4 lakh tests on the other. On Wednesday, Bengal logged 3,281 new cases, 59 deaths, 2,954 recoveries and 43,765 tests. The recovery rate rose by over five per cent in the current month to reach 87.83. The state began the month with 1.62 lakh total cases and the figure now stands at 2.57 lakh. Of them, nearly 2.26 lakh are recoveries, nearly double the 1.34 lakh at the beginning of September. The total cases also include the 4,958 deaths. “The first week was exceptionally good, followed by a slump over the next three weeks. But, overall, we aren’t doing too badly. We began the month with 25,280 active cases and are ending it with 26,332,” said a Bengal minister. However, while the national recovery rate climbed over the month from 76.93 to 83.35, the rise of the state’s recovery rate from 82.49 at the beginning of the month has been relatively slower. The tests per million count is now 35,861, which was 20,974 even at the beginning of September. Steady rise in the number of tests, coupled with a plateauing out of the number of new cases, improved the positive confirmation rate from 8.62 to 7.96 per cent in a month. Of the total 4,958 deaths, Calcutta alone accounted for 1,710, of which 420 occurred in September. North 24-Parganas reported a total of 1,106 deaths, including 367 in September. The state government reported 4,221 deaths (85.1 per cent) as those with comorbidity “present”. Of the 1,730 deaths in the month, 1,418 (81.96 per cent) were classified as comorbid by the government. Bengal’s overall mortality rate is 1.92, which was 1.98 per cent at the start of September. “The national mortality improved to 1.56 from 1.77 in that window. We have continued to lag behind that rate and are under pressure to improve performance on that front,” said the minister. The state reported 35.34 per cent occupancy on 12,715 beds earmarked for Covid-19 patients at 92 dedicated hospitals. A month ago, the occupancy was 32.14 per cent but on 12,045 beds at 87 hospitals. Over 2.75 lakh telemedicine consultations on the pandemic were provided, of which 1.26 lakh were in September.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-357
01-10-2020||West Bengal||Bengal zoos reopen tomorrow, eye on safety||Gates of the Bengal Safari Park — the only one of its kind in the state nestling on the outskirts of Siliguri — will reopen for visitors on Friday, along with all other zoological parks of the state. Last week, the state forest department made the decision to allow the resumption of visitors in zoos. The department has also drawn up a series of health safety measures which are to be followed by the staff and visitors in all these locations in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. Sources in the department said that on Wednesday, a mock drill of forest guards and other staff was conducted at the Bengal Safari Park to apprise them on safety protocols to follow. The staff, henceforth, will also be able to guide the visitors to adhere to such health directives. “This park on Siliguri outskirts is one of the major attractions for wildlife lovers in north Bengal. As we will open it for visitors on October 2, we thought of conducting the mock drill first. There are a few things which every visitor has to follow for safety as he enters the park (in view of the pandemic),” said Badal Debnath, the director of the park. Elaborating on these, Debnath said that all vehicles of visitors would be sanitised before entering the park area. Moreover, each visitor would be screened with a thermal scanner for his or her temperature to be checked before entry. Also, no ticket would be sold at counters. Visitors will have to buy tickets online to do away with human contact. The visitors, park director Debnath said, can enjoy safaris in animal enclosures. However, only 12 passengers would be allowed in the 24-seater buses which take visitors around on the safaris. Moreover, the popular elephant safari at the park won’t open immediately. A crowd-puller before onset of the Covid-19 pandemic, the park is spread over 297 hectares and has enclosures for tigers, leopards, the Asiatic black bear, gharials (fish-eating crocodiles), the rhino, and different species of deer. It also has an aviary. Debnath added: “People can watch the male tiger and two growing cubs in the safari. But the tigress and its newborn triplets will be in quarantine for some more days before they are released for public viewing.” In the hills, the Padmaja Naidu Himalayan Zoological Park, a popular destination of tourists in Darjeeling town for decades, will also reopen on October 2. More commonly known as the Darjeeling zoo, it is known for housing the red panda, Himalayan black bears and snow leopard, among other high-altitude and endangered animals.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-357
01-10-2020||West Bengal||National Highways Authority of India officials caught in twin protests in Malda||Officials of the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) in Malda have been caught in a deadlock by two movements, both of which are being spearheaded by the Trinamul Congress. On one hand, the district Trinamul and its youth wing are staging protests and sit-in demonstrations demanding immediate repair of the stretch of NH12 that passes through Malda. On the other hand, around 400 workers, who are backed by the All India Workers’ Federation that is close to Trinamul and have been engaged by a company that is developing the highway, have decided not to join their duties. They have decided to refrain from repairing the road or running the toll plaza at Baishnabnagar in Malda because of non-payment of their wages for over nine months. In total, around 1,100 workers serve under the Hindustan Construction Company Limited (HCCL). On Wednesday, over one-third of them assembled near the office of the company in Baishnabnagar, demanding immediate payment of their dues. “Repair of the damaged stretches of the NH is likely to commence from the first week of next month. But if we are not paid our dues, we will not join the work,” said Ramesh Singh, one of the demonstrators. According to them, the total dues of the workers are around Rs 20 crore. “The workers who serve here are from different states. Their salary and wages have been pending for nine months. They will not join the repair and expansion work of the highway if they do not get their dues,” said Sunil Sarkar, general secretary of federation. The demonstrating workers might also close down the toll plaza on October 8 if they are not paid by then, said sources. On September 16, district Trinamul leaders had sat on a “dharna” in front of the toll-plaza in Baishnabnagar. The agitation was withdrawn only after the NHAI officials gave it in writing that the repairs would start from October. Recently, a delegation of Trinamul Youth Congress had submitted a memorandum to the project director of the NHAI, reminding him of his promises. Prasenjit Das, the district youth Trinamul president, reiterated that the repairs should start immediately. “The private company and the NHAI will have to see how they can arrange the salaries and wages of the workers. We want the repairs to start in the interest of lakhs of people who commute on the highway every day,” he said. With such being the situation, officials of HCCL said they were trying to arrange for funds. “The issue has been conveyed to higher authorities. We hope a part of the dues would be paid ahead of the festive season,” said Gautam Biswas, a personnel manager of the HCCL, who conceded that the workers had not been paid their dues for around nine months. The demonstrations by Trinamul and the workers have also put the NHAI authorities under pressure. D.K. Hansaria, the project director of NHAI in Malda, said they had plans to start the repairs from October as the monsoon would be over. “We hope the problems would be resolved and repair works will start soon,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-357
01-10-2020||West Bengal||Siliguri heavyweights gear up for Bengal Assembly elections||Trinamul’s Gautam Deb and CPM’s Asok Bhattacharya, both heavyweights of Siliguri politics, have started focusing on their respective constituencies with greater vigour as the Bengal Assembly polls draw near. While Deb is helping Durga Puja committees, Bhattacharya is highlighting development issues to strike a rapport with the electorate. Tourism minister Deb represents the Dabram-Fulbari constituency. Bhattacharya, also the chairman of the board of administrators of the Siliguri Municipal Corporation (SMC), was elected MLA from the town Assembly seat. The two constituencies are contiguous. Last Saturday, Deb held a meeting with 66 Durga Puja organising committees from his constituency, which have not been recognised by the administration, and assured “all possible assistance.” Deb’s assurance comes within 24 hours of chief minister Mamata Banerjee announcing financial assistance for puja committees. The Dabgrma-Fulbari MLA also seems eager to send out a clear message that he is ready to provide full support to puja organisers of his constituency irrespective of whether they are recognised by the administration. “This meeting is significant as during the last Lok Sabha election, Trinamul trailed BJP by 80,000 votes from the minister’s constituency,” said an observer. The minister did not talk about “financial assistance” to the media but added that he would provide all possible support needed to organise the puja. Deb said many of the pujas were being organised by women groups for more than 10 years now. “Considering the present pandemic, it may not be possible for many of them to get necessary ‘go ahead’ from different departments. I have promised all assistance so that they don’t have to face any difficulties to organise the puja,” Deb said after the meeting. Many believe that following the rise of the BJP in north Bengal — the saffron party won seven of the eight Lok Sabha seats of the region in 2019 — an assurance for the smooth conduct of Durga Puja might be a calculated strategy. Bhattacharya, on the other hand, announced that his party workers would hit the seats on October 3 to highlight a number of issues including the alleged “non-cooperation” of the state government in improving civic services. “We are organising the rally at Siliguri keeping in mind the upcoming Assembly election and civic elections,” said Bhattacharya. Siliguri is among the few seats where the Left Front is relatively strong in the state. Playing the development card, Bhattacharya alleged that proposals such as comprehensive drinking water project and improving drainage system in the SMC areas were repeatedly ignored by the state government. “A scam in Siliguri Jalpaiguri Development Authority also needs to be probed properly. These are some of the issues that we will highlight before the residents of Siliguri,” said Bhattacharya.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-357
01-10-2020||West Bengal||Dooars tea garden executive succumbs to Covid||An assistant manager of a tea estate in the Dooars died of the novel coronavirus infection at the Covid hospital of Alipurduar district on Wednesday morning. This is the first time that an employee of executive rank working in the tea belt has lost his life because of the pandemic. Sources said Jyotiprasad Ghosh, who was 65 years old and the senior assistant manager at Dima tea estate in Kalchini block of Alipurduar, was in home quarantine for the past few days after he tested positive. “He was doing well so far but on Tuesday evening, he suddenly fell ill. We took him to the health centre in Latabari from where he had to be shifted to the Covid hospital in Alipurduar with oxygen support. On Wednesday morning, we were informed that he had died. It is a huge loss for all of us,” said Dibyendu Ghosh, the manager of the Dima tea estate. Ghosh, who had been working at the Dima tea garden for the past eight months, hailed from Khanyan in Hooghly. However, he had worked in a number of tea estates in the Dooars. As the news of his death spread, hundreds of workers joined in mourning. They did not work for the day. “He was here for only a few months but had developed a close coordination with the workers. Many of us are mourning his sudden demise,” said Shibram Nayak, a trade union leader of the garden. In Siliguri, chief minister Mamata Banerjee and Rajiva Sinha, the outgoing chief secretary, issued a health alert to officials of different north Bengal districts. Speaking at an administrative meeting in Uttarkanya, both of them said those working in the districts should not get lackadaisical because Covid-19 cases were on the rise. “After combating with the pandemic for over six months now, some might feel fatigued. But we should be on alert and take appropriate steps to maintain the green zones as well as curb transmission of the disease in places where cases have been reported,” said Sinha. The state government of Sikkim will allow inter-state movement of people from Thursday after a gap of over six months. On Wednesday, the health and family welfare department of the Himalayan state also issued a notification that the two health screening checkpoints at Rangpo and Melli — the two entry points to the state — will be withdrawn. From October 10, entry of tourists, both domestic and international, would be allowed in Sikkim. Additional reporting by Rajeev Ravidas||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-357
01-10-2020||West Bengal||Rahul Sinha to hold talks with Amit Shah today||BJP leader Rahul Sinha, who made his first public appearance on Wednesday after being dropped from the national committee on Saturday, said he would inform the central leadership as to how old timers were being neglected in the Bengal unit of the party. Sinha, a two-time state party president and former national secretary, left for New Delhi on Wednesday to attend a meeting with Union home minister Amit Shah and other senior BJP leaders on Thursday. “Old timers in the party are disgruntled. They have given their sweat and blood for the party for 40 years. Now they have been distanced from their rightful places. I’ll speak to the national leaders about their grievances,” Sinha told reporters at the airport on Wednesday. Sinha, sulking ever since he was removed from the national secretary’s post, has been invited to New Delhi for talks after he did not show any interest in speaking to three senior leaders who had been deployed by the central leadership to pacify him. A touch of drama marked Sinha’s departure for Delhi. As the BJP leader got off his car at the airport, he was stopped by a group of supporters, including a few women, to prevent his journey to New Delhi. The women threw themselves on his way and urged him to not go to Delhi till he was given due respect in the party. It took Sinha nearly 30 minutes to persuade them and leave for Delhi. Since the reconstituted BJP national committee was announced on Saturday, clashes between old and new factions of the party have been reported from various parts of the state. Though the clashes have no apparent connection with Sinha being dropped from the list, party insiders didn’t rule out the involvement of the lobby loyal to the disgruntled leader. On Wednesday, a group of BJP workers demonstrated in front of the state BJP headquarters at 6 Muralidhar Sen Lane here demanding the removal of Sibaji Singha Roy, who was recently appointed as the president of the BJP’s North Calcutta district. “Dilipda (Dilip Ghosh) has placed people close to him in important positions. Rahulda has kept quiet so far. But since he has no official position in the BJP now, his lobby is creating all the ruckus,” a state BJP leader said. However, Sinha’s allegations were primarily not directed at the state BJP president, Dilip Ghosh. In a video message on Saturday, he had categorically mentioned that his removal was orchestrated to accommodate Trinamul turncoats on the national committee. In Saturday’s rejig, former Trinamul leader Mukul Roy had been inducted into the national committee, along with his close aide and fellow Trinamul turncoat Anupam Hazra.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-357
01-10-2020||West Bengal||Mamata Banerjee jibe at BJP-ruled UP, Gujarat||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee came down heavily on BJP during an administrative review meeting here on Wednesday as she raised questions over the law and order situation in some of the BJP-ruled states including Uttar Pradesh. “There are some people who question the law and order situation in Bengal. We would like to know how the situation is in states like Gujarat and Uttar Pradesh,” she said. “ In Bengal, the situation is much better than any other state of the country.” Though she did not refer to the Hathras tragedy of Uttar Pradesh in which a 19-year-old Dalit girl died on Tuesday two weeks after she was gang-raped, and was cremated before dawn on Wednesday by the police, it was clear that the Yogi Adityanath government was her target. In a bid to turn the Hathras incident into a political issue with pan-India resonance, Mamata’s party Trinamul — assisted by Team Prashant Kishor — has been making noise on social and mainstream media on the Dalit victim angle. Several senior Trinamul Congress leaders, right up to the party’s de facto Number Two Abhishek Banerjee, questioned Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s silence on the Hathras tragedy. “An unspeakable crime committed in #Hathras under Narendra Modi’s reign & he was silent. The girl succumbed to her injuries, after battling to stay alive for 15 days & now, UP police have utterly disrespected her remains!” tweeted Abhishek, the Diamond Harbour MP. After her assault on the BJP-led governments in different parts of the country, Mamata then criticised the central government for the alleged highhandedness of  the Border Security Force (BSF) in bordering areas of Bengal. “In bordering areas of Cooch Behar, the BSF personnel are being used to open fire and intimidate people. There are reports that the BSF personnel roam around in villages in the name of vigilance and threaten the residents. This has to be stopped. I would also ask the policemen posted in such places to take strict steps to prevent smuggling and other illegal activities,” she added. The attack on the BSF was significant as there have been recent instances in which jawans were accused of firing at innocent people. In a recent incident, a youth in Toofanganj in Cooch Behar was gunned down by BSF. The killing triggered a controversy as north Bengal development minister Rabindranath Ghosh had lodged a complaint against the BSF with the chief minister. Mamata also spoke on social networking and accused the BJP of floating thousands of groups on social media to disseminate “fake news”. In a missive to the police officers posted across different police stations and to the BDOs, she said that they have to take the initiative on a regular basis to prevent the spread of such “irresponsible and fake posts”. She took on the Centre and the BJP over the agenda of development and said that though the state has readied airports in Cooch Behar, Balurghat and Malda, the central government has not acted yet to make these airports operational. “The onus is on the Union civil aviation ministry. We have spent money to get these airports ready. They should take initiative to start flight services from these airports to boost regional connectivity. Earlier, we had seen some people bringing in a flight to Cooch Behar and claiming initiation of air services. But ultimately, it turned out to be a gimmick,” said Mamata. She was referring to Nisith Pramanik, the BJP MP of Cooch Behar. In July last year, Pramanik had landed in a nine-seater aircraft in Cooch Behar and had said that flight services would commence soon from the airport. However, no flight services eventually started from Cooch Behar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-357
