02-10-2020||West Bengal||CM highlights UP girl’s agnipariksha||Mamata Banerjee on Thursday drew a parallel between Sita’s agnipariksha and forcible cremation of a Dalit girl who had allegedly been gang-raped in the BJP-ruled Uttar Pradesh as the Bengal chief minister questioned the saffron camp’s track record in the protection of Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes. Mamata pulled no punches in the offensive she mounted on the BJP over the Hathras incident — now an issue with pan-India resonance — in an apparent bid to erode the saffron camp’s credibility as a claimant to the Bengal throne. “Sita-ma had to go through an agnipariksha and now in UP, a girl was raped and after she died, her body was set on fire. We are surprised to see the ill-governance in the state, where no proper investigation was done,” Mamata said at a public meeting in Purba Dhantala near Siliguri. Mamata’s repeated assertions on law and order, said sources in her party, were in view of a key poll plank of the BJP for Bengal, where it promises to ensure a “return” of the rule of law by ending her alleged reign of lawlessness and terror. “In our state, (in cases of crimes against women) we have taken steps within 72 hours of the crime,” Mamata said. There were indications at the start of the day that Mamata would come out all guns blazing on the issue as she tweeted a statement of condemnation in the morning. “Have no words to condemn the barbaric & shameful incident at Hathras involving a young Dalit girl. My deepest condolences to the family. More shameful is the forceful cremation without the family’s presence or consent, exposing those who use slogans & lofty promises for votes,” she wrote on the microblogging site. Seeking to mock a 2018 exercise by the BJP where leaders dined at homes of Dalits and tribal people to garner support, Mamata said Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes were among those facing the most torture in the country. “Ahead of the elections, they (BJP) pretend to be sympathetic towards Dalits, adivasis and minorities. They bring food from outside and dine with Dalits, which is nothing but a political stunt. But after the elections, it is the Dalits who are being tortured,” said Mamata. She brought up some unfulfilled promises of the BJP, made for north Bengal. “They had promised to reopen seven tea gardens in north Bengal and had made lengthy assurances to the Rajbanshis ahead of the elections. None of those has been fulfilled. This is because they only make false promises and ahead of the elections, they will come up with such promises again. We do not make any fake commitments and I feel that those who could not keep their words should stay away from politics,” said Mamata. In the Lok Sabha elections last year, the BJP had managed to bag the support of a considerable portion of the tea garden population and the Rajbanshi community, which helped the party win seven of the eight north Bengal seats. In north Bengal, there are at least 30 Assembly seats where support of these people decide the results. “Her high-pitched verbal attack on the BJP indicates that in her head, the campaign for 2021 has been launched,” said an observer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-355
02-10-2020||West Bengal||‘NIA framed 9’||Bengal minister of state for library services Siddiqullah Chowdhury on Thursday termed the arrest of nine persons in Kerala and Murshidabad for alleged links with al Qaida as “a framed exercise” by the NIA. “The NIA has framed these youths to malign the Muslim community. The plan to show Muslims in poor light has been hatched in Delhi and the BJP government is setting a bad example as a result. They have no prior record,” Chowdhury told reporters in Berhampore. The minister went on: “They (BJP) are spending loads on the media so as to turn stories to their advantage. This is hurting the state and the country. If there was no lockdown, we would have held demonstrations.” NIA officials had claimed that bomb-making materials and terrorist manifestos had been seized from the nine people arrested on the intervening night of September 18 and 19. Chowdhury said the NIA had ruthlessly conducted a nocturnal operation and nabbed the innocent youths. “It is a total lie,” he added. Asked if he was making his claims in his capacity as a minister, Chowdhury replied in the affirmative.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-355
02-10-2020||West Bengal||Gandhi statue to counter ‘hate’||A Trinamul Congress-run civic body in Sainthia, Birbhum, spent around Rs 12.5 lakh on a statue of Mahatma Gandhi and a model of the Dandi march ahead of his 151st birth anniversary on Friday. Sources in Trinamul attributed the move to a renewed focus on the Father of the Nation and his inclusive humanism in a bid to counter the saffron camp’s propaganda. Party sources said it was just one example out of many across Bengal, within a week of the bicentennial celebrations of another humanist icon, Ishwarchandra Vidyasagar. Biplab Dutta, chairman of the board of administrators of the Sainthia municipality, said Gandhi stood for non-violence, brotherhood, amity. “These are important, now more than ever, in our nation being ripped apart by hatred and intolerance. The BJP has been trying to appropriate Gandhi, like so many other icons who stood against the saffron camp and its ideological framework, but they do not respect him,” he said. Trinamul, said sources, would use October 2 to remind people of Gandhi’s views on communal harmony and underscore the differences between his philosophy and that of the BJP. The Gandhi statue is a seated one, at the Union crossing area of the town. The Dandi march model has been set up near the town’s Sashibhusan Dutta Girls’ High School. The civic body spent Rs 2.5 lakh on the Gandhi statue and Rs 10 lakh on the Dandi march model. Trinamul leaders said that the model of Gandhi’s historic 1930 Dandi march against oppression and injustice were relevant in the BJP regime. Asansol municipal corporation distributed complimentary copies of Gandhi’s autobiography, The Story of My Experiments with Truth, last year. It will do so this year too. “We ordered 6,000 copies of the book in English, Hindi and Bengali. They will be distributed among young boys and girls. At a time the BJP is trying to appropriate the icon while conveniently sidestepping the main beliefs he stood for, the book will help people understand Gandhiji better,” said Jitendra Tiwari, Asansol mayor and Trinamul’s West Burdwan chief. Civic bodies in Arambagh in Hooghly, Kalna in East Burdwan and Rampurhat in Birbhum, will also host events on Gandhi Jayanti. The BJP too has lined up events to mark the occasion in a bid to try and use it to drum up support for the controversial farm legislation passed by the Narendra Modi government. Bidyasagar Chakraborty, the BJP’s Purulia unit chief, alleged Trinamul was “trying to mislead the people of Bengal” on the new farm laws. “We have planned a march with photographs of Gandhiji, in support of the legislation.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-355
02-10-2020||West Bengal||Shah to visit Bengal before Puja, says Dilip||Union home minister Amit Shah is likely to visit Bengal before Durga Puja and hold meetings with BJP workers to prepare them for the Assembly elections, said the party’s state president Dilip Ghosh. “We have requested Amit-ji to visit Bengal before the puja and hold meetings with party workers to energise them...We are working on the date,” said Ghosh. On Thursday, Shah held a meeting with Bengal BJP leaders like Ghosh, national vice-president Mukul Roy, the party’s in charge for Bengal Kailash Vijayvargiya, co-minder Arvind Menon, national joint general secretary (organisation) Shivprakash and former national secretary Rahul Sinha in New Delhi. BJP national president J.P. Nadda was present at the meeting. Nadda is also likely visit Bengal soon to meet party workers, Ghosh said after Thursday’s meeting. According to BJP sources, Mission Bengal is close to Shah’s heart and he takes keen interest in the nitty-gritty of politics in the state. “In our party, the final call on any matter is taken by the party’s president. Though Nadda-ji took over as president in January 2020, Amit-ji has always taken interest in Bengal. He has been overseeing the affairs of the state for the past few years,” said a source. The source said the Bengal leaders were looking forward to Thursday’s meeting as they couldn’t reach Shah over the last month or so because of his illness. “Today, we spoke to him about recent developments in the state... All of us told him that his visit would create the right momentum for us to prepare for the next year’s polls,” the source added. A section of the party thinks the state unit’s excessive dependence on national leaders like Shah is harming the BJP’s prospects in the state. Multiple leaders this correspondent spoke to said that the fact that Shah and Nadda would have to come all the way from Delhi to encourage workers proved that the party still lacked a face in Bengal. “Dilipda has gained much popularity over the past few years. But the fact that we are so dependent on Delhi leaders even a few months before the polls proves that we are not fully prepared for the battle,” a source said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-356
02-10-2020||West Bengal||Covid kills MLA, total toll 5,000||The Trinamul Congress lost its third sitting lawmaker to Covid-19, as Bankura district’s Indas MLA Gurupada Mete died on Thursday evening, the day the pandemic’s toll crossed 5,000 in Bengal over six months after the first death was reported in the state on March 23. Fifty-nine Covid-19 deaths were reported in Bengal in 24 hours till Thursday 9am, taking the total toll to 5,017. However, since the 51-year-old MLA breathed his last in the evening, his demise would be accounted for in Friday’s toll. Mete died at a Howrah hospital. “Deeply saddened by the passing away of  @AITCofficial Bankura District Coordinator and two-time MLA Gurupada Mete,” tweeted chief minister Mamata Banerjee. “His unparalleled devotion to serve the citizens of Bengal will always be remembered. My heartfelt condolences to his family and closed ones (sic),” she added. Mete was among 15-odd Trinamul MLAs out of around 30 sitting members of the Assembly who got infected so far. Before him, the pathogen claimed the lives of Trinamul’s Egra MLA Samaresh Das and Falta MLA Tamonash Ghosh. CPM veteran Shyamal Chakraborty also died of Covid. In Bengal, the virus so far also infected five state ministers, Suvendu Adhikari, Jyotipriya Mullick, Sujit Bose, Swapan Debnath and Soumen Mahapatra, and four parliamentarians, Locket Chatterjee, Sukanta Majumdar, Jayanta Roy and Shanta Chhetri. On Thursday, Bengal reported 3,275 new cases and 2,996 recoveries, taking the total number of infections to over 2.6 lakh, of which nearly 2.29 are recoveries. Among the deaths, the state government reported 4,269 or 85.1 per cent as deaths with comorbidity “present”. Of the 59 deaths reported till Thursday 9am, 11 persons succumbed in Calcutta and 15 in North 24-Parganas. Bengal’s overall mortality rate is 1.92, trailing behind the national rate of 1.56 per cent. However, the state’s recovery rate is now 87.87, ahead of the national rate at 83.53 per cent. The state logged 43,854 tests, which took the total past 32.71 lakh, at 36,348 tests per million people. Fairly high testing numbers, coupled with the plateau in cases being detected, dragged the positive confirmation rate from 8.9 on August 23 to 7.96 per cent now. The state reported 35.45 per cent occupancy of 12,715 Covid-19 beds in 92 hospitals. Over 2.79 lakh telemedicine consultations have been provided, 4,072 of them in the past 24 hours.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-356
02-10-2020||West Bengal||12,000km Bengal road repair begins||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday announced and launched a scheme under which 7,000 stretches of roads with a combined length of 12,000km would be repaired in four months. Mamata launched Pathashree Abhijaan at Purba Dhantala near Siliguri while wrapping up her visit to the city. Purba Dhantala is in the Dabgram-Fulbari Assembly seat represented by tourism minister Gautam Deb. “On the occasion of Mahatma Gandhi’s birth anniversary, our government is taking up the project to repair 12,000km of roads across the state,” said Mamata. She went on elaborating on the development of road infrastructure in the state after Trinamul had come to power in 2011. According to her, the total length of roads in the state was 92,023 km till 2011. “We could increase the total length of roads in the state to 3.16 lakh kilometres in the past eight years, which means an increase of 244 per cent,” said the chief minister. Mamata said the road repairs would have to be completed by January next year. “If any discrepancy is noticed in executing the project, we will take appropriate actions,” the chief minister said. According to a survey, sources in the state government said, a total of 17,000km of roads in the state need urgent restoration and repairs. Of them, 7,000km of rural roads are maintained by the panchayat department and the remaining by the state public works department. A total of Rs 1,900 crore was estimated to be required for the repair of 12,000km roads. The state government plans to take up the repair of 12,000km of roads initially. “A majority of these roads were built under the PMGSY scheme in rural areas more than five years ago. As the maintenance liability of the contractors is usually for five years, the state has to repair the roads now,” said a senior official. As most of these roads are in rural areas, the ruling establishment is keen on repairing them immediately, considering the coming Assembly polls. Once these roads are repaired, the state government would consider taking up repairs on the remaining 5,000km of roads. “These roads are mainly semi-urban or district roads and can be repaired later as their condition is not so bad,” said the official. During the launch of the road repair project, Mamata also handed over Rs 3 crore to the namasudra welfare board and Rs 10 crore each to the Terai Dooars development and cultural board and the state tribal development and cultural board. Additional reporting by Pranesh Sarkar in Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-356
02-10-2020||West Bengal||BJP, CPM leaders voice discontent||Three elected representatives — two from the BJP and one from the CPM — articulated their grievances on a number of issues during the four-day visit of chief minister Mamata Banerjee to north Bengal that ended on Thursday. Raju Bista, the BJP MP of Darjeeling, pointed out that Mamata did not address some prominent issues of the hills, Neeraj Zimba, the Darjeeling MLA who won last year’s bypoll on a BJP ticket, sent a letter to Mamata stating his privilege as a peoples’ representative had been violated as he was not invited to the review meeting at the branch secretariat Uttarkanya here. Asok Bhattacharya, the CPM MLA of Siliguri, alleged that the state was not keen in developing the city’s infrastructure. “I welcome the state’s decision to construct homes for tea garden workers but simultaneously want to know why their minimum wages have not yet been fixed. Also, she (Mamata) provided funds to the GTA but did not address the demand for permanency of GTA employees and those working in Darjeeling municipality,” said Bista. The MP also pointed out that land rights of hill residents were pending, an issue flagged by various political parties these past few months. On Wednesday, Binay Tamang, who heads a faction of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha and is an ally of Trinamul, had raised the issue at the administrative review meeting. However, such assertions from Bista indicates that the BJP, while highlighting some longstanding demands the state government is yet to meet, wants secure the maximum possible Assembly seats in north Bengal. Zimba, on the other hand, wrote to Mamata that he was registering his protest that despite being an MLA of Darjeeling district, he was not invited to the review meeting. “As an elected MLA, it is my constitutional right and my responsibility to partake in any discussion regarding the development issues of my constituency. However, by not extending me the invitation, your administration has clearly violated the constitutional privileges of an elected lawmaker of the House,” he wrote. CPM MLA Asok Bhattacharya, also the chairperson of the board of administrators in Siliguri Municipal Corporation, was invited to the review meeting but did not attend it at Uttarkanya on Wednesday as a “silent protest.” “It is a silent protest against the state government that has deprived residents of Siliguri from development and has also put a virtual financial embargo on the local civic body. Also, I came to know that a number of other MLAs have not been invited. This is yet another reason why I did not go,” the CPM veteran said. Additional reporting by Bireswar Banerjee||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-356
02-10-2020||West Bengal||Newborn dies, dad blames nurses||A newborn at Murshidabad’s Jangipur Superspecialty Hospital  was declared dead by doctors within minutes of the delivery on Wednesday night, leading the father to lodge complaint of culpable homicide against nurses on duty for allegedly not responding to the mother’s cries for help for over 30 minutes during labour. Sources said mother Chumki Khatun, 26, was rushed to the hospital around 5pm on Wednesday and told by doctors to wait in the maternity ward as “a normal childbirth” was imminent later in the day. “My wife and mother-in-law were in the ward for at least four hours before my wife went into labour. During my wife’s labour, my mother-in-law called out repeatedly for the nurses but she was asked to wait till dinner time was over,” alleged Jahid Hossain, 30, Chumki’s husband and a farmer from Suti’s Debipur, on Thursday. Jahid said that his wife eventually delivered a boy around 11.30pm, more than 30 minutes  after going into labour, in the presence of her mother. However, the nurses did not come till the last moment, and only after the baby was delivered did the doctor arrive, he alleged. “The doctors declared my baby dead within minutes of birth. This happened because of the negligence of the nurses,” said Jahid. Jahid filed a formal complaint with hospital superintendent Sayan Das on Thursday morning demanding charges of culpable homicide against the nurses on duty on Wednesday night. Hospital superintendent Sayan Das said he received the farmer’s complaint. “I will launch a formal inquiry into the incident on Friday and if required refer the matter to Behrampore’s chief medical officer,” superintendent Das said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-356
02-10-2020||West Bengal||Campus exam tests Covid rules||A girls’ college in Birbhum’s Bolpur allowed at least 100 final-year under-graduate students to take on-campus examination in violation of Burdwan University norms and Covid-19 protocol on Thursday. Along with other colleges affiliated to Burdwan University, online examination for UG students of Purnidevi Girls’ College in Bolpur began on Thursday. Sources said instead of arranging for online test for all the candidates, the college authorities defied the examination norms of the varsity and asked around 100 final-year UG students to go to the campus and write the exam. A section of teachers and non-teaching employees had objected to the move but their opposition was overruled by the college authorities. “It (on-campus test) was held in total violation of Covid protocol. We don’t know who will take the responsibility if any student or teacher takes ill. The college authorities took the decision by keeping us in the dark,” said a governing body member, who refused to be named. According to the guidelines of the state government as well as Burdwan University, question papers have to be sent to the students through email or WhatsApp 30 minutes prior to the start of the exam. The examinees will then write on answer sheets and submit the scanned copies online to an address pre-decided by the college authorities. Those without access to Internet can submit the answer sheets physically at the college by following Covid protocol. “The guideline is that if anyone fails to submit the answer sheet online, he/she can come over to the college and physically hand it over within a stipulated time by maintaining Covid norms. But there is no provision to ask students to come over to the college to take the test,” a teacher of the college said. The college authorities, however, said they allowed only those students living in remote areas or without access to Internet to go to the campus to take the test. “There are many students who come from remote areas like Illambazar and Joydeb villages and they do not have the facility to take online exam. They were allowed to take the examination offline at the college, while others took the test online,” said Chandranath Sinha, the president of the governing body of the college. Sinha is also Trinamul’s Bolpur MLA and fisheries minister. Principal of the college Sunil Baran Mondal, however, denied that offline examination was arranged on the campus but tried to skirt an answer when asked why so many students were present at the college during the exam. Educational institutes across the state remain closed because of Covid protocol. “No student came physically to take the examination. Some students had come for the work they had at the college library,” said Mondal. Burdwan University officials said there was no provision for students to take the exam at the college. “We have come to know about the incident at Purnidevi Girls’ College in Bolpur and will find out whether the college authorities allowed students to take on-campus examination,” said Abhijit Mazumdar, the registrar of Burdwan University.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-356
02-10-2020||West Bengal||NBU online exam starts with tech snag||Students appearing in the final exams of their undergraduate courses under the North Bengal University (NBU) faced a technical glitch on the first day of the online exam on Thursday, forcing varsity authorities to rethink the mechanism of circulating question papers. As hundreds of students sat at homes to write their papers, they found it tough to download the question paper from the varsity website. “Question papers were uploaded only on the varsity website. The portal could not take the load when hundreds of students logged in at the same time to download questions. This led to delay and many students became tense as minutes ticked by,” said Biswajit Sarkar, a former general secretary of the students’ union of Siliguri College. Sources said according to the University Grants Commission norms, the question papers of each online exam should be uploaded on the website of a university 15 minutes before the start of the exam. Later on Thursday, NBU authorities came up with a new plan to resolve the problem. “To make the exam process easier, it has been decided that from tomorrow (Friday), question papers would also be made available on websites of all affiliated colleges, along with the varsity’s official website,” said an NBU source. A faculty member of Siliguri College, Amitava Kanjilal, accused of promising an undergraduate student high marks in lieu of money, appeared on Thursday before an inquiry committee constituted by the college to probe into the allegation. Earlier, he had been served a showcause by college authorities. Kanjilal spoke to inquiry panel but not to the media. A member of the committee said they would soon prepare a report and submit it to the college governing body.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-356
02-10-2020||West Bengal||Delayed by Covid, bike race in November||The Himalayan Mountaineering Institute (HMI) here has decided to organise the second edition of Tenzing Norgay Mountain Biking (MTB) challenge next month with the organisers including a virtual cycling for those who cannot travel to Darjeeling. The bikers’ race will end at Tiger Hill, famed for its sunrise. “This year we have decided to flag of the race from Mungpoo, which is famous for its association with Rabindranath Tagore and the cinchona plantations, and finish at Tiger hill,” said Group Captain Jai Kishan, who is the principal of the HMI. Mungpoo is perched at an altitude of 3700 feet and cyclists will pass though Chatakpur (7,800 feet) to reach Tiger Hill at an altitude of 8,441 feet covering a mostly uphill route of 35km. Entry forms can be downloaded from tenzingnorgaymtb.com and the event carries a total prize money of Rs 1.5 lakh. Riders below 18 years must bring along a letter of consent signed by their parent or guardian, the principal said. The organisers have decided on three categories, virtual, open and cyclothan. “On November 1, we will organise a virtual cycling where participants can record their details in any fitness app anywhere in the world and submit details to us. This is because many participants might not want to travel now (amid the ongoing pandemic situation),” said Kishan. Last year over 150 participants from not just India but also from Nepal, Bhutan and Bangladesh had participated in the events. The other two categories, open race and cyclothan (fun ride), will be held on November 2. The routes will be the same — Mungpo to Tiger Hill via Chatakpur. Outstation participants are required to submit a Covid test report which is not older than three days. The event was started by HMI last year to commemorate the 105th birth anniversary of Tenzing Norgay Sherpa, who along with Sir Edmund Hillary, was the first to climb Everest on May 29, 1953. This year the organisers could not hold the event on May 29 amid the pandemic-induced lockdown. But now with the phased Unlock across the country, many curbs are being eased. Tourism, the mainstay of the hill economy along with tea, is also being encouraged. The HMI will also open to tourists from Friday. “We are organising this (mountain biking) event to remember our legend and also to promote adventure sports, which will also help tourism in this region,” said Kishan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-356
02-10-2020||West Bengal||NIA makes fake note arrest||A National Investigation Agency (NIA) team arrested an alleged fake note peddler from Baishnabnagar area of Malda district on Wednesday night. Sources said Tausif Alam a.k.a. Bulo Sheikh of Mohanpur under Baishnabnagar police station was summoned to the NIA office at the NTPC township in Farakka and later taken to Calcutta on Wednesday night. He was arrested allegedly in connection with an old fake Indian currency notes (FICN) peddling case filed in Uttar Pradesh last December. Malda SP has been informed. “One Mohammed Murad Alam, from Katihar district in Bihar, was arrested for carrying FICN of around Rs 2.5 lakh from a place in Ghaziabad last year. While interrogating him, it was revealed that (Tausif) Alam alias Bulo was actively involved in smuggling FICN to India from Bangladesh. After primary evidence was found against him (Bulo), he was arrested,” said a source. NIA sources claimed that Bulo played a key role in smuggling FICN from Bangladesh that would be distributed across India through his agents. Bulo, a police officer said, had also served as a migrant worker in various states. “The NIA officials have communicated to us in writing that they arrested Alam (Bulo) in connection with an old case of FICN peddling,” said Malda SP Alok Rajoria.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-356
