03-10-2020||West Bengal||Ban on political events at Gorkha Rangamancha Bhavan||The GTA has decided to ban political events at the Gorkha Rangamancha Bhavan, the complex which was the epicentre of clashes between Gorkha Janmukti Morcha supporters and police on the language issue in 2017, which had led to a renewal of the statehood agitation, including a 104-day closure of the Darjeeling hills and the present state of flux in the local politics. Anit Thapa, the chairman of the board of administrators appointed by the Mamata Banerjee government to run the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration, said on Friday: “Since today is a holiday, we will issue an order tomorrow (Saturday) to ensure that no political programmes are held here.” Thapa was speaking at a ceremony to “reinstall” the statue of a Gorkha soldier, which had originally been erected by GNLF leader Subash Ghisingh atop the town hall here but subsequently uninstalled by Bimal Gurung when he took charge of the GTA in 2012 as it was purportedly “inappropriate to point a khukuri” towards Mahakal mandir. Some weeks back, Morcha leader Binay Tamang had requested the GTA to reinstall the Gorkha statue. Speaking at the programme on Friday, he also appealed to the GTA to ban political events at the Gorkha Rangamancha Bhavan. “We must put an end to the practice of damaging assets created by rival politicians. I would request the GTA to come up with a strict order banning all political events here,” said Tamang. Thapa immediately heeded his party president’s request. There have always been demands to ban political events at places like Chowrastha, Mall Road and the Gorkha Rangamancha Bhavan (which is on the Mall Road). Before a civic election, the undivided Morcha had announced its intention of banning political events at Chowrastha, but the same was never implemented. Chowrastha is also the preferred venue of chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s programmes. “The khukuri is pointing towards Chumbi Valley, towards China and not towards Mahakal mandir,” said Tamang, referring to the new statue of the Gorkha soldier holding the machete. On June 8, 2017, supporters of the undivided Morcha and police had clashed on the premises of the Gorkha Rangamancha Bhavan and the adjoining Mall Road. When the clash took place, Bimal Gurung, who was the chief executive of the GTA then, was at the town hall while chief minister Mamata Banerjee was at Raj Bhavan, just about 500m away, attending a cabinet meeting. The Morcha supporters had organised a rally to protest against the alleged decision of the state government to make Bengali a compulsory subject at hill schools. The state government later issued a clarification that it had no such intention. Following the clash, the hills were plunged into violent agitation, which veered towards the statehood issue. The hills were closed for 104-days and the Morcha broke into two — one headed by Bimal Gurung and the other by Binay Tamang. The Tamang faction is an ally of the Trinamul Congress. Despite Tamang and later Thapa being appointed by the state government to run the GTA, their faction has lost two consecutive elections to the alliance of the BJP and the Gurung camp. The appointment of board of administrators at the GTA was necessitated by the end of the five-year tenure of the hill body’s first elected body in 2017.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-354
03-10-2020||West Bengal||TMC civic body unveils Priya statue||A life size statue of former Congress leader and Union minister Priya Ranjan Das Munshi, who is considered to be the tallest political leader of North Dinajpur district, was unveiled at Siliguri More in Raiganj town on Friday. The statue was installed by the Trinamul-run Raiganj municipality. Those in the civic body have termed their initiative as a political courtesy and an attempt to pay homage to Das Munshi while the Congress has asked whether Trinamul is trying to win people’s hearts by using the late leader’s legacy. On Friday, Chittaranjan Roy, a former Congress MLA of Raiganj, unveiled the statue in the presence of Sandip Biswas, the civic chairman, and Arindam Sarkar, his deputy. “In North Dinajpur, Priya Ranjan Das Munshi is revered by people from all walks of life. To ensure that he is remembered forever and to pay him homage, we have installed the statue,” said Biswas, the chairman. Das Munshi was the MP of Raiganj from 1999 to 2009 and had also been a member of the Union cabinet. In 2008, he suddenly fell ill and had been under treatment at the AIIMS in Delhi for around nine years. In November 2017, he breathed his last. “We might have political differences with him but his contribution to the district and political acumen had made him rise above politics. That is why we erected his statue. There is no point in drawing any other inference from the initiative of the civic body,” the civic chairman added. District Congress leaders aren’t, however, ready to buy the theory. Though they have welcomed the installation of Das Munshi’s statue, they have simultaneously raised questions over Trinamul’s intention and pointed out that Deepa Das Munshi, Priya’s wife who was also a Congress MP, had not been invited to the event. “Trinamul leaders across North Dinajpur have often resorted to violence, which is completely against the political beliefs of Priya Ranjan Das Munshi. We feel it is nothing but an attempt to try and stoke the sentiments of people who have high regards for our leader to gain support ahead of the Assembly elections,” said Mohit Sengupta, the Raiganj MLA and district Congress president.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-354
03-10-2020||West Bengal||Buxa Fort to  get a makeover||The Alipurduar district administration and the state public works department are drawing up plans for the renovation and restoration of the historic Buxa Fort. A few days back, chief minister Mamata Banerjee had sanctioned Rs 5 crore for the revival of the fort that was used as a detention camp during the British rule. Located in the Sinchula Range of the Himalayas at a height of 2,900ft, the fort was built by the Bhutan kings and later captured by the British. They used it as a detention camp and hundreds of freedom fighters were kept there for years. In due course, the fort turned into ruins because of lack of proper maintenance. But even now, it draws hundreds of visitors, particularly trek enthusiasts because of the idyllic landscape with Bhutan hills forming the backdrop. They move through a 3.5km-long serpentine road to reach the fort. Senior residents of Alipurduar, who have seen the fort turning gradually into ruins, said stones, iron materials and several other items were taken away by miscreants during the seventies and the eighties. “The devastating flood that Alipurduar had witnessed in 1993 damaged the boundary wall, cells, pond, a tennis court and a helipad,” said a resident. In the past two decades, the demand for the restoration of the fort was raised by different quarters, particularly as the inflow of tourists increased in the Dooars. This made Tamal Goswami, who is associated with travel trade and also an archaeological consultant, conduct a study of the fort. “From 2004 till 2007, I carried out a thorough study of the fort and later submitted my report to the state government. Since then, efforts were made and finally, the state has allocated funds for renovating the fort. It is a historic structure that needs repairs and can be one of the prime destinations for tourists, like the Cellular Jail of Andaman. We feel once the work is done, more people will visit the fort,” Goswami said. Sources said the cells, boundary wall and the helipad would be restored, along with some other works. Surendra Kumar Meena, the district magistrate of Alipurduar, said the administration had already built a 2km-long bituminous road on the way to Buxa Fort from Santalabari, the last point till which vehicles can reach. “We will develop the remaining 1.5km stretch soon. As a part of the project, the fort would be restored completely. The museum would be developed while the boundary walls and the cells would be repaired while keeping in mind that the old heritage look of the fort remains intact. The PWD will take up the project,” said Meena.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-354
03-10-2020||West Bengal||New TMC committees formed in Jalpaiguri and Cooch Behar||Trinamul Congress leaders in Jalpaiguri and Cooch Behar districts announced new district committees and block committees on Friday, a day after party supremo Mamata Banerjee had returned from Siliguri to Calcutta. As K.K. Kalyani and Partha Pratim Roy, the district Trinamul presidents of Jalpaiguri and Cooch Behar, respectively, announced the new committees, it was found that the party made an attempt to address the grievances of a section of leaders. In both the districts, old faces and dissidents have been included in the district and block committees. Trinamul insiders said such inclusive approach of the party leadership would help in resolving infighting in Trinamul. Rabindranath Ghosh, the north Bengal development minister and the immediate past Cooch Behar district Trinamul president, has not been included in the district committee. “The district committee has been formed according to the advice of our state leaders. We will all work together as has been instructed by our party supremo,” said Cooch Behar district president Roy. In the past 10 years, Trinamul managed to establish itself as the strongest political force with an adequate support base in both the districts. However, squabbles among a number of lobbies weakened the party’s support base and led to the emergence of the BJP as a force to be reckoned with. During her recent visit to Siliguri, Mamata Banerjee obliquely sent a message to Trinamul leaders and workers that they needed to work together to defeat the BJP, which won seven of the eight Lok Sabha seats in north Bengal. A political analyst pointed out that Trinamul had taken a two-fold strategy to revive its support base in the two districts ahead of the Assembly elections. On one hand, Mamata is playing the development card by extending financial assistance and offering jobs to former KLO militants, providing funds to language academies and the welfare board of Rajbanshis and initiating housing schemes for tea garden workers. On the other hand, Trinamul is trying to get all leaders at district and block levels on board. “The two strategies can help Trinamul. This is because we have seen that despite carrying out development works in both these districts, the party could not win the Lok Sabha seats only because of differences among leaders,” said an observer. Workers of small tea plantations measuring between one acre and 15 acres in Jalpaiguri district will be paid bonus at the rate of 16 per cent. Workers of plantations ranging from 15 to 25 acres will receive bonus at 17.6 per cent. The decision was taken at a meeting between the Jalpaiguri District Small Tea Growers’ Association and unions. The Jalpaiguri district has around 35,000 workers who serve in 22,000 small tea plantations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-354
03-10-2020||West Bengal||Rail plea for nod to run Toy Trains||Officials of the Northeast Frontier Railway (NFR) have written  to the Darjeeling district administration seeking their consent for resumption of Toy Train services. The Toy Train services of the Darjeeling Himalayan Railway (DHR) remained suspended  between the plains and the hills since March this year because of the Covid-19 pandemic induced lockdown. According to railway officials, they are initially planning to resume the joy rides between Darjeeling and Ghoom, the most popular service enjoyed  by tourists. “Because of this pandemic situation,  consent is necessary from the administration before we resume the services. That is why a letter was sent to the district magistrate of Darjeeling last week. Once we get the approval, we will forward the proposal for restarting the services to the railway board,” said a DHR official. After almost six months, the Darjeeling hills have opened up for tourists and reservations for accommodations in hotels and homestays have started. Also in the neighbouring state of Sikkim, entry of tourists would be allowed from October 10. “Toy Train is one of the key attractions for tourists visiting the region. There are indications that tourists would start pouring in from next week and onwards. Now, that the tourism sector is showing indications of revival, resumption of Toy Train services would largely help the industry and would also encourage more tourists to visit the hills,” said a hotel owner in Darjeeling. The DHR authorities, however, have initially planned to start only the joy rides. The regular service between New Jalpaiguri and Darjeeling would be restored in due course and in case there is a demand for the service from among the tourists, they said. The railway officials, sources said, have already carried out inspection of the tracks. “We have conducted a couple of trial runs. The track between Darjeeling and Ghoom is fine. In the remaining stretch, some work of road restoration is in progress. Otherwise, we are ready to start the services,” said an official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-354
03-10-2020||West Bengal||Mamata invokes Gandhi and Shastri to target BJP||Mamata Banerjee put the pedal to the metal on Friday and used the occasion of the birth anniversaries of Mahatma Gandhi and Lal Bahadur Shastri to attack the BJP, albeit she did not name the party. In an indication of her intent of persisting with the attack on the saffron camp over issues with pan-India resonance in the run-up to the perform-or-perish Assembly polls in the state, the Bengal chief minister broached the subject of farmers’ rights and freedom and democracy in her tributes to the icons. “Homage to Mahatma Gandhi on his 151st birth anniversary. Icons like Gandhiji, Netaji, Tagore, Maulana Azad, Ambedkar & others tirelessly fought for freedom & democracy. Are we going to give it away so easily? Bapu’s philosophy has become more relevant now than ever before,” she tweeted. The comment bore significance in the context of today’s political scene in the country as the BJP is accused by almost all Opposition parties of stifling democracy. The alleged destruction of freedom and democracy in the BJP regime has been a leitmotif of the Trinamul Congress chief’s campaigns since 2016 and she has been — after a period of relative lull enforced by the Covid-19 pandemic and its problems — increasingly showing signs of intensifying her criticism of and opposition to the saffron camp. “The India in the hands of the BJP is diametrically opposed to the India that the likes of Gandhiji, Netaji and Ambedkar had fought for. That is the message she tried to drive home,” said a Trinamul leader. “In remembrance of Gandhiji’s philosophy of Ahimsa, today we also celebrate the International Day of Non-Violence. To this regard, #GoWB is setting up a university dedicated to Gandhiji in Purba Medinipur district. Let us spread Bapu’s message amongst the younger generations,” added Mamata on Twitter. Sources in her party said Mamata was keen on renewing focus on the Father of the Nation and his inclusive humanism in a bid to counter the saffron camp and its propaganda machinery. “She wants to use occasions such as Gandhi Jayanti to further remind people of the Mahatma’s views, especially on communal harmony and tolerance, to underscore the differences between his school of thought and that of the BJP,” said a leader. In her tribute to Shastri — another Congress stalwart the saffron camp has been keen to appropriate — the chief minister addressed another key issue with pan-India resonance, that of farmers’ rights, in the wake of the passage of the controversial farm bills by the Narendra Modi government in Parliament last month. “Remembering former Prime Minister Lal Bahadur Shastri on his birth anniversary. 55 years ago, he gave us the inspirational slogan of ‘Jai Jawan, Jai Kisan’ for our proud farmer brothers & sisters. Come what may, we will always firmly stand by them till our last breath,” she wrote on the microblogging site. “Farmers are the backbone of our society. In Bengal, the average annual income of our farmers has tripled from ?91,000 in 2011 to ?2.91 lakh in 2018. History stands testament to what we have done for their benefits. We will continue to raise our voices for them,” she added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-355
03-10-2020||West Bengal||Congress and Left to hold joint march today||The Left parties and the Congress will jointly hit the streets on Saturday to protest the alleged rape and murder of a Dalit girl at Hathras in Uttar Pradesh and also use the rally to cement their ties as the two political forces intend to fight the next Assembly elections together. The rally will start from Moulali and conclude at Dharmatala on Saturday evening. “Members of student, youth and women wings of the Left parties and the Congress will hold a rally to protest the Hathras incident,” said CPM MLA Sujan Chakraborty and added that the protesters would also demand security for women in Bengal. Several CPM and Congress leaders said the idea was to increase the number of common programmes to strengthen the ground for an alliance. Last week, senior leaders of both the parties, including Left Front chairman Biman Bose and leader of the Opposition in the Assembly, Abdul Mannan, had walked together to protest against the contentious farm bills and allied legislations introduced by the Narendra Modi government last month. “We are trying to project the alliance as the voice of the common man in the state. It is important to showcase that the Trinamul government is no different from the BJP when it comes to atrocities against women and we have to do it together,” a Congress leader said on condition of anonymity. According to Chakraborty, the joint rally to protest the Hathras rape was more of a moral duty than a political ploy. “It is only natural for us to come together and speak together against atrocities whenever necessary,” he said. Political movements in Bengal against the Hathras incident gained momentum on Friday after Congress had on Thursday declared nationwide protests following the heckling of Rahul Gandhi by UP police. On Friday, Congress workers blocked the intersection of Taki Road and Itinda Road in North 24-Parganas’ Basirhat to protest against the Hathras rape and the heckling of Rahul. The blockade began at 9am and continued for about two hours creating a major traffic congestion on the two busy roads. Around 11am, police managed to persuade Congress activists to lift the blockade and clear traffic congestion on the route. Congress leaders in Birbhum organised road blockades at Chitra more in Bolpur. Traffic was disrupted in the area for about an hour. SFI, the CPM students’ wing, on Friday held at least 20 protests across East Burdwan to condemn the Yogi Adityanath government’s role in the Hathras incident. The Calcutta district committee of the SFI also organised a demonstration at Shyambazar in north Calcutta. A group of students also agitated in front of Upasana Griha of Visva-Bharati condemned the ghastly incident.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-355
03-10-2020||West Bengal||UP strong-arm tactics on Trinamul MPs  ||A delegation of Trinamul Congress MPs was pushed around and physically prevented from visiting the family of the Hathras gang-rape-and-murder victim on Friday in a near repeat of the manner in which Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra had been stopped a day earlier. The only difference was that the Trinamul delegation managed to get to the periphery of the victim’s village, primarily because they approached the district in separate small groups to avoid being noticed and stopped. However, they were stopped by police from proceeding further on the outskirts of the village. Video footage released by Trinamul, as well as television cameras, showed the police and officials physically pushing the MPs back. As the Jaynagar Lok Sabha member, Pratima Mondal, tried to evade the police and move ahead, she was physically stopped by a man in plainclothes and helmet. When O’Brien intervened, he was pushed back by the same man and the Rajya Sabha member fell. O’Brien was helped back onto his feet by the same man and both the MPs were then pushed behind a rope where a heated argument ensued. Besides O’Brien and Mondal, the delegation included Barasat MP Kakoli Ghosh Dastidar and former MP Mamatabala Thakur. The delegation had travelled to Delhi from Calcutta separately without their security detail, Trinamul’s Rajya Sabha leader O’Brien told The Telegraph over phone while on his way back from Hathras. The composition of the Trinamul delegation, said sources, was Mamata Banerjee’s message about the party’s inclusive brand of politics. “While O’Brien represents a minority community, Mondal is from a Scheduled Caste and Thakur is Matua,” said a Trinamul insider. According to sources in Trinamul, the Bengal chief minister is set to hold a rally in central Calcutta on Saturday in protest against the alleged rape and murder of a teen at Hathras and the assault on party leaders by the UP police. “She (Mamata) herself is going to lead a march, from 4pm (on Saturday). It will begin near the planetarium and culminate at the Gandhi statue on Mayo Road. She believes the time has come to step it up,” said a Trinamul Rajya Sabha member. After the Congress delegation, led by former president Rahul and general secretary Priyanka, was stopped over 100km from Hathras on Thursday, the Trinamul team decided to keep their visit quiet. “We left Delhi in different cars and did not inform our drivers even till we were about 10km from our real destination. Even at the toll, we bought tickets for Agra. It was only when we were about 10km from Hathras that we decided to join up and proceed together in our cars. That’s how we managed to enter Hathras. But we were stopped about a kilometre from the victim’s house by the police, who were also not allowing the media to go anywhere near the family,” O’Brien said. According to Mondal, who is a Dalit like the victim, the Trinamul leaders urged the police to permit at least two of the women members of the delegation to visit the family and offer condolences but the request fell on deaf ears. The Trinamul team sat on a dharna outside the village for a couple of hours, after which they marched to the local police station to file a complaint demanding an FIR against cops for “manhandling a woman MP”. While the MPs were protesting, they were joined by a dozen local workers of the Samajwadi Party. Speaking to journalists, who too were up in arms over being prevented from doing their job, Mondal said she was pushed around by officials. “If they can behave like this with a woman MP, then you can imagine how the Yogi (Adityanath) government treats common people and women in this state.” Later, O’Brien said in a statement: “All we wished today from the shameless UP administration was to allow two of our women MPs to meet and console the grieving family in Hathras. The two MPs were willing to walk the 1km to the family home. That also was disallowed. The world and India saw what happened. Pratima Mondal, our LS MP, herself an SC, was manhandled by a male member of Ajay Bisht’s jungle raj.” Bisht is Adityanath’s real name and many of his political rivals prefer to address him by that. Dum Dum MP Saugata Roy, a Trinamul national spokesperson, said it seemed the Yogi Adityanath government of Uttar Pradesh was trying to hide the truth. “That is why it has been going out of its way to stop the Opposition and even the media from reaching the family.” Bengal BJP chief Dilip Ghosh said: “This drama, they (Trinamul) should stop immediately…. What is Bengal’s track record in dealing with crimes against women? The Yogi Adityanath government has been taking action.” Additional reporting by Meghdeep Bhattacharyya||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-355
03-10-2020||West Bengal||Minister Tapas Roy among new Covid patients ||Bengal minister of state for parliamentary affairs Tapas Roy tested positive for the novel coronavirus late on Thursday night and got admitted to hospital, while his family went on home-isolation. The state reported 3,310 new Covid-19 cases, 53 deaths and 2,944 recoveries on Friday. Roy, 64, is the Baranagar MLA and a key leader of the Trinamul Congress in Calcutta. He is the sixth member of the Mamata Banerjee cabinet to get infected with the pathogen. Transport and irrigation minister Suvendu Adhikari, food and supplies minister Jyotipriya Mullick, fire and emergency services minister Sujit Bose, minister of state for micro, small and medium enterprises Swapan Debnath and public health engineering minister Soumen Mahapatra had contracted the disease earlier. “Tapas is doing alright. He is, more or less, asymptomatic. His hospitalisation was a precautionary measure,” said a cabinet colleague. Around 30 sitting members of the Bengal Assembly, half from the ruling party, have been infected by the novel coronavirus. So far, four Bengal MPs have tested positive. They are the BJP’s Hooghly MP Locket Chatterjee, Balurghat MP Sukanta Majumdar, Jalpaiguri MP Jayanta Roy and Trinamul’s Rajya Sabha member Shanta Chhetri . The virus has also claimed the lives of CPM veteran Shyamal Chakraborty, besides Trinamul’s Egra MLA Samaresh Das, Falta MLA Tamonash Ghosh and Indas MLA Gurupada Mete. With the 3,310 new patients, the state’s total case count went past 2.63 lakh, of which over 2.31 lakh are recoveries and 5,070 deaths. The recovery rate continued to rise and reached 87.89, ahead of the national rate of 83.65 per cent. Of the 59 fatalities, 16 occurred in the city and 11 in North 24-Parganas. As of Friday, the state government reported 4,310 deaths (85 per cent) as those with comorbidity “present”. Bengal’s overall mortality rate remained 1.92, behind the national rate of 1.56 per cent. The state logged 43,282 tests on Friday, which took the total past 33 lakh, to touch 33.14 lakh, at 36,829 tests per million people. “We began testing in early February and took over three-and-a-half months to cover the first lakh. Over the following four-and-a-half months, we conducted over 32 lakh tests. Even a month ago, we were at 20 lakh,” said a minister. The positive confirmation rate fell further to 7.95 per cent. The state reported 37.02 per cent occupancy on 12,715 Covid-19 beds at 92 hospitals. Over 2.83 lakh telemedicine consultations have been provided, 4,128 of them in the past 24 hours.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-355
03-10-2020||West Bengal||Bengal to get extra 10cr mandays this fiscal||The Mamata Banerjee government has achieved its annual target of generating 22 crore mandays under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA) in the first six months of the 2020-21 financial year and the success has forced the Centre to allow the state to create another 10 crore mandays in the remaining half of the year. “The Centre had fixed a target of generating 22 crore mandays in the beginning of the financial year. We have generated 21.76 crore mandays by mid-September. During the review meeting for the project in late September, the Centre allowed us to generate another 10 crore mandays in the state during the ongoing financial year,” said a senior government official. According to sources, the state was allotted a sum of Rs 5,800 crore under the scheme in April this year and more than 95 per cent of the funds were utilised within the first six months. The sources said generating 22 crore mandays within the first six months held significance, particularly in the backdrop of the Covid-19 pandemic. “This gives a clear hint the state administration worked hard to give rural populace a chance to earn livelihood during the pandemic. It is also clear that the government has successfully created employment opportunities during the lockdown and post-lockdown period in the rural areas,” said a senior government official. The sources also said the huge demand for jobs under the scheme was witnessed in rural areas soon after migrant labourers had started to come back to the state since May. According to records available with the panchayat and rural development department, about 6 lakh new names were included in the job cards under the scheme between May and June this year. “While 2,88,907 new job cards were issued under the scheme, more than 3 lakh people had added their names in the existing job cards of their families. It is assumed that a majority of the newly included workers are migrant labourers,” said another official. The chief minister had laid stress on including migrant labourers in the 100 days’ job scheme since more than 12 lakh such workers — according to the government’s estimates — had come back to Bengal during the lockdown. Sources in the panchayat department said the demand for jobs had started decreasing over the past few months. “This is because many of the migrant labourers have started going back to their place of work after several activities, including construction works, were allowed in the past couple of months,” said a source. The new target of generating 32 crore mandays would help the state give jobs to the card holders who stayed back in the state in the next six months. “People living in the state would also require jobs. If we failed to put pressure on the Centre to revise the target of mandays generation, rural people could have suffered,” said another official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-355
