04-10-2020||West Bengal||Elephant attack in Jalpaiguri tea estate||Two residents of the Kumlai tea estate of Malbazar in Jalpaiguri were injured in an elephant attack on Saturday morning. Injured Ram Kishan Tirkey and Christopher Toppo are hospitalised. Till evening, foresters were trying to steer the elephant back to the Bhuttabari forest from where it came. In Alipurduar, eight elephants from Volka forest entered a village in Kumargram on Saturday. Villagers said no jumbo had been sighted in the village these past four decades. Moloy Kumar Lodh, the range officer, said they were keeping watch on the herd.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-353
04-10-2020||West Bengal||Powerhouse fire blacks out Alipurduar||A blaze that broke out in a powerhouse of the West Bengal State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (WBSEDCL) at Birpara area on the outskirts of Alipurduar town late on Friday night led to a power cut in and around the town for over 15 hours. On Saturday, the prolonged disruption in electricity supply left thousands of people inconvenienced. “We could provide power in some areas by Saturday afternoon 4pm. By evening, electricity was there in each area of the town. However, some maintenance work is still in progress at the Birpara powerhouse,” said Bipin Khawas, a divisional manager of WBSEDCL who is posted in Alipurduar. Sources said at around 10.30pm on Friday night, a fire broke out at the switch gear control room of the 18.09 MW power house. The employees present there immediately informed the fire services. Within minutes, firemen and engines from Alipurduar fire station reached the spot. Altogether, it took around two hours for the team to control the blaze. However, as a number of equipment at the power house got damaged during the blaze, electricity supply snapped here in Alipurduar town and its surrounding areas. Milan Roy, a trader based in the town, said he and his neighbours passed a terrible time. “There was no power throughout the night (Friday) and throughout Saturday morning. We could not charge our cellphones and laptops. In fact, we could not even run the water pumps at home,” Roy said. He added that it was only on Saturday late afternoon that power supply was restored in some localities. The rest had to wait till the evening. While people like Roy faced problems at their homes, even the state public health engineering department department could not run its pump houses. Also, hundreds of patients had to stay without electricity at the Alipurduar district hospital till supply was finally restored. Asked why it took so long to restore power supply when the blaze had been controlled in a couple of hours, officials at the WBSEDCL said they had to get some equipment from another power house to repair the damage. A WBSEDCL source said he was aware of the inconvenience faced by people. “But as we had to outsource some equipment, it took time to restore the power supply in and around the town, said the source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-353
04-10-2020||West Bengal||MD, 7 others get life term in Pincon embezzlement case||A lower court in East Midnapore’s Tamluk on Saturday sentenced eight persons, including the managing director of Calcutta-based Pincon Spirits (now defunct), to life imprisonment for embezzling over Rs 43.77 crore of 15,569 investors in the district. Judge Mou Chatterjee issued the ruling, which was conveyed to the MD of Pincon Spirits, Manoranjan Roy, via video-conference. Roy, on medical leave from Presidency jail, is hospitalised in Calcutta. Seven others, jailed with Roy in 2017, also got life terms. His wife, Mousumi, is one of them. Ten others jailed in the case were pardoned. Mousumi was out on bail earlier but has since been absconding. Two among the 10 pardoned persons died in prison over the last three years. All the seven accused persons have also been fined Rs 5 lakh each. Roy and others named in the deposit mobilisation case were arrested following an FIR lodged by duped depositors in East Midnapore’s Khejuri police station in 2017. Acting on the FIR, police had nabbed Roy from Rajasthan, director Hari Singh from Agra, director Vinay Singh from Bangalore and accountant Raghu Shetty from Varanasi. Others were traced in the ensuing period and jailed pending an appeal. Along with Roy and Mousumi, Pincon Spirits directors Dipankar Basu, Rajkumar Ray and Arup Thakur were sentenced to life terms. As Mousumi remained absconding, the ruling was conveyed to her WhatsApp number registered with the court. “At least 15,569 registered complaints had been lodged by investors in East Midnapore against the deposit mobilisation group for its activities between 2005 and 2015, with a sum amounting to Rs 43.77 crore,” said a source. The court last month ordered a refund of money to investors by selling the properties of Pincon Spirits. The source further said that investigations had revealed that between 2005 and 2015 the deposit mobilisation firm had duped investors across several states of Rs 864 crore. Advocate and cyber expert Bivas Chatterjee said: "The firm was active in over 20 states other than Bengal. Estimates peg their total fraud at approximately Rs 864 crore." Chatterjee, who had been appointed by the Tamluk court as special public prosecutor to assist in the case, added: “The prosecution was conducted by me with help of electronic and cyber evidence.” Many duped investors turned up outside the court protested in front of the sessions court demanding rightful return of their money. “We invested more than Rs 3 lakh in the company at its inception but were left in the dark when it dissolved abruptly in 2015,” said investor Dipak Kar, 48, a resident of Panskura. Kar welcomed the ruling and expected that the process to get back money would happen soon.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-353
04-10-2020||West Bengal||Mamata flags Covid community spread||Mamata Banerjee on Saturday said the Covid-19 pandemic in India had reached community transmission stage — which the Narendra Modi government has been denying — on a day Bengal reported 3,340 new cases, the highest spike in 24 hours till 9am, and 62 deaths. Mamata, at the end of her march to protest against the Hathras atrocity, said before the Gandhi statue on Mayo Road: “This is now in the community spread (transmission) stage…. So many precautions, such a lot of protection, still not all of it can be stopped.” Community transmission is a dreaded stage where the source of infection is tough to trace. Mamata then drew from her own household’s example. “I have been going to office and attending meetings daily, for eight months through the pandemic...we are so exposed,” she said. “You will be surprised to know this. There are two-three of us in my household. The boy who gives me tea when I get home, he too got infected yesterday…. In my office there, another boy who works there… answers phones. He tested positive today. What does it mean? Community spread. These people do not venture out. Still they are infected,” she added. An emotional Mamata also recalled her three party MLAs, healthcare and police personnel, and journalists who died of Covid. Of the 62 deaths in Bengal, 13 were from Calcutta and 19 from North 24-Parganas. Bengal also reported 3,013 recoveries on Saturday. Bengal’s total number of Covid cases stands just short of 2.67 lakh, including nearly 2.35 lakh recoveries and 5,132 deaths. As of Saturday, the state government reported 85 per cent deaths as comorbid. Bengal’s recovery rate is 87.92 now, still ahead of the national rate of 84.05 per cent. The state’s mortality rate remained at 1.92, behind the national rate of 1.55 per cent. Mamata recalled her party colleagues who died of Covid. “We have been on the streets, working for the people. We have already lost three of our MLAs (Egra MLA Samaresh Das, Falta MLA Tamonash Ghosh and Indas MLA Gurupada Mete) to the pathogen. So many of our leaders have died,” she said. She added her party’s Burdwan East MP Sunil Mondal, who was supposed to join the delegation to Hathras on Friday, went on self-isolation in the morning after his son tested positive.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-353
04-10-2020||West Bengal||Centre threatening media: Mamata||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Saturday accused the BJP-led government at the Centre of threatening media organisations in an attempt to stop the coverage of the Hathras tragedy. “I have come to know that the BJP-government at the Centre has started threatening media organisations as they (those in the party) are trying to stop the coverage of the Hathras incident (in Uttar Pradesh). Media organisations are told not to go overboard with the story and even stop coverage,” said Mamata in her address at the end of a 2.5km march from Birla Planetarium to Gandhi statue on the Maidan. It was clear from her message that she had tracked how ABP News reporter Pratima Mishra and cameraman Manoj Adhikari were shoved and pushed by the police and prevented from visiting the Hathras gang-rape-and-murder victim’s home on Friday. “I had sent a delegation to meet the members of the victim’s family, but they were stopped 1km from the village… Journalists were also stopped and they had sat on a dharna,” she said, accusing the BJP-led Centre and the Uttar Pradesh administration of a cover-up attempt. “This is a super autocracy, this is not democracy… This is not government of the people, for the people, by the people. This is a government of dictatorship,” she said. The UP administration’s role in Uttar Pradesh in trying to prevent journalists from reporting the Hathras incident has come under scanner. Through her 30-minute address, Mamata repeatedly tried to argue that this policing of the media had become the new normal. She also said that journalists were being killed for asking the right questions. “Has anyone got justice?” she asked. Opposition parties have criticised Mamata’s aversion to criticism. But the Bengal chief minister said that she was all for free media. “Journalists can go around freely here in Bengal… No one stops them,” Mamata said. “I know that BJP ministers call up television channels and instruct them on which news is to be carried.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-354
04-10-2020||West Bengal||Unhappy TMC MLA takes a break||MLA and senior leader of Trinamul in Cooch Behar Mihir Goswami on Saturday expressed his discontent over the party’s functioning and said he would abstain from all political activities to be taken up by the party in the coming days. Goswami, 67, who is the MLA of Cooch Behar South Assembly seat, and a TMC member since its inception, even went ahead to say that if party supremo Mamata Banerjee asked him to resign from the MLA’s post for this decision —  staying away from party activities — he was ready for it. Goswami’s decision comes as a setback for Trinamul in the district ahead of the Assembly polls in 2021. On Friday, district party president Partha Pratim Roy had announced the new district committee and block committees. Goswami, sources said, has not been included in the district committee. On Saturday, Goswami told the media that in context of the district committee, he felt that proposals of MLAs had been simply ignored. “Whether it is the block committees or the district committee, no discussion was held with the MLAs. For my constituency, no one consulted with me. In such a situation, I feel people like me are not fit for the party. That is why I have decided to completely abstain from all organisational responsibilities and duties,” he said. “If my party supremo (Mamata) instructs me to resign from the MLA’s post because of my decision, I am ready to do it,” he added. It was learnt that after this, the BJP sent Goswami feelers to join the party, but he said he would not quit Trinamul. “I have been with Trinamul since its inception will not quit the party,” he said. Earlier, Goswami was the chairman of the party’s committee in his Assembly area and also in government nominated posts such as Jaigaon Development Authority and North Bengal State Transport Corporation chairperson. In Cooch Behar, the main problem that Trinamul has been facing for two years is infighting. Time and again, state leaders and even Mamata had asked district leaders to join hands, work together and refrain from violence. “It seems that internal differences still persist within the party. It is a challenge for the district president and other leaders to handle the situation, particularly as BJP is steadily expanding its base in the district. Such remarks from a senior leader like Goswami are a fresh poser,” said a political observer. Santosh Burman, 61, block TMC president of Falakata, Alipurduar, died on Saturday morning. Burman had contracted Covid-19.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-354
04-10-2020||West Bengal||Back-to-back rallies on Hathras, farm laws||It was a day of rallies for Siliguri, as CPM, Trinamul and BJP held rallies on the issues of the day — the Hathras incident and new farm laws. With this, Siliguri Assembly seat, seen as the most important constituency of the region because of the locational advantage, is back in focus. While the CPM is desperate to retain the seat it had lost to Trinamul in 2011 but won in 2016, Trinamul is as keen to win it back from Trinamul. The BJP is desperate to keep its lead it had secured from this Assembly segment in the last year’s Lok Sabha polls. The Left Front leaders, led by veteran Asok Bhattacharya, Siliguri MLA and immediate past mayor of the city, in the lead held a rally in the Siliguri Assembly area — his own seat. “We hit the streets in protest of the brutal incident at Hathras and against the Centre for the farm bill that we believe will spell doom for farmers,” Bhattacharya said. District Trinamul also held a rally on the Hathras incident  — where a Dalit girl, allegedly gang-raped died and was hastily cremated by the police. The BJP took out a rally to support the farm laws, which was attended by Raju Banerjee and district leaders.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-354
04-10-2020||West Bengal||Landslide rips family apart, one killed||One person died, another went missing and three others suffered injuries after a massive landslide swept two houses at Boom Tafal village under Rinchenpong Assembly constituency in West Sikkim around 8.30pm on Friday. All these persons are related. The landslide triggered by incessant rain also swept away four cows of the family. West Sikkim district collector Karma R. Bonpo said the two houses belonged to the late Sangcho Lepcha and his son Duknam. Lepcha’s first wife Pomkit, 64, is missing, the body of his second wife Normit, 61, was found on Saturday. The three injured are Duknam, his wife Lakit and their 10-year-old daughter Somden. All are admitted to the Namchi District Hospital in South Sikkim where Duknam is critical. Search and rescue operations are being carried out by the West Sikkim police, a team of Sikkim Disaster Rescue Force and residents. “Ex-gratia under NC (national calamity) norms will be disbursed immediately,” said Bonpo. The Directorate of Revenue Intelligence seized over 33kg gold worth over Rs 17 crore from a truck in Siliguri on Friday. Sources said 202 gold bars smuggled through the Indo-Myanmar border of Manipur were on way to Sri Ganganagar in Rajasthan via Siliguri. Four men were arrested.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-354
04-10-2020||West Bengal||Doctored video on Dilip’s Twitter||Bengal BJP chief Dilip Ghosh on Saturday tweeted a doctored video accusing Trinamul of attacking BJP supporters in Budge Budge in South 24-Parganas district. A link to his tweet and the video was shared in the official WhatsApp group the party uses to share news updates with journalists. It is only after several journalists pointed out that the second half of the video resembled an old one, that Saptarshi Chowdhury, media in-charge of Bengal BJP, accepted the faux pas and apologised for sharing the doctored footage. “We had received a doctored video which we had posted without verifying. We apologise for the same. It has been taken down from all social media platforms,” Chowdhury wrote in the WhatsApp group. Several party leaders found the post in bad taste. “How can the party president not verify a video before posting it on social media?” asked a state office bearer of the party while speaking to The Telegraph. According to this person, a part of the video shared by Ghosh on social media dates back to August 30. “This video was shot in Murshidabad. The person you see shooting was from Trinamul and the person who got injured was also from Trinamul,” he added. BJP sources, however, maintained that a rally that the party took out at Budge Budge on Saturday in support of the contentious farm laws  was attacked by Trinamul workers. A fresh post was later put up on Ghosh’s Twitter handle. The BJP’s IT cell has often been accused of sharing doctored images, videos and fake information that had led to violent incidents across the country. Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee, in many of her administrative meetings, had asked the police administration to handle the spread of fake news strictly. In April, the BJP shared a video of a man begging the chief minister to arrange food for his family during the lockdown. This man was heard saying that he would have to kill himself if the government didn’t arrange for his food. Bengal police investigated the video and found out that this person was a local theatre actor and was paid to enact the role of a hungry citizen.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-354
