05-10-2020||West Bengal||BJP MP Arjun Singh's aide gunned down in Titagarh||A local BJP leader and close aide of BJP MP Arjun Singh, Manish Sukla, was gunned down by unidentified assailants in front of the party office in Purani Bazar area of Titagarh in North 24-Parganas on Sunday night. Sukla, known as the “right hand” of the Barrackpore MP who had defected from Trinamul last year, was shot at while speaking to party workers around 9pm. Rushed to the BN Bose Hospital in Barrackpore in a critical state, Sukla was transferred to a private hospital on EM Bypass where he was declared dead on arrival. A resident of Khardah’s Adarsha Pally area, Sukla was a lawyer by profession. The BJP has called a 12-hour Barrackpore bandh on Monday to condemn Sukla’s murder, and blamed Trinamul for it. Trinamul blamed the murder on “BJP’s internal bickering”. MP Arjun Singh was unequivocal about accusing Trinamul: “Manish (Sukla) was very popular among youths. Trinamul was afraid of his popularity and eliminated him in a planned manner.” Trinamul’s North 24-Parganas chairman Nirmal Ghosh rubbished the allegation. “Internal bickering of the BJP is behind the murder,” he said. BJP sources said four assailants on two motorcycles arrived near the party office in Purani Bazar when two of them fired at least five rounds at Sukla from close range. Four hit his chest and head. As news of the murder spread, BJP supporters went on rampage at many places in Titagarh, Barrackpore and nearby areas, ransacked vehicles and blocked the BT Road. A large police force was deployed at many places in the industrial belt. Barrackpore police commissioner Manoj Verma alerted the police stations under the commissionerate.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-352
05-10-2020||West Bengal||Centre’s proposal to meet on Gorkhaland evokes strong reactions from Trinamul, CPM and Congress||The Centre’s proposed tripartite meeting on Gorkhaland on October 7 has evoked strong reactions from Trinamul, CPM and Congress. Trinamul leaders made it clear that “not an inch of land in Bengal” could be given a different name. The CPM demanded that the solution should be greater autonomy within the state. The Congress dubbed it as a “political stunt” of the BJP ahead of the Assembly polls to stoke hill sentiments and gain votes. Trinamul leaders pointed that the Centre should have informed the state government before convening a meeting on such a “serious issue” such as Gorkhaland. Tourism minister Gautam Deb was blunt. “The state government has carried out an array of development work in the hills. Ahead of elections, BJP is trying to create a new situation to gain some political dividend. We want development work to continue in the hills but want to make it clear that not an inch of land in Bengal can be given some other name,” the minister said. Shanta Chhetri, a Rajya Sabha member of the Trinamul based in Kurseong, who is also a member of Trinamul’s core committee, said: “The Centre should have informed the state before convening a meeting on such a serious issue. We doubt whether any meeting, where only some officials have been invited, can at all lead to any results.” Agreed CPM veteran Asok Bhattacharya, the Siliguri MLA and a member of party’s state secretariat. “We want a permanent solution to the hill issue and feel that the solution is greater autonomy with appropriate validation. But it has to be within the state (of Bengal). It would be wrong if the Centre does not call all political parties to make a decision on the issue. Inviting one or two parties won’t serve the purpose,” said Sankar Malakar, a working president of the state Congress, blamed the BJP’s “stunts”. The BJP has always resorted to political stunts and this time, as the Assembly elections are ahead, the party is trying to use the issue again,” said Malakar. He added that the Congress had always thought about the hill people. “In 1988, it was during Rajeev Gandhi’s tenure (when DGHC was formed) and again in 2012, it was during Manmohan Singh’s tenure (when GTA was formed). Congress-run governments in the Centre have acted in the interest of the hills,” he said. The Centre’s move has also left political analysts aback. According to them, as anti-Gorkhaland sentiment is strong among most people in Bengal, BJP rivals would make it an issue ahead of the state polls. “It would be interesting to see how BJP leaders counter such a campaign, as this time the central government has not resorted to any ambiguity but clearly mentioned that the talks are on Gorkhaland,” said an observer. State BJP president Dilip Ghosh could not be contacted.  However, Sayantan Basu, a state general secretary of the party, said: “Gorkhaland is the issue. However, the BJP is never in favour of dividing the state. It will be seen if a permanent solution can be reached within the framework of the Constitution other than dividing Bengal. That process has started. The state government has tortured the Gorkhas. It has to be rectified and some state ministers should be punished as well,” said Basu. Additional reporting by Arkamoy Datta Majumdar||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-352
05-10-2020||West Bengal||Two boys  drown while bathing in Jalpaiguri||Two teenagers drowned while bathing in different incidents at Jalpaiguri and Dhupguri towns on Sunday. In Jalpaiguri town, Gunjan Chhetri, 15, a resident of Bhanunagar in ward 10 of the town, went to take a bath in the Karala river at King Sahib’s Ghat. Sujit Goswami, an eyewitness to the incident, said he was standing near the bank when he heard some boys shouting for help. He then spotted a boy drowning in the river. “I got into the river, along with three of his friends but could not save Chhetri. We then raised an alert,” Goswami added. As the news spread, hundreds assembled in the area and many of them got into the river, trying to trace the boy. Soon, a civil defence team reached the spot and launched a search operation. After around eight hours, they found Chhetri’s lifeless body. “There was undercurrent in the river and it took us time to locate the body. The body was stuck in some wooden structures of idols and iron meshes,” said Ratan Mondal, group leader of the team. Meanwhile at Kathulia village in Dhupguri block, a 12-year-old Bijoy Roy went to a pond for a bath with some of his friends. Sources said Roy suddenly drowned in the pond. Local people rescued him took him to a hospital where doctors pronounced him brought dead. Police officers said a probe had been started.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-352
05-10-2020||West Bengal||Anubrata Mondal: No vote, no development ||Birbhum Trinamul chief Anubrata Mondal on Sunday courted controversy yet again. Mondal, speaking at a party meeting in Nalhati, said that a bridge would definitely come up at a village if there was a favourable Assembly election result in 2021. Mondal’s comment came in the wake of concerns put up by a local Trinamul leader as to why the BJP secured a lead in the area during the last Lok Sabha elections. “You have to give something to get something. There is nothing one-sided here. You first give me (votes), I will certainly give you (the bridge),” Mondal told booth committee president Kanchan Mal at the public meeting. In the booth-level meeting, Mal had raised concerns about the years-long demand for a bridge by the residents of Singdohori village in Nalhati block. In the same meeting, Trinamul sources had said that the party had lagged behind the BJP by 381 votes in last Lok Sabha polls from Singdohori village in Haridaspur gram panchayat. Mondal asked Mal to explain the number deficit. “We have a river in our village. We had assured the villagers of a bridge in 2013 but we could not do it. So, the people did not respond well,” said the booth president. Responding to this statement, Mondal said: “The CPM did nothing in 34 years. The Congress has not done anything in 70 years and the BJP has not done anything since 2014. We will attend to the demand after 2021.” Local Trinamul leaders have said that there are around 1,300 voters in Singdohori village who need to cross the Tirpita river to do business at the local markets in Nalhati and adjoining areas. In the same meeting, Mondal asked a local leader not to commit to development work in his village after being informed that the party had been defeated by the BJP by around 500 votes there. “If people don’t vote for us even after our development (work), then do not go for any development,” replied Mondal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-353
05-10-2020||West Bengal||39,000 detonators seized in Birbhum||Birbhum police early on Sunday morning recovered nearly 39,000 detonators from a car approaching from West Burdwan’s Raniganj and arrested the driver. Sources said the vehicle was intercepted near Joypur village in Mohammedbazar, a Jharkhand-bordering police station, when the explosive-laden vehicle was en route to Rampurhat. Arrested driver Asish Keora was arrested and was registered under the Explosive Substances Act of 1908. Keora was taken into six days’ police custody after being produced before the Suri district court on Sunday. “We have seized a huge consignment of explosives on the way to be smuggled. We are looking into the matter from all possible angles and trying to find out the end users,” said Shyam Singh, Birbhum police chief. Police sources said primary probe revealed the consignment was going to Rampurhat where miners in the stone quarry belt use explosives. “Around 50 stone quarries have been closed in Birbhum as they failed to conduct the pollution norms. Owners of those stone quarries use such illegal means to extract stones. However, we are trying to find out whether such explosives were being sent for other uses,” said an officer. In stone quarries, detonators are used with gelatin sticks to explode rocks. Their capacities can be strong enough to bring down a multistorey building. Police sources said this recovery was given priority owing to the arrest in Bolpur last week of a team of six persons, including four contract killers from Bangladesh, sent to kill a Trinamul leader. “There were no legal papers in the car and the driver disclosed that he was to hand over the consignment in Rampurhat. But we don’t know who the end users are,” said a police source. “A gelatin stick and a detonator can demolish a three-storey building easily. If such explosives are misused, it could spell disaster.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-353
05-10-2020||West Bengal||Darjeeling: Small tea growers’ woes||More than 350- small tea growers from Darjeeling hills have not been able to market their product as Darjeeling Tea for the past six years even though the annual production of such growers in the rest of Bengal has surpassed the yield of tea gardens. According to the Tea Board of India data, of the 424.06 million kilos, the small tea sector contributed 237.01 million kilos and the established tea estates produced 187.05 million kilos in 2019. The story is, however, different in the hills of Darjeeling whose produce is world famous. In 2015, Bhawesh Niroula, 36, a software in Bangalore left his job and returned home at Pubong to cultivate tea in his 3 acre land and tied with another 180-odd small tea growers. “I secured a loan of approximately Rs 1 crore from a bank to set up Niroula’s Tea Factory,” said Niroula. About 40 kilometers away in Bungkulung in Mirik, Darjeeling Orthodox Small Tea Growers Welfare Society also set up a manufacturing unit the same year to process tea plucked by 150 small tea growers with a loan of Rs 60 lakhs. These two set of farmers had decided to manufacture their own tea after they came across a Tea Board of India circulation dated February 28, 2014 that stated that factories producing less than 500 kgs of tea per day would be termed “mini factories.” The hill units produce about 7,000 kgs of made tea monthly. “These factories are exempted from the provisions of the TMCO (Tea (Marketing) Control Order) and the Board will issue them a certificate to enable them to sale their produce in the auctions,” the order reads. “This is why we set up the factory and since then we have been requesting the Tea Board to issue us a certificate but to no avail,” rued Niroula. Both Niroula’s and the welfare society’s factories have not been able to sell the produce through auction or even as Darjeeling Tea or use the Darjeeling Tea logo in the absence of the certificate. The 87 gardens from Darjeeling hills have been recognised as a Geographic Indicator in 2003, which means only tea grown or produced in the 87 tea gardens in the defined geographic areas and registered with the Tea Board can be sold as Darjeeling Tea. Farmers in the hills argue that their produce should be recognised as it is grown in Darjeeling hills and the same leaves are accepted by the 87 tea gardens, which sell their products as Darjeeling Tea. “Even Darjeeling BJP MP Raju Bista and Trinamul MP Shanta Chhetri, who are both members of the tea board are batting for us,” said Niroula. Sources in the Tea Board also admitted to technical difficulties arising from GI provisions. “Changes have to be made in the GI registry and the units have to be registered,” said a source in the tea board. GI issues are handled by department of promotion of industry and internal trade. In the absence of recognition from the Tea Board, these small farmers are selling their produce to international and domestic buyers whose are not looking for the Darjeeling Tea tag. “But we are being forced to sell at lower rates even though we pay higher prices to our farmers for their green leaves compared to the rate of tea gardens,” said Niroula. However, tea from these farmers are being recognised internationally. Niroula’s Pride won the gold medal at the 11th International Famous Tea Appraisal held in China in May 2016.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-353
05-10-2020||West Bengal||Rivers swell, flood several Malda blocks||Hundreds of families in at least four blocks of Malda district faced inundation as water levels in Mahananda and Tangon rivers, which flow through Malda, are steadily rising. Among these include parts of Englishbazar, Old Malda, Gazole and Chanchal-I blocks. On Saturday, Trinamul MP Mausam Noor and district magistrate Rajarshi Mitra took stock of the flood in Gazole and assured the victims of safe shelters and adequate relief. According to local sources, Bhabanipur, Hossainpur and Chandipur villages under Chanchal-II block are largely inundated. Habitants of those areas have demanded boats and relief materials in adequate quantities. Areas under Mahanandapur gram panchayat in Chanchal-I block have been flooded by the Mahananda. Nearly 200 families are affected, said administrative sources. Also, nearly 500 families in two neighbouring blocks are marooned by the sudden rise of the Mahananda’s water level, said resident Debashish Ghosh. In the Gazole block, the Mahananda river has flooded Alal, Bairgachhi-I & II gram panchayats. Chaknagar and some other localities have been flooded by the Tangon river. “Nearly 600 families in the block are now battling with flood,” said Gautam Das, a bank employee. He said that although relief materials were being distributed by the block administration, the demand for those was rising with newer areas flooding every day. The situation has worsened as an embankment collapsed in the block, with the swollen river gushing through the gap. The situation is no better in Old Malda. “The Mahananda has spilled over the banks, and flooded urban and rural areas of the block,” said Siddhartha Sarkar of Old Malda. In Malda town, people living near the Mahanada have taken refuge at safer places arranged by the civic body. They had returned to their houses only a couple of weeks ago from shelters when the Mahananda appeared benign, but a sudden rise in water levels renewed their peril, said Dilip Rajak, whose house is not too far from the riverbed. Arnab Chatterjee, additional district magistrate (development), said the affected had been given relief materials and shifted to dry areas. Boats are ready, he added. Pranab Samanta, executive engineer of the irrigation department, however, sounded hopeful that the situation would improve in the next 72 hours as the Mahananda subsides gradually.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-353
05-10-2020||West Bengal||BJP fetes Mukul, Dilip in the dark||Mukul Roy was felicitated on Sunday on his recent elevation as one of the BJP’s national vice-presidents, the guest list at the event proof that the former Trinamul No 2’s star was in the ascendant in the saffron camp. The event, organised by another Trinamul turncoat Shankudeb Panda at the ICCR in Calcutta, saw the presence of almost all top state BJP leaders — Kailash Vijayvargiya, Arvind Menon, Swapan Dasgupta, Sabyasachi Dutta, Bharati Ghosh — but state BJP president Dilip Ghosh was conspicuous by his absence. Asked by this paper, Ghosh said he did not know about Sunday’s event. Many believe that BJP’s in-charge for its affairs in Bengal, Vijayvargiya, is behind Roy’s rise in the party hierarchy. During the two-and-a-half-hour-long event in the evening, BJP leaders heaped praise on Roy, affirming his increasing relevance in the party. “Mukulda joined the party in 2017…today’s event was the first where he was formally recognised by senior leaders of the party,” said a party source. “For the expansion of BJP in a state like Bengal it was important for us to have an election strategist like Mukul Roy. We had won 18 seats in the general elections last year under Mukulda and Kailashji,” Dasgupta said at the event. Menon echoed the compliment: “Mukulda is someone who knows Bengal down to the panchayat level like the back of his palm.” Several BJP insiders said Roy’s rise in state BJP would now set the power structure in balance, which was otherwise tilted heavily in favour of Ghosh and party’s general secretary (organisation) Subrata Chattopadhyay. “Dilipda and Subratada were not in favour of allowing Mukulda to have a say in the affairs of the state unit. National leaders recognised Mukulda’s value and gave him an important post,” an insider said. Amid murmurs that the organisers of the event known for their proximity to Roy didn’t invite Ghosh, Panda refused to comment. However, he added that the Bengal unit stood united under Ghosh’s leadership. “Dilipda is our president. He is busy with his own programmes. There is no confusion regarding this,” Panda added. Contacted, Ghosh said: “I did not know about today’s programme. It isn’t mandatory for me to stay in every event. He (Roy) has been appointed as an office-bearer and it is all right for people to organise his felicitation. I had already informed the party that I will be out of Calcutta till October 6.” A senior party leader feared the Sunday felicitation would deepen the cracks. “It is natural that rifts between Mukulda and Dilipda will deepen after today’s event. But factional fights will surely harm the party’s prospects in the polls next year,” he said. The only person who referred to Ghosh in his speech was Roy. “Dilipda won the polls and became an MLA just after he came into politics. Then he became an MP last year. He is meant to win,” Roy said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-353
05-10-2020||West Bengal||Lessons for Hathras from Birbhum survivor ||A 26-year-old tribal woman who had been gang-raped in 2014 following a kangaroo court order at her village in Birbhum’s Labhpur, responded to the Hathras atrocity saying she was “painfully familiar” with what the Dalit girl in Uttar Pradesh had gone through. Speaking out about her life in the wake of reports from Uttar Pradesh this week, she said she had a sense of what the government could do to aid and assist women like her and their families. “Whenever I hear about a rape victim, I am deeply haunted,” she told this correspondent. She added that in cases like this, the rape survivor and her family were “equally traumatised”. The Dalit girl in Hathras who was allegedly gang-raped and tortured, succumbed to her injuries last Tuesday after fighting for her life for two weeks. The role of the administration and police — from the allegedly hasty cremation of the body in this case to various political delegations and the media being discouraged to meet the Dalit family — has come under scanner. For this woman in Birbhum, her nightmare is over six-and-a-half years old, but she said “the cloud of torture and shame haunts me every day”. In January 2014, the village head of the tribal hamlet had ordered her to be gang-raped for having a boyfriend from a non-tribal community. The woman explained no rape victim could “return to their former life” but underscored the importance of the administration and police reaching out to penalise offenders and secure the safety of the survivor and her family. “No one can go back (to how things were before the rape)... However, it is the duty of the government to ensure justice and support for the family. If a raped woman is killed, her family deserves help from the government to get justice,” she said. She did get justice, she added. All the 13 accused, including the village head who had ordered her punishment, were sentenced to 20 years’ imprisonment after they were found guilty by a Bolpur court within a span of eight months from the incident. “The government came forward to help me from the first day and continues till this minute. Everyone like me should get that support,” said the woman, who lives with her mother and younger brother in two government-made houses 3km from their village. Police sources said all 13 accused were arrested within 24 hours of the incident. Police had started a probe immediately after securing the woman’s safety. “We did not delay the arrests and collected the evidence quickly as it was a serious crime. We provided security to the lady and her family members with the assurance that we were with her,” said a police officer then posted in Labhpur. That 24/7 police security still continues. Police sources said a picket comprising five personnel, including three women, for the rape survivor and her family’s security had not been withdrawn. As many villagers were against that woman for her relationship with the non-tribal youth, it had been deemed “risky” for her and her family to return home. Police security apart, the administration spotted around a bigha of land for the family and set up two houses under a government scheme within months. Krishna Hembram, chief of Trinamul-run Chowhatta Mahodori I gram panchayat, said that he had allotted another house for the mother of the woman as the small houses were not enough for the entire family. Hembram said they tried to help the woman and her family as they live away from their village. Panchayat members had asked the family if they’d like to shift to the village, but an elderly woman of the family refused. “We took care of the family during the lockdown too,” Hembram added. The woman said she has only one problem — she needs a steady source of income to survive. “I need a job from the government for survival. We survive on a pension of Rs 1,000 from my mother and the income of my younger brother, which is not sufficient,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-353
05-10-2020||West Bengal||North Bengal development minister tests Covid positive on a day of record rise||North Bengal development minister Rabindra Nath Ghosh and his party colleague, Balagarh MLA Ashim Majhi, tested positive for the novel coronavirus on Sunday, as the state reported 3,357 new Covid-19 cases, 62 deaths and 2,986 recoveries. The number of new infections on Sunday is the highest so far in a day in Bengal. Ghosh, 64, is the Natabari MLA and a key Trinamul leader in north Bengal. Majhi, 57, is a Trinamul leader from Hooghly. The news of their testing positive came a day after chief minister Mamata Banerjee said the pandemic in India had reached the community transmission stage — something the Narendra Modi government at the Centre has been denying — a dreaded stage of person-to-person spread when the source of the infection is difficult to trace. Ghosh is the eighth member of the Mamata Banerjee cabinet to get infected, after Tapas Roy, Suvendu Adhikari, Binay Barman, Jyotipriya Mullick, Sujit Bose, Swapan Debnath, and Soumen Mahapatra. With the 3,357 new cases, the state’s total case count went past 2.7 lakh, of which over 2.37 lakh are recoveries, besides 5,194 deaths. Bengal’s recovery rate continued to rise and reached 87.93, ahead of the national rate of 84.12 per cent. Of the 62 casualties, 17 persons succumbed in Calcutta and 19 in North 24-Parganas. As of Sunday, the state government reported 4,417 or 85 per cent as deaths with co-morbidity “present”. Bengal’s mortality rate remained 1.92, behind the national rate of 1.55 per cent. The state logged 42,262 tests on Sunday, which took the total past 33.97 lakh. It means 37,755 tests per million people. Positive confirmation rate remained 7.96 per cent. The state reported 37.16 per cent occupancy of 12,715 Covid beds in 92 hospitals. “Ashim (Majhi) is mildly symptomatic,” said a Trinamul leader, and said there was no cause for worry. On Ghosh, the source said: “Rabida had gone to the nursing home (in Siliguri) for other reasons. His blood-work recently showed high levels of blood sugar and creatinine. He is in the process of recovering from a recent heart attack. So he was going to go for a check-up. He had injured himself while coming down the stairs at home on Sunday. So he was rushed to the nursing home. There, during a mandatory test, it was revealed that he has Covid-19 too.” The source said that in two recent tests before this, Ghosh had tested negative. “However, as a precautionary measure, he is admitted,” he said. “It recently came to light that Binaybabu (Barman) had also tested positive and has recovered,” he added. Over 30 sitting members of the Bengal Assembly, half of from the ruling party, have been infected by the novel coronavirus. So far, four Bengal MPs — the BJP’s Hooghly MP Locket Chatterjee, Balurghat MP Sukanta Majumdar, Jalpaiguri MP Jayanta Roy and Trinamul’s Rajya Sabha member Shanta Chhetri — have tested positive for the pathogen. The virus also claimed the lives of CPM veteran Shyamal Chakraborty, besides Trinamul’s Egra MLA Samaresh Das, Falta MLA Tamonash Ghosh and Indas MLA Gurupada Mete.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-353
05-10-2020||West Bengal||Centre calls meet on hills||The Centre has convened a meeting “to discuss the issues related to Gorkhaland” on October 7 — incidentally the foundation day of Gorkha Janmukti Morcha — with the state government and the Bimal Gurung faction of the Morcha, a BJP ally. This is the first time that the BJP-led Centre will convene an official meeting without ambiguity on Gorkhaland. Since 2009, when the BJP first won the Darjeeling seat in the Lok Sabha polls, to 2014 and 2019, when it repeated the victories, it has always been cautious with the choice of words in its poll manifestos on Gorkhaland. In the 2009 and 2014 manifestos, the BJP had said: “The BJP will sympathetically examine and appropriately consider the long pending demands of the Gorkhas, the Adivasis and other people of Darjeeling district and the Dooars region.” The BJP’s 2019 manifesto was worded a bit differently: “We are committed to work towards finding a permanent political solution to the issue of Darjeeling Hills, Siliguri, Terai and Dooars region.” The letter October 3, signed by Renu Sarin, director (Centre-State II), of the Union home ministry, however, has clearly stated that the meeting convened on October 7at Room No 119 of the North Block is “to discuss the issues related to Gorkhaland.” This letter was made public in social media by Roshan Giri, general secretary of the Morcha (Bimal camp). The Morcha is divided in two camps, one with Bimal Gurung, the other with Binay Tamang. Earlier, the Centre had on July 27- which is observed as Gorkhaland Martyrs’ Day in the hills by all political parties, issued a letter convening a tripartite meeting on August 7 between Bengal government, GTA and Gorkha Janmukti Morcha to “review the issues related to Gorkhaland Territorial Administration (GTA)” . But the “agenda” of the meeting was GTA and not the separate state of “Gorkhaland”. The Binay and Bimal camps had refused to attend that meeting and it was deferred. This time, Binay Tamang camp has not yet received the Centre’s letter. The invitation has been extended to state home secretary, district magistrate of Darjeeling, principal secretary of GTA and president of Morcha whose address is Singamari, Darjeeling. Singamari happens to be the office of the Bimal camp, but the land belongs to the state government for technical reasons. At present, Bimal Gurung is absconding. Keshav Raj Pokhrel, spokesman of the Morcha (Binay camp), questioned the logic of invitations. “There are two DMs in GTA area, from Darjeeling and Kalimpong. Only the Darjeeling DM has been invited. Is Kalimpong not in Gorkhaland region? Also, why should a principal secretary of GTA be invited when you are discussing Gorkhaland?” He added that the party “welcomes” the October 7 initiative, provided the BJP is “sincere.” Ajoy Edwards, president, Darjeeling GNLF Branch committee, summed up the politics of Darjeeling. “We welcome the meeting as the agenda is about Gorkhaland and this issues unites Darjeeling, even though we as an ally have not been invited and this is not important” said Edwards. Edwards, however, issued a caveat. “The development (the meeting) has raised hopes in the hills,” he said, and added that the hill people are now wise, “not like in 2007, 2013, 2017 (years when Gorkhaland agitations were revived)”. They will not be fooled again if the meeting has been called only to hoodwink the hills, he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-353
