06-10-2020||West Bengal||Soumitra Chatterjee tests positive for Covid, shifted to hospital||Veteran Bengali actor Soumitra Chatterjee tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday, health officials said. He has been admitted to a hospital in Calcutta, they informed. The octogenarian actor was unwell and he tested positive for the infection on Tuesday morning, a senior health official said. "His samples were tested for Covid-19 on Monday and the reports came today," he added. Soumitra Chatterjee had resumed shooting a few days ago. Parambrata, another noted Bengali actor, completed the shooting of Abhiyan under the direction of Chattopadhyay. Jisshu Sengupta will be seen playing the role of young Soumitra in the film. Soumitra himself plays his older self in the film. Soumitra Chatterjee, a celebrated Bengali actor, is best known for his collaboration with Oscar-winner Satyajit Ray and the Feluda series. Soumitra immortalised the titular role of Feluda in Ray's films. Apart from that, Soumitra was a part of several other works of Ray, including Apu'r Sangshar or The World Of Apu. Some of Chatterjee's best works include Ashani Sanket, Ghare Baire, Aranyer Din Ratri, Charulata, Shakha Proshakha, Jhinder Bandi, Saat Pake Bandha, and more. The news of Soumitra Chatterjee testing positive has raised concerns within the Bengali film circuit or 'Tolly para' as it is fondly referred to as. Several of Soumitra colleagues have wished for his speedy recovery.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-351
06-10-2020||West Bengal||Congress MP Abu Hasem tests Covid positive||Malda South MP and Congress veteran Abu Hasem Khan Choudhury was diagnosed with Covid-19 and admitted to a private hospital in Calcutta as Bengal on Monday reported 3,348 new infections, 61 deaths and 3,009 recoveries. Abu Hasem, 82 is the brother of late Bengal Congress stalwart A.B.A. Ghani Khan Choudhury. Khan Choudhury is the fifth Bengal MP — after the BJP’s Hooghly MP Locket Chatterjee, Balurghat MP Sukanta Majumdar, Jalpaiguri MP Jayanta Roy and Trinamul’s Rajya Sabha member Shanta Chhetri — to test positive for the pathogen. With the 3,357 new cases, the state’s total case count went past 2.73 lakh, of which nearly 2.41 lakh are recoveries, besides 5,255 deaths. Bengal’s recovery rate reached 87.95, ahead of the national rate of 84.52 per cent. Of the 61 deaths, 16 were from Calcutta and nine from North 24-Parganas. Bengal’s overall mortality rate was 1.92, behind the national rate of 1.54 per cent. As of Monday, the state government reported 4,462 or 84.9 per cent as deaths with co-morbidity “present”. The state logged 40,140 tests on Monday, which took the total past 34 lakh, to 34.38 lakh, at 38,201 tests per million people. Having begun testing in early February, the state took over three-and-a-half months to conduct one lakh tests. Over the next four-and-a-half months, it conducted over 33 lakh. Bengal’s positive confirmation rate remained 7.96 per cent. The state reported 37.51 per cent occupancy of 12,715 Covid-19 beds in 92 hospitals and over 2.95 lakh telemedicine consultations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-351
06-10-2020||West Bengal||Centre changes agenda of tripartite Gorkhaland meeting||The Union home ministry issued a “corrigendum” on Monday evening and changed the agenda of the tripartite meeting slated for Wednesday from “the issues related to Gorkhaland” to “issues to Gorkhaland Territorial Administration”. “The sudden change in the agenda is nothing but an egg on the face of not only the BJP but also the Bimal Gurung faction of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha. Both were portraying the scheduled talks as the beginning of a process to meet the Gorkhaland demand,” said an observer of hill politics. The Bengal government and the Gurung faction of the Morcha were invited to the talks. On Saturday, the Union home ministry had issued a letter stating that the agenda was to “discuss the issues related to Gorkhaland”. On Monday, the home ministry issued a corrigendum stating “that the subject of the meeting in the heading and body of the notice may be read as “issues to Gorkhaland Territorial Administration”. Following the latest development, Gorkha National Liberation Front leader Neeraj Zimba, who had won the Darjeeling Assembly seat in a bypoll on a BJP ticket, also said the Union home ministry should be “more serious”, get “intelligence report” about the ground realities from Darjeeling and stop getting “confused” regarding the issue of Gorkhaland. Zimba was probably peeved that elected members like him and Darjeeling MP Raju Bista were not invited to the meeting. His allegation of the home ministry not being serious probably stood ground as the letter was issued to the “Gorkha and Janmukti Morcha”. The Binay Tamang camp of the Morcha was in the I-told-you-so-mode following the corrigendum. “They are taking the hills for a ride. Such has been the callousness that even the party is addressed as ‘Gorkha and Janmukti Morcha’. I had said yesterday (Sunday) that something was fishy as they were inviting the principal secretary of the GTA and the Darjeeling district magistrate to the meeting where they claimed the issue to be discussed was Gorkhaland,” said Keshav Raj Pokhrel, a spokesman for the Tamang camp. Earlier in the day, Roshan Giri, the general secretary of the Gurung camp, had asked the GNLF and the CPRM to accompany them to the Gorkhaland meeting. The CPRM had decided to attend the meeting as a “watchdog” so that no issue other than Gorkhaland was discussed. The GNLF had not yet made up its mind and was pondering whether the “meeting has really been called to discuss Gorkhaland”. Following the change in the agenda of the meeting, none of the hill parties is expected to attend the meeting. The Gurung camp had not reacted to the latest development till the time of filing this report. “The pan-Bengal sentiments against the creation of Gorkhaland probably forced a change in the BJPs thought,” said an observer. The Mamata Banerjee government has decided against attending the tripartite talks in a bid to register its grievance over the manner in which the meeting was called. Sources in the government said the stand remained unchanged even after the Union home ministry had issued a corrigendum, saying the meeting’s agenda would be the “issues to Gorkhaland Territorial Administration”. “The Centre can inform the state that a meeting has been called. But it cannot dictate who should attend the meeting. It is the state’s prerogative to decide who would represent it at the meeting,” said a senior official. So far, sources said, the Centre used to send letters to the chief secretary or the home secretary, informing the state about the date and the subject of the meetings. “But this time, the Centre has sent letters to the district magistrate and the principal secretary of the GTA, asking them to attend the meeting… even the corrigendum says it. This is something but interference in the state’s affairs, which can’t be accepted,” said another official. Additional reporting by Pranesh Sarkar in Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-352
06-10-2020||West Bengal||BJP fury vs Dilip Ghosh faux pas||The BJP went on an overdrive on Monday over Sunday’s murder of a close aide to the party’s Barrackpore MP Arjun Singh, in an apparent bid by the saffron ecosystem to drown the outrage in Bengal over the Hathras atrocity, but the party’s state unit chief Dilip Ghosh ended up scoring an own goal. Manish Shukla (not Sukla as reported earlier), the 44-year-old BJP worker previously in the CPM and Trinamul, was gunned down at Titagarh in North 24-Parganas on Sunday evening. Sources in 6 Muralidhar Sen Lane said the BJP state leadership was quick to sense in the murder a chance to generate noise loud enough to — at least for now — blank the outrage over Hathras in Uttar Pradesh and protests against the farm bills passed by the Narendra Modi government. “Shukla’s killing gave us a chance to highlight the breakdown in law and order here (in Bengal),” said a BJP leader. A faux pas by state BJP chief Ghosh momentarily scuttled this narrative. Speaking to journalists, Ghosh alleged lawlessness in Bengal, drawing parallels with two NDA-ruled states, one going to polls in a few days and the other ruled by the saffron camp’s poster boy Yogi Adityanath. “Bengal is slowly going under mafia-raj, just like Bihar and Uttar Pradesh,” he said. Ghosh’s comment prompted some of his party colleagues to wonder if he ever thinks before speaking in public. But the BJP’s narrative was aided by governor Jagdeep Dhankhar, who purportedly told a delegation of the BJP and Shukla’s family that he would do his best to ensure the murder is probed by the CBI. On Monday evening, after the autopsy on Shukla, the BJP leadership wanted to carry the body to Raj Bhavan, but police stopped the procession near the SN Banerjee Road, resulting in a scuffle between the police and the BJP workers, and halting traffic for over an hour-and-a-half. Later, the police top brass allowed four members from the BJP and Shukla’s family to meet Dhankhar. The BJP’s new national vice-president Mukul Roy — formerly Trinamul’s de facto No. 2 — met Shukla’s family, along with the party’s Bengal minder Kailash Vijayvargiya and co-minder Arvind Menon. Vijayvargiya and Menon also went to the NRS Medical College and Hospital, where the autopsy on Shukla’s body was done. The BJP tried imposing a 12-hour strike in Barrackpore with roadblocks at many key intersections. In Delhi, BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra said political murders had become the “new normal” in Mamata’s Bengal, and demanded a CBI probe. However, many in the BJP said Shukla was no martyr and “just another mercenary”. A party insider alleged Shukla extorted money from jute mills, and had “no ideology or loyalty”. Trinamul leader Firhad Hakim, on his part, suggested Shukla could have been trying to return to the fold. “Manish was one of my favourites there. Even as recently as the Lok Sabha polls last year, he was a key organiser of our campaign (against Singh). He was coerced into leaving for the BJP and it was well known that he wasn’t happy there. He was looking to come home (to Trinamul)…. That is why this killing is all the more suspicious,” said Firhad Hakim, a Trinamul general-secretary who is part of the apex seven-member steering committee of the party. Several BJP leaders this newspaper spoke to admitted in private that Mamata’s aggressive Hathras campaign – in tandem with that against the farm bills – had caught the BJP off-guard in Bengal. “His murder did serve on a platter a timely opportunity to point fingers at the law and order situation here and play the victim card,” a BJP insider said, adding that the matter is being raised with the Centre, especially Union home minister Amit Shah.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-352
06-10-2020||West Bengal||BJP worker murder triggers fear of turf war near Calcutta||The Trinamul Congress-BJP turf war over control of the industrial belt in North 24-Parganas is likely to race closer to Calcutta as several areas in Barrackpore, Titagurh and Khardah, between 18km to 25km from the heart of the city, erupted following the murder of BJP activist Manish Shukla, a close aide to Barrackpore MP Arjun Singh. The battle for political control of the areas had begun from the backyard of Bhatpara, home to Singh, soon after the Trinamul turncoat had wrested the Barrackpore Lok Sabha seat from his former party in the 2019 general election. “Large parts of Singh’s constituency, like Bhatpara, Jagaddal, Naihati and Kankinara, had remained in a state of strife because of Trinamul-BJP conflict... Now, we will have to live with the same problem,” said a retired teacher of a Barrackpore school. A law graduate, Shukla had associations with the CPM, Congress and Trinamul. Since joining the BJP within months of Singh winning the Barrackpore Lok Sabha, he had become a crucial cog in the party’s poll machinery because of his local connect and the image of a strongman. “He used to introduce himself as a social worker, but Shukla had multiple criminal cases, including murder charges, against him... He was a strongman and had thousands of youths as his followers in the industrial belt, where unemployment is the biggest problem,” said a senior police officer. As a young Hindi-speaking youth, he would often help the working class and the underprivileged through charity shows and donations. Several Trinamul insiders admit that Shukla had played a role in ensuring victory of Shilbhadra Dutta, the ruling party’s nominee in the last Assembly polls from the Barrackpore seat. “Shukla could control these bands of youths... With his death, there will be a clamour to get these youths as the polls are nearing. People would change sides and more conflicts will follow as we are heading towards a do-or-die election,” said a senior district official. Sources said Shukla was with Singh on Sunday as they had attended a meeting at Howrah’s Amta. The two were supposed to return together till Singh decided to meet BJP leader Kailash Vijayvargiya and Shukla chose to head to Titagurh alone. “Shukla was very close to me. I had brought him over to the BJP after months of my winning the Lok Sabha polls. That was a part of the strategy,” Singh told The Telegraph on Monday. “It pains me that I couldn’t be with him when he needed me the most. It’s a plain murder committed jointly by Trinamul and the police,” he added. The Criminal Investigation Department has taken over the probe into the murder. CID officers visited the spot where he was gunned down and collected evidence before heading to NRS Medical college where the post-morterm was carried out. “It appears those who gunned down Shukla had specific intelligence about his movements and his routine,” said a CID officer while adding that Shukla’s security guard had gone on leave a week ago. “We have collected all details from the local police station. Hopefully, we will get the killers soon.” The manner in which the BJP held protests across North 24-Parganas and the heart of the city leaves little doubt that the party will try to keep the issue alive till the Assembly polls. Trinamul has rejected the charges and blamed internal conflict in the saffron camp for the murder.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-352
06-10-2020||West Bengal||Car crash kills patient, wife and three in Alipurduar ||Five persons, including a critical patient who was suffering from liver cirrhosis and his wife, died when the SUV they were travelling  in collided head on with a bus near Falakata in Alipurduar district on Monday morning. Sources said 34-year-old Abhijit Sarkar, a resident of Shantinagar in Alipurduar town, had been under treatment at the district hospital here. On Sunday late evening, doctors told his family members that the patent should be shifted to Siliguri for better treatment. The relatives started scouting for an ambulance and they couldn’t find one initially. At last, they could locate an ambulance of the Indian Red Cross Society. “The ambulance driver, who had just returned from Siliguri, said he was too tired to drive immediately and told the family members that he could take the patient to Siliguri around 6am,” said a source. The tensed family members, however, kept on exploring other options throughout the night and around 5am, they decided to hire an SUV and head for Siliguri. They started for Siliguri with Abhijit. When Mahindra Xylo reached near Balasundar village under Falakata police station around 6.30am, it collided head on with a bus of the North Bengal State Transport Corporation on NH27. Local people said though the bus driver had pulled the brakes and halted on the left side of the road, the driver of the SUV could not control the speed and rammed into the bus. The front side of the bus was damaged while the SUV that had virtually turned into a mangled pack of metal went off the road and fell into a ditch. The local residents rushed for help and informed Falakata police about the accident. The police, along with the local fire brigade, reached the spot and started rescue operations. “We were sitting at a tea stall and saw the car coming at a high speed. The driver could not control the speed on a curve and the SUV collided with the bus and fell into the roadside ditch,” said Ratan Das, an eyewitness. As the passengers were brought out, five were found dead. They were Abhijit, his wife Jhuma, 29, his brother-in-law Habul Sarkar, 40, Basudeb Karmakar, 50, one of his relatives, and Bijoy Mohanta, 42, the driver. Sona Biswas, another relative of Abhijit, was the sole survivor. “There was a crashing sound and then everything went blank,” he said. Abhijit and Jhuma are survived by their only son, who is five-year old. Amitabha Maity, the superintendent of police of Alipurduar, said the preliminary investigation had revealed that the car was running at high speed. “We have started an investigation. The bodies have been brought to Alipurduar and would be handed over to the families.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-352
06-10-2020||West Bengal||Bangladesh train trial tomorrow||The Indian Railway will conduct a trial run between Haldibari of Cooch Behar and Chilahati in the Nilfamari district of Bangladesh on Wednesday to check out the tracks which have been laid across the international border to reopen the route to the neighbouring country from Bengal. “The work to connect Haldibari with Chilahati through railway tracks is almost complete. On October 7, a trial run would be conducted. We hope all ancillary works on our part will be finished by this month,” said S. Chanda, the chief public relation officer of the Northeast Frontier Railway. According to sources, the total distance between the two stations is around 8km. On Wednesday, a railway engine will move from Haldibari to Chilahati and return. “It is a common practice to conduct such trial runs once new tracks are laid or damaged stretches are repaired. As it is an international route, we are making all necessary arrangements,” said an official of the NFR. As of now, there are four existing rail routes which connect Bengal with Bangladesh. These are Gede to Darshana, Petrapole to Benapole, Singhabad to Rohanpur and Radhikapur to Birol. A senior NFR official said trains used to move between Sealdah and Jalpaiguri through the Haldibari-Chilahati route till 1965. Movement of trains halted during the India-Pakistan war. In 2011, during bilateral talks between India and Bangladesh, it was decided to restore the train link between the two countries. Accordingly, work started on both sides and tracks were laid from Haldibari and Chilahati to the border to resume the connectivity. “Once this route becomes operational, it would have a huge impact on the economy of north Bengal and would boost bilateral trade. Initially, it has been decided that goods trains will run but we want passenger trains, too,” said Pradip Chakraborty, a retired railway employee. He mentioned that if some of the Calcutta-bound trains from north Bengal and Northeast were routed through the Haldibari-Chilahati route, it would reduce the travel time by around two-and-half hours. Samrat Sanyal, the general secretary of Himalayan Hospitality & Tourism Development Network (HHTDN), said commencement of passenger train services to Bangladesh would also boost the tourism sector. “There are two other rail routes to Bangladesh in north Bengal (Radhikapur in North Dinajpur and Singabad in Malda) but only goods trains use these sections. If passenger trains are introduced on the Haldibari-Chilahati route, it would benefit the tourism sector of both the countries,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-352
