07-10-2020||West Bengal||GJM raises Gorkhaland demand at meeting with Union minister ||A delegation of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha (GJM) met Union Minister of State for Home G Kishan Reddy on Wednesday and demanded the creation of a separate state of Gorkhaland comprising Darjeeling and its adjoining areas in Bengal. The GJM team came to the national capital to participate in a tripartite meeting convened by the Union Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) to discuss "issues related to the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration (GTA)", officials said. However, no representative of the Bengal government attended the meeting, they added. GJM working president Lopsang Lama said they did not discuss the GTA, but submitted a memorandum demanding the creation of a separate state of Gorkhaland. "We have not discussed anything about the GTA. We have submitted a memorandum on how and why the GTA has failed. The GTA is not working. Our only demand is a Gorkhaland state and we have raised that," Lama told reporters after the meeting. He also said the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) had promised in its poll manifesto that it would find a political solution to the Gorkhaland issue. GJM leader Kalyan Dewan said the Union minister gave them a patient hearing and assured them that the dialogue on their demands would continue. Later, in a statement, Lama said the seven-member delegation raised the demand for a separate state of Gorkhaland and grant of ST status to 11 Gorkha sub-communities. "When the issue of Gorkhaland Territorial Administration was raised, the GJM delegation submitted that the delegation was there to discuss the statehood demand and grant of Scheduled Tribe status and not the GTA since the Memorandum of Agreement signed between the Union of India, government of Bengal and Gorkha Janmukti Morcha in 2011 was not honoured by the State of Bengal," the statement said. The memorandum submitted by the GJM delegation mentioned about the alleged "irregularities, interferences and obstacles committed by the state government, thereby rendering the GTA defunct". The GJM said, moreover, all the elected members of the GTA had resigned en masse in 2017, rejecting the said body. The delegation further submitted on the issue of Gorkhaland being the oldest statehood demand in the country and presented various materials supporting it, the statement said. "The hon'ble minister, after giving a patient audience, assured the delegation that the government would consider all the materials presented before it and announce the next meeting after speaking with the Hon'ble Union Home Minister Amit Shah and briefing him about the contents of today's meeting," it added. Union Home Secretary Ajay Kumar Bhalla and other senior officials attended the meeting.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-351
07-10-2020||West Bengal||Ex-gratia & job for kin of Maoist victims||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday announced that the Bengal government would provide the job of a special home guard and compensation of Rs 4 lakh each to the families of those who had been kidnapped by Maoists in Jungle Mahal districts and remained untraced for the past 10 years. The announcement fulfils a long-standing demand of the families who had been victims of Maoist terror that had gripped vast stretches of Jungle Mahal districts in the last few years of the Left Front government before Mamata took over as chief minister in 2011. The move is seen as Mamata’s attempt to reach out to the crucial Jungle Mahal voters who had not been kind to the Trinamul Congress in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. The BJP had bagged five out of the six Lok Sabha seats and Trinamul had lagged behind the BJP in 31 of 40 Assembly segments in the Jungle Mahal districts in 2019. “Several people in the Jungle Mahal had been kidnapped by Maoists and remained untraced even after 10 years. The government will provide Rs 4 lakh in compensation and a job as special home guard to a family member of such a person,” said the chief minister during her administrative meeting in West Midnapore’s Kharagpur on Tuesday. Sources said a similar compensation package would be given to the family members of those killed by the Maoists in the state in keeping with a promise by the chief minister. At an administrative meeting of Mamata in Kharagpur on Tuesday, family members of four persons killed by Maoists were given cheques for Rs 4 lakh each and letters appointing them as special home guard in police. Sources have said there are around 1,300 persons, mostly CPM workers and leaders, who were either killed or kidnapped by the Maoists since 2009 in four Jungle Mahaldistricts — West Midnapore, Jhargram, Purulia and Bankura. The families of the victims had formed the Shahid Paribar Joutha Mancha last year and started a movement demanding compensation from the government. The leaders of the platform said they had a record of 102 persons who had been kidnapped by Maoists and remained missing. “As these families of Maoist terror did not get compensation, they voted against us. Many of these families had even voted for the BJP to teach us a lesson. The decision to compensate the families of Maoist terror will help pacify their anger against us ahead of the Assembly polls,” said a Trinamul leader in Bankura. Uday Singha, president of the platform for families of Maoist victims in West Midnapore, said: “It is a victory for us as four persons were given compensation on Tuesday. The family members of all those killed by the Maoists will also receive similar compensation. We are very happy with the chief minister’s announcement.” Farm labourer and resident of Bankura’s Sarenga Bhairav Rana’s mother Chunipala Rana, who was a CPM supporter, was kidnapped by Maoists in 2010. She remains untraced till Tuesday. “We were waiting for years to get the compensation and I am happy that finally the chief minister has understood our problem,” said Rana. The platform was about to launch a movement next week in all the four Jungle Mahal districts ahead of Durga Puja to push their demand. “We had already planned to launch our protest from next week in support of our demand. The announcement has been made but we want to see how long the government takes to implement it,” said Bidhan Duley, the Bankura president of the outfit. That the Jungle Mahal districts are on Mamata’s priority list became clear with the chief minister promoting 4,284 junior constables to control Maoist activities to the post of constables on Tuesday. “We are promoting those junior constables who were appointed to combat the Maoists in Jungle Mahal districts and have completed five years in service. The 4,284 junior constables will be promoted as constables,” she said. Police sources said the junior constables were the local youths of Jungle Mahal districts and had been recruited after Trinamul came in power. Mamata also announced on Tuesday that a family member of those persons killed in elephant attacks, mainly in the Jungle Mahal districts and north Bengal, would get government jobs as a home guard. “We have decided that we will provide a job as special home guard to a family member of a person killed in elephant attack. The incidents of deaths by elephants takes place in Jhargram, West Midnapore, Bankura, Purulia and in a few north Bengal districts,” said the chief minister. Sources in the forest department have said around 30 persons are killed every year in jumbo attacks in the districts of Jhargram, Bankura, Purulia, Jalpaiguri and Alipurduar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-351
07-10-2020||West Bengal||Land rights for refugee families||The Mamata Banerjee government has started regularising refugee colonies on central government land by offering freehold rights to those living on the plots for more than 40 years. The move is likely to settle the citizenship problem of lakhs of people who crossed over to Bengal from neighbouring Bangladesh. During an administrative review meeting of West Midnapore district in Kharagpur on Tuesday afternoon, the chief minister herself announced that the process of giving the freehold land rights had already started. “We have started the process... But it will take some time for people to get the papers,” said Mamata The move, Trinamul insiders said, would help the ruling party in the forthcoming Assembly polls. First, this will help Trinamul establish that the party has done something positive for people living in refugee colonies, said a Bengal minister. “Second, we would be able to counter the BJP’s Citizenship Amendment Act-based campaign as the freehold rights of land would establish the residents’ citizenship and they would not require any other paper,” the minister added. Recently, the land and land reforms secretary, Manoj Pant, had issued an order to grant freehold land rights to those possessing plots in 119 refugee colonies, many of which are on central government land, across the state. “After the state cabinet cleared a proposal on September 3, the process of giving freehold rights to the possessors occupying land in 119 colonies has begun. Of these, 40-odd colonies were set up on central government land. Remaining were set up on state government and private land. Similar initiative would be taken for the remaining colonies set up on central government land,” said a senior state government official. The move by the state government would help 11,986 families living on 973 acres of land spread across 237 refugee colonies set up on central government land. The initiative to give freehold rights to the residents of refugee colonies holds special significance amid questions on whether the state can regularise the colonies set up on the Union government’s land unless the Centre relinquishes the land to the state. “We had communicated to the railway authorities seeking permission to give freehold rights to the residents of colonies set up on the land of the central utility. But as we did not get any response from the central agency, we have started giving freehold rights to the residents of these colonies,” the official said. A section of the senior government officials explained that as the residents had been living on the plots for over 40 years, there would be no legal hassle if they were given freehold rights. Moreover, officials said there were permanent structures on the plots and it was not possible for any agency to demolish all such structures and evict the occupants. “So, it is assumed that no central agency would try to oppose the move of giving complete legal rights of land to the occupants. In case any agencies move to the court, the occupants would now have some documents in the form of freehold rights issued by the state to establish their claims in the court,” said another bureaucrat.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-351
07-10-2020||West Bengal||3 arrested over Shukla’s murder||The Criminal Investigation Department on Tuesday arrested three persons in connection with the murder of BJP leader Manish Shukla and said the killing was possibly the fallout of a personal rivalry. The father of the deceased lodged an FIR holding two Trinamul leaders from Titagarh and Barrackpore responsible for his Shukla’s death. Mohammed Khurram and Seikh Gulab were arrested after a team of investigators scanned CCTV grabs of the incident and then started a search for two motorcycles that the alleged assailants had used on the night of October 4. One was a Bajaj Pulsar and the other, a Royal Enfield. Shukla had been gunned down on October 4 night. After several rounds of interrogation, the police learnt that Khurram and Shukla had been at loggerheads ever since the former’s father had been killed and the latter was named as one of the accused. Investigating officers said the murder was a fallout of an old rivalry between the two and Khurram had been planning the revenge for long. “There are reasons to believe the assailants had roamed the area several times over the last few weeks and were aware of the time Shukla would usually visit the BJP office in Titagarh,” said a police officer. “They also had specific tip-off that Shukla’s bodyguard was not around for almost a week and he had been moving around unarmed ever since the police had seized his revolver claiming it had a fake license,” added the officer. A Titagarh-based businessman, Khurram, the police said, had hired Gulab for the murder. Nazir Khan, the third man to be arrested, was also a close associate of Khurram. The preliminary post-mortem report said Manish had 14 injury marks on the body. Out of these, four bullets were lodged in his head, neck, throat and chest. Rest had pierced his body. “We are still looking for a few others who may be involved in this case,” said a senior CID officer. “But primarily, this doesn’t appear to be a case of political murder.” Manish’s family, however, were not satisfied with the arrests and the claims made by the police. On Tuesday, Shukla’s father Chantra Mani, a doctor, lodged an FIR with the Titagarh police holding Uttam Das and Prasanta Chowdhury, the immediate past chairmen of Barrackpore and Titagarh municipalities, and Trinamul trade union leader Rajendra Yadav as the key conspirators in his son’s murder. “I have reasons to suspect these three behind Manish’s murder. He had told me on several occasions that three were creating trouble for him and were egging on others to harass him,” Chantra Mani told The Telegraph on Tuesday. The Trinamul leaders rejected the charges. They said it was a ploy by the BJP to tarnish Trinamul’s image ahead of the Assembly elections. “It is a political conspiracy hatched by the BJP. Their local MP Arjun Singh has used his clout to convince Manish’s father to name us in the FIR to tarnish our image,” Das said. Singh, the BJP MP from Barrackpore, said his party would move the high court demanding a CBI probe into the murder. Singh reiterated his claim that sophisticated arms, which are usually used by the police, were used to kill Shukla. Shukla was known for his proximity to Singh. “How can we trust the CID investigation when we have proof that the CID officers are behind the planning and execution of Shukla’s murder,” Singh said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-351
07-10-2020||West Bengal||Expectations  low on GTA meeting||The tripartite talks convened by the Centre on Wednesday are most likely to end in a whimper after the change in the meeting’s agenda from Gorkhaland to the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration. The Bimal Gurung faction of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha is expected to attend the meeting, unless there is a last-minute change. But sources in the Gurung faction said they would attend the talks “not to discuss the GTA” but to seek a dialogue on Gorkhaland. “The stand, even by Gurung’s faction, is indicative of the ground feeling of being let down by the BJP, which has won the Darjeeling Lok Sabha seats consecutively since 2009,” said an observer. The Bengal government is also likely to skip the talks. The GNLF and CPRM, allies of the BJP, which were planning to attend the meeting, decided to stay away because of the change in agenda. “With the change in the agenda, there is no question of attending the meeting. We have instead called a central committee meeting of our party in Darjeeling tomorrow (Wednesday),” said Mahendra Chettri, GNLF general secretary. Some optimist voices in the hills, however, were of the opinion that “the issue of dissolving the GTA , which would pave the way for discussion on statehood, could well be discussed at the meeting.” But the observer said: “The GTA had been formed under an act passed by the Bengal assembly. It can never be dissolved at a meeting where neither the state nor GTA officials are present.” On Tuesday, Trinamul organised a rally in Siliguri against the tripartite talks.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-351
07-10-2020||West Bengal||Court orders removal of jail head||A court here on Monday ordered the home department to remove the superintendent of Calcutta’s Presidency Jail from duty for failing to present before the court an accused in a deposit mobilisation fraud on October 3. The order was issued by additional district and sessions judge of Tamluk (third court) Mou Chatterjee. The accused is Manoranjan Roy, the managing director of now-defunct Pincon Spirits, a firm based in Calcutta. The ruling was in connection with a judgment passed on October 3 sentencing eight officials of Pincon Spirits to life imprisonment for duping investors of over Rs 864 crore across 21 states, including Bengal, in 2015 . Manoranjan had appeared for the ruling online from a private hospital in Calcutta. The ruling said the Presidency Jail authorities did not inform the court that the accused would not appear in person to hear the verdict. The court has also ordered the state health department to investigate the hospital.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-351
07-10-2020||West Bengal||Youth shot at by bike lifters in Raiganj||A group of miscreants opened fire at a resident of Raiganj on the outskirts of the town on Monday night as he tried to resist them from stealing his motorcycle. Nur Alam is under treatment at the Raiganj Government Medical College & Hospital. Sources have said Alam, a resident of Paschim Birnagar of Raiganj, works in a private company. He had started for his in-laws’ place around 10pm because of some urgency. As he was moving through the Hatmani area of Bahin, on the outskirts of Raiganj, some youths waylaid him. “They held me at gunpoint and snatched my cellphone and Rs 2,500 in cash. As they tried to take away my motorcycle, I resisted. This made one of the miscreants fire at me. The bullet hit my right leg. I collapsed on the road. The miscreants tried to take away my bike but as some residents rushed out of their homes, they fled,” said Alam. Police officers, who visited the spot, said they were conducting raids to nab the attackers. “Similar incidents have been reported in the district in the past. We are trying to find out whether an organised racket is active in the district,” said a police officer. In another incident, a person died and two others got injured as they clashed during an altercation over grazing of cattle in an agricultural field on Tuesday. The incident occurred at Rampur village under Raiganj police station. Sources said Mohammad Hossain and Mohammad Eshahar, who are neighbours, were having problems over the ownership of a plot. On Tuesday, Hossain had tethered his cattle in the plot for grazing. Eshahar and his family members objected to it and made Hossain take away the cattle. After some time, Eshahar and his family members went to Hossain;s house and assaulted him. He was hit on his head with a wooden plank repeatedly and shoved to a ditch. Two others, who tried to stop the attackers, also got injured. Later, all three were taken to RGMCH where doctors pronounced Hossain dead.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-351
07-10-2020||West Bengal||Probe on mark bribe slur over||The inquiry committee constituted by Siliguri College to probe into the allegation that Amitava Kanjilal, a faculty member in the political science department, had promised pass marks to a student against money, submitted its report to the college authorities on Monday. The seven-member committee comprising senior faculty members of the college and academics was constituted by the institution’s governing body 20 days ago. On Monday, it submitted the 10-page report. The committee was constituted after the final-year under-graduate student had alleged that Kanjilal had promised her pass marks against the payment of bribe and filed a complaint with the college. “The college has received the inquiry committee’s report. A governing body meeting will be held on October 9 when the report would be examined. Then the college will take a decision,” said Jayanta Kar, the president of the governing body. Suprakash Roy, a member of the inquiry committee, said the statements of both the teacher and the student were included in the report. The committee members also spoke to some officials of North Bengal University and police officers, said sources. Though none from the committee is willing to talk about the content of the report, sources said, there were discrepancies in the statements given by Kanjilal. “During the inquiry, he said the audio clips (of the alleged phone conversation between the teacher and the student) are half truths and he had spoken to the girl more. However, he did not deny that the voice was his,” said a source. The college had also served a show-cause on the accused teacher. Although a police complaint had been lodged against Kanjilal by the NBU registrar, the sources said, there was no progress in the probe. “We feel the police should conduct a proper probe and come up with their findings,” said Kar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-351
07-10-2020||West Bengal||Cattle to get tags to check smuggling||The state animal resource development department has decided to take up the mammoth task of tagging nearly one crore cattle heads in north Bengal in a bid to check the rampant smuggling of the animal to Bangladesh. Senior officials of the department said they would soon start vaccinating cows and buffaloes against foot & mouth disease (FMD). The infectious viral disease affects cloven-hoofed animals and can sometimes prove fatal for them. “Around 90 lakh cattle heads will be vaccinated in north Bengal. At that time, each bovine animal would be tagged with a 12-digit identification number. The tag would be pierced into an earlobe so that each animal will have a unique number,” said Uttam Kumar Dey, a joint director of the ARD in north Bengal. The exercise, he said, will start from November 15 and continue till December 31. The tag will be made of polyurethane which will contain the name and address of the animal’s owner, besides the identification number that will be updated on a central data server. Sources said the issue of cattle smuggling had time and again been mentioned at different quarters, both at state and central levels. In the past few weeks, it was found that politicians and even some officials of the BSF were allegedly involved in the smuggling. Once the tagging is done, the data would be shared with police in each district, along with the Border Security Force and the Customs department. “This, we believe, will help in reducing cattle smuggling. If a herd of cattle is noticed near the India-Bangladesh border, the police and the BSF can find out whether any local person owns the animals or they have been brought from outside with a wrong intention of smuggling. If any animal goes missing, it can be easily located with the help of the tag,” said the joint director. The employees of the ARD department, he said, will visit the tiny hamlets located on the fringes of reserve forests to vaccinate and tag the animals. “The cattle from these villages often enter the reserve forests for grazing and thus, there is a risk as wild animals might get infected from the cattle. That is why, vaccination is important in these areas,” said Dey.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-351
