08-10-2020||West Bengal||Woman drugged, robbed in bus ||A middle-aged woman travelling in a government bus from Jalpaiguri to Malda was drugged and looted of her cash and gold ornaments allegedly by one of her co-passengers on Wednesday, but the driver and conductor went beyond their call of duty to help her. The duo took the unconscious woman, Archana Mondal, 51, to a health centre, ensured her treatment, and informed the police and her family. The driver and conductor, along with almost 40 passengers, waited at the health centre for three hours and left only after Mondal’s family members arrived. Sources said Mondal had boarded an early morning NBSTC (North Bengal State Transport Corporation) bus from Raninagar, on the outskirts of Jalpaiguri, headed for Farakka. She was returning home in Manikchak of Malda. On the way, when the bus got stuck in traffic at Kishanganj in Bihar around 10am, conductor Snehasish Rudra and some passengers noticed she was unconscious. Driver Bijoy Soren drove the bus to the nearest health centre in Chakulia (North Dinajpur). There, doctors confirmed that she had been drugged. Rudra and Soren informed the local police. When Mondal became conscious, she said that her ornaments and cash had been stolen and provide details of her family. The conductor immediately called up her family. The woman, he said, told the police that her co-passenger had offered her some food and she had eaten it. That passenger, it appears, had left the bus before Kishanganj. No one has been arrested so far. “It appears this person took away her ornaments and cash. We have time and again urged passengers not to accept food or water from strangers. We keep an eye on passengers but they should also be alert,” the conductor said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-350
08-10-2020||West Bengal||Hill TMC youth chief resigns||The president of Trinamul Youth Congress (Hills) resigned along with a few other functionaries on Wednesday, baring the seriousness of the factionalism in Trinamul’s hill leadership. Vishnu Golay, who was the the Trinamul Youth Congress president of Darjeeling and Kalimpong hills, blamed the leaders in charge of the party since 2017 for the problems. “The president (L.B. Rai, TMC (hills) and Shanta didi (Shanta Chhetri, Trinamul’s Rajya Sabha member) never allowed youths to work independently,” alleged Golay. He said that apart from him the working president of the youth front (hills) Anup Thatal and secretary Lalit Baraily were also resigning. “I had placed my grievances before L.B. Rai a couple of months back but he had not tried to address any of our grievances,” alleged Golay. The TMC, which is in power in Mirik municipality — Rai chairs the civic body — is in alliance with Gorkha Janmukti Morcha (Binay camp). Golay said that many other leaders who had started working for Trinamul in the hills around 2011 were peeved with the way the party was functioning now. A senior TMC leader took a serious view of the development: “The present leadership is trying to poach supporters from our alliance. We should stay united at this moment.” Rai and Chhetri could not be contacted for their comments.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-350
08-10-2020||West Bengal||TMC, BJP race to support Galwan martyr’s kin||Bengal’s ruling party Trinamul and challenger BJP, which is at the Centre, seem to be in a race to prove their sincerity towards the bereaved family of Bipul Roy, a havildar of the Indian Army who lost his life during the clash at Galwan Valley earlier on June 15 this year. On October 9, governor Jagdeep Dhankhar will reach Alipurduar’s Bindipara village to hand over the Centre’s financial aid to Roy’s family, which is likely to be Rs 11 lakh, sources said.    Roy’s wife Rumpa added: “I have been intimated by the Indian Army that on Friday, the governor will be in our village to meet us.” This comes four months after chief minister and Trinamul supremo Mamata Banerjee had announced in Calcutta on June 19 that the state would hand over Rs 5 lakh to the family as compensation and that Rumpa, Roy’s wife, would get a government job. On June 20, a team comprising the local MLA of Alipurduar and the district magistrate reached Roy’s home with handed over two cheques of Rs 2.5 lakh each to Rumpa and to Niren, Bipul’s father. Also, the district magistrate had handed over an offer letter for a government job to the bereaved wife. Last week, when Mamata was in north Bengal on a four-day visit, she announced that Rumpa has been given a clerical job at Dooars Kanya, the district magistrate’s office in Alipurduar. “On Tuesday (October 6), I joined as a clerk in Uttar Kanya. I thank the chief minister and the state government for standing by our family during the hour of crisis,” Rumpa said over the phone. The initiatives by both parties are being seen as attempts to woo the influential Rajbanshi population of north Bengal before the crucial 2021 Assembly elections. In this region, votes of the Rajbanshi population are the deciding factor in at least 20 Assembly constituencies. “It is good that such competition is eventually helping the bereaved family of the soldier. But such moves and elaborate announcements also indicate that both these parties are eyeing the Rajbanshi population,” said a political observer. It has been learnt from sources that governor Dhankhar will reach Alipurduar in the morning and will leave for Bindipara. He will spend an hour there and will then depart for Bagdogra via Alipurduar. For the past couple of days and also on Wednesday, choppers were seen making trial runs. District BJP leaders who are waiting for the governor’s visit and are not ready to comment now. “Whatever is happening now is just show-off,” the Trinamul leader pointed out. On June 19, when Roy’s mortal remains reached his village, Trinamul and BJP leaders, including state ministers, MLAs, MPs and some other elected representatives paid had homage to the body.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-350
08-10-2020||West Bengal||Guard poses as doctor at Malda hospital||A guard at a rural hospital of Malda district has been accused of posing as a doctor, treating patients and also taking consultation fees. The guard, so far known only as Sohail, used the quarters of the Gazole hospital superintendent Anjan Roy, who is away on leave since October 4 and will join on Thursday, to bolster his impersonation. Sohail is absconding. The caretaker of the quarters has been detained for questioning by hospital authorities. The issue came to light after a woman patient on Wednesday suspected the guard and informed other doctors at the hospital. The woman said she went to the hospital to consult a doctor for tumour in her uterus. But before she could enter the outpatient department, a person, whom she suspects to be a broker, approached her and suggested she consult the superintendent. “The superintendent is available at his quarters where he occasionally sees patients, this person told me,” said the woman. Accordingly, she went to the superintendent’s quarters. There, in absence of Roy, Sohail sat posing as a doctor. The caretaker at the gate ushered the woman inside. Sohail examined her physically and wrote her a prescription on Roy’s official letterhead, and then advised her to buy the medicines from a private chemist shop, the woman said. This triggered her suspicions, she said. “If I can get medicines free from the hospital, why should I have to buy them?” she said, adding she went to the hospital again. There, she asked for free medicines and showed the prescription. “The on-duty doctors were taken aback to see that the prescription was issued by the superintendent, who they said, was on leave. Immediately a hullabaloo was created, and the guard at the quarters scampered off. The caretaker is detained but he is refusing the charges that he knew anything about this impersonation,” said a source at the hospital. Shyam Sundar Haldar, a senior doctor at the hospital, said: “The guard is at large. The matter has been reported to the police and district health authorities” District health officials said they have started probing the case. “We are collecting information about the incident. If the allegation is found to be true, stern action would be taken against all persons concerned,” said Bhushan Chakraborty, the chief medical officer of health of Malda. Superintendent Roy was not available for comment. Calls made to his cellphone by this paper went unanswered.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-350
08-10-2020||West Bengal||Mud road worse than birth pangs||Villagers in West Burdwan’s Kanksa had to walk 1.5km on a squishy mud road with a bleeding woman and her newborn son on a stretcher to reach an ambulance parked on NH2 on Tuesday. The ambulance driver could not enter College Para area of Rajbandh village, barely 15km from mall-studded Durgapur town, because the mud road, worsened by rain the past two days, was not motorable. A video clip of men carrying the woman and her newborn on the stretcher surfaced on the Internet, prompting the local Trinamul-run rural body to announce speedy repair of the road on Wednesday. Rajani Sarkar, 26, who was in an advanced state of pregnancy, started getting labour pains early Tuesday. Her husband Dilip, an iron shutter door mechanic, called an ambulance to take Rajani to the Durgapur subdivisional hospital. But the ambulance driver approaching the village from NH2 was forced to park his vehicle on the highway some 1.5km from the village. “I feared the tyres may get stuck in the soft mud road,” said the driver. Rajani gave birth at home with the help of some village women but bled profusely. As her bleeding did not stop, an alarmed Dilip called up the driver, this time for a stretcher. Some village youths came to rescue and four of them took Rajani and her newborn to the ambulance on NH2. Finally, the mother and infant went to the Kanksa block primary health centre. Doctors on Wednesday said both were stable. However, the incident sparked resentment among the villagers, mostly belonging to the Matua Maha Sangh. The Matuas — a Namasudra community, a majority of whom migrated from East Pakistan — have submitted a deputation to the Amlajora gram panchayat demanding immediate repair of the road. “If anyone falls ill, there is no option to take him to hospital in an ambulance, the road is so bad,” said Swapan Gosai, a village elder. “We can hardly use two-wheelers. If the mother or the baby had died, who would have been responsible?” Chayanika Pal, chief of Amlajora gram panchayat, said a part of the village and the land needed to construct a metal road belonged to the railways and the Damodar Valley Corporation (DVC). “We requested the BDO to take up the matter with the DVC and railway officials. We will construct a proper road from the highway to the village,” said Pal. The incident comes soon after chief minister Mamata Banerjee launched the road repair scheme, Pathashree Abhijan, during her last week’s administrative review meeting in north Bengal. Under it, more than 7,000 stretches of roads comprising 12,000km across Bengal will be repaired in a time-bound manner. But Rajbandh — with 130 families, including 285 voters — seem cynical. “No neta visits us unless there is an election. We are fed up,” said Gosai.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-350
08-10-2020||West Bengal||Dilip: UP girl not raped & murder was to hide truth||Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh on Wednesday said the Dalit girl in Hathras of Uttar Pradesh had not been raped and she “was murdered to hide the truth”, the comment once again establishing his foot-in-mouth disease that often embarrassed the party. “There was no rape. The girl’s mother is saying something, while the neighbours are saying something else. Lastly, the girl was murdered to hide the truth,” Ghosh said while addressing BJP supporters at a meeting in Calcutta. Referring to a Trinamul Congress delegation that had been prevented from visiting the victim’s family in Hathras, Ghosh said: “Mamata Banerjee’s brothers went there to create a drama.” Multiple BJP leaders this correspondent spoke to said Ghosh should have at least considered the dignity of the victim and her family before making such comments. “What does he mean by saying the girl was murdered to hide the truth? I don’t understand why he spoke about the girl’s mother,” said a female BJP leader. Ghosh was, however, defiant. He said his comments were on the basis of a forensic report. “We as laymen cannot prove whether it was a rape or not... I was talking on the basis of the report,” he told a news conference. It was reported on Monday that the Forensic Science Laboratory in Agra had found no sign of rape after examining the samples from the victim. However, experts contested the results which were based on the samples collected 11 days after the incident. During the news conference, Ghosh shouted at a journalist, who raised questions about the acceptability of the forensic report. “You don’t have to think much about it... . Keep quiet,” Ghosh told the reporter. “The press was stopped from entering the village (in Hathras) because, you guys would have otherwise spread lies about the incident,” the Midnapore MP added. The UP government had claimed journalists had been asked not to enter Hathras because the Special Investigating Team was at work. The Bengal BJP chief seemed to have committed another faux-pas as one of his tweets on Tuesday showed a picture of farmers purportedly thanking Prime Minister Narendra Modi for the new farm laws. The tweet read that the picture had been taken at Puntor village in the Kumarganj Assembly constituency of South Dinajpur. It was later reported that the picture could be traced back to July 12, 2020, and taken in the Kaimur district of Bihar. “This is a true picture. If you have doubts you must go to South Dinajpur and see for yourself,” Ghosh told journalists who asked him about the tweet’s authenticity. In the last seven days, Ghosh scored at least four own goals on various issues. On Saturday, he tweeted a doctored video claiming that BJP workers had been shot at by Trinamul goons at Budge Budge in South 24 Parganas. Later, the media-in charge of the state BJP issued a public apology and the post was taken down. On Tuesday, Ghosh compared law and order in Bengal to the “Mafia-raj” in Bihar and UP. He said in a video message on Wednesday that his comments were being manipulated by a section of the media. “I was referring to the lawlessness that used to be there in Bihar and UP…This news is being spread to harm my image,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-350
08-10-2020||West Bengal||October sees Covid climb in Bengal||Bengal on Wednesday logged 3,455 new Covid-19 cases till 9am — the highest spike yet in the 24-hour period — and 58 deaths, as well as 3,024 recoveries. In all, Bengal has gone past 2.8 lakh cases, which include over 2.46 lakh recoveries and 5,376 deaths. In the first week of October, the state saw a rise of 23,455 new Covid-19 cases, compared to 20,968 recoveries. There have been 418 deaths in the week. Of the 58 deaths reported on Wednesday, 18 were from Calcutta and 12 from North 24-Parganas. The two districts have contributed over 56 per cent of all Covid-19 deaths since the first was recorded in Bengal on March 23. Amid a continued surge in active cases, which stands at 28,361 on Wednesday, Bengal saw a dip in the recovery rate  for the first time in months, to 87.97 on Wednesday from 87.98 the day before. However, it is still ahead of the national rate of 85.05 per cent. A minister said: “We are tightening our vigil for better management of the pandemic, by way of handling serious and critical patients more efficiently, besides keeping regular tabs on the vulnerable sections.” “There could well be a surge after Puja. We certainly cannot afford a spike before that,” the minister added. “The co-morbidity surveys and putting together that database is a crucial step in the right direction. Besides, as the chief minister instructed yesterday (Tuesday), tracking infected persons with higher viral load is a smart decision,” he added. The state reported 42,651 tests on Wednesday, taking the total past 35 lakh. “We began testing in early February. Seven months later, a month ago, we were at 22 lakh tests. Today, we are past 35.23 lakh tests. We have been covering a lakh tests almost every two days, for a long time now,” said the minister. Bengal is now at 39,146 tests per million people. A month ago, the state was at 24,455. The positive confirmation rate is 7.96 per cent now, which is better than 8.35 per cent, within the span of a month. Of the total deaths, 4,565 (84.9 per cent) were reported as co-morbid by the state government. Bengal’s overall mortality rate stayed at 1.91, while the national rate is 1.54 per cent. “Substantially lowering the mortality rate is one target we have not been able to achieve in a couple of months,” admitted the minister. The state reported 37.61 per cent occupancy of 12,715 Covid-19 beds in 92 hospitals and over 3.03 lakh telemedicine consultations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-350
08-10-2020||West Bengal||Nabanna to be shut for sanitisation in blow to BJP march today||The Mamata Banerjee government has decided to shut Nabanna for sanitisation for two days from Thursday when the youth wing of the BJP is slated to hold a march to the state secretariat. A government order issued on Wednesday evening said both Nabanna and Writer’s Buildings would remain closed on October 8 and 9. Bangalore South MP and national chief of the Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM) Tejasvi Surya is scheduled to lead the march which will begin around 11am on Thursday “against the misrule of the Mamata Banerjee government”. State BJP president Dilip Ghosh said the rally would happen even though Nabanna would remain shut. “Mamata Banerjee is afraid of the BJP and hence, she is running away,” In another order issued late at night, the government informed the BJYM leadership that the march had been planned in clear violation of government of India rules imposed in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. In its order, the state sought cooperation of the organisers and asked them to follow the “allowable” parameters of a democratic protest. A section of the state BJP leadership raised doubts about the utility of the march as no one would be present at Nabanna in case the party intended to hand over a memorandum to the government. A BJP leader said: “Usually, marches to Nabanna are stopped by police midway and party leaders go to Nabanna to hand over a memorandum or its list of demands. If the state secretariat remains closed, what is the point of the rally?” A state BJP general secretary said if the march was not allowed to reach Nabanna, a public meeting would be held wherever it would be stopped. Chief of the BJYM’s Bengal unit Saumitra Khan had said 2 lakh supporters would take part in the protest against unemployment and alleged breakdown of law and order in the state. Though Khan remains upbeat about his plan, insiders in the party do not share his optimism. The party has planned a four-pronged siege of Nabanna with Ghosh scheduled to lead the rally from the BJP state headquarters in central Calcutta. Surya and Khan will be marching to the state secretariat from Howrah Maidan, while BJP vice-president Mukul Roy and party’s Bengal co-minder Arvind Menon will give leadership to the group heading to Nabanna from Hastings. The fourth team of marchers will be led by senior leaders, including Sayantan Basu, from Santragachi in Howrah. Khan said Mamata had been feeling unnerved over Thursday’s mammoth gathering and accused her of using government machinery to stop BJP supporters from reaching Calcutta. “The streets of Calcutta are not Mamata Banerjee’s private property. It cannot happen that only she can march on the streets and we cannot,” Khan said. Sources said the party tried in vain on Wednesday to get permission from the police to take out the rally. Though the BJP has accused Lalbazar of partisan behaviour, a police officer said as was the practice, the BJP’s application for the march had been received. Even before BJP hit the streets in Calcutta, political temperatures soared in Birbhum’s Parui on Wednesday. BJP leaders in Parui said Trinamul goons had attacked party workers with crude bombs when they had gathered before going to submit a memorandum to the police station. Though no one was seriously hurt in the bomb attack, the police have detained five persons. Trinamul has, however, ruled out the involvement in the attack.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-350
08-10-2020||West Bengal||Gorkhaland & ST demands raised: Hill party||The Bimal Gurung faction of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha claimed that the party had raised the issue of Gorkhaland and granting of tribal status to 11 hill communities at a meeting convened by the Centre in New Delhi on Wednesday where no representative of the Bengal government and other hill parties was present. The meeting was chaired by Union minister of state for home G. Kishan Reddy. A written statement circulated in social media by Roshan Giri, the general secretary of the Gurung camp, but attributed to Lopsang Yolmo Lama, the working president, said the delegates had raised the demand for the separate state of Gorkhaland and grant of Scheduled Tribe status to 11 Gorkha sub-communities. The Union home ministry had convened the meeting initially with “the issues related to Gorkhaland” as the agenda, which was later changed to “issues of Gorkhaland Territorial Administration”. The Gurung camp alleged at the meeting that the Bengal government did not honour the GTA agreement and purportedly listed out “irregularities, interferences and obstacles committed by the state government thereby rendering the GTA defunct”. “Moreover, all the elected members of the GTA had resigned en masse in 2017 rejecting the said body,” the party said. Anit Thapa, the general secretary of the Binay Tamang camp of the Morcha, said:  “Why is Bimal Gurung going to a GTA meeting? Why is he in a GTA meeting after crying hoarse on the Gorkhaland.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-350
08-10-2020||West Bengal||Bengal government calls for stricter watch on Covid patients at home||The Bengal government has asked authorities of the districts as well as Calcutta Municipal Corporation to monitor asymptomatic Covid-19 patients or patients exhibiting mild symptoms in home isolation. The development follows the revelation ahead of Durga Puja that patients violating home-isolation norms led to a sudden spurt in Covid deaths and infections across Bengal. A senior government official said most Covid-19 patients at home with no or mild symptoms did not obey safety norms. “They (Covid patients staying at home) are coming in contact with several people  or not informing the health department if case their health deteriorates. This has led to sudden surge of deaths and spread of positive cases of late,” said a senior government official. This was happening, sources said, because many patients did not engage caregivers during home isolation. Usually, caregivers are professionals with basic training in handling a patient with an infectious disease. “The health department tracks asymptomatic and mildly positive patients through caregivers, whose number must be given to the health department if a patient decides to stay at home. As many patients do not engage caregivers, it is difficult to monitor patients at homes,” said a senior official. The state government has decided to bring all mildly positive or asymptomatic patients to safe homes if they don’t engage a caregiver or have no space at home for isolation. “If there is no adequate space for home isolation or no appropriate caregiver is present, patients with mild disease (mild form of Covid-19) should be managed at Safe Homes,” reads an order issued by the health department. An official said that while allowing mild and asymptomatic patients to stay at home, the state health department had made a caregiver staying with the patient mandatory. In most cases this order was taken lightly, he said. Senior officials said tightening home isolation norms would bring down the toll too. “Covid patients (at home) come late to hospitals. Most of them deteriorate without realising it while at home... Presence of caregivers could help us manage the situation better,” said an official. “The absence of caregivers (in most cases) made the situation critical,” the official said. A health official added: “We are working on a strategy to ensure that the situation (pandemic) does not spiral out of control after the festive season.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-350
08-10-2020||West Bengal||Mamata to adivasis: Be with my govt||Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday told adivasis to ask her for anything they needed but urged them not to misunderstand her or the state government. The Bengal chief minister’s plea is deemed significant because of the BJP’s spectacular performance in the tribal-dominated Lok Sabha seats in Bengal last year. “You people take the side of various organisations during elections. You may do that, as it is your freedom. But there is no work that you proposed has been left undone by me…. My only request to you is, please be with us. Be with our government, that of ma-mati-manush,” Mamata said at an administrative review meeting of the adivasi-dominated Jhargram district in the Jungle Mahal. She asked chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay to look into a slew of demands for roads and schools placed by the Bharat Jakat Majhi Pargana Mahal — a tribal outfit — at the meeting. With months left before the perform-or-perish Bengal Assembly polls, the chief minister also urged other communities to turn away from the BJP while specifically mentioning Dalits in the wake of the Hathras incident. “I would also like to request the people of Mahato and other (Dalit and tribal) communities, including Lodha, Sabar, Toto… to understand that I see all of you as human beings. Today, Dalits are tortured the most (in BJP-ruled states), along with adivasis and other common people,” said the Trinamul Congress chief. Sources said the shock defeat of Trinamul in Jhargram, one of the five Lok Sabha seats won by the BJP in the Jungle Mahal, was the result of the split in tribal votes. “There is a significant presence of the Mahato community (in all four Jungle Mahal districts), which felt deprived when Birbaha Soren was made the candidate for Jhargram…. The chief minister today (Wednesday) tried addressing all the communities here,” said a Trinamul leader in Jhargram. At the meeting, Mamata kept urging various sections of the society to state their demands. “Please tell us your demands. But please don’t misunderstand,” she said. “I will fulfil your demands according to the availability of funds, or I will do it when the funds will be available,” Mamata added, accusing the Centre of taking away money in the form of GST and other taxes from Bengal and yet refusing to compensate the state. The chief minister instructed police to ensure that the hard-earned peace remained in the Jungle Mahal, which was once the hotbed of Left extremism. Asking director-general of state police Virendra to put various security agencies on alert for intelligence-gathering, she said there should be no compromise on such matters. “Some people belonging to a certain political party had visited the Jungle Mahal, along with Maoist veterans, looking to foment trouble…. It is your (the police administration’s) responsibility to ensure nobody is able to cause trouble again,” she said. “Always looking to generate problems in Bengal by abusing their bottomless money power… the police administration has to be more active,” she said to Virendra. The chief minister also stressed the need for keeping tabs on outsiders and cash flow in the run-up to the elections. “I am giving you the information. They are from a certain political party…. I will not tolerate disruption of peace once it has been so painstakingly restored,” she said. At the event, Mamata named Jhargram University after Santhali author Sadhu Ramchand Murmu. Mamata asked Jhargram district magistrate Ayesha Rani to meet the Lodha and Sabar communities and visit their villages regularly and ordered the opening of a branch office of the Kurmi Development Board, headquartered in Purulia. She agreed to set up a museum for handicraft made by tribal people in Jhargram, in accordance with a proposal from Trinamul leader Birbaha Soren, who had unsuccessfully contested the general election in the constituency.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-351
