09-10-2020||West Bengal||Railway engine trial run greeted with claps and cheers||Residents of Haldibari in Cooch Behar, and Chilahati in Bangladesh’s Nilfamari district, witnessed a historic  Thursday as a railway engine from India chugged into the no-man’s land on the international border after a gap of 56 years. Till 1965, trains would run via Haldibari-Chilahati. Even prominent passenger trains from north Bengal would take this route to reach Calcutta. The India-Pakistan war stopped train movement on this route. In 2018, both the countries decided to resume the rail route — the fifth such route between Bengal and Bangladesh. On Thursday, hundreds of residents assembled on both sides of the border to witness the trial run. The engine that reached Haldibari station from New Jalpaiguri, moved towards the border amid loud cheers and claps. As it moved through a gap of the fences and reached the no-man’s land, waiting Bangladeshis, likewise, clapped and cheered. The engine halted at no-man’s land where senior officials of Indian Railways and Bangladesh Railway (Bangla Rail) greeted each other and discussed the progress of the project in presence of India’s Border Security Force and the neighbour’s BGB (Border Guard Bangladesh) personnel. “It is an important day for Haldibari residents. We have heard from our seniors about the rail route that is closed for over a half-a-century now. Now we hope to witness railway services along the route again. If trains bound for Calcutta are run on this route, it would save much time,” said Bulu Mohammad, a Haldibari resident. “An engine conducted a trial run from Haldibari station to the no-man’s land. It was successful. On the Indian side, the track laying work is complete. Some other ancillary works are yet to be done and we believe those would end by December this year,” said S. Chanda, the chief public relation officer of Northeast Frontier Railway (NFR). Abdur Rahim, an executive engineer of Bangladesh Railway who is looking after the project, said on their part, the track-laying work had reached its final phase. “We hope to conduct trial runs along the entire route in another couple of weeks. Work is on in full swing,” said Rahim. To resume train connectivity on the route, around 4.5km of rail tracks have been laid on the Indian side (till the international border) while on Bangladesh side, 7.5km of tracks have to be laid, said sources. The CPRO, when asked when the rail route would be opened, said it would be decided through bilateral talks. Sources hinted the route is likely to be operational by March next year. “Initially, it has been planned to run goods trains along the route. But from both countries, there is a steady demand of citizens for passenger trains,” said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-348
09-10-2020||West Bengal||Calcutta High Court prods state for farmer damages||A division bench of Calcutta High Court on Thursday modified its earlier order and directed the secretary of the state disaster management department to appear before court on October 12 and clarify why he did not carry out an order to file a report on distribution of compensation to farmers who faced loss because of Amphan that had ravaged the state on May 20. The bench headed by Justice Sanjib Banerjee directed the secretary to inform why a large number of farmers were yet to receive compensation even after repeated representations. On July 17, the South 24-Parganas unit of the All India Krishak Sabha, the CPM farmers’ wing, filed a case alleging that even after repeated appeals the state government was not paying adequate compensation to affected farmers. Moving the petition, advocate Bikash Ranjan Bhattacharyya had claimed before the court that the members of the Krishak Sabha in South 24-Parganas, North 24-Parganas and a large part of Midnapore had suffered severe losses to agriculture and property under the impact of Amphan. Bhattacharyya claimed the state had promised to pay adequate compensation to affected farmers which did not happen. Two other cases on similar issues were pending for disposal before the court. The court directed the secretary disaster management to file a report on the petitioners’ contentions. But that order was not carried out. Three days ago the court directed the secretary to appear before it on October 9. On Thursday, another petition on the same issue was moved by Mohsin Haque and other farmers of Baduria in North 24-Parganas. On hearing the petition, Justice Banerjee decided to hear all petitions together on October 12 and directed the secretary to be present in court.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-349
09-10-2020||West Bengal||Online exams test students in Malda||Students appearing in the final-year exams of undergraduate courses in and third and fourth semester exams of postgraduate courses under the Gourbanga University in Malda are facing testing times. Examinees alleged unprecedented ordeals in downloading question papers and uploading answer-scripts on time. Often, it is more convenient for many to travel several kilometres to their respective colleges to submit the answer sheets papers, they have said. PG examinations for students of third and fourth semesters started on October 1 while final-year exams for UG courses started from October 5. In total, around 32,000 students in colleges affiliated to the varsity are taking their final UG exams. Nearly 2,000 students are writing papers at the PG level. Panicky examinees are often found huddled at small cyber cafes to avail the Internet. While writing papers together on the floor of a cyber cafe, social distancing protocols — the main reason why colleges were closed amid the pandemic — goes for a toss, students have alleged. Many of them blamed varsity authorities, particularly the department of the controller of examinations, for the inconveniences in the online mode of exams, added students but refused to be identified. “If I am exposed before the varsity authorities, I can be victimised in one way or the other,” said a girl examinee of Malda College. She, along with a dozen of her friends, was writing papers at a small cyber café of the town which was a far cry from the college exam hall. The students said that they were told that question papers would be available nearly an hour before the scheduled time of the exam. “Our nerves were strained when question papers were not available online even 15 minutes ahead of exam time. Plus downloading them takes so long,” an examinee said. It has been learnt from the sources that the grievance cell of the varsity is receiving innumerable calls during the examinations and all are from the examinees, who are still reeling under uncertainty about proper submission of the answer-scripts. Heads of different colleges have conceded the harassment of students. Biswarup Sarkar, the controller of examinations at GBU, also admitted that students faced troubles during the exams.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-349
09-10-2020||West Bengal||BJP leader Manish Shukla’s murder: One more held||The Criminal Investigation Department on Thursday made a major breakthrough in the probe into the murder of BJP leader Manish Shukla as sleuths seized three motorcycles belonging to the alleged assailants and a carbine and three pistols used in the crime. The former councillor of Titagarh municipality had been gunned down at Purani Bazar near Titagarh police station on the night of October 4. The seizures were made hours after the CID arrested suspect Subodh Yadav alias Subodh Rai, a resident of the Khatal area of Barrackpore, on the basis of a lead provided by one of the three persons held earlier. Subodh, a Trinamul activist and allegedly close to Barrackpore municipality’s former chairman Uttam Das, was picked up from his home on Wednesday night. His arrest was registered in the early hours of Thursday at the end of a marathon interrogation. A police source said Subodh faced twin charges of being part of the conspiracy to kill Shukla and harbouring the assailants. He was produced in a Barrackpore court and remanded in police custody for 14 days. CID sources said based on Subodh’s revelation, a raid was carried on a glass factory near the Sodepur railway bridge and it culminated in the recovery of the carbine, along with three pistols, on Thursday afternoon. “All the weapons, including the carbine, are country-made,” said a CID official. “It is being examined who procured the weapons and from where,” he added. Another CID sleuth said Subodh, the fourth person to be arrested in the murder, was one of the key persons involved in the conspiracy and had provided shelter to the contract killers. “The entire plan to eliminate Manish Shukla was hatched at the residence of Subodh. He provided shelter to the contract sharpshooters who were at least four in number and came to Barrackpore from outside a few days before the murder,” he said. Though the sleuths are yet to arrest the four suspected killers engaged by prime accused Khurram Khan, they have come to know that the sharpshooters were staying at a multi-storied building on Dakshin Panchanantala Road in ward 4 of Barrackpore town. The flat has since been sealed by the police. “Subodh had arranged the flat to lodge the hired shooters. Names of a few more persons suspected to be involved in the murder have also surfaced. Their roles are being examined,” the sleuth said. Priyanka Tibrewal, an advocate, filed a PIL in Calcutta High Court on Thursday seeking transfer of the probe into to the CBI.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-349
09-10-2020||West Bengal||Campus weather station to mark 71st anniversary of Siliguri College||A weather station was inaugurated in Siliguri College on Thursday to mark its 71st anniversary. Bengal tourism minister Gautam Deb inaugurated the weather station, set up by the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD), as well as some other projects. Lauding the initiative, Deb said the facility would greatly help collect the weather data of Siliguri and its outskirts. Jayanta Kar, president of the governing body of the college, said the station was supposed to start from March but its launch got delayed because of the Covid 19 pandemic. “Siliguri College and the IMD have come up with this new initiative and now we have a weather forecasting station on the campus itself. The IMD set up the station and the college will give manpower. Our faculty members of geography department will take care of the facility. Also, we have introduced a PG geography course in the college and this station will help students with practical knowledge,” said Kar. This apart, the college has also become the first in the city to have its own power transformer. “Power consumption of our college was very high and this is why WBSEDCL offered to install a transformer. The college has spent over Rs 14 lakh for its installation,” Kar added. The college has also received approval for 35 extra seats in all for 10 different subjects from its parent North Bengal University. A second campus of Surya Sen College in Siliguri will come up in Noapara, on the southern end of Siliguri under Fulbari-I panchayat of Jalpaiguri district. The tourism minister, who inaugurated some projects in Dabgram-Fulbari Assembly area — his constituency —  on Wednesday, made the announcement. “It has been decided to open a second campus of Surya Sen College in Noapara. Keeping in mind the increase in the number of students every year, we have also appealed to the chief minister (Mamata Banerjee) to approve a second campus of Munshi Prem Chand College in Sevoke Road of the city,” said Deb.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-349
09-10-2020||West Bengal||Dooars: Bonus cheer in closed tea garden||Workers of a closed tea garden in the Dooars received festive bonus from the operating management committee (OMC) that has been partially running the garden since its closure, a rare event in the tea belt. In all 1,375 workers are employed in the Jateswar division of Birpara tea estate of Alipurduar district. The garden owned by the Duncans Group was abandoned by the management last September. Jobless workers formed an OMC and decided to pluck and sell tealeaves to other tea estates and bought-leaf factories. The factory stayed shut. The OMC with all 1,375 workers as members decided each would get Rs 10 against a kilo of tea leaves. Each worker has to pluck at least 18 kilos of tea leaves in a day. “It was also decided that a worker plucking more will get Rs 5 for each extra kilo. So we could ensure that a worker earns at least Rs 180 a day or more,” said worker Suresh Rai. “Leaves are sold at Rs 30 to 35 a kilo. This means, around Rs 20 to 25 is saved against each kilo, even after paying the worker his or her wage. Since May this year, even after plantation maintenance and health costs, we could save around Rs 1.40 crore,” said Mahadeo Bagwar, a member of the OMC and panchayat member. The savings prompted OMC members to disburse Rs 1 crore among workers as bonus, the sum calculated on the number of days each worked. According to Bagwar, permanent workers would get Rs 94 per day as bonus for the days they worked since May this year. The bonus for employees who spray pesticides was fixed at Rs 98 per day and for supervisors Rs 102. “This means, if a worker has served for 100 days in five months, he gets around Rs 10,000 as bonus,” the OMC member said. A senior trade union leader in Birpara hailed this as a rare instance. “Usually, we hear about funds misappropriation by OMCs in closed gardens. It is really good that this OMC has set an example.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-349
09-10-2020||West Bengal||Bengal records 3,526 new Covid cases||Bengal logged more than 3,500 new Covid-19 cases for the first time on Thursday as 3,526 patients were found during a 24-hour period till 9am. The total caseload has gone past 2.84 lakh, including over 2.49 lakh recoveries and 5,439 deaths. The state also reported 63 deaths and 2,970 recoveries on Thursday. In a worrisome sign, the recovery rate fell for the second consecutive day — from 87.98 on Tuesday — to 87.93 per cent. Prior to this, the recovery rate had not dipped in months. The state is still ahead of the national rate, which is 85.25, but it dropped by several spots in the list of states with the highest recovery rates. While Bengal was in the top five even a couple of weeks ago, it was at the 12th spot on Thursday. “October has not been kind. In just eight days so far, the record for the highest intra-day spike has been reset on six days,” said a minister. “When you have just two of the high-incidence districts (Calcutta and North 24-Parganas) reporting around 1,500 new cases between them daily, keeping the statewide total in check becomes a real challenge,” he added. The state, which had fallen out of the top 10 in the list of states with the most active cases, climbed back into the eighth spot with the renewed surge in the total of active cases. It was 28,854 on Thursday, having fallen to 23,000-odd a month ago. “The active cases of both Calcutta and North 24-Parganas had fallen to around 4,000 a month ago. Now, both are over 6,200 again. The other high-incidence districts around the city are also showing signs of another spell of rise. With barely two weeks left for Durga Puja, this is worrisome,” said the minister. The state reported 42,441 tests on Thursday, taking the total past 35.65 lakh, at 39,618 tests per million people. With the spike in cases, the positive confirmation rate also rose slightly, to 7.97 per cent. Of the 63 deaths reported in 24 hours, 11 occurred in the city and 16 in North 24-Parganas. The state government reported 4,616 deaths (84.9 per cent) as co-morbid. The overall mortality rate stayed at 1.91, while the national rate is 1.54 per cent. The state reported 38.04 per cent occupancy — there too, a rise of around 5 per cent in a month — on 12,715 Covid-19 beds at 92 hospitals and over 3.07 lakh telemedicine consultations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-349
09-10-2020||West Bengal||Swiss tourist cottages revamped in Darjeeling||Visitors to the Darjeeling hills will soon have more reasons to cheer as the tourism department of the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration has revamped the Swiss cottages at Mirik, the tiny hill station located around 50km from here. The property that was developed by the Darjeeling Gorkha Hill Council in the Swiss architectural style was also known as Orange Country Retreat. It was famous for its idyllic location and surroundings. However, the cottages had turned dilapidated because of poor maintenance and gradually, tourists stopped staying at the property. This made the GTA plan an extensive renovation and reopen the cottages for tourists. “We started the revamp of the luxurious property at the end of last year and could finish the project in a couple of months. Around Rs 2.5 crore has been spent on the renovation,” said Arijit Sen, executive director of the GTA’s tourism department. There are 12 cottages, each of which is a duplex. Added to it, there is a restaurant with large dining space. Sources in the tourism department have pointed out that the cottages are just 2km from the famous Sumendu Lake of Mirik and close to the helipad. Anybody staying at the cottages can enjoy the tranquillity and the aerial view of the lake and the Mirik town as a whole. An official in the engineering cell of GTA said the floors and toilets had to be rebuilt, water connections were given and the interiors and exteriors of each duplex decorated. “The initial estimate was around Rs 50 lakh but eventually, it was revised and increased to Rs 2.5 crore,” the official said. Asked when the property would be reopened, a source in the GTA said the board of administrators (BoA) at the hill body would take a call. “The tourism department has informed the BoA that the cottages are ready. People wishing to visit the hills during the ensuing festive season have already started making reservations. We hope the cottages will be opened for them before Durga Puja,” said the source. Samrat Sanyal, the general secretary of the Himalayan Hospitality and Tourism Development Network, said: “Tourists will start arriving in the hills in a couple of weeks. We hope the GTA will reopen the property soon.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-349
09-10-2020||West Bengal||BJP’s ‘show of strength’ muted||Police personnel numbering around 2,000 posted across four locations in Howrah and Calcutta took on the might of 8,000-odd BJP workers in an unprecedented show of restraint during the BJP youth wing’s Nabanna Abhiyan on Thursday even as bombs and stones were hurled and tyres set on fire. At all locations where BJP supporters tried to break the police cordon and scale barricades, not a single bullet was fired in the air despite provocation, said a senior police officer. Rubber bullets were replaced with teargas shells and water cannons — a strategy senior officers had decided on for the Abhiyan. Nabanna, the state administrative headquarters, was closed on Thursday for a sanitisation drive amid the Covid-19 pandemic. But top officers led by state chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay were present at the control room monitoring the developments throughout the morning till late into the afternoon. Alapan later said: “The government would like to thank the police who showed restraint in handling the demonstrators...” He added that the state government on Wednesday had in a letter to the “concerned party” welcomed “all peaceful and democratic rallies having specific destinations where section 144 or any other law is not violated”, but got no response. In Calcutta, police had closed the second Hooghly bridge from 10.30am before setting up rows of barricades to prevent protesters from moving ahead. Later, the Howrah bridge had to be closed down after a team of BJP supporters led by Dilip Ghosh, the state party president, reached and tried to breach the barricade. “Around 1.10pm, when we were trying to resist some supporters from breaking a cordon at Howrah Maidan, a bomb landed very near where the force had taken position,” said a senior officer of Howrah police commissionerate. “A police kiosk was damaged. We were not prepared for all this.” In several places including Hastings and Burrabazar in Calcutta and Howrah Maidan police allowed supporters to break the first cordon before stopping them on the second. Lathis were used to disperse the mob at places where it turned violent after the use of water cannons and teargas shells. “All officers were instructed to display restraint. Our men chased unruly supporters with lathis only when needed,” said a senior police officer. Officers who had drawn up the blueprint said they had a two-fold strategy in place. Against every shower of bottles or stones, teargas shells were hurled. Water cannons were used only when supporters refused to pay heed to appeals and insisted on breaking barricades, police sources said. In the evening, the Bengal government said a total of 113 people were detained in Calcutta and Howrah. Senior officers admitted they had taken a lesson from a similar Abhiyan to Lal Bazar by the BJP on June 12, 2019, and taken precautions to ensure no excess. From the morning onwards, processions started converging across parts of Tikipara, Howrah Maidan, Hastings and Central Avenue. A little after noon, party supporters started walking towards Nabanna. Alapan said: “As per reports we received so far, 89 people were detained in Calcutta and 24 people were detained in Howrah in connection with the rallies. There were some instigations, a firearm was seized and several policemen were injured during the rallies.” On her way back from Jhargram, Mamata reached Nabanna around 2.20pm, but as it was closed for sanitisation, she left within five minutes. Later, she reached Bhavani Bhavan where she held a meeting with the chief secretary, home secretary, DGP and city police commissioner, among others, sources said. “She went through video footage of the BJP workers trying to create trouble, took the details from officials and gave instructions before leaving for her residence,” a senior official said. Additional reporting by Pranesh Sarkar||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-349
09-10-2020||West Bengal||Protester with gun at Howrah Maidan||A protester who went for the Nabanna Abhiyan on Thursday was found carrying a gun, the police said. According to police, the man, identified as Balwinder Singh, 46, stays with BJP’s Bhatpara leader Priyanshu Pandey and is believed to be very close to Barrackpore’s MP Arjun Singh. “Balwinder Singh, originally from Bhatinda, was spotted with a gun in hand at Howrah Maidan when BJP supporters were trying to break the police cordon and proceed towards Nabanna,” said a senior police officer. Police said it was a very unusual for a protester in political agitation to carry arms. The gun found on the man was a loaded 0.32 bore pistol with a range of 18.27m. BJP leader Dilip Ghosh said Singh was the security guard of Priyanshu Pandey and was carrying his own licensed gun. Howrah police found that the arms licence was issued in 2009 by then district magistrate of Rajouri district in Jammu and Kashmir. Though the licence had been renewed once and was valid through 2021, it was limited to Rajouri. “This is an extremely alarming trend. It is impossible to frisk all protesters in a political rally,” said an officer of Howrah commissionerate. Singh was detained by the Howrah police till late on Thursday evening. Police sources said he was being questioned on what prompted him to carry his gun to a public rally where the protesters were planning to march to the most sensitive and secure pocket of Nabanna that has the offices of the chief minister and other ministers and bureaucrats. Originally from Punjab, Singh stays in Bhatpara in the fringes of the city and is always seen accompanying Pandey, who is an MLA seat aspirant from the BJP for Bhatpara constituency, sources said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-349
09-10-2020||West Bengal||Tejasvi Surya fails to add shine||The impact of the Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha march to state secretariat Nabanna on Thursday did not match its hype. Organised over a slew of youth-centric demands such as a transparent recruitment process, jobs and raising the upper age limit for various exams, the event had four main rallies originating from as many points, the BJP state headquarters led by state unit chief Dilip Ghosh, a party office at Hastings led by Bengal minder Kailash Vijayvargiya, Howrah Maidan led by BJP youth wing national president Tejasvi Surya, and Santragachi led by state party general-secretary Sayantan Basu. “By the end of the afternoon, it was clear that the sound and fury from the Suryas to the Naddas (referring to Tejasvi Surya and BJP national president J.P. Nadda) and hashtags such as #NabannoCholo could not be matched by the intensity on the ground,” said a source at the state BJP headquarters. Though the Bengal BJP youth wing’s state unit chief Saumitra Khan claimed a turnout of over 46,000, and accused Trinamul of keeping tens of thousands from the districts from showing up, others in the party admitted worker mobilisation was an issue. “The original target was 2 lakh. It was scaled down officially to 50,000 a couple of days ago. In reality, it was not even 15,000,” said a state BJP leader. A major reason behind the BJP’s failure to make the desired impact was the policing, which was spot-on. Another was the shutdown of Nabanna on Thursday. BJP leaders seemed to play the victim card. Surya called it a “Black Day”. “The way our cadres and leaders were beaten up mercilessly by police is unprecedented…. Do we not even have the right to conduct a peaceful, democratic rally in favour of youths in this state?” said the South Bangalore MP. He later tweeted: “Police Stations have become TMC party offices in Mamata’s Bengal…” BJP national president Nadda in his tweets accused “Mamata Banerjee’s karyakartas and the Gov machinery” of unleashing “brute force upon BJP karyakartas”. Trinamul general-secretary Firhad Hakim countered: “The BJP is not a political party. It is a party of terror…. It is trying to import to Bengal its model from Uttar Pradesh.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-349
