10-10-2020||West Bengal||Soumitra Chatterjee’s health parameters normal||Veteran Bengali actor Soumitra Chatterjee's vital health parameters are normal, his daughter Poulomi Basu said on Saturday.
The 85-year-old actor was shifted to the ITU of a city hospital after he experienced restlessness and was in an "acute confusional stage" on Friday.
Chatterjee was admitted to the private hospital on Tuesday after he tested positive for COVID-19.
"As per the doctors' team attending to my father, he is maintaining his vital parameters and is stable on this account. His blood pressure is normal and he is not requiring oxygen administration at the moment," Basu said in a statement.
However, he was suffering from COVID encephalopathy, as per the physicians' assessment and, therefore, disoriented and restless at the time. “All due care is being taken,” she said.
"There has been no deterioration on account of his comorbidities including a high PSA count, pneumonia tendencies and compromised lungs which is a good sign," Basu added. Chatterjee had resumed shooting a few days ago. Parambrata, another noted Bengali actor, completed the shooting of Abhiyan under his direction. Jisshu Sengupta will be seen playing the role of young Soumitra in the film. Soumitra himself plays his older self in the film. Chatterjee, a celebrated Bengali actor, is best known for his collaboration with Oscar-winner Satyajit Ray and the Feluda series. Soumitra immortalised the titular role of Feluda in Ray's films. He was a part of several other works of Ray, including Apu'r Sangshar or The World Of Apu. Some of Chatterjee's best works include Ashani Sanket, Ghare Baire, Aranyer Din Ratri, Charulata, Shakha Proshakha, Jhinder Bandi, Saat Pake Bandha, and more.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-347
10-10-2020||West Bengal||House collapse kills 2||Two brothers were killed and their father severely injured when their two-storey mud house collapsed on them at a village in Bankura’s Joypur early on Friday. Police said brothers Santosh Biswas, 56, and Bikash Biswas, 52, got trapped in the debris of the house at Supur village that came crashing down on them around 1am while they were trying to rescue their 81-year-old father Anil Charan Biswas, who can’t walk because of age-related ailments. Residents came rushing on hearing the noise of the collapse and informed the police. Police and fire brigade officers brought out the brothers and their aged father from under the debris after three hours and sent them to Joypur block primary health centre. Doctors declared Santosh and Bikash dead on arrival. Their injured father was hospitalised. Octogenarian Anil has been the former secretary of the CPM-affiliated All Bengal Teachers’ Association’s Bankura chapter and former chairman of Bankura primary school council. Soma, Santosh’s wife, said she was shocked at the events of the day. “I was sleeping on the first floor of our house with my daughter when we felt a tremor. My husband was sleeping on the ground floor with his father when his brother took us out of the house. The brothers again went inside the house to rescue their father when the mud house collapsed on them in front of our eyes,” said an inconsolable Soma, adding that her husband worked at a private company in Burdwan town. She said the house was over five decades old but not dilapidated, though its condition had worsened this monsoon. “We were about to repair the house after Durga Puja but it collapsed,” she added. Police handed over the bodies to the family after post-mortem. A pall of gloom descended on Supur as the news of the deaths spread. A villager said the octogenarian father had not yet been told that he had lost his two sons. “It will be too much for him to bear at his age” the villager said. One of the brothers’ cousins who stays at a concrete house nearby said he had told “Anil uncle” to leave the mud house and stay with him, but he refused.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-347
10-10-2020||West Bengal||Long road to land rights||Hundreds of people residing in former Bangladeshi enclaves, which are now Indian villages in Cooch Behar district, are yet to receive land rights. The delay in validating their ownership of land is a continued source of hardship for these people who chose to become a part of India in 2015 when the two countries exchanged enclaves. “Only a handful of them have received the (land rights) documents, but most of those are erroneous and need to be rectified. Others haven’t got their papers,” admitted a district official. On July 31, 2015, 51 Bangladeshi enclaves that were within India merged with the Indian mainland. All 14,835 Bangladeshi residents living in these enclaves became Indians and 7,110 acres of Bangladeshi land became Indian land. On the other side, 111 Indian enclaves got merged with Bangladesh. Later, 921 persons crossed the border and reached Cooch Behar. They are staying in settlement camps now. “Since then, we have not yet received land rights. We have old deeds issued by Bangladeshi authorities but those are of no use now. A few of us have received documents from the district administration here (Cooch Behar) but those are full of errors. For example, a person who owns five bighas of land has been handed over land rights of only one bigha,” Jainal Abedin, a resident of Mashaldanga, a former enclave that is in Dinhata subdivision of Cooch Behar, said. Saddam Hossain, another resident of Mashaldanga, said there are around 366 acres of land in the village. “This delay in providing us land rights or giving us erroneous documents has left many of us in trouble,” Hossain said. “Some of us want to take loans to build houses or mortgage land for agricultural or cash loans to meet certain expenses. None of us can do anything because of this delay,” he added. Similar is the situation in Poaturkuthi, another former enclave that is in Dinhata-II block. “We don’t know when this problem will end. We feel the district administration should hold camps, check our old documents and issue necessary documents. This can expedite the process (of giving us our land rights),” said Rafikul Islam, a local resident. Diptiman Sengupta, one of the prominent faces of the movement that went on for years over the demand of the exchange of enclaves, told this paper that the state government did not carry out proper land surveys in these 51 former enclaves. “This is a glaring instance of administrative lapse. Five years have passed and yet these people have not been provided with rights of their own land. The state government should immediately take the initiative and end this problem,” said Sengupta. Senior officials of the district land and land reforms department stayed tight-lipped on the issue. One of the officers, who refused to be quoted, said that the work had got delayed because of the Covid-19-induced lockdown. “We will soon conduct hearings to rectify land documents and will also see that others are given documents which prove the ownership of their land,” the officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-347
10-10-2020||West Bengal||Trinamul launches drive to woo back Dalits||The Trinamul Congress has launched a drive that will cover over 10,000 villages and towns and create a platform for interaction with more than 1.5 crore Scheduled Caste voters in one month. Senior Trinamul leaders have said the drive termed Taphashilir Sanglap (loosely translated as “Conversations with the Scheduled Caste”) gains added significance in the wake of alleged gang-rape and murder of a Dalit girl at Hathras in Uttar Pradesh. The campaign, reportedly the brainchild of poll consultant Prashant Kishor and his team at the Indian Political Action Committee (I-PAC), will involve around 2,000 Trinamul leaders from the SC community, who will conduct door-to-door visits in Dalit pockets with specially-designed campaign caravans. “The drive is aimed at sending an image of the BJP’s anti-Dalit stance as exemplified in UP recently. The other objective is to inform the community members about the Bengal government schemes that are drawn up for their benefits,” said a senior Trinamul leader. “Needless to say, the Hathras atrocity involving the gangrape of a Dalit girl has become a sensitive topic, for which the community wants answers... It gives us an opportunity to win them back ahead of the Assembly polls,” the leader added. Of the total 294 seats in the Bengal Assembly, 68 are reserved for SCs and 16 for STs. In the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, the BJP secured leads in 34 Assembly seats whereas Trinamul came first in 33 constituencies. The Congress had won lead in one seat. Trinamul lagged behind the BJP in 13 of the 16 ST seats. Trinamul insiders said the party was also focusing on tribal pockets. The drive, which began on October 3, is slated to continue across Bengal for 20 days with teams of 10 party leaders from the SC community being formed for each Assembly segment. “We are meeting the SC voters at their doorsteps. We will have a conversation with them mainly about various state government schemes and ask them whether they are availing themselves of the benefits. Later, we will tell them about the BJP’s idea of the low caste community and how Dalits are treated in BJP-ruled states,” said a Trinamul leader in the campaigning team. The leaders will also distribute leaflets detailing the state government’s schemes for the SC community during their visits. Though ruling party leaders and members of I-PAC are hopeful of reaping political dividends through the drive, political experts say it is better to focus on good governance in the SC-dominated areas rather than the BJP’s alleged anti-Dalit activities. The political analysts said the patterns of social segregation were different in Bengal and north India. “A campaign on the BJP’s anti-Dalit image will not work in Bengal which doesn’t have the issue of social segregation. It is better for Trinamul to focus on better governance in the SC and ST-dominated areas,” said political scientist Biswanath Chakraborty.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-348
10-10-2020||West Bengal||Bengal logs 2.5 lakh Covid cures, cases rise||Bengal on Friday achieved a landmark of 2.5 lakh Covid-19 recoveries, 206 days since the first case was detected in the state on March 17. Bengal on Friday also reported 62 deaths and 3,573 new cases, yet another record single-day jump. However, nearly 2.53 lakh out of 2.87 lakh infected persons in all are cured in the state, 3,069 of them on Friday. “This milestone is a timely morale-booster,” a minister said about the 2.5 lakh recoveries. The state reached its first lot of 50,000 recoveries on August 1, over a span of 137 days. The latest 50,000 recoveries came in 17 days, after Bengal crossed 2 lakh on September 22. The minister added that of October’s nine days so far, new records for Covid-19 infections were set on seven days. With a rise by 442 to 29,296 now, Bengal reported a rise in its total active Covid-19 cases for the 31st consecutive day. Bengal’s recovery rate, however, fell from Tuesday’s 87.98 per cent to 87.90 on Friday. The national rate is 85.48 per cent. Friday’s 62 deaths took the toll to 5,501 deaths. Thirteen died in Calcutta, 19 in North 24-Parganas. The state government reported 4,669, or 84.9 per cent, as deaths with comorbidity “present”. The common comorbidities among novel coronavirus patients reported up till now are hypertension, cardiovascular and kidney diseases, and diabetes. Bengal’s overall mortality rate stayed at 1.91, lagging behind the national 1.54 per cent. The state also reported 42,532 tests on Friday, taking the total past 36 lakh, at 40,090 tests per million people. The state reported 37.59 per cent occupancy in the 12,715 beds for Covid-19 in the 92 dedicated hospitals for the pandemic, besides over 3.11 lakh telemedicine consultations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-348
10-10-2020||West Bengal||Raiganj University phone funds plea||Raiganj University in North Dinajpur has sought Rs 57.05 lakh from the state education department to create e-resources and buy smartphones for students who can’t afford them so that they could attend online classes and access study materials digitally. Vice-chancellor Anil Bhuimali on Friday wrote a letter to state higher education secretary Manish Jain for the aid. “We did a survey to find out how many of our students lacked basic devices such as smartphones. It emerged that 1,000 students who are economically backward need smartphones. Being a new university we lack resources to buy the devices,” Bhuimali told this paper. A cost estimate is included in the letter, a copy of which has been sent to Bengal education minister Partha Chatterjee. In a virtual meeting with VCs on September 28, Chatterjee had said his department was exploring the possibility of resuming regular undergraduate and postgraduate classes in government-run colleges and government-aided universities from December with online classes. Bhuimali had flagged the issue of digital divide there. Raiganj University, with 13,000 students, held the students’ survey after the meeting. A varsity official said they sought Rs 52 lakh to buy the smartphones, each set costing Rs 5,200, while the rest would be spent to develop the central repository where teachers can upload classroom lectures. The VC of another university, preferring anonymity, said Bhuimali’s letter laid bare the challenges that varsities and poorer students face amid the pandemic where attending classes in person is fast becoming a thing of the past. Recently, Jadavpur University in Calcutta raised funds to buy smartphones for 200 students. Asked why his varsity could not raise funds on the lines of JU, Bhuimali said they needed state support as they lacked a “network of resourceful alumni, teachers” that JU has. “Whatever we get in terms of grant goes into paying salaries and maintenance.” Principal secretary Jain could not be contacted. He did not reply to text messages.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-348
10-10-2020||West Bengal||CID retraces footsteps of Manish killers||The assassins of Manish Shukla had come from outside Bengal and stayed at two houses in Barrackpore for days before pulling the trigger, CID officers said on Friday while adding that those men had been engaged by Khurram Khan. The investigators have already found purported evidence that Khurram and Shukla had been at loggerheads ever since the former’s father had been killed nearly five years back and the latter was named as one of the accused. The CID has already arrested Khurram, along with Seikh Gulab, in connection with Shukla’s murder. It has now emerged, according to a section of CID officers, that Khurram had engaged Subodh Yadav, a small supplier of consumer goods in Barrackpore, for providing logistics for the gang members he had got from Bihar to carry out the operation. “Preliminary investigation suggests Subodh didn’t know about the murder plan,” said a source before adding that Khurram had sought his help for specific reasons. Apparently, a low-profile Subodh would have escaped even the most suspecting eyes in the locality and hence the choice, the investigators said. Subodh was arrested from Sarkar Bagan area of Barrackpore on Thursday night. During interrogation Subodh apparently told the CID that Khurram had approached him for fixing up houses for the gang members to stay. “Subodh Yadav had unknowingly provided the logistic support to the team by arranging for their accommodation, including the two-wheelers that the assassins had used,” said a CID officer. “Subodh had put up the gang members in two flats, one of which is on Dakshin Panchanantala road in ward 4 of Barrackpore municipality. We have already sealed it.” During their stay, the gang members had apparently thoroughly scanned the area in Titagurh, including the BJP office where Manish would visit in the evenings. Then, they drew up a final plan armed with specific inputs, CID officers said. Officers believe the assassins have left Bengal immediately after the murder by road and took the national highway to move beyond the state’s borders. Two separate teams the of CID have been formed to track down the assassins, who appear to be six in number. Officers have started examining CCTV footage of vehicles that left Titagarh’s Purani Bazar area and took the national highway on the night of October 4. Police stations on the Jharkhand and Odisha borders have already been alerted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-348
10-10-2020||West Bengal||MP Arjun’s nephew held over Rs 11cr loan fraud||The detective wing of Barrackpore police commissionerate has arrested BJP MP Arjun Singh’s nephew Sanjith Singh, alias Pappu Singh, for allegedly swindling Rs 11.6 crore that was disbursed as loan to contractors by the Bhatpara-Naihati Cooperative Bank Limited. The alleged fraud at the cooperative bank headed by Arjun Singh in 2018 was committed on the basis of fake work orders of Bhatpara municipality, said the investigators. The sleuths said the fund disbursed to the contractors had eventually been transferred to Pappu’s account. The BJP MP was also the chairman of the Bhatpara municipality that allegedly issued the work orders. Pappu appeared before an investigating team on Friday afternoon for the first time after he had ignored at least four summonses related to the case. He was arrested after interrogation, said an officer of the detective wing. He will be produced in a court in Barrackpore on Saturday. “During the investigation, we have found that the loan disbursed to about 29 contractors was finally transferred to the account of a company that is owned by Pappu who had not been issued any work order or sought a loan from the bank.” After the probe began on the basis of a complaint lodged by Trinamul Congress leader Somnath Shyam, the accused have returned only about Rs 5 crore. Sources said Shyam had lodged a complaint at the Bhatpara police station in February, accusing the bank authorities of disbursing loans to several contractors based on forged documents during the 2017-18 fiscal. Neither have the contractors refunded the borrowed amount, nor have they executed any work.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-348
10-10-2020||West Bengal||Hindu priest aid on fast track||The Mamata Banerjee government has decided to expedite the process of launching the disbursal of monthly honourarium to Hindu priests and bring as many of them as possible under the scheme to ensure that no one feels left out. “The target is to send the first allotment to the bank accounts of the eligible priests before Puja. Chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay would hold a meeting with district magistrates tomorrow (Saturday) to draw up a roadmap for initiating the scheme on time,” said a senior state government official. The chief minister had announced recently that her government would provide a monthly honourarium of Rs 1,000 each to “poor Hindu priests”. In an attempt to send out a message that her government believes in inclusiveness, Mamata Banerjee also promised that the administration would consider similar payments for economically weaker clerics in other faiths like Christianity, Jainism and Buddhism. Sources in the state secretariat said the project had initially been planned considering that there could be 8,000 to 10,000 Hindu priests who could be given the honourarium. “But the project is likely to start with more than 20,000 beneficiaries as many priests have already contacted district administrative officials showing their interest in availing themselves of the benefit. The state government would not discriminate against any of the eligible applicants,” said another official. According to sources aware of the plan drawn up by Nabanna, the government is all set to roll out a housing scheme also for the priests. “The state government would construct dwelling units for the priests under a housing scheme provided they have land. The chief secretary would discuss this matter also with the district magistrates tomorrow,” said a source. The sources said the government had already drafted guidelines for the selection of beneficiaries of the honourarium and housing schemes. The guidelines stipulate that the beneficiary has to be financially weak and a permanent resident of the state. The priests who draw honourarium, stipend or pension from any other government schemes will not be considered. “The state government is laying stress on putting a proper mechanism in place for selecting the beneficiaries. The government wants to ensure that the honourarium reaches those who actually need it,” said another official. The information and cultural affairs department would be the nodal agency for the scheme, said a source. The Nabanna top brass, the source said, passed on instructions to ensure that the distribution of benefits didn’t  result in chaos. “Several complaints had come up while selecting the beneficiaries of the schemes launched to help Cyclone Amphan victims. The government does not want a repeat of such situation and that is why the chief secretary himself would make the district magistrates aware of the selection process,” said another official. Trinamul insiders have said the ruling establishment is eager to launch the scheme at the earliest as the Assembly polls are only about six months away. “The chief minister tried to strike a balance by offering honourarium to Hindu priests as the BJP has been trying to polarise the society on communal lines by accusing the government of pandering to Muslims by providing honourarium to imams and muezzins. We all know each scheme has a teething problem and it does not go smooth immediately after its launch... But we want to run the scheme smoothly for a few months ahead of the polls,” said a minister.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-348
10-10-2020||West Bengal||Marks ‘sale’ stick for teacher||The governing body of Siliguri College on Friday suspended Amitabha Kanjilal, a faculty member accused of promising high marks to a final-year undergraduate student for Rs 10,000. The assistant professor in the political science department has been suspended from work until the final conclusion of departmental proceedings against him. The decision follows a report filed by an inquiry committee formed by the college to probe into the allegations. “At the meeting, it was decided that disciplinary proceedings would be initiated against Amitabha Kanjilal. An inquiry officer and a presenting officer would be deputed for further proceedings…Kanjilal has been suspended on and from October 10 until the final conclusion,” said principal Sujit Ghosh. During his suspension period, Kanjilal would receive half his salary, sources said. Ghosh said the suspended teacher would be allowed into the college for daily attendance signature. For further proceedings, the inquiry officer will be a legal person while the presenting officer will be an associate professor from the college itself, said sources. Earlier, the governing body of the college had formed a seven-member inquiry committee to probe into the money-for-marks allegation against the teacher. The committee submitted a report within 20 days of the internal investigation. The inquiry committee had found certain anomalies in Kanjilal’s statements, which merited the departmental proceedings, sources said. “Also, in the course of investigation, the committee members have spoken with the complainant (the student who filed the complaint against Kanjilal) and found valid points against the accused faculty member. That is why the fresh departmental proceedings have been ensued against him. The new committee will start the investigation from next week,” sources added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-348
