11-10-2020||West Bengal||Congress protest rally||The rally that marched from Bidhan Bhavan, the Congress state party headquarters, to Esplanade, was held to protest several issues, including lawlessness in the state, corruption in distribution of Amphan relief and the high electricity tariff. Senior Congress leaders such as leader of the Opposition Abdul Mannan and Rajya Sabha member Pradip Bhattacharya also took part in the rally where protesters — most of them wearing masks — carried flags and banners. Though no official figure could be ascertained, the turnout seemed impressive, said Congress leaders. It appeared that the Behrampore MP, who was recently appointed the chief of the West Bengal Pradesh Congress Committee after the death of Somendra Nath Mitra, had been able to mobilise supporters. “The turnout of the rally surpassed expectations,” said a Congress worker. After the rally, Chowdhury called on Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar to hand over a deputation to him.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-347
11-10-2020||West Bengal||‘Once again camps will come up, once again people will be dumped’||Bachao, bachao... thus begins Bengali Dalit writer Jatin Bala’s autobiography Shikor Chhera Jibon or My Uprooted Life. The first volume of the book is now being translated into English — a Sahitya Akademi initiative. When I meet Bala at his home in the South 24-Parganas, the octogenarian tells me, “I was only five years old when we had to run away from our village in East Pakistan. The bloody scenes are etched in my mind as if carved on a soft rock.” Bala, a retired government officer, lives in a spartan apartment, a loner’s den. Except for the bellowing of a passing local train — the housing complex is close to the Sonarpur railway crossing — the place is all peace and quiet. He continues, “I am a refugee. I was a victim of the riots of 1954 [that had to do with the ethnic cleansing of Bengali Hindus from East Pakistan].” Bala was born in 1949 in Jessore, now in Bangladesh. There was communal tension everywhere. He lost his mother when he was a little over a year old and his father died when he was barely four. He was brought up by his eldest brother, who was older to him by 25 years. Bala narrates how his father had to leave their family home and shift to another village as he was suspected to be an Indian spy because of his eldest brother’s connection with the extremist Rajat Biswas, a close associate of the freedom fighter Bagha Jatin. Bala’s father died soon after. Bala recalls an evening sometime in 1953-54, when their village was attacked and houses were set ablaze. He, his siblings and his paternal aunt, along with many others in the village, fled and hid amongst the thickets beyond. He says, “The next morning we reached a Hindu-majority village called Boro Bondortala.” Days later, they secured the requisite permits and left for the Benapole border. They walked over 37 kilometres before they could reach there. Says Bala, “And as we walked, more people from other villages kept streaming in and joining the steady flow. We were all beggars — women carried small bundles with bare essentials, men and children were barebodied, barefoot. We had left behind everything... When we reached the Benapole border, it took hours to get the border pass.” The siblings finally crossed the border, reached Petrapole on the Indian side, and from there they walked all the way to the Bongaon railway station in West Bengal. From there they were eventually taken to Sealdah. Sealdah was not the family’s ultimate destination,  nor did it spell an end to their suffering. Rather, it was the beginning of another long and arduous journey. Says Bala, “At the Bongaon station, we found thousands and thousands like us — homeless, uprooted. There was dearth of food and water. In fact, there was no place to sit and rest. Volunteers were handing out chire, muri, chhatu. I yearned for a morsel of rice.” The five-year-old Bala had possibly witnessed more than his brain could process. Even as he recounts his memories, he makes loopy gestures with his hands as if to show the images still jangling inside his head. He says, “I saw people die. Many had died en route, before reaching India. We left the dead bodies on the roads and kept walking. People died after reaching Bongaon and Sealdah. Babies died of hunger, women died of hunger. For days we went without taking a bath. Our bodies stank.” The streets adjoining Sealdah station — College Street and Harrison Road (now known as Mahatma Gandhi Road) — seemed like an ongoing exhibition of distress. On both sides of the road people had set up rag-tag brick ovens and were cooking rice in earthen pots. Bala remembers helping his brother cook for the whole family. But before he could partake of the much-awaited morsel, one of his brothers was asked to leave for the Bhandarhati Workside Camp in Hooghly. Three camps had been put up there for the refugees — the Kunti Transit Camp, the Balagarh Camp and the one at Bhandarhati. The family split at Sealdah station. Says Bala, “Mejda [the second brother] was sent away and the rest of us were loaded onto trucks and sent to Kunti.” Someone packed the rice in a gamchha to be eaten later. At Kunti, there were 500-600 tents. The camp was dirty and unkempt. Says Bala, “Many children died from the strain and the filth. Men who stayed in the camps were sometimes murdered by the locals as they regarded us as apod or extraneous menace who had come to take away their share of land, work, food... The cash dole given by the government was too paltry to survive on and we were not allowed to leave the camp and go out in search for jobs.” Here Bala worked as a child labour and was often physically abused. “One day, when I fell down while carrying a bundle of straw on my head, I resolved I would study and get myself an education,” he says. It was during his time at the Kunti camp that Bala started attending school. In the meantime, his brother kept approaching the authorities to let them shift to the Bhandarhati camp so that they could be united with the other brother. After two-and-a-half years they shifted to Bhandarhati. Says Bala, “One of the inspectors had learnt that my elder brother was a freedom fighter.” The Bhandarhati camp was a work site; a dam was being constructed at the time. It was a low-lying area infested with snakes and mosquitoes. Bala recalls, “It was an extremely unhealthy place to live in — children died of malaria and tuberculosis.” The authorities put the refugees to work at the construction site. But when the work was over, the Government of India decided to demolish the camp. “We protested and even went on hunger strike,” says Bala. But this protest did more harm than good. “Police bulldozed the camps; lathicharged indiscriminately, dumped us into trucks like animals and we were again transferred to another camp — the one at Balagarh,” he says. Bala’s education was interrupted. The family’s fortunes now split. The eldest brother managed to secure a loan and a plot of land, where he built a house. But Bala’s Mejda stayed on in the Balagarh camp and Bala with him. He says, “One day the government decided to stop giving us cash dole. I even stopped receiving the book grant I had received so far. There was no money, no food; for two days I survived on taal gola (the pulp of the palm fruit mixed in water).” Bala came out of the camp and into a regular life when he was in his teens. The period between then and now he narrates with a single word — “Ei” — and a sweep of his hands. He stares out of the window and says, “Now, when the BJP government is repeatedly talking about NRC (National Register for Citizens), about identifying the Muslims who came to India after Partition, of sending them away, I fear for their plight, for their life. Once again refugee camps will come up, once again people will be dumped into those inhuman confinements. Once again people will be rendered powerless, abandoned — sans homes, sans land, sans a country to call their own.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-347
11-10-2020||West Bengal||Body back home from Riyadh after 45 days||The mortal remains of a migrant labourer, who died in Saudi Arabia’s Riyadh on August 26, came home in Dighalkandi village of Nadia’s Murutia after 45 days on Saturday morning. Family members of Chhiddique, 40, a labourer with a construction firm, could get back his body because of an IT professional from Birbhum. Chhiddique’s colleague broke the news of the death to his kin and advised them to contact the administration to bring the body back home. But a pandemic-wary administration allegedly did not show much eagerness to help, alleged the bereaved family. Birbhum resident and IT professional Sadekul Islam read about the plight of the migrant worker’s family in newspapers and took it upon himself to help get Chhiddique’s body back to India. Sadekul, who works for an IT major in Calcutta, said: “I read a news item about the plight of the helpless family. I spoke to the local BDO to get the contact number of the family and decided to take up the matter with the authorities.” He had facilitated in bringing back a body from abroad earlier as well, he said. “I followed the same process in Chhiddique’s case. It is simple and details are available on the MEA website, but it is not easy for migrant workers to access it. The alleged apathy of the administration was shocking and I decided to step in,” Sadekul told The Telegraph. The IT professional said an online form on the MEA website has to be filled for the Indian embassy to start the process of transporting the mortal remains to India. “If the deceased is an overseas employee, the employer bears the cargo cost. If the employer refuses, money from the Indian Community Welfare Fund is used,” an MEA official told The Telegraph. Chhiddique’s body arrived at the Calcutta airport on Friday night and reached Dighalkandi, around 200km away, on Saturday morning. On the request of the family members, Sadekul attended the last rites. Azad Khan, brother of the deceased and a taxi driver, said: “It would not have been possible to see the mortal remains of my brother had Sadekulda not stepped in. We are poor people with no idea of how these things work. We had approached the administration, panchayat authorities and Trinamul, but no one was eager because of the Covid scenario.” BDO, Karimpur-II, Satyajit Kumar said that Krishnagar MP Mahua Moitra had advised them to get the body back through the Bande Bharat flight, but it did not work out. Officials in the Nadia district administration claimed that the body could be brought back because of coordinated efforts of the administration and an “NGO” (read Sadekul).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-347
11-10-2020||West Bengal||105 stolen cellphones seized in Malda||Police in Malda acted on a tip-off and recovered 105 stolen cell phones from Purba Mahajanpara village of Sujapur under Kaliachak police station on Saturday. A man was also arrested in this connection. Alok Rajoria, the Malda superintendent of police, said accused Mohammed Asraful Alam had stored these stolen cellphones, most of which are Android handsets, at his house. “During interrogation, he has admitted that one Ziaul Sheikh from Khaschandpur-Charkatola area was dealing in stolen smartphones for a long time. Ziaul collects the stolen handsets from different states, stores them at different places like Alam’s house, and sells those in Kaliachak. Hunt is on to nab him,” said the district police chief. In a separate incident, two large “akashmoni” (a variety of acacia) trees were felled at the office of the block development officer of Old Malda. Irfan Habib, the BDO, said he has no idea who cut down the trees and took away the trunks. The forest department launched a probe, said Sitangshu Gupta, the additional divisional forest officer of Malda.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-347
11-10-2020||West Bengal||30 injured as bus hits NH14 crater and flips||At least 30 passengers, including four children and six women, were injured when a private bus on the Rampurhat-Behrampore route hit a crater about 2 feet deep and flipped sideways on NH14 near Nakpur checkpost in Birbhum’s Nalhati on Saturday morning. The axle of the bus gave way leaving the vehicle without a wheel. As the vehicle flipped with a loud thud and passengers screamed for help, bystanders broke the windscreen of the vehicle to rescue passengers trapped inside. The injured were sent to Rampurhat Medical College and Hospital, where doctors said that the condition of five passengers, including two children, was critical. “The bus overturned as its axle broke after its wheel landed in a two-feet deep pothole. This happened because of the poor condition of the road. We have requested the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) several times to repair the roads, but no action has been taken. We will write to them again and inform them of how so many passengers had a close shave on Saturday,” a police officer said. Commuters said travelling on the 21km stretch from Nalhati to Moregram had become a nightmare as the road was studded with deep potholes. Over the past few days at least a dozen trucks and buses have broken down on the road which created huge traffic snarls on the single lane NH14, a commuter said. “If one or two trucks break down on the 21km stretch, traffic gets blocked for hours. We need to deploy at least 10 cops daily to maintain traffic on national highways,” said a police officer. “We know about the problem and have requested both the NHAI and state government to carry out repairs. We hope the stretch will be repaired soon. Big potholes will be filled up before Durga Puja,” said Moumita Godara Basu, Birbhum district magistrate. NH authorities, however, said they had sent a proposal to the ministry of road transport and highways in Delhi requesting funds for repair. The NHAI also blamed overloaded trucks for the damage to roads. An officer of the NHAI said that hundreds of overloaded stone and sand-laden trucks plied on the road leading to the formation of craters on the stretch. “We have sent the proposal to the central government and are waiting for the nod and funds to reach us. As soon as we get the money, the road will be repaired. Only six kilometres of the 21km stretch are badly damaged,” said N.K. Singh, executive engineer of the PWD, who also looks after national highways in Birbhum.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-347
11-10-2020||West Bengal|| 50% property tax waiver for Midnapore||The Midnapore Municipality in West Midnapore has announced a 50 per cent rebate on property tax penalty, the move expected to benefit around 24,000 of the town’s 42,000 property holders who have defaulted on paying property tax since the lockdown in March. Announcing the offer, the municipality authorities have also extended the benefit to a substantial number of defaulters who have not paid taxes over the last two to three years. Sources said the move was aimed at raising revenue to address the municipality’s inability to meet wage payments for 700-odd casual workers, 100 of whom have been actively working throughout the lockdown. The municipality’s wage obligations to workers each month stand at around Rs 40 lakh. “The state government pays 85 per cent of the municipality’s wage bill but the remaining 15 per cent is met through municipality revenue, of which property tax is a huge part,” said a source. Midnapore town has 25 wards with 42,000 property holders, in addition to 6,000-odd business owners, whose trade licence renewal penalty have also been waived as part of the waiver scheme. Some 4,000 traders have not renewed their licences this year, causing substantial loss in earnings to the municipality. Current dues on account of property tax and trade licence tax stands at Rs 10 crore. “If the correct amount is paid within October, we will waive half the penalty for property and trade licence holders,” said an official, adding that a full waiver was not permissible legally. “We are aware that several people asked for a full waiver on the penalty in light of adverse financial circumstances amid the lockdown, but we can’t do that,” said municipality administrator and SDO Dinanarayan Ghosh. Residents of the town welcomed the move, saying a “full waiver” on the penalty would have been ideal but this waiver was “acceptable”. “Many have no income, and the waiver will help,” said Midnapore resident Mandakranta Basu.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-347
11-10-2020||West Bengal||Recovery rate dips as cases rise||Bengal on Saturday logged 3,591 new Covid-19 cases — the highest spike yet reported in the 24-hour window till 9am — and 62 deaths, besides 3,032 recoveries. With this, the state went past 2.91 lakh cases since the first infection was detected on March 17, including nearly 2.56 lakh recoveries and 5,563 deaths. Bengal’s number of active cases stood at 29,793 on Saturday. In the face of a continued surge in the total of active cases, the state is experiencing a dip in the Covid recovery rate from Tuesday onwards. On Tuesday, Bengal’s recovery rate was 87.98 per cent. On Saturday, it stood at 87.86, though still ahead of the national rate at 85.83 per cent. “In the first 10 days of October, the state has seen the record for intra-day surge in Covid-19 cases in eight days,” said a minister. “This trend has to be reversed over the next couple of weeks. As it is, we are expecting a spell of surge right after Durga Puja,” he added. “In a real cause for worry, the recovery rate has started falling for the first time in months.” Calcutta and North 24-Parganas have been reporting over 1,500 new cases between them daily once again. Of the 62 deaths on Saturday, 20 were reported from Calcutta and a dozen from North 24-Parganas. The two districts have contributed over 56 per cent of all Covid-19 deaths in Bengal, since the first was recorded on March 23. Of the total deaths, 4,719 (84.8 per cent) were reported as comorbid by the state government. The overall mortality rate stayed at 1.91, while the national rate is 1.53 per cent. “Substantially lowering the mortality rate is a target we have not been able to achieve in a couple of months. That is difficult when just two districts have been reporting 25-30 deaths daily,” said the minister. The state also reported 42,855 tests on Saturday, taking the total past 36.5 lakh, with 40,567 tests per million people. “We have been covering a lakh tests almost every two days, for a long time now,” said the minister. The positive confirmation rate is 7.98 per cent now. The state reported 36.85 per cent occupancy of 12,715 Covid-19 beds in 92 hospitals and over 3.15 lakh telemedicine consultations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-347
11-10-2020||West Bengal||Polls ahead, road repair wake-up siren||The state public works department (PWD) has been flooded with requests from ruling party MLAs to undertake repair on important roads in their constituencies, prompting the department to prepare a list of roads that need urgent repairs. The department has so far shortlisted 242 roads that need urgent renovation based on MLA requests, but a senior official said that they were not sure how funds could be arranged. PWD officials said that they would soon prepare a funds estimate and place it before the finance department. “It is important to note that these roads are over and above the roads undertaken for repair under the Pathasree Abhijan, under which 12,000km of roads would be repaired in next couple of weeks. It is now clear that a large number of the roads in the state are in bad shape,” said an official. These requests from MLAs to the PWD hold significance, particularly ahead of the Bengal polls. Many in the department believe that this reveals that roads have been neglected in the state over the past few months, especially during lockdown. The urgency to repair the roads by Trinamul MLAs clearly suggests that they think their fate in forthcoming polls is linked to an extent to the condition of roads in their respective constituencies. The situation, sources said, is in sharp contrast with what the ruling party had faced in previous polls. Though chief minister Mamata Banerjee renewed her thrust in repairing roads across the state through Pathasree, the requests from MLAs clearly hint that the state has to do more. The Pathasree scheme stresses on repairing rural roads. But roads in semi-urban or urban areas are also in bad shape. “The road sector was one of the areas which was the chief minister’s focus area from the very beginning. The Trinamul’s success in consecutive polls was associated with the general impression that roads had improved in Bengal after the change of guard in 2011. It now seems the roads were not maintained properly in the past few months,” said an official. According to sources, Trinamul MLAs were under pressure from residents demanding repair of roads. Sources in the PWD said that several MLAs sent lists of seven to 10 roads each for urgent repair work. “We received requests to repair more than 600 roads. But we cannot take up repairs of so many roads at a go. That’s why we prepared a list of 242 roads,” said a PWD official. A ruling party MLA from Birbhum, preferring to stay anonymous, said: “I was facing questions from people of urban areas as repair work on rural roads have started. I sent a list of seven roads in my constituency to the PWD for urgent repair work.” A couple of district magistrates said they knew that the MLAs were knocking on the door of PWD for repair of some roads after DMs cited shortage of funds.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-347
