12-10-2020||West Bengal||Over six lakh truckers go on a 72-hour strike in Bengal||Supply of essential commodities in Bengal is likely to be disrupted as around six lakh truckers went on a 72-hour strike from Monday, demanding immediate implementation of revised carrying capacity for goods vehicles among others. Federation of West Bengal Truck Operators' Association president Subhas Bose said the strike has been called mainly to demand a 25 per cent increase in maximum safe axle weight for goods vehicles plying in West Bengal, claiming that other states have already implemented the rule. "Revised norms of safe axle weights for transport vehicles have been implemented across the country except West Bengal," he said. Barring a few, around six lakh trucks have gone off- road in the state in support of the strike, Bose said. "We have requested all the truckers' associations to join the 72-hour strike. Most of the organisations participated in the protest but some have not," Bose said. A body of truckers operating at the port here and the Calcutta Goods Transport Association have not participated in the strike. The truck operators also demanded the removal of unnecessary no-entry points on highways, withdrawal of tax levied at toll plazas and waiving off the road tax for the current fiscal in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic. The FWBTOA had earlier written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, urging him to withdraw the tax levied at toll plazas.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-345
12-10-2020||West Bengal||Rock this Durga Puja with Pantaloons Puja Collection||Get in the spirit for festivities because the biggest celebration of Bengal - Durgostsav is only a few weeks away! As we anticipate all the fun, frolic, delight, and prepare ahead to turn around in the most attention-stealing looks for it! Though this year, Durga puja will be a little bit different due to covid-19 scenario. But still, Bengal is all set to celebrate the festival in their own new way. So in this festive season, lets set your wardrobe with pantaloons extravagant puja collection for 5 days of puja. 1. Sasthi: Modern fashion Lets’s start the first day of Durga puja with something modern and special. Draw some inspiration from bohemian fashion and go for a shimmery jumpsuit paired with a textured jacket in bright hues. Or try something fusion like cop tops, long sheer jackets with palazzo pants. 2. Saptami:  A simple, monotone lehenga On Saptami, spend the entire day with your family and try something new! For ethnic wear options, get a simple lehenga set in a bright tone. This can be jazzed up with beautiful silver and oxidized jewelry. It’s also a great go-to for sober desi commitments during the day! 3. Astami: At least one saree Astami is all about sandhi puja, dhunuchi naach. And on this day you can’t deny the grace and beauty of a simple sari. For any kind of festive season, Sari is woman’s all-time favorite attire. And if this traditional outfit is not your go to option, then perhaps a contemporary variation of the same can do the trick for you. Reinvent the Bengali drape and compliment it by draping it the casual way with Pantaloons Sari. 4. Navami: Coordinary sets One, amidst all your outfits is good enough, but having at least one is absolutely necessary. Coordinary sets that are bright and flirty go a long way. They’re super fuss-free and extremely comfortable! And, for navami adda this can definitely be your new favorite outfit. 5. Dashami: Hand woven Kurta Set The most eagerly awaited fiesta is nearing its end; and after all the glamorous Puja parikrama you need one last ensemble to give it a befitting finish. As you smear each other with sindoor and pray for happiness, blossom in a classic hand-woven kurta set and enjoy the visarjan ceremony.  So, what are you waiting for? Visit your nearest pantaloons stores or visit www.pantaloons.com to
explore the gorgeous Pujo collection.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-345
12-10-2020||West Bengal||IISER-K centre to seed entrepreneurs||An incubation centre was launched on the IISER-K campus in Nadia’s Mohanpur last week in an endeavour to encourage science and technology-based entrepreneurship and start-ups among youngsters in the eastern and north eastern parts of the country, The IISER-K will act as the chief patron of the incubation centre, titled Research Innovation and Scientific Entrepreneurship Foundation IISER, which is slated to act as a nodal hub for creating job opportunities and strengthening the local economy. The department of science and technology (DST) has promised to provide all necessary support and funds of Rs 13 crore to the incubation centre, which has been developed and registered as a company under Section 8 of the Companies Act, 2018. Sources said RISE had been inaugurated last week by IISER director Professor Sourav Pal. The incubation centre has begun functioning temporarily at the Pre-Fab III building located at the southern end of the campus in Mohanpur. “The DST, despite its assurances, has not released the fund apparently because of Covid-19. We hope to begin work once the funds are received,” an RISE official said. To begin with, officials said, RISE will organise short-term workshops, facilitating interactions between industries and academia. “In real terms, the incubation centre will act as a transmission unit of interdisciplinary research initiative for human benefit. We will use local resources with grassroots-level innovation and explore the marketing opportunities encouraging the young generation for entrepreneurship,” said Professor Ayan Banerjee, attached to the department of physical sciences of IISER-K and one of the directors of RISE. An official in the ministry of human resources development said the government expected that the science and technological research initiatives should be aimed for a better future for the country. “We are aware of it,” said another official of RISE. “Prime Minister Narendra Modi, during his address at the Indian Science Congress in Imphal, had drawn a road map refining the meaning of ‘R&D’ as research and development of the ‘Nation.” RISE intends to offer management training, business consultation and assistance in business plan creation. It also helps in setting up companies ensuring business viability and eventual success of the start-ups, IISER authorities said in a communication. “Our objective is to serve as a key player in the creation of an innovation eco system in Bengal utilising the intellectual property of IISER-K and other higher educational and research institutes in Kalyani and adjoining areas,” one of the directors of RISE said. “The incubation centre is located in an area mixed with rural and urban populations. We have a lot of potential at the local level with a host of top institutes like National Institute of Biomedical Genomics, AIIMS, Bidhan Chandra Krishi Viswavidyalaya (BCKV) located around us. We would like to collaborate with them for transmission of research output and to lay the foundation for entrepreneurship in the area,” Professor Banerjee said. “We have already tied up with some of these institutes. We are hopeful that this will help us a lot and explore new avenues in developing entrepreneurship,” he added. To mark the launch of the RISE, a Kalyani-based start-up launched ‘Corocross’, a non-alcoholic and water-based hand-sanitiser that has been certified by DBT-THSTI, which is capable of destroying Sars-Coronavirus2 and other bacterial pathogens with 99.99 per cent efficacy, a RISE communication stated.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-345
12-10-2020||West Bengal||Jalpaiguri police seize 8kg gold found in SUV||Acting on a tip-off, the police in Nagrakata of Jalpaiguri intercepted an SUV headed towards Siliguri from Assam on Saturday night and seized over 8 kilos of gold bars worth more than Rs 4.5 crore. Three persons, Mumbai resident Santosh Gajape and Assam residents Krishna Majumdar and Mantosh Biswas, have been arrested in this connection. D. Sherpa, the additional superintendent of police (rural) of Jalpaiguri, said on Sunday that Nagrakata police station OC Sanju Burman got information of gold being smuggled by road via the Dooars from Assam to Siliguri in an SUV. Burman immediately instructed his officers to start checking all vehicles moving through NH31. At night, they stopped an SUV coming from Assam. Frisking the vehicle, the police team found concealed gold bars. “The three persons in the car were arrested. We have sent them to court on Sunday and will file a petition to seek police custody. They need to be interrogated on their links and whether they are only carriers or members of a gold smuggling racket,” said Sherpa. According to him, the gold bars altogether weigh 8.297 kilos, the value of which is over Rs 4.5 crore. The vehicle has also been seized.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-345
12-10-2020||West Bengal||Mask vending machines in Birbhum for Puja crowds||The district administration in Birbhum has taken up the initiative to install three automated vending machines to dispense masks made by groups of migrant workers in three big towns of the district in the run-up to Durga Puja. The move is a bid to help migrant workers during a difficult year and help people stay safe amid the anticipated festive crowding, said sources. “In addition to assisting migrant workers during a year like this (because of the pandemic), we also want to encourage among all the habit of wearing masks by increasing their availability and lowering their price,” said an official, adding the masks would be made by workers. “The price of a mask will be between Rs 10 and Rs 15.” Orders for three such automated machines have been placed, and the machines would be installed in crowded points at three subdivisional towns Bolpur, Suri and Rampurhat. Sources added that apart from vending points, migrant labourers would also be allowed to sell their masks at pandals. Each cloth mask will have two or three layers. District officials plan to produce over 10,000 masks for the festive season. “The move has been taken for twofold benefits — helping out a group of migrants who know tailoring and also to make masks available in the market during the festive season. Apart from three automated vending machines, masks will be sold manually as well,” said Birbhum district magistrate Moumita Godara Basu, referring to the added risk of infection during festival crowds. In Birbhum, nearly 30,000 migrant workers returned home after losing out-of-state jobs during the lockdown, according to a district database. Using the database, officials are tracking down labourers with tailoring skills so that they can make masks. Officials this week have contacted around a hundred such migrant workers with this proposal. “We will provide those migrant workers with raw materials and remuneration for making masks. It will help them earn some money before the festive seasons,” said an official. Officials explained that apart from three subdivisional towns, there are three more municipal towns in the district where at least 40 large-scale Durga Pujas are organised. The administration has accordingly planned to allow the sale of masks manually by forming small groups of migrant workers for the mask project. “Crowd flocks to Puja pandals in towns like Dubrajpur and Sainthia too. We plan to engage mask makers to sell their produce manually in those places,” said a source. Babu Mallick of Suri, who worked as a tailor in Mumbai and returned home in June, welcomed the mask project. “It will help us earn some money before the festive season. But we need regular work to survive in the long term,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-346
12-10-2020||West Bengal||NFR to run two trains to Calcutta||The Northeast Frontier Railway has decided to introduce two more express trains between north Bengal and Calcutta from October 15. Only one train — Padatik Express — was running on the route because of the lockdown. “It has been decided that two special trains will run between north Bengal and Calcutta. While one of the trains will follow the Darjeeling Mail’s route, timing and stoppages and will run between Sealdah and New Jalpaiguri, the other train will run between New Alipurduar and Sealdah, along the Teesta Torsha Express route,” said a source in the NFR. The sources said that the NFR has been decided to run these two special pair of trains till November 30. Added to these, the NFR is also planning to run four pairs of air-conditioned special trains from October 12 and onwards. Among these include a bi-weekly AC special and a weekly special train between Dibrugarh and New Delhi, a weekly AC special between Kamakhya and Yesvantpur, another weekly AC special between Kamakhya and Lokmanya Tilak Terminus.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-346
12-10-2020||West Bengal||3,612 new cases and 59 deaths||Bengal on Sunday logged 3,612 new Covid-19 cases, yet another 24-hour high, as the total number of patients went past 2.94 lakh, including nearly 2.59 lakh who were cured of the pathogen and 5,622 who succumbed to the disease. The state also reported 59 deaths and 3,110 recoveries. The recovery rate fell from 87.98 on Tuesday to 87.84 per cent. The national rate is 86.18 per cent. “On nine out of 11 days so far in October, the record for the intra-day spike has been reset. It is a very worrisome sign with barely two weeks to go for Durga Puja,” said a Bengal minister. “This month has been rather difficult with the problems likely to be compounded by the last week,” he added. With a rise by 443, to 30,236 now, Bengal reported a jump in the total number of active Covid-19 cases for the 33rd consecutive day, which came right after a 15-day streak of fall in that total. “This is the first time that our total of active cases went past 30,000. It had fallen to as low as 23,000 a few weeks ago,” said the minister. “We have been getting over 1,500 new cases from just two high-incidence districts (Calcutta and North 24-Parganas) regularly. When that happens, keeping the overall count low becomes a huge challenge,” he added. The state reported 42,611 tests on Sunday, taking the total past 36.93 lakh, at 41,040 tests per million people. “We have been logging one lakh tests every two days for a while now. We are on track for crossing the total of 45 lakh by the end of this month,” said the minister. The positive confirmation rate is 7.98 per cent now. Of the total 5,622 deaths reported, Calcutta alone accounted for 1,877, with 16 reported on Sunday. With 18 more deaths on Sunday, North 24-Parganas reported a Covid-19 toll of 1,265. The state reported 4,763 deaths (84.7 per cent) as those with comorbidity “present”. Bengal’s overall mortality rate remained at 1.9, still substantially behind the national rate of 1.53 per cent. The state reported 37.4 per cent occupancy on 12,715 beds earmarked for Covid-19 at 92 dedicated hospitals. Besides, over 3.19 lakh telemedicine consultations were also reported till Sunday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-346
12-10-2020||West Bengal||Boy at knifepoint, lakhs looted from mom||Three masked criminals entered the home of a wholesale potato trader in Falakata of Alipurduar district on Saturday night, held his 13-year-old son at knifepoint and took away Rs 11 lakh in cash and his wife’s gold ornaments. Around 9pm on Saturday, the men with faces covered by towels reached the house of potato trader Parimal Sarkar at Jogendrapur in Falakata, and pressed the doorbell. As Parimal’s wife Putul opened the door, they told her they had come to collect Durga Puja subscription. Parimal was not at home then. With most people wearing masks amid the pandemic, an unsuspecting Putul ushered them into the drawing room. Within minutes, the trio shut the door from inside, and one of them drew a knife and asked Putul to keep quiet. Their 13-year-old son who was in another room heard the voices and came into the drawing room. Seeing him, one of the three men dragged him and held him at knifepoint, said a police officer, quoting the boy’s mother. “Threatening to kill him, they asked Putul Sarkar to hand over Rs 11 lakh in cash that was in the house. They also gagged her so that she could not shout. Finding no other alternative, she took out the money and gave it to them,” the police officer said. Putul said they had also snatched the gold ornaments she had on. “But their faces were covered and I could not recognise anyone,” she said. The trio disconnected the power supply of the house and fled the spot in a motorcycle. Parimal filed a complaint with Falakata police. Police sources said on Saturday, Parimal brought the cash at home as he could not deposit it in the bank. “We suspect that those involved in the crime are known to the trader and his family. They had prior information about the cash, even that Parimal divided the amount and kept it in two places. Our officers are working on inputs,” said district police chief Amitabha Maity.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-346
12-10-2020||West Bengal||‘Spurned suitor’ fires at woman, misses aim||The wife of a primary schoolteacher at Kaliachak in Malda narrowly averted death on Friday evening after two bullets, allegedly fired at her by her neighbour, missed their target. This youth, she alleged, had been mentally torturing her for the past few months with amorous proposals. She has filed a complaint with police against the attacker and his relatives. The police are probing the case. The homemaker, 33, from Choto Sujapur under Kaliachak police station, alleged her neighbour Abu Bakkar, 25, would pass lewd remarks at her. She filed a complaint against him on May 15, but  he became all the more aggressive and started threatening her with dire consequences every now and then, she said. “My family, including my small son, are all scared. The youth entered my house recently and attacked my family members,” she said, adding a second complaint against him was lodged on October 2. On Friday, elders of the locality convened a “salishi sabha (kangaroo court)” to resolve the issue where both the complainant and the accused were called. There, the youth was reprimanded by elders, which he “took as an insult”, said sources. After the meeting, when the woman was on her way back home, the youth and his relatives charged at her. “They shoved me and I fell. Suddenly, the accused took out a firearm and fired one round at me. I had a close shave. As I ran, they kept chasing me. Another round was fired and the second bullet hit a wall nearby,” she said, adding that she suffered bruises when she fell. Her husband brought her to Malda Medical College and Hospital. “I was released from hospital after treatment on Saturday. After my release, I lodged a third police complaint against him,” she said. A police officer said the youth had been detained. Asish Das, inspector-in-charge of Kaliachak police station, said the complaint was being probed into. Some residents told the police that the complainant and the accused were distant relatives. Congress MLA of Sujapur Isha Khan Choudhury said that the police should take necessary action in the case to resolve the matter quickly.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-346
12-10-2020||West Bengal||Lockdown solace for ‘book thieves’ ||Srijana Subba, 39, a teacher from this tiny hamlet set on a rolling tea garden, some 34km from Darjeeling, is teaching her students something that they are enjoying thoroughly amid the pandemic as schools stay closed. An avid reader and writer, Srijana, who’s the physical science teacher of Pokhriabong Girls' Higher Secondary School, opened an innovative “no-rules” library that she named the Book Thief Open Library in her garage attached to her home way back in 2015. The irreverently named library that invites children to browse through hundreds of books freely and take what they want as “book thieves”. The children maintain their own register of the books they have taken. Srijana, who recently penned a book on freedom fighter INA Captain Dal Bahadur Thapa, said she was inspired to create a library with a difference after reading Australian author Markus Zusak’s acclaimed novel, The Book Thief. “I’d always think that the world would be so beautiful if young minds were book thieves rather than engaging in non-productive activities,” she said, echoing the universal grumble of parents that kids spend too much time with their phones. Children used to come to her library earlier too, but numbers shot up — to over 30 students a day — during the Covid-induced shutdown of schools. The library, which is painted in bright colours, has books stacked inside out-of-use refrigerators and jeep carriers. Tyres have been painted for décor and locally available bamboos and wood carved into chairs and tables. “There are no rules, no librarians, children run the show, they maintain their own register, and this probably attracts them to the library,” said Srijana. She added that during the lockdown, the library is also a “playground of minds”. “In this tea garden area, there are hardly any physical spaces open for children. There are no parks for children here. So the children come to the library for books,” she said. “I only ensure that the place is not crowded at any time,” she added, referring to social distancing. How did the library come up? “I realised one fine morning that my cosy room was getting cluttered with books. I thought it would be nice to share my books. I told my parents I’d use the garage as a library,” she said, adding that the library started with her own collection but over the years grew with well-wishers and writers sending her books. For teenagers like Sakshi Rai, a Class XII student of Nagri Farm Higher Secondary School, the library is her time-out zone. “We are staying indoors as much as possible (because of the Covid-19 pandemic) but we drop at the library for some books,” Sakshi said. “The books here are nice. I’d really love to read some science fiction and general knowledge books too,” she added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-346
12-10-2020||West Bengal||Richa named in T20 Challenge||Teen sensation Richa Ghosh will play in the Women’s T20 Challenge Trophy cricket tournament to be held at UAE early next month. A complete package, the 17-year-old who made her Team India debut last year, bats, is a wicket-keeper and a medium-pace bowler. The Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI), which will host the tournament from November 4 to 9, on Sunday announced names of 45 women cricketers to play in three teams, Supernova, Trailblazers and Velocity. According to the BCCI announcement, Richa will represent Trailblazers led by Smriti Mandhana, who in 2018 was named the Best Women’s International Cricketer by the BCCI. Mithali Raj, former Indian skipper of the women’s team, will lead Velocity. Harmanpreet Kaur, the present captain of Indian women team, will lead Supernova. “I came to know about her (Richa’s) selection in one of the teams for the upcoming women’s challenge trophy on Sunday afternoon. What I learnt from her is that all the players will congregate in Mumbai on October 13 where they will be in week-long quarantine. The teams will leave for UAE on October 22,” Manabendra Ghosh, Richa’s father and former cricketer, said on Sunday. He added: “She has been in Calcutta since September 29 but has not started formal practice. These days, she is doing physical training under the guidelines of the Cricket Association of Bengal.” Among others in the Trailblazers team is another ace cricketer from Bengal Jhulan Goswami. Deepti Sharma and Rajeshwari Gayakwad are some of the prominent faces in Trailblazers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-346
12-10-2020||West Bengal||Bagdogra airport set for expansion||The Airports Authority of India will spend around Rs 600 crore to build a new terminal and set up allied infrastructure at the Bagdogra airport, decks for whose expansion were cleared by the transfer of 104 acres of land by the Bengal government recently. AAI sources told The Telegraph that the expansion would result in the 12-fold increase in the size of the terminal and a jump in the annual passenger traffic capacity by 17 times. “The present terminal is spread over around 8,000 square metres and after the expansion, the floor area will be increased to one lakh square metres. The building will have the capacity to handle 1.25 crore passengers a year,” said a source. According to him, the existing infrastructure can handle only 7.5 lakh passengers annually, while the airport served more than 30 lakh travellers last year. “The airport has seen a tremendous surge in passenger traffic because of an increase in the number of flights in recent years,” said the source. But the paucity of space has been inconveniencing out-bound passengers. Darjeeling MP Raju Bista, who is also the chairman of the Bagdogra Airport Advisory Committee, said the proposed expansion would change the travelling experience at Bagdogra. “I have been informed that all proposed diagrams and plans are ready. The proposed new terminal and allied infrastructure will radically change the travelling experience at Bagdogra,” said Bista. Asked why the long-pending augmentation of the infrastructure was being delayed, the BJP MP said the Trinamul Congress-led state government had taken a long time to transfer the land required for the expansion to the AAI. The sources said the AAI soon would apply for environmental clearance and complete other formalities to finalise the contract, a process that should be over in “six to nine months”. Since the Bengal government had waived surcharge on aviation turbine fuel at Bagdogra in 2013, the number of flights has gone up from 10-11 a day to 37. Now, Bagdogra is the 15th busiest airport in India. The installation of the Instrument Landing System (ILS), which helps in landing and take-off in low visibility, and the Centre’s decision to allow flights to operate in evenings, also helped Bagdogra climb up in the chart of busy airports. Tourism stakeholders in the region welcomed the expansion plan and demanded introduction of international flights, especially from Bangladesh and Nepal. “Now that the AAI has decided to kick-start the expansion, we feel the Union civil aviation ministry should see that flights from Nepal and Bangladesh are introduced at Bagdogra,” said Debasish Maitra, the president of the Eastern Himalaya Travel & Tour Operators’ Association. As of now, flights from Paro in Bhutan to Bangkok and vice-versa make a stopover at Bagdogra.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-346
12-10-2020||West Bengal||Twin streetlight launches shed light on TMC feud||Two separate inaugurations of one state-funded street light project by rival Trinamul leaders within a span of an hour in West Burdwan’s Kulti on Saturday shed light on the ruling party’s factional feuds here. Both Trinamul leaders in question — Asansol deputy mayor Tabassum Ara and Kulti MLA Ujjwal Chatterjee — claimed sole credit for the initiative. On Saturday, Tabassum Ara inaugurated the Rs 2.42-crore street light project in Kulti around 5.30pm with her followers in attendance, barely an hour before it was scheduled for flag-off by Chatterjee, who is also deputy chairman of Asansol-Durgapur Development Authority (ADDA), which executed the project. Tabassum claimed on Sunday that she had taken initiative for the project and urged urban development minister Firhad Hakim for funds. “It is my project and I had taken the entire initiative, arranging funds after talking to our urban development minister. I work for the people and so I have the right to inaugurate it,” said Tabassum. She also accused Trinamul MLA Chatterjee of “not doing” any development work in Kulti. “He (Chatterjee) has been the MLA from Kulti for the past 15 years but what has he done for his Assembly area? Mamata Banerjee wants to develop Bengal and I am her soldier,” she said. Chatterjee, who along with his followers, inaugurated the same project around 6.30pm on Saturday, refused to respond to Tabassum’s comments. “I am not aware of what she has done. They (her claims) are her matter. All I know is that I took initiative for the project and yesterday (Saturday) I inaugurated it,” Chatterjee said on Sunday. The streetlight project along the Neamatpur-Dishergarh road in Kulti was sanctioned and funded by the state urban development department a year ago. Trinamul sources said Tabassum and Chatterjee are at loggerheads over contesting from Kulti in the 2021 Assembly polls. Chatterjee is reportedly close to Asansol mayor and party president in West Burdwan Jitendra Kumar Tiwari. Likewise, Tabassum is said to be close to minister and recently appointed party chairman Molay Ghatak. Kulti is among the five Assembly segments — out of seven under the Asansol Lok Sabha seat — where the BJP’s Babul Supriyo has been defeating Trinamul since 2014 to become the MP. In the Kulti segment, the saffron brigade secured a lead of 50,000 votes in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls while in 2014 the lead had been around 45,000. Sources in Trinamul said infighting was one of the prime reasons behind the party’s 2019 poll debacle from here. “Didi (Mamata Banerjee) wants to see us united in the party but such incidents malign her image,” said a Trinamul leader in Asansol. Asansol mayor Jitendra Kumar Tiwari said he had informed the matter to Trinamul higher-ups in Calcutta. “I have been told by the Kulti MLA (Chatterjee) about the incident and I have forwarded the matter to our Calcutta leadership,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-346
