13-10-2020||West Bengal||Soumitra Chatterjee is doing marginally better||Veteran actor Soumitra Chatterjee, who is in hospital after testing positive for coronavirus, remained "critical" on Tuesday though his health condition improved a little in the afternoon prompting doctors to put on hold invasive ventilation. The 85-year-old thespian, who has several comorbidities including prostatic carcinoma and probable lung metastasis, was administered oxygen therapy, docgtors treating him said. He is haemodynamically stable and not on medication to raise low blood pressure. "Following it we have decided to keep a hold on invasive airway protection," they said. There is marginal improvement in Chatterjee's neurological status and no structural neurological abnormality was detected in his NCCT brain and MRI. He, however, continues to be restless, arousable, has mild agitation and involuntary limb movements but no focal or generalised seizure event occurred, the doctors said. "Chatterjee is still in a confusional state which is progressive in nature with Covid-related encephalopathy and metabolic encephalopathy (brain disease)," they said. The critically acclaimed actor, who has the rare distinction of having worked with maestros Satyajit Ray, Mrinal Sen, Tapan Sinha and Tarun Mazumdar, was admitted to a private hospital here on October 6 after he tested positive for Covid-19. He had to be shifted to the ITU as his condition turned critical. A team of 15 doctors is overseeing him at the hospital. The Dada Saheb Phalke awardee has been running high fever since Sunday afternoon. Doctors are planning to conduct another test to check if the high fever was due to the Covid- 19 infection. His daughter Poulomi Basu said in a statement, "My father is doing marginally better, he is slightly more stable, there has been improvement if only 1 per cent. "He was removed from BI-PAP support this morning... As of now the doctors are not considering invasive ventilation," the statement said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-344
13-10-2020||West Bengal||Cultural gigs at Bengal-run resorts to boost tourism||The state tourism department has decided to engage folk artistes and cultural troupes to entertain tourists who check into resorts and lodges run by the department across Bengal. The aim of the initiative is two-fold, said department sources. While tourists will get the opportunity to experience local folk and tribal culture, artistes can make some money. In north Bengal, particularly in the Dooars, folk troupes regularly  perform at government and private resorts and lodges in the evening hours to entertain visitors, but the pandemic-induced lockdown dried up their income. “That is why the initiative has been planned along with the state information and cultural affairs department. We will start such cultural evenings from next week in all our lodges and resorts,” said Jyoti Ghosh, deputy director of tourism in north Bengal. Sources revealed that the information and cultural affairs department will sent the troupes to the properties run by the tourism department. Among these are Bhorer Alo in Gajoldoba, Tilabari, Murti Tourism Resort near Gorumara National Park, and the tourist lodge in Madarihat, the entry point to the Jaldapara National Park. “The troupes will perform in their traditional attire and play traditional musical instruments. It will be a new experience for tourists, thousands of whom are expected to visit the region from next week onwards during the festive season,” said a tourism official. Surya Banerjee, the district information & cultural officer (DICO) of Jalpaiguri, said they were planning to host 45-minute events in each venue. Initially, such events will be held thrice a week, on Fridays, Saturdays and Sundays. “But if we get good response and there are tourists in these accommodations on other days, we will sent cultural troupes to the resorts every day. For each performance, we will hand over an honorarium to artistes,” Banerjee said. To contact them, his department will use its database of folk artistes. In Bengal, thousands of folk artistes and groups/troupes are enrolled with the department. The DICO added that troupes would obey social distancing and perform in open spaces at resorts. If there is no such space in a property, banquet or conference halls would be used. Microphones won’t be used at because all these properties are near reserve forests.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-344
13-10-2020||West Bengal||Trinamul talks tough on train routes||TMC leaders in Jalpaiguri have threatened to launch a movement against the railways’ decision to run two special trains that bypass Jalpaiguri and Haldibari. From October 15, two special trains will run on the routes of Teesta-Torsha Express and Darjeeling Mail. While one will connect New Alipurduar with Sealdah, the other New Jalpaiguri with Sealdah. For years now, link coaches of both trains originate and terminate in Haldibari every day. The coaches move via Jalpaiguri Town station and are attached with the main train in Raninagar-Jalpaiguri and New Jalpaiguri stations. “However, railways announced that rakes of these two trains will now run as special trains, and originate and terminate at NJP (New Jalpaiguri) and New Alipurduar stations. This means residents of Haldibari and Jalpaiguri will have to reach other stations by road to take these trains. We find no logic as to why the link coaches won’t run on this route. If the railways do not change their decision, we will launch a movement,” said K.K. Kalyani, Jalpaiguri district Trinamul chief. Jayanta Roy, the BJP MP of Jalpaiguri, said TMC was making an unnecessary fuss over special trains. “These are special trains. Once situation becomes normal and all train services are restored, Darjeeling Mail and Teesta-Torsha Express will run on their old routes and so will link coaches. Trinamul is trying to prove that these trains will never move through Jalpaiguri, which is completely wrong. They are trying to play politics,” said Roy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-344
13-10-2020||West Bengal||Malda girl missing, kin suspect kidnap||Family members of a 13-year-old girl who went missing from a village in Malda district on October 9 suspect she was abducted and trafficked. The girl’s relatives alleged police inaction and demanded immediate action to trace her. The law enforcers, however, said they had identified the suspected abductor, registered a case against him and were trying to find out the girl’s whereabouts. Sources said the Class VII student had left her home to take private tuitions on October 9 and did not return. “We enquired with the tutor who said she did not attend the tuition on that day. It seems she was abducted soon after she had stepped out of home. We have learnt from some people that one youth kidnapped her. We are worried over her safety and suspect she was trafficked,” said the girl’s brother. The youth suspected of having kidnapped the girl hasn’t been at his home for the past few days, the sources said. The inspector-in-charge of the police station where the case was registered against the accused said: “We are searching for him. We have received some inputs about the girl’s probable current location. The information is being verified and if it is correct, police will rescue her immediately.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-344
13-10-2020||West Bengal||Truck mows down three pedestrians on NH12||Three persons were killed on NH12 near Tokipur village in Murshidabad district’s Rejinagar around 5am on Monday when a speeding truck careened off the highway and ran over them. Dilwar Hossain, 58, Ketab Sheikh, 50, and Manirul Sheikh, 30, were walking back home after prayers at the local mosque when the mishap occurred. Eyewitnesses said the truck rammed into a tree and an electrical pole before running over the three men, with Dilwar and Ketab dying on the spot. Manirul succumbed on way to the hospital. “The incident occurred on the Behrampore-bound flank of the highway,” said a police officer, adding that the thoroughfare was a vital link for vehicles between Calcutta and Siliguri. As news of the deaths spread, angry residents of Tokipur blocked the highway for over two hours, causing a 3km jam of heavy vehicles on the highway. Police dispersed the roadblock shortly after 7am after convincing the villagers that they would arrest the absconding truck driver. Sources said the truck, abandoned by the side of the highway, was seized by the police later in the day. Police suspected the driver had fallen asleep at the wheel. “The bodies have been handed to the families after post-mortem and cases of unnatural death lodged. We will initiate legal action against the absconding driver,” said district police chief K. Sabari Rajkumar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-344
13-10-2020||West Bengal||Staff at Midnapore Covid hospital thrashed, 4 youths held||Three youths from Calcutta, part of a larger group of 12, and a Panskura resident, were arrested early on Monday for allegedly thrashing a security guard, a doctor, and other employees of Boroma Multispecialty Hospital, a dedicated Covid facility, in East Midnapore’s Panskura. Sources said the youths lost their temper when one of their friends — a young woman with stomach pain — was refused treatment under the coronavirus protocol that governs the dedicated Covid-19 facility. The four arrested youths were produced in the Tamluk chief judicial magistrate's court that remanded them to three days of police custody. Syed M.M. Hasan, additional superintendent of police (headquarters), East Midnapore, said: “Three of those arrested are residents of Calcutta’s Science City area, and the fourth is from Panskura.” Sources said the youths had come to the hospital late on Sunday evening with a 26-year-old woman with stomach pain and demanded that she be admitted for treatment. “When the guard refused them entry, the four youths thrashed him mercilessly and then forced their way up into the Covid ward with the patient,” said an eyewitness. It could not be confirmed as per eyewitnesses whether the youths were intoxicated at the time of the incident. “When doctors and nurses refused them treatment at the ward, they thrashed them too, and ransacked property, including computers,” added hospital superintendent Debopam Hazra. He explained that the youths were unwilling to listen to the pleas of doctors regarding government Covid protocol that prevented them from providing treatment. Sources said that as Boroma is a Covid-dedicated hospital, one of the four in the district, its emergency facilities are exclusively meant for Covid patients at the moment. Sources said that the arrested four and the woman were a part of a group of 12 who had driven to Panskura on Sunday night for a party during which the woman fell ill. Following the violence at the hospital, more than 70 personnel from Panskura police station were sent but most could not enter the hospital owing to Covid norms. Finally, after an hour, the youths were taken into custody from Panskura. “The woman in question was taken to Panskura Super Speciality Hospital where a simple antacid relieved her of her pain,” said a source. More than 100 employees of the hospital held a protest demanding the arrest of the culprits. District chief medical officer (health) Nitai Mondal dubbed the incident “unfortunate”. “I have asked the police to reinforce their presence on our hospital premises,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-344
13-10-2020||West Bengal||Mamata Banerjee to launch big-ticket Durga Pujas online||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee said on Monday that her Durga Puja inaugurations this year would be done virtually in view of the Covid-19 pandemic — a departure from her tradition of visiting some of the most prominent pujas in Calcutta and connecting with people. The chief minister, who inaugurated senior cabinet and party colleague Firhad Hakim’s Chetla Agrani Puja in the evening, told a news meet earlier in the day that it would be the only one that would not be part of the virtual inaugurations this year. Mamata said she would inaugurate handpicked north Calcutta Pujas on Thursday, Behala-Jadavpur Pujas on Friday, and some other south Calcutta Pujas on Saturday. “You know how much I like doing this (read: inaugurating pujas personally), but this year, everything is different…. This is my humble request to all of you. Only for this year, to avoid unnecessary crowding for such events, let’s do the inaugurations virtually…. Those who have emailed the chief minister’s office, asking for inaugurations, we can get all of them for this, virtually, and get it done,” said Mamata on Monday, instructing chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay to oversee the process. Mamata, who has been inaugurating 70-odd big-ticket pujas — picked from over 10,000 invites — in and around Calcutta for the past couple of years, takes this job seriously in view of the festival’s emotive appeal. Puja activities have been part of Mamata’s autumnal routine in a big way since her stint as the Union railways minister in the UPA II regime, when her ascent to power in Bengal was deemed a foregone conclusion. Most big-ticket pujas in Calcutta and its surrounding areas are conducted by the heavyweights of her party. The BJP, despite its stellar Lok Sabha results in the state last year, had tried and failed to erode her hegemony in this domain, despite adding the likes of Union home minister Amit Shah and party national chief J.P. Nadda to the mix. “Let’s do this virtually from Nabanna. I will come and do this from here, on all three days. At 5pm. I have a lot of social activities that I have to undertake during this period, but these three evenings, I am keeping (aside) for this,” said Mamata. “I will sit with a ceremonial lamp here. They will all have their ceremonial lamps at the venues. We will all get together, virtually, and get this done. Only for this year,” she added. A Trinamul leader justified her decision, underscoring the need for safety amid the pandemic. Till the 2011 “Poribartan”, the biggest social festival in Bengal used to see many divides north versus south of Calcutta, theme versus tradition, neighbourhood versus neighbourhood. Since 2011, the greatest “divide” is the one that separates Mamata’s trusted lieutenants who vie to make their respective Pujas the biggest crowd-puller. While some, like Ekdalia Evergreen veteran Subrata Mukherjee, have been in the game since the ’70s, others, such as Aroop Biswas of Suruchi Sangha, are the newer heavyweights, having emerged on the scene in the past decade. “They are all equals...united in the cause of Mamata Banerjee. But every autumn, they turn into fierce competitors, not in politics, but Puja,” said the Trinamul leader.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-345
13-10-2020||West Bengal||Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury does balancing act in Congress revamp||The Congress national leadership on Monday approved the restructuring of the Bengal unit with state party president Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury bringing in his favourites but apparently also attempting a balance with inclusion of leaders of various factions. The AICC issued a long list of the restructured committees and office-bearers, which state leaders had been looking forward to for some time. “When Chowdhury was the chief the last time (2014-18), he had been notorious for filling the ranks with his favourites and alienating leaders who were not part of his faction. Chowdhury’s actions had then triggered desertions. This time, he is apparently trying a different approach,” said a state Congress leader. The Behrampore MP was made the Bengal president of the Congress following the death of Somen Mitra. Chowdhury’s nominee, Shadab Khan, had defeated Mitra’s son Rohan in the election to the post of the state youth wing chief in 2018. But Chowdhury has not only elevated Rohan to the post of general-secretary of the parent party but also kept a number of key leaders favoured by the deceased state Congress chief. “Leaders such as Amitabha Chakraborti (convenor, manifesto committee), Sardar Amjad Ali (vice-president), Badal Bhattacharya (convenor, coordination committee) and Santosh Pathak (treasurer) finding themselves on committees is an indicator that Chowdhury wants to do things differently this time,” said a state leader. “For instance, he (Chowdhury) took special care this time to reach out to senior north Bengal leader Deba Prasad Roy who is made a vice-president and included in several committees. He had been displeased with being isolated the last time,” said an MLA close to Chowdhury. The list includes 11 vice-presidents, 14 general-secretaries, committees for coordination, campaign, manifesto, outreach and communication, discipline, state elections, executive members and permanent invitees. “Questions are still being raised over why hardworking leaders such as Chakraborti and Pathak did not find themselves on the crucial 16-member election committee (headed by Chowdhury),” said the leader.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-345
13-10-2020||West Bengal||Give us jobs and ration, chant migrant returnees||Some 200 migrant workers, jobless after being forced to come back home here amid the Covid-induced lockdown, went to the office of the district magistrate and demanded jobs under the 100-days work scheme, free ration and monthly financial aid to survive. In the wake of the nationwide lockdown in March, around 23,000 migrant workers came back to Jalpaiguri in phases. Many of them are jobless or scouting for options. Kamal Roy, a resident of Maynaguri block, said most of them used to work in Kerala. “Ever since we have come back, most of us have not got jobs here. That is why we organised the demonstration and have urged the administration to see that we are provided with jobs under the 100-days work scheme (MGNREGS) and free ration. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee and many senior officials in the state government have time and again said that we would get such facilities,” said Roy, who had joined the protest organised under the banner of the Jalpaiguri Zilla Parijayi Shramik Samiti. Umesh Roy, who is from Manikganj in Jalpaiguri Sadar block, said they also wanted the state to give them a monthly aid of Rs 7,500. He added that he was jobless for five months. Jalpaiguri district magistrate Abhishek Kumar Tiwary said they would ensure that all these workers get free ration. “So far, around 11,000 migrant workers have been given jobs under the 100-days-scheme. But there are many who have been working in other states and do not have job cards (mandatory for jobs under MGNREGS). They need to be provided with job cards. We are working on the issue,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-345
13-10-2020||West Bengal||Covid: 600 more beds for Bengal patients ||The Mamata Banerjee government has decided to add 600 ICU (intensive care unit) and HDU (high dependency unit) beds to dedicated Covid-19 hospitals across the state in the next few weeks in anticipation of a spike in the number of patients during the festive period. The decision was taken at a meeting of the state cabinet on Monday afternoon where the chief minister discussed the possibility of a surge in Covid cases over the next few months. The cabinet also decided to bring down the cost of RT-PCR test to Rs 1,500 from Rs 2,250 at private establishments. “The state wants to bring down the RT-PCR test to Rs 1,500 from Rs 2,250 at private establishments. Moreover, about 600 ICU and HDU beds would be added to the Covid hospitals in the next two to three weeks,” chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay said after the cabinet meeting at Nabanna on Monday. The decisions, senior government officials said, were in response to the rise in the number of positive cases across the state since the first week of October. “The steps would help the state deal with the rise in cases in the coming days. It is being apprehended that cases would rise alarmingly after Durga Puja. The steps hint that the state is preparing itself to deal with a tough situation after Puja,” said a senior government official. According to sources, the government has already added 48 ICU beds at ESI hospital in Baltukuri near Calcutta and 56 such beds will be set up at M.R. Bangur Hospital here soon. Moreover, 496 ICU or HDU beds would be added to Covid hospitals in the state in the next two to three weeks. At present, the state has a total of 1,247 ICU or HDU beds at the Covid hospitals. With 600 new ICU and HDU beds, the total number of such beds would go up to 1,847. The sources said the state was forced to take the decision after demand for ICU or HDU beds, which help provide necessary life support to critical Covid patients, had increased alarmingly. “The demand for such beds is very high in Calcutta and North 24-Parganas. I know some critical patients who had to wait for 24 hours or more to get a bed in ICU at the Covid hospitals in Calcutta. The government had to do something considering the huge demand for ICU beds,” said a senior health department official. The situation has turned critical after the daily counts of positive cases crossed 750 each in Calcutta and North 24-Parganas though the number had come down to 450 and 500 in the two districts, respectively, in mid-September. The decision of bringing down the cost of RT-PCR test at private labs would help the government identify positive patients at the earliest. “This will help in containing the spread in Calcutta where people are comfortable in getting themselves tested at private labs,” said an official. He said a private lab in Calcutta had tested 1.18 lakh samples, while the SSKM Hospital had examined 1.55 lakh swabs till Sunday. “This gives an indication that bringing down the rate of test at private hospitals would help increase the number of tests in Calcutta,” said the official. The cabinet also decided to cancel leaves for all those associated with emergency services, including health services, during the pujas. “They will be given compensatory leaves after the pujas,” said the chief secretary. Sources in the health department said while the state had taken all possible steps to deal with a critical situation after the festival, a lot would depend on the behaviour of people. “We should learn from Kerala where daily Covid positive cases have gone up to more than 11,000 a day after Onam. Bengal could face a similar situation after the pujas if people don’t follow protocol of wearing masks and maintaining physical distance. If such a situation arrives, it would be difficult for the state to accommodate all the patients requiring life support,” said a senior government official. The state cabinet approved a proposal to deploy 2,475 nurses at the Covid hospitals across the state. The government also urged the authorities concerned to reduce the ambulance fare across the state. The sources said the state was receiving complaints that agencies running ambulance services were demanding exorbitant fares. “Though the state government provides free ambulance services, may people prefer private services and they are facing troubles. That is why the state wants to ensure that nobody faces trouble during the pandemic,” said an official. Rupak Barua, group CEO of AMRI Hospitals, said the Covid test would be done at Rs 1,500, the rate capped by the government, though the amount was not viable. “We would like to urge the government to reconsider the rate as there are many expenses involved in the tests. Contrary to the popular belief, private hospitals have been incurring losses for the past eight months and this will further affect us.” Barua is also the president of the Association of Hospitals of Eastern India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-345
13-10-2020||West Bengal||Cry to restart suburban trains in Howrah||A group of people whose primary mode of communication to workplaces is local trains held protests at Liluah and Chinsurah railway stations in Howrah district on Monday against non-resumption of suburban services. Those living in the suburbs and working in Calcutta have been facing the problem of reaching their workplace as local trains remained suspended to contain the spread of the novel coronavirus. The trigger of the protests was the railway police’s crackdown on commutters who were illegally travelling by trains meant for the railway staff. Such passengers got off at Liluah and started agitating. A few of them also ransacked flower tubs at the station. At Chinsurah, another group of passengers blocked tracks for an hour on Monday demanding resumption of local trains. The blockade was withdrawn after the railway police promised to allow them to board the train.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-345
13-10-2020||West Bengal||Narendra Modi’s virtual Durga Puja address on October 22||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will address the people of Bengal virtually on October 22 on the occasion of Durga Puja, Kailash Vijayvargiya, the BJP’s minder for the state, said on Monday. He also said Union home minister Amit Shah would visit Siliguri on October 17 and hold a meeting with BJP leaders of north Bengal, where the party had won seven out of eight Lok Sabha seats. Announcing Modi’s virtual address, Vijayvargiya said: “We are happy that the Prime Minister will participate in Durga Puja with us.” The five-day Puja celebration this year begins on October 22. Ananda Burman, the general secretary of the BJP’s Siliguri organisational district, said preparation were for Shah’s October 17 visit to the city. “The Union home minister will hold a meeting with district BJP presidents and conveners in north Bengal. The MPs and MLAs of the party, the zonal in-charge of the BJP’s north Bengal wing and some senior workers will join the meeting,” said Burman. There will be a restriction on the number of people who could attend the meeting because of Covid-19 protocol. In total, around 200 people would be allowed at the meeting that is likely to be held somewhere on Sevoke Road in Siliguri, said sources. Modi’s address is a part of the BJP’s continuous endeavour to strike the right chord with the electorate in the state. Last year, Shah had visited Bengal to inaugurate a community Durga Puja in Calcutta’s satellite township Salt Lake. Had it not been for the Covid-19 pandemic, the party would have similar plans this year as well. “Durga Puja offers a big opportunity to connect to the people. It is only natural that we will exploit this opportunity,” a source in the party said. He added that the state leaders had requested Modi’s time during the puja. “We have received the go-ahead from his office,” the source added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-345
13-10-2020||West Bengal||Tea belt bucks job-cut trend with few takers for plucking||At a time of mounting job cuts across sectors amid the Covid-19 pandemic, the Darjeeling tea industry stands out with jobs available by the hundreds, but very few takers. Darjeeling gardens have been reporting absenteeism between 35 and 50 per cent for over a decade now. The industry employs around 55,000 permanent and 15,000 temporary workers across 87 tea gardens. With migrant workers coming back to villages — more than 20,000 people returned to the hills because of the pandemic — the Darjeeling tea industry was hoping that their problem of labour supply lagging behind demand would be solved. Figures from the various gardens here, however, suggest nothing much has changed during the pandemic months. “Not a single person came to me seeking for a job.” a planter said. “Yes, we were expecting people to join work (in the gardens),” said Sandeep Mukherjee, principal advisor, Darjeeling Tea Association. But the reluctance of the returnees to work in tea gardens, he added, was now prompting the DTA to mull a study to work towards reversing the trend. “The industry is looking at coming out with a study to reverse the trend on absenteeism,” said Mukherjee. A garden manager said worker strength in his garden was 426 but absenteeism stood at 50 per cent. “Also, out of the total strength (of 426), 135 vacancies have cropped up because we could not find persons to fill up jobs of workers who have retired,” said the official. In the tea gardens, the job of a retired worker goes to his family member. A planter of another garden that employs 813 workers but has an absentee rate of 45 per cent said “one person did apply for a job” in these pandemic months. “He, however, was not a migrant. Following his application I asked trade union leaders if they could give a list of willing workers so that we could recruit them. No one turned up,” the planter said. A garden very near Darjeeling town, however, did see a drop in absenteeism of around 5 to 6 per cent during July this year. “This is because some people who used to work in construction sites in the town did join work in our garden. However, we are back to square one now,” said the manager, adding their worker strength is a little over 200. Planters in unison said field work no longer interested youths, office work did. Many planters spoke of the current perception that “garden work meant low social status”. “You can’t blame the youths as many are now educated and they don’t want to pluck leaves. They would rather move to cities and acquire new skills in various sectors,” said a resident. Many veterans argued that the daily tea wage of Rs 176 per day did not attract youngsters. “They prefer to work at construction sites that pay not less than Rs 350 or join another profession,” said a retired tea garden worker. DTA official Mukherjee said many returnees were buying time instead of joining tea gardens. “They are waiting for their place of occupation or market to open. Sustenance is not really a major problem as they have free ration, livestock to sell and home-grown vegetables,” said Mukherjee. “It is by choice that they don’t attend work, indicating a change in mindset,” he added. A young returnee in his mid-20s explained why he was not interested in plucking leaves. “I have acquired skills in hotel management and there is no way I would want to pluck leaves which I have never done in my life. I want to get out of this cycle (of tea plucking).” Planters said absenteeism had a cascading affect on tea gardens and production. “Thin attendance means one cannot complete a round of plucking after every six to seven days. If plucking speed is slow, tea leaves overgrow and this affects quality. Low rate of plucking also means a dip in production and increase in cost of production,” Mukherjee said. Many planters fear that Darjeeling tea might turn into a “boutique industry” because of the lack of labour force. Some are looking for solutions. Suggestions of mechanised plucking instead of manual are doing the rounds, but many say mechanisation is not easy on hilly terrain. “The mental set-up of workers, worker unions and senior management of tea estates has to change to accept new realities. Some unions just oppose for the sake of opposing,” said a planter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-345
13-10-2020||West Bengal||College fee protest hits National Highway 12||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-345
