14-10-2020||West Bengal||Calcutta malls focus on safety to tackle rising footfall ahead of Durga Puja||With rising footfalls in the run-up to the Durga Puja festival, the authorities of shopping malls in the city are taking all health safety measures, including the use of ultraviolet rays to sanitise elevators and handrails, in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic, officials said on Wednesday. They also felt that strict adherence to safety guidelines has helped them attract visitors. Leading shopping malls such as Acropolis, South City and Quest are currently experiencing a surge in footfalls ahead of Durga puja and expecting that number of visitors will further rise with multiplexes reopening from Thursday. "We are careful about safety protocols since the reopening of our mall and diligently following all the guidelines. We will allow people up to 50 per cent of our standard capacity of around 50,000," Acropolis head K Vijayan said. Around 25 washbasins have been installed outside the mall and no one is allowed to enter the premises without a mask, he said. "Strict vigil on enforcement of the guidelines helped us attract people. Around 3,500 permanent and outsourced employees also remain safe. No one among our staffers has been detected with the disease till now," Vijayan said. South City mall has witnessed a 20-30 per cent jump in footfall in recent weeks and is also concentrating on the frequent sanitisation of common touchpoints, an official said. The shopping destination in the southern part of the city recorded over 40,000 footfalls on Sunday. "We are also displaying boards and video messages about health safety guidelines and asking all store employees and security officials to maintain social distancing norms," South City head Manmohan Bagree said. Quest Mall VP Sanjiv Mehra said following the health safety protocols is their highest priority. "We are not much concerned about the crowd with around 30 per cent footfall. It may go up to 50 per cent as the festive days near," he said. With increasing retail sales, the mall authorities are witnessing higher conversion rate, the percentage of people that walk in and make a purchase, as compared to that of last year. Compared to the pre-puja period in 2019, sales at food courts were up by 25 per cent this year, Bagree said. According to them, festival advances to government employees and puja bonus to many private entities will further boost consumer spending.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-343
14-10-2020||West Bengal||Private hospitals urge Bengal govt to lower GST on Covid test kits||Private hospitals in the city have welcomed the state government's decision to reduce the cost of COVID-19 test from Rs 2,250 to Rs 1,500 as well as fixing rates for ambulance services. They have requested the state government to consider lowering the GST on COVID-19 test kits. "As the state government caps the cost of COVID test at Rs 1,500, we will be implementing it as per the directive, given that these are pandemic times. However, we would also like to present our case before the government to reconsider the rate as this is not financially viable for us, taking into account the cost of reagent, test kit and infrastructure. "Contrary to popular belief, private hospitals have been suffering losses for the last eight months, and this will further affect our condition," Group CEO, AMRI Hospitals Rupak Barua said. Sudipta Mitra, the chief executive of Peerless Hospital when contacted said, "Yes, we will definitely go by what the state government has decided. We will follow it on humanitarian grounds as we think it's our social responsibility. But we will also request the government to consider lowering the GST on the kits required to conduct the COVID-19 tests just like what has been done for the PPE kits." Senior physician Dr Syamasis Bandyopadhyay of the Apollo Hospital said that during the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic people should consider this as their responsibility towards society. "There is no option of creating any controversy with this initiative of the state government. We welcome this move. But simultaneously people have to abide by the health protocol and follow precautionary measures to keep the disease at bay," Dr Bandyopadhyay said. The state Cabinet on Monday brought down the rate of COVID-19 tests in the private sector from Rs 2,250 to Rs 1,500 apprehending a surge in the contagion in the coming weeks when the state will witness Durga Puja festivals. The West Bengal Clinical Regulatory Commission, following a request from the state government fixed Rs 3,000 as ambulance charges for transportation of the COVID-19 patients considering the distance of transportation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-343
14-10-2020||West Bengal||Soumitra's health condition continues to be critical||The health condition of veteran actor Soumitra Chatterjee continued to be "critical" on Wednesday, though his parameters are normal, doctors attending to the thespian said. The 85-year-old Dadasaheb Phalke awardee is in a "confusional state", they said. "Stable. Slept well. All parameters normal. Sodium high only. But critical," they said. The legendary Bengali actor has been suffering from fever since Sunday afternoon, following which doctors are now planning to conduct another test on Wednesday to check whether it is due to the COVID-19 infection. "Chatterjee is still in a confusional state which is progressive in nature with COVID-related encephalopathy and metabolic encephalopathy. He continues to be restless, arousable and has mild agitation and involuntary limb movements but no focal or generalised seizure event occurred," they said. The critically acclaimed actor, who has the rare distinction of having worked with maestros like Satyajit Ray, Mrinal Sen, Tapan Sinha and Tarun Mazumdar, was admitted to a private hospital here on October 6 after he tested positive for COVID-19. He had to be shifted to the ITU as his condition turned critical. A team of 15 doctors is overseeing him at the hospital. Chatterjee had resumed shooting a few days ago. Parambrata, another noted Bengali actor, completed the shooting of Abhiyan under his direction. Jisshu Sengupta will be seen playing the role of young Soumitra in the film. Soumitra himself plays his older self in the film. Chatterjee, a celebrated Bengali actor, is best known for his collaboration with Oscar-winner Satyajit Ray and the Feluda series. Soumitra immortalised the titular role of Feluda in Ray's films. He was a part of several other works of Ray, including Apu'r Sangshar or The World Of Apu. Some of Chatterjee's best works include Ashani Sanket, Ghare Baire, Aranyer Din Ratri, Charulata, Shakha Proshakha, Jhinder Bandi, Saat Pake Bandha, and more.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-343
14-10-2020||West Bengal||Modi to inaugurate BJP’s first Durga puja at Salt Lake||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will virtually inaugurate BJP’s Durga Puja at Salt Lake near here on October 22 — the first puja to be hosted by any political party in Bengal. The venue of the puja will be the Eastern Zonal Cultural Centre’s building in Salt Lake. The EZCC is under the Union ministry of culture. Modi will inaugurate the puja during his virtual address to the people of Bengal on October 22. “This will be the first of its kind experience and we are very excited about it,” BJP MP Locket Chatterjee, who is in-charge of the event, along with BJP state vice-president Pratap Banerjee, told The Telegraph on Tuesday. According to multiple sources this correspondent spoke to, the BJP sees the Durga Puja as an opportunity to connect with the electorate in the poll-bound state and decided to organise the event. “We have been celebrating Ram Navami, which is essentially a north Indian festival, but Durga Puja gives us an opportunity to establish a Bengal connect right before the polls,” a leader said. Durga Puja, apparently an apolitical annual event that brings the people of Bengal together, has for long been controlled by political personalities. Since the Trinamul Congress came to power in 2011, most of the major pujas in Calcutta have been organised under the patronage of ruling party leaders with chief minister Mamata Banerjee hogging the limelight by inaugurating several pujas every year. However, this is the first time that a political party has taken upon itself to organise a puja. The BJP has been trying to make inroads into Durga Puja committees since it bagged 18 of the 42 parliamentary seats in 2019. However, apart from Union home minister Amit Shah inaugurating one puja at Salt Lake last year, the BJP couldn’t make its presence felt at pujas. “If you remember, the involvement of two of our leaders Sayantan Basu and Tushar Kanti Ghosh with a Durga Puja committee led to a major controversy last year. That is why we have decided to organise our own puja this time,” said Jayprakash Majumdar, a BJP state vice-president. The suddenness of the decision has taken several BJP workers by surprise. Several leaders at 6, Muralidhar Sen Lane in Calcutta, the BJP’s state headquarters, are worried about maintaining social distance protocols at the puja. “Did we really need another reason for people to flout Covid protocol?” a senior leader asked. This person reminded that state president Dilip Ghosh had a few days back said festivities for this year should have been scaled down. “I wonder what Dilipda will say now,” the leader added. Majumdar, however, said social distance norms would be maintained at the EZCC. “The event will be our party’s private affair, but everyone is welcome to visit the puja,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-343
14-10-2020||West Bengal||Puja organisers to feel lotus pocket pinch||As Durga Puja nears, a drop in the production of lotus — a flower integral to the worship of the goddess — and resultant steep prices have left Bengal’s florists and puja organisers worried. The price of the flower will be more this year on two counts. One, supply has fallen. Two, the absence of trains has jacked up transport expenses, adding to the cost of the flower, which some farmers fear may be eight to 10 times higher this time. “Last year, I supplied 90 lakh lotuses to Calcutta traders but this year I can send only 30 lakh. A lotus sold for Rs 5 last year will cost Rs 40-50 apiece this year,” said Dhruba Malakar, a farmer from Labhpur, Birbhum, who also sells his produce in Calcutta. The fall in production this year has much to do with the lockdown imposed in the wake of Covid-19, which kept farmers from cultivating the lotus in Birbhum and East Burdwan, districts that supply around five crore lotuses every year to Calcutta and its suburbs during Durga Puja. Lotus farming begins in early April when ponds are cleaned. Most lotus farmers in Birbhum and East Burdwan said they could not afford to clean ponds because of funds crunch amid the lockdown. Those with money did not get manpower in the wake of social distancing, said Pradip Sarkar, a lotus farmer from Birbhum’s Ahmedpur. Farmers start plucking lotuses from early September and transport them to cold storages in Birbhum’s Ahmedpur and East Burdwan’s Guskara. But now, transporting flowers is more expensive by vans or cars as trains aren’t running. “Till last year we sent lotuses by train. This time I have to hire a car. The cost is five times more,” said Birbhum trader Babu Birbangshi. Puja organisers said lotus was an integral part of Durga Puja rituals and at least 200 lotuses were needed over the four days of worship, 108 for Sandhi Puja alone. Sources in the horticulture department admitted that the prolonged lockdown affected most lotus farmers. In Birbhum, lotus is cultivated on 960 hectares of ponds. An official in Birbhum’s agriculture department said: “We are yet to get this year’s data for lotus production, but reports suggest that it has dropped significantly because of the lockdown.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-343
14-10-2020||West Bengal||Trinamul poll focus on north Bengal’s six||Trinamul MP Abhishek Banerjee and party poll strategist Prashant Kishor conducted a SWOT (strength, weakness, opportunities and threats) analysis of the party in six north Bengal districts over the last two days and asked TMC leaders to showcase the Mamata Banerjee government’s development work ahead of the Assembly polls. On Monday, Abhishek, who also heads the party’s youth front, checked into a hotel in the city with Prashant. There, they met party leaders of Darjeeling, Jalpaiguri, Malda, North Dinajpur, South Dinajpur and Cooch Behar. A Trinamul leader who attended the meeting said they were asked to focus on mass contact and highlight the development work done by the Mamata Banerjee government since 2011. A Trinamul leader of Darjeeling said Abhishek and Prashant asked them to strategically counter the BJP’s “false propaganda”, including that on social media. Partha Pratim Roy, the Cooch Behar district Trinamul chief, added: “We have been asked to work with unity.” In recent months, this is the first time that Abhishek and Prashant have visited north Bengal together and given guidelines to party leaders of the region with 54 seats. The reason is not far to seek. In the 2016 state polls, Trinamul had won 25 seats and the BJP two. However, in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, the BJP had led in 38 Assembly segments of north Bengal and Trinamul in only 12. “Among the seats where BJP had a lead (in 2019) are seats of state ministers. That is why this visit (of Abhishek and Prashant) is significant. It will be interesting to see if their instructions to work for the party are adhered to or infighting continues to beleaguer the party,” said an observer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-343
14-10-2020||West Bengal||Locket, Bista bare Bengal BJP’s Gorkhaland paradox||The state BJP leadership, which appears to be treading very cautiously on Gorkhaland before the upcoming Bengal Assembly polls, has exposed a contradiction within the party on this emotive issue. State BJP leaders such as MP Locket Chatterjee, who recently toured north Bengal, publicly negated the formation of a separate state of Gorkhaland. On the other hand, the BJP’s Darjeeling MP Raju Bista recently requested the Parliament to note that the demand for Gorkhaland state was a “long-pending” one of the people of the region. On Monday, Locket who was in Siliguri with Bengal state unit general secretary Sayantan Basu, said Bengal could not be divided and that a permanent political solution did not mean a separate state of Gorkhaland. “Darjeeling is the crown of Bengal and it will continue to be so. A permanent solution for the hills does not mean the separate Gorkhaland state. People of Bengal have lived together for years and will be together in the days to come,” said Locket in Siliguri on Monday, here with Sayantan to drum up support for the farm bills. A few days earlier Sayantan had commented on similar lines. “Gorkhaland is the issue. However, the BJP is never in favour of dividing the state. It will be seen if a permanent solution can be reached within the framework of the Constitution other than dividing Bengal. That process has been started. The state government has tortured the Gorkhas. It has to be rectified. Some state ministers should also be punished,” he had said. The comments of these two state BJP leaders assumed significance at a time the BJP-ruled Centre changed the agenda of the October 7 tripartite from “issues related to Gorkhaland” to the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration. But on September 19, Bista said he had requested the Centre to expedite the process of “ascertaining permanent political solution to fulfil the long pending demand” of the region. “I requested the Parliament to take cognisance of the fact that the demand for Gorkhaland state is a long-pending demand of the people from Darjeeling Hills, Terai, and Dooars,” Bista had stated. A veteran in hill politics said these contradictions were confusing. “The Bengal BJP leaders are clearly ruling out division of the state, but the Darjeeling MP has a different narrative... This is really confusing,” the veteran said. Another observer in the hills said that divergent opinions among BJP leaders was not new. “Any party eying the Bengal election can’t speak in favour of Gorkhaland. The statement of the BJP state leadership is nothing new. While they are trying to address their constituency in the rest of Bengal, Bista has to take care of his constituency (here),” he said. The observer added that the run-up to the Assembly polls would see divergent assertions as all political parties would try to create the “right perception” for their target audience. Even the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha (Binay Tamang), aligned with Trinamul, has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi in support of the Gorkhaland demand. However, Trinamul is against the division of Bengal. Against this backdrop, Union home minister Amit Shah, who is scheduled to visit Siliguri on October 17, will be closely watched. “It is likely that Amit Shah will remain silent on the issue of Gorkhaland... But he might just indulge in a jugglery of words. In this fight of creating a perception that a particular party is the real champion of our cause, regionalism is taking a beating,” said Amar Lama, speaking as an analyst and not as a leader of the Jana Andolan Party. Unlike in previous polls, Lama said, the Assembly election in the hills this time was being manoeuvred by the BJP and TMC though they were propping local parties. “Regionalism had been kept alive by Subash Ghisingh and even Bimal Gurung to an extent. The same can’t be said for this election. We are of the opinion that all regional parties should come together and contest at least in the three hill Assembly seats to safeguard our issues.” He added that during Assembly polls, hill parties should stay equidistant from both the BJP and TMC.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-344
14-10-2020||West Bengal||Covid: Mamata urges caution as new cases hit a high||Mamata Banerjee yet again urged people on Tuesday against letting the Covid-19 pandemic worsen during Durga Puja, hours before Bengal reported the highest 24-hour spike in new cases at 3,631. The total number of novel coronavirus cases in the state has gone past 3 lakh. Prior to this, Bengal had logged the first 5,000 cases on May 30, 10,000 on June 12, 25,000 on July 9, 50,000 on July 23, 1 lakh on August 11, 1.5 lakh on August 27, 2 lakh on September 13 and 2.5 lakh on September 28. “Enjoy Durga Puja, all of you. But I would again request each and every one of you, please keep a mask on, at all times. A lot of people will come from everywhere. Protect yourselves. Sanitise yourselves…. Maintain physical distancing, always,” said the chief minister at Nabanna, the state secretariat. The total of cases in Bengal now stand at over 3.02 lakh, including 2.65 lakh recoveries and 5,744 deaths. On Tuesday, the state logged 3,185 recoveries and 62 deaths. On 10 of the 13 days in October so far, the record for the 24-hour rise has been reset. The recovery rate, which had reached 87.98 a week ago, was 87.84 per cent on Tuesday. The national rate — once lagging behind the state by nearly 10 per cent — is only slightly behind now, at 86.81. “The protocols must be maintained, even when going to the pandals so that Covid-19 does not spread further. If we are care ourselves, if we are watchful, a lot of it will be taken care of,” said Mamata, who has been saying Covid-19 reached the dreaded community transmission stage in India, which the Narendra Modi government at the Centre has been in denial of. Also called Stage III, community transmission is a phase of person-to-person spread of the infection, where the source is difficult to trace. “The pandemic is getting us to worry…. The spread has increased again, everywhere, right now,” said the chief minister. Of the total 5,744 deaths reported, Calcutta alone accounted for 1,914, with 18 till 9am. North 24-Parganas reported a total of 1,295 deaths, 14 of them on Tuesday. The state government reported 4,860 deaths (84.6 per cent) as those with comorbidity “present”. Bengal’s overall mortality rate is 1.9, substantially behind the national rate of 1.52 per cent. With 42,237 tests, the total tests went past 37.75 lakh, at 41,954 tests per million people. The renewed surge in cases has caused the positive confirmation rate to rise again, over the past week or so, to 8 per cent now. The state reported 37.43 per cent occupancy on 12,715 beds earmarked for Covid-19 at 92 dedicated hospitals, besides 3.27 lakh telemedicine consultations for the pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-344
14-10-2020||West Bengal||Inttuc leads 8-hour pay hike demonstration ||A group of casual workers at the divisional office of Central Water Commission (CWC) here in demonstrated at the office and confined the executive engineer for over eight hours on Tuesday under the banner of Inttuc, the workers’ front of Trinamul, to press their demands of pay hike and confirmed jobs. Around 10am, the employees deputed through private agencies during monsoon to collect rainfall data, rising water levels of rivers, among others, walked up to the chamber of Sudipta Sarkar, the executive engineer. There, they sat in a demonstration and started shouting slogans on their demands. “In other parts of the country, casual employees like us get a monthly salary of Rs 15,000 but here we get Rs 5,000 to Rs 7,000 a month. This is gross discrimination. Also, many semi-skilled workers are forced to do technical works that is not desirable,” said Bhola Dey, president of CWC Jalpaiguri Division Casual Workers’ Union that is affiliated to Inttuc. During their eight-hour demonstration, workers demanded that like the state irrigation department, they should be inducted as contract employees by the CWC with the assurance that they would be engaged in jobs till age 60. In Jalpaiguri, the CWC runs an office that collects data on flood, water levels of rivers, rainfall in catchment areas, among others, from the districts of north Bengal except Malda, Sikkim and also from some areas of Assam. It sends the data to central and state agencies and to some offices of Bhutan and Bangladesh. This data is collected by casual workers deputed through agencies. Sarkar, the executive engineer, said they work under instructions of senior officials. “We have forwarded their (workers) demands. But it is a matter of policy and the decision has to be made at the higher level,” he said. Temporary workers of North Bengal Medical College & Hospital launched a three-day-long symbolic hunger strike demanding pay hike, permanent jobs, and recognition of skilled workers from Monday. Workers said they approached the NBMCH authorities and sent a memorandum to the chief minister. They threatened a longer agitation if their demands were not met. Additional reporting by Binita Paul in Siliguri||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-344
14-10-2020||West Bengal||Malda eyes random Covid tests in markets||A steady rise in number of Covid-19 cases in north Bengal district has made senior officials plan random tests at marketplaces. Susanta Roy, the officer on special duty (OSD) for Covid-19 in north Bengal, who was here on Tuesday, said such tests would help identify those infected with the contagion and could be isolated ahead of the upcoming Durga Puja, when it is being feared that chances of contamination would be quite high. “Random tests (for Covid-19 infection) would be conducted in markets, particularly overcrowded places. Such tests have started in Jalpaiguri from Tuesday and similar tests would be held in Malda and in all other districts of north Bengal. I will hold a meeting with health officials and explain to them how to conduct such tests,” Roy said. During his visit, Roy held a meeting with the Durga Puja organisers of Malda. At the meeting, top officials of the civil administration and police were also present along with officials of the district health department and the Malda Medical College and Hospital. Roy conceded that the surging crowd at markets — with hordes of people coming out to shop ahead of Durga Puja — was one of the major causes for the rise in coronavirus cases in Malda and some other districts in recent times. It has been learnt from reliable sources that 608 Covid-19 positive cases have been found in last seven days in Malda district alone. In past 12 days, over 1,000 new patients have been found in the district. “This (the number of patients) clearly indicates a deterioration in the situation. While an average of 15 to 25 positive cases were being found in first three weeks of September, there was a jump in cases soon after the festive mood gripped the people of the area and the markets got flooded with shoppers,” said a health official expressing his concern. District health sources said that small teams of three to four persons would be formed to conduct random tests at marketplaces so as to increase the number of tests conducted per day. “Those who would test positive would be advised to go to safe houses or stay in home isolation during the festive days to curb the risk of contamination,” a health official added. OSD Roy, when told about some of the recent gatherings organised by various political parties, also agreed that parties should also act in a responsible manner. “They should remember that the situation is not right to hold large gatherings. In case such public programmes are indispensable, proper safety measures must be ensured,” said Roy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-344
