15-10-2020||West Bengal||Veteran actor’s comorbidities matter of concern: Doctors||The condition of Soumitra Chatterjee who is being treated for coronavirus improved on Thursday. The actor was administered music therapy and physiotherapy, a senior physician at the health facility where he is being treated said. The doctors are monitoring him closely as the 85-year-old thespian’s comorbidities are a matter of concern, he said. Chatterjee had tested negative for the coronavirus on Wednesday and has been shifted to a non-Covid ITU. “Mr Chatterjee had no fever in the last 36 hours. He had sound sleep at night. He has been administered music therapy aimed at improving his condition. He is responding to verbal commands, which is a good sign,” a doctor treating him at the private hospital here said. “He is, however, still confused, mildly agitated, quite arousable with involuntary limb movements but no focal seizures,” he said. “We will continue his neuro assessment and rectification of encephalopathy. At the moment, invasive airway protection is not required because Mr Chatterjee’s neurological status is improving. Treatment for his secondary infection will continue,” he added. The critically acclaimed actor, who has the rare distinction of having worked with maestros like Satyajit Ray, Mrinal Sen, Tapan Sinha and Tarun Mazumdar, was admitted to the hospital here on October 6 after he tested positive for Covid-19. He had to be shifted to the ITU as his condition turned critical. A team of 15 doctors is overseeing him at the hospital.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-342
15-10-2020||West Bengal||Soumitra Chatterjee's health condition improves||Legendary actor Soumitra Chatterjee's health condition has improved though doctors decided to continue monitoring him closely as the octogenarian's comorbidities remained a matter of concern, a senior physician at the medical facility said on Thursday. The 85-year-old thespian, who tested negative for coronavirus on Wednesday, was administered "musical therapy" and physiotherapy on Thursday, a doctor said. Chatterjee has been shifted to a non Covid ward. "Mr Chatterjee had a sound sleep in the night. He has been administered music therapy aiming to improve his condition. He is responding to our verbal commands and that is a very good sign. The actor, however, is still in a confusion, restless state," a doctor, treating the veteran actor said. The critically acclaimed actor, who has the rare distinction of having worked with maestros like Satyajit Ray, Mrinal Sen, Tapan Sinha and Tarun Mazumdar, was admitted to a private hospital here on October 6 after he tested positive for COVID-19. He had to be shifted to the ITU as his condition turned critical. A team of 15 doctors is overseeing him at the hospital. Chatterjee had resumed shooting a few days ago. Parambrata, another noted Bengali actor, completed the shooting of Abhiyan under his direction. Jisshu Sengupta will be seen playing the role of young Soumitra in the film. Soumitra himself plays his older self in the film. Chatterjee is best known for his collaboration with Oscar-winner Satyajit Ray and the Feluda series. Soumitra immortalised the titular role of Feluda in Ray's films. He was a part of several other works of Ray, including Apu'r Sangshar or The World Of Apu. Some of Chatterjee's best works include Ashani Sanket, Ghare Baire, Aranyer Din Ratri, Charulata, Shakha Proshakha, Jhinder Bandi, Saat Pake Bandha, and more.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-342
15-10-2020||West Bengal||Death sentence for twin murders in hills||A court here on Wednesday handed death sentence to a 43-year-old man for murdering his relative and her minor daughter with the judge observing that the brutality of the crime “shook the judicial conscience”. Padam Subba had killed Maya Subba, 50, and her daughter Pragya Subba, 13, at Upper Gairgoan in the Bijanbari block in September 2017. While pronouncing the sentence, district and session judge Uttam Kumar Shaw said there could not be “a more heinous crime”. “I have no alternative but to hand a death sentence to you. This (order) is going for confirmation to the high court,” Shaw told Padam who nodded at the pronouncement and did not show any emotion. Neighbour Damber Subba heard a loud scream of a girl emanating from the house of Maya at Upper Gairgoan around 10.30pm on September 1, 2017. “When Damber and his wife were proceeding towards Maya’s house, he saw Padam in the area with a bamfok (a sharp weapon), which had blood stains, in one hand and torch light in the other hand,” public prosecutor Pranay Rai said. Damber’s house is situated about “three minutes’ walk away” from the victims’ home. Padam did not respond to the eyewitness’s enquiry but upon reaching the victims’ house, Damber found Maya lying in a pool of blood in the kitchen and the girl near the toilet. “Such was the brutality that Maya was hit six times with the bamfok on her head, face, arm, shoulder and other places. The daughter had suffered five injury marks across the body and her index finger was also severed from the hand,” said Rai. Padam was arrested on September 3 and the murder weapon was seized. “…….the subsequent brutal murder upon minor girl Pragya Subba shook the judicial conscience of this court and there should not have been any leniency in the matter of awarding punishment for these gruesome murders,” observed the judge. The convict would frequent Maya’s house and help in household chores. The charge-sheet was filed on November 12, 2017 and 18 eyewitnesses were examined during the trial. The court was also of the opinion that the crime had been pre-mediated and Padam had a propensity to commit murders and the killing “was especially heinous, atrocious and cruel”. Upper Gairgoan is around 30km from Darjeeling.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-342
15-10-2020||West Bengal||Online platform launched to sell local products||The Raghunathpur subdivisional administration has launched an online platform to sell the products made by local artisans and entrepreneurs under the Bengal government’s Karma Tirtha programme. The move comes in the wake of repeated efforts by officials to revive economic activities at 175 Karma Tirthas across Bengal in the lead-up to the Puja season. The businesses at such markets have suffered during the lockdown. “We have received explicit orders from state government officials to improve the sales at Karma Tirthas before the Puja,” said a Purulia district official. The Bengal government began setting up Karma Tirthas in 2014 for local entrepreneurs and artisans to advertise and sell their products in each block. Most of the Karma Tirthas are one or two-storey marketplaces accommodating 20-25 stalls. “We have started the online initiative with the Raghunathpur block and plan to connect with others in our subdivision. A mobile application — also named Karmatirtha — would help the people of Raghunathpur buy different products, including groceries and apparels,” Raghunathpur subdivisional officer Divya Murugesan said. Most of the Karma Tirthas, set up at a cost of around Rs 500 crore, were not functional till recently. “Many Karma Tirthas are situated at deserted places or away from residential localities. As a result, traders were not willing to hire the stalls even for free. However, the state government recently asked us to make all Karma Tirthas functional as soon as possible. It is a challenge for us as we need to ascertain good business for the traders,” said a district magistrate in south Bengal, adding that the administration had started hiring delivery boys for online purchases on a commission basis. “We are campaigning in localities and on social media about the online sale of products at the Karma Tirtha in Raghunathpur,” added SDO Murugesan. Raghunathpur has 26 stalls and the sales figures have not been great even if they were better compared to other Karma Tirthas in the district. “Raghunathpur is a subdivisional town and there are many people who are savvy with online marketing. We are hopeful that the online platform will be successful. If the response is good, we will tag 19 other Karma Tirtha in our districts with the online platform,” Purulia district magistrate Rahul Majumdar said. The traders who operate out of the Karma Tirtha in Raghunathpur said they were expecting better sales online in the run up to Durga Puja. “Our sales have come down as customers stopped visiting our stores because of the Covid-19 pandemic. It would be better if our products are sold online,” said Animesh Mishra, a cloth merchant having a stall at the Karma Tirtha in Raghunathpur. Sources in the Trinamul Congress said the Opposition parties had recently targeted the ruling party for forfeiting a revenue source because those large trade buildings were lying unused. “It is important to make the Karma Tirthas functional as the Assembly elections are just a few months away. We need to show that the initiative of the government did not go in vain,” said a Trinamul leader. At a few Karma Tirthas in districts like East Burdwan and Birbhum, rooms have been distributed to small-scale entrepreneurs. “It is not that all Karma Tirthas are away from populated areas. In those cases, we are asking traders to use the stalls as their workshops for tailoring or making jam or jelly. It would be better if online trade is available there too,” said an official in East Burdwan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-342
15-10-2020||West Bengal||Tribal woman gang-raped, one held in East Burdwan||A 21-year-old tribal woman was allegedly gang-raped by two youths who had dragged her to a paddy field near her house in East Burdwan on Tuesday night. The woman said she had stepped out of her thatched home around 10.30pm to relieve herself when she saw three youths, armed with sickles and faces covered, standing behind their courtyard fence. A woman was also with the youths, she added in her complaint to police. When she went towards them to enquire who they were, she was allegedly dragged away. “I went towards them to enquire who they were and within moments, the three of them tied my face with a towel and dragged me to a nearby paddy field. I managed to escape from their clutches and hid in the paddy field but soon, they tracked me down. Two of the youths raped me,” the woman said. She was brought to a hospital in Kalna for a medical check-up on Wednesday. Her relatives narrated the incident to the doctors and hospital staff. “The hospital authorities informed us about the woman and we immediately sent a police team for investigation,” said a senior police officer. Based on the description provided by the woman, the police arrested one of the accused persons and detained a brother of the local BJP booth president. “We have arrested a person and detained another based on the complaint of the victim,” East Burdwan police chief Bhaskar Mukherjee said. “We are trying to find out about the woman who was allegedly present during the incident along with the youths. The arrested youth is an adivasi and we are trying to find out the motive behind the incident,” said a police officer in Kalna. The woman stays with her parents-in-law and her husband works as a construction labourer elsewhere in the district. “I could not shout as they had tied my face and mouth with the towel,” she said. Local BJP leaders have accused the police of trying to give the incident a political colour. “The brother of our booth president at the village has no connection with the incident. But police have detained him to drag the BJP into the case. We will launch a protest against the police,” said Sushanta Pandey, a BJP district vice-president in Kalna.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-342
15-10-2020||West Bengal||Mamata Banerjee launches 69 Durga Pujas virtually||Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday virtually inaugurated from Nabanna 69 Durga Pujas in all eight north Bengal districts and Murshidabad and Nadia districts and the chief minister is slated to open around 90 more Pujas in other parts of the state on Thursday. This is a marked departure from Mamata’s practice of launching only big-ticket Pujas in and immediately around Calcutta, which sources in the Trinamul Congress attributed to both the compulsions of enhancing mass connect and the opportunity presented by the virtual inaugurations. The sources said the e-inaugurations, necessitated by the new-normal of Covid-19, came as a blessing in disguise as remote districts found some recognition in the process. “Although there were thousands of requests from various districts, every year, the chief minister used to devote her time to the city for the festival. This time, however, since the inauguration process is largely virtual, the districts are getting to have some big-ticket Pujas inaugurated by her,” said a Trinamul Rajya Sabha member. Puja activities have been part of Mamata’s autumnal routine in a big way since her stint as the railways minister in the UPA II regime, when her ascent to power in Bengal was deemed a foregone conclusion. Most big-ticket Pujas in the city and its surrounding areas are conducted by heavyweight leaders of the Trinamul Congress. Inaugurating some of the 69 pujas on Wednesday, Mamata said: “Your Pujas in rural Bengal attract us a great deal.” “I have always been meaning to witness those Pujas and hope to see many, virtually, this time. Although I am with you virtually, my heart has reached your pandals, the streets of your districts,” she added. Trinamul sources said the decision to include the Pujas from the districts was a “very smart move” and it would help the party connect better with the people outside Calcutta — also North 24-Parganas and South 24-Parganas — this year, as the Pujas for inauguration had been carefully chosen to represent various subdivisions and blocks. “It was a longstanding demand from the people of the districts — especially north Bengal — for inauguration of their Pujas by the chief minister. But she had such a packed schedule every autumn that she barely got time to inaugurate 70-odd Pujas in and around the city, which were picked from over 10,000 invites. This time, the virtual platform presented a new opportunity and she grabbed it with both hands,” said a senior Trinamul leader. Additional reporting by Alamgir Hossain||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-342
15-10-2020||West Bengal||Rhino carcass found on fringes of Gorumara||An adult male rhino was found dead on the fringes of the Gorumara National Park in Jalpaiguri district on Wednesday morning. Senior forest officers visited the spot along with vets to find out whether the animal had fallen prey to poachers or had died a natural death. In Bengal, Gorumara is the second largest habitat of one-horned rhinos after Jaldapara National Park that is in the neighbouring Jalpaiguri district. Around three years back, poachers had targeted rhinos of the two habitats. In Gorumara, poachers had killed two rhinos. They had severed the horns and had buried the carcasses. During the investigation, it was found that rackets based in Northeast were involved in the crime, along with some local people. On Wednesday, some residents of Bamandanga —Tondu tea estate — spotted the carcass. They immediately informed foresters and the policemen from Nagrakata reached the spot. “Our officers went to the spot and confirmed that it is one of the rhinos of the Gorumara. “Gorumara has around 55 rhinos. It is a common trend to name each rhino. This rhino was known as Don,” said a forest officer. Foresters examined the rhino’s body and also used a metal detector to find out whether it had been hit by a bullet. However, they didn’t  find presence of any metal in the animal’s body. “The horn was there but we can rule out the chances of poaching only after we come to know about the cause of the death from the vets. This is because the location from where the carcass has been seized is the same area which poachers had used as a passage three years ago,” the forester added. Nisha Goswami, the divisional forest officer of Gorumara wildlife division, said preliminary investigations indicated that the animal died because of ailments. “The same rhino had fallen ill a few weeks back and we had treated it. We are waiting for the post-mortem report,” Goswami added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-342
15-10-2020||West Bengal||BJP plans no Durga Puja, says Dilip Ghosh||Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh said on Wednesday that the party wouldn’t organise any Durga Puja and it was not the organisation’s job to conduct such celebrations. BJP MP Locket Chatterjee had said on Tuesday that Prime Minister Narendra Modi would virtually inaugurate the party’s Durga Puja at Salt Lake near here on October 22. “The BJP is not organising any Durga Puja. I have no such information. There will be a single day cultural programme for which a symbolic idol might be installed,” Ghosh told a news conference. He was responding to questions about the BJP’s Durga Puja at the Eastern Zonal Cultural Centre, which is under the Union ministry of culture, at Salt Lake. Although Ghosh ruled out the party holding a Durga Puja, he said: “A certain morcha or cell might hold the Puja. The party isn’t.” Ghosh made the statement on a day the EZCC authorities issued a letter to “certify that Bharatiya Janata Party, West Bengal booked our Bharatiyam Cultural Multiplex … from 1727 October 2020 to organise Durga Puja…” The state BJP chief said it wasn’t the party’s job to organise Durga Puja. “Our aim is to connect with the people during the Puja. We hope the Prime Minister will do that with his speech,” said the Midnapore MP. Locket declined comments on Ghosh’s statement. However, state BJP leaders, including national joint general secretary (organisation), Shivprakash, and state vicepresident Pratap Banerjee met on Wednesday to discuss the nittygritty of hosting the Puja. According to a source present at the meeting, none of the leaders said anything about a singleday celebration. “We were assigned various tasks for the Puja. It will be a proper fiveday affair, just like any other Durga Puja,” a leader said. A section of the party leaders, however, feels Ghosh is not aware of the development as he has been incommunicado for three days because of illness. “Dilipda had kept his phone switched off for three days since he was unwell. The Puja had been planned during his absence and hence, he is unaware of it. There is no confusion,” a source said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-342
15-10-2020||West Bengal||15 Bengal bridges on priority list||The Mamata Banerjee government has identified 15 bridges which need to be replaced urgently across Bengal after it shortlisted 400 bridges that are in distress following a statewide health audit of 1,800 such structures maintained by the public works department. While initial work started to replace some old bridges, the PWD has started taking measures to ensure that vulnerable bridges don’t collapse like the one at Majerhat in Calcutta. The Majerhat bridge had crashed in September, 2018. “We have found that 15 bridges across the state need to be replaced urgently as their load-bearing capacity has come down significantly. Thanks to the health audit of all the bridges, 15 most vulnerable bridges could be identified. Remaining 350-odd bridges that were identified as weak and could be used for few more years after some repairs,” said a senior government official. Of the 15 bridges, nine will be reconstructed under the guidance of Rites and the remaining six will be built by other agencies to be selected by the PWD through tenders. Majority of the 15 bridges are located in Murshidabad, Nadia, Howrah and South 24-Parganas districts. “Most of the 15 bridges are less than 100 meters in length. But some of them are located in areas where erecting new bridges would not be easy because of non-availability of land. The problem is that we cannot erect the new bridges by demolishing the old ones,” said an official. As the finance department has allowed procurement of land for critical projects even as there is a ban on unnecessary expenditure as a part of its austerity drive, senior officials said they could move forward to buy plots directly for the bridges. “The government wants to start at least some ground work before the Assembly polls. That is why the PWD is eager to start purchasing land for the projects by January next year,” said a source. A Trinamul Congress MLA said the ruling establishment wanted to send a message to the local people that it was eager to solve the problems at the earliest ahead of the polls. “These bridges are important for day-to-day lives of local people. We cannot restrict movement of vehicles for a longer period. At least we want to send a message ahead of the polls that process is on to erect new bridges to replace the old ones,” said the MLA. The PWD is now trying to undertake repairs on some bridges to allow more vehicles to pass on for at least few months, said sources. They added that such a measure was being taken considering that new bridges could not be erected within a short period.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-342
15-10-2020||West Bengal||Amit Shah cancels visit to north Bengal||BJP national president Jagat Prakash Nadda and not Union home minister Amit Shah will visit north Bengal before Puja, state president Dilip Ghosh said in Calcutta on Wednesday. While Shah was slated to arrive on October 17, Nadda’s visit has been scheduled for October 19. “Naddaji will hold meetings with BJP members and workers. He will also meet people from various strata of the society,” Ghosh told journalists. According to multiple sources in the party, Shah’s visit was cancelled because of medical reasons. Shah, who recently recovered from Covid-19, would need more time to heal, the sources said. “It would’ve been too tiresome for Amitji to travel this far and hold meetings. That is why Naddaji is coming instead,” a BJP leader said. Ghosh, however, said Shah would visit Bengal after Puja. Dilip Ghosh said on Wednesday that the party wouldn’t organise any Durga Puja and it was not the organisation’s job to conduct such celebrations. BJP MP Locket Chatterjee had said on Tuesday that Prime Minister Narendra Modi would virtually inaugurate the party’s Durga Puja at Salt Lake near here on October 22. “The BJP is not organising any Durga Puja. I have no such information. There will be a single day cultural programme for which a symbolic idol might be installed,” Ghosh. He was responding to questions about the BJP’s Puja at the Eastern Zonal Cultural Centre, which is under the Union ministry of culture, at Salt Lake. Ghosh made the statement on a day the EZCC authorities issued a letter to “certify that Bharatiya Janata Party, West Bengal booked our Bharatiyam Cultural Multiplex … from 17-27 October 2020 to organise Durga Puja…” Although Ghosh ruled out the party holding a Durga Puja, he said: “A certain morcha or cell might hold the Puja. The party isn’t.” The state BJP chief said it wasn’t the party’s job to organise Durga Puja. “Our aim is to connect with the people during the Puja. We hope the Prime Minister will do that with his speech,” said the Midnapore MP. Locket declined comments on Ghosh’s statement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-343
15-10-2020||West Bengal||Covid: 3,677 cases & 64 deaths in Bengal||Bengal logged the highest number of Covid-19 cases at 3,677 on Wednesday, resetting the maximum daily count for the 11th time in 14 days this month. The state on Wednesday also reported the highest number of Covid patients to die during a 24-hour period till 9am at 64. The total novel coronavirus cases stand at 3.05 lakh, of which over 2.68 lakh are recoveries and 5,808 deaths. The number of recoveries on Wednesday were 3,096. The recovery rate, which had reached 87.98 on October 6, dropped to 87.79 per cent on Wednesday. The national rate — once lagging behind the state by nearly 10 per cent — has almost caught up, at 87.1 now. “October has been the worst month for us so far in terms of the pandemic. We can only hope that it doesn’t get much worse by the end of the month, after Puja. We have been trying our best not to let this spiral out of control, into a full-fledged public health emergency for the state,” said a minister. In the 14 days of the month, the state reported nearly 49,000 new Covid-19 cases, considerably outweighing the 42,000-odd recoveries. There have also been 850 deaths during the period. “So much of the progress made, especially in August, was laid to waste over the past few weeks. We had climbed to the top five in the list of states with the highest recovery rate and stayed there for so long. Now, we have fallen to the 18th spot,” said the minister. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee has been repeatedly issuing warnings against letting the pandemic’s spread widen, asserting it had reached the dreaded community transmission stage in India, which the Narendra Modi government at the Centre has been in denial of. Also called Stage III, community transmission is a phase of person-to-person spread of the infection, where the source is difficult to trace. Of the total 5,808 deaths, Calcutta alone accounted for 1,926, with a dozen till 9am. North 24-Parganas reported a total of 1,309 deaths, 14 of them on Wednesday. The state government reported 4,916 deaths (84.6 per cent) as those with comorbidity “present”. Bengal’s overall mortality rate is 1.89, substantially behind the national rate of 1.52 per cent. With 42,549 tests, the total tests went past 38 lakh, to 38.18 lakh, at 42,427 tests per million people. Having begun testing in early February, the state took over three-and-a-half months to cover one lakh tests. Over the next five months, it covered 37 lakh tests. The renewed surge in cases has caused the positive confirmation rate to rise again, over the past week or so, to 8.01 per cent now. The state reported 36.52 per cent occupancy on 12,715 beds earmarked for Covid-19 at 92 dedicated hospitals, besides 3.31 lakh telemedicine consultations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-343
