16-10-2020||West Bengal||Puja grant must be used to buy Covid equipment, rules HC ||The Calcutta High Court directed the community Durga Puja organisers in the state on Friday to spend 75 per cent of the Rs 50,000 grant given by the Bengal government on the procurement of COVID protection equipment and the rest on strengthening public-police bonding. A division bench comprising justices Sanjib Banerjee and Arijit Banerjee directed that the money given by the state to the Durga Puja committees cannot be used for any other purpose, and purchase bills have to be submitted to the authorities for audit. Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee had announced on September 24 the Rs 50,000 grant for each of the 36,946 Durga Puja committees in the state. "Due to the COVID pandemic, it has been a tough time for all of us. We have decided to provide Rs 50,000 grant to each of the Durga Puja committees," she had said addressing a Durga Puja Coordination meeting here. CITU leader Sourav Dutta moved the petition on October 9 before the division bench, challenging the grant and other doles such as discounts on application fees for permissions from fire brigade and power distribution companies. The petitioner claimed that such a grant is against the concept of secularism in India and that it hurts the fundamental rights provided in the Constitution. During arguments, the state government told the court that the grant is for "secular purposes" like buying Covid safety equipment and for public-police bonding. The court directed that 25 per cent of the Rs 50,000 grant to each of the committees will be used for strengthening public-police bonding and inclusion of more women in community policing. It also said that the rest 75 per cent of the funds have to be utilised for purchase sanitisers, masks and face shields. It directed that bills of such procurement should be submitted to the authorities in respective districts for auditing and a report will have to be submitted by the state government before the court after the Durga Puja vacation, when the matter would be taken up for hearing again. The court also said that the interim order should be distributed to all Durga Puja committees through leaflets and an affidavit would have to be submitted by the state authorities on compliance.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-341
16-10-2020||West Bengal||Significant improvement in Soumitra's health||The health condition of legendary actor Soumitra Chatterjee improved a lot and he has also started speaking a little bit, doctors treating him at the city-based private hospital, said on Friday. The 85-year-old thespian's oxygen saturation has also improved while his Sodium and Potassium have been corrected, they said. "Mr Chatterjee is doing very well. He is recovering and his consciousness has gone better substantially. He is obeying commands and is responsive and certainly understanding a few words. The good part is he is speaking a little bit but not full fledged mode. We are giving all sorts of good therapy," Dr Arindam Kar, leading the team of 15 doctors, treating the actor, said. The veteran actor slept well last night and his restlessness has also improved, he added. Chatterjee, who was on BiPAP (a non-invasive ventilation used for breathing support administered via a face or nasal mask) in the night but in the morning was put on a nasal mask, the doctor said. "He has no fever for over 50 hours now. Kidneys, heart, liver all are within acceptable ranges. Mr Chatterjee's saturations are more than 96 per cent on a support of 40 per cent of oxygen only. Both of his Sodium and Potassium levels have been corrected. No new complications had happened. This is a very good sign," Dr Kar said. Talking about their planned treatment, he said that a few normal and regular tests will be conducted on Chatterjee on Friday. "Normal and regular tests will be repeated today. We have completed the course of Remdesivir, plasma and others. We are thinking to increase the dose of specific medicines to reduce the encephalopathy burden and dose of other medicines to enhance his immunity and counter the impact of encephalopathy," he said. Chatterjee was also responding well to the music therapy administered to improve his neurological issues. "We have been giving him the choices of music he likes, especially Rabindrasangeet, the music from the movies he has acted in. He has responded well to that also. Let's hope in coming two three days he improves substantially as he has been in the last 24 hours and he comes out of it in good shape," Dr Kar said. The critically acclaimed actor, who has the rare distinction of having worked with maestros like Satyajit Ray, Mrinal Sen, Tapan Sinha and Tarun Mazumdar, was admitted to a private hospital here on October 6 after he tested positive for COVID-19. He had to be shifted to the ITU after his condition deteriorated. Chatterjee tested negative for COVID-19 on Wednesday following which he was shifted to a non-COVID ITU for treatment. Chatterjee had resumed shooting a few days ago. Parambrata, another noted Bengali actor, completed the shooting of Abhiyan under his direction. Jisshu Sengupta will be seen playing the role of young Soumitra in the film. Soumitra himself plays his older self in the film. Chatterjee is best known for his collaboration with Oscar-winner Satyajit Ray and the Feluda series. Soumitra immortalised the titular role of Feluda in Ray's films. He was a part of several other works of Ray, including Apu'r Sangshar or The World Of Apu. Some of Chatterjee's best works include Ashani Sanket, Ghare Baire, Aranyer Din Ratri, Charulata, Shakha Proshakha, Jhinder Bandi, Saat Pake Bandha, and more.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-341
16-10-2020||West Bengal||1 lakh new cases in Bengal in a month||Bengal on Thursday reported yet another highest 24-hour spike in Covid-19 cases with 3,720 new infections, with the total number of cases crossing 3.09 lakh. This was the 12th time in 15 days this month with a highest 24-hour spike in Covid cases, as the recovery rate continued to dip. There have been 1 lakh new cases and 1,808 deaths in the past month alone. On Thursday, Bengal reported 62 deaths, with 17 from Calcutta and 14 from North 24-Parganas, and 3,179 cures. With this, 3.09 lakh cases include over 2.71 lakh recoveries and 5,870 deaths. Bengal’s recovery rate, which reached 87.98 per cent on October 6, dropped to 87.77 per cent on Thursday. The national rate — once lagging behind Bengal by 10 per cent or so — has almost caught up, at 87.43. “Since September 15, we have had over one lakh new cases, outweighing the 90,000-odd recoveries,” said a minister. The state, which climbed to the top five among states with the highest recovery rates and stayed there for long, has now fallen to the 20th place. Bengal, which dropped out of the top 10 states with the highest total of active cases, is now at seventh spot. Among states with the highest mortality rates, Bengal is fourth. “Total active cases a month ago were around 23,000. On Thursday, they are nearly 32,000,” said the minister. Bengal’s mortality rate is 1.89, much behind the national rate of 1.52 per cent. Of the 5,870 deaths, the state government termed 4,969 or 84.7 per cent as deaths with comorbidity “present”. With 42,653 tests, the total tests went past 38.61 lakh, at 42,901 tests per million people. The renewed surge in cases has caused the positive confirmation rate to rise again, over the past week or so, to 8.01 per cent now. Bengal reported 37.88 per cent occupancy in the 12,715 beds earmarked for Covid-19 in the 92 dedicated hospitals for the pandemic, besides 3.35 lakh telemedicine consultations for the pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-341
16-10-2020||West Bengal||Cash to aid 1 lakh hawkers||The Mamata Banerjee government will give Rs 2,000 each to about 1 lakh hawkers across the state — 68,000 in Calcutta and 32,000 in the districts — just ahead of Durga Puja. The move assumes significance as it is expected to create both economic and political spin-offs. On Thursday, the chief minister instructed officials — during a programme in which she inaugurated 110 pujas in 12 districts through videoconference from Nabanna — to transfer the one-time financial assistance to the bank accounts of the hawkers as early as possible. “Complete the process at the earliest and ensure that funds are transferred to the bank accounts of the hawkers as early as possible,” she said. It was clear from her sense of urgency that she wanted the money to reach hawkers, most of whom have suffered significant income loss because of the pandemic-induced lockdown, before the festive season so that they can do some festive shopping. While Rs 2,000 is a modest amount, it will  help people who have had very little earnings in the last few months. “This is a kind of direct benefit transfer.… This will also have a positive spin-off for the state economy as people will start buying things with the money,” said economist Abhiroop Sarkar. In the months of lockdown, several economists had suggested the Narendra Modi government to opt for the DBT (direct benefit transfer) route and transfer money to the accounts of migrant workers, who lost jobs during the pandemic. The fact that Mamata — despite the constraints facing the state coffers — has decided to help the hawkers with a one-time grant is a good example of welfare economics, said a city-based economist who did not wish to be named. “I know that it will become a political issue tomorrow as the Opposition parties will attack the CM... I don’t want to be a party in these political games,” the economist said while explaining the reason for requesting anonymity. Some officials close to the chief minister think that though the Opposition may question the DBT to hawkers or the grant of Rs 50,000 to clubs as dole, the measures will end up boosting the state’s economy during the festive season. “The state has already spent Rs 185 crore by giving Rs 50,000 each to 37,000 puja committees. Now, another Rs 20 crore would be sent to give one-time financial assistance to 1 lakh hawkers,” said a senior government official. “Spending a sum of Rs 205 crore ahead of the festive season would boost the state’s economy.” Some district magistrates this correspondent spoke to said that the decision to help the puja organisers has started yielding positive results for the local economy. “Usually, we receive 1,700 applications from organisers seeking permission for Durga Puja in our district every year. But this year, initially we had received about 800 applications before the scheme was announced by the chief minister. But now, we have granted permissions to more than 1,300 pujas this year,” said a district magistrate from a north Bengal district. Another DM from south Bengal said that almost all the pujas — 1,100-odd — would be held this year after the chief minister announced to help the organisers. The DMs said that each of the pujas trigger a series of economic activities in local areas. “The decorators get work, the electricians get work and several other activities happen around the pujas. All these benefit the unorganised sectors, which ultimately helps to boost the economy,” said a DM. According to the notification issued on Wednesday, the financial assistance is being offered to the hawkers as they could not earn their livelihood during the lockdown period. The hawkers would now submit applications seeking the assistance to the local police stations. The local civic body would receive the applications after police verify them. Once received by the local civic bodies, funds would be allotted by the urban development and municipal affairs department to the local bodies to disburse the financial assistance.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-341
16-10-2020||West Bengal||Malda meet points to TMC feud||Trinamul’s infighting in Malda came to the surface again on Thursday as some leaders held an event to prove their opposition to leaders of another lobby. The presence of Krishnendu Choudhury, a former minister and state committee secretary of the party at the event encouraged the dissidents who had skipped the block-level meet convened by the party five days ago. Trouble in the party’s Kaliachak-II block started when  local MLA Sabina Yasmin, and her followers were prioritised by district leaders when they formed the party’s committee in the block. Elected as a Congress MLA, Yasmin joined Trinamul in 2017. Her joining irked some Trinamul leaders who had fought against her till she joined Trinamul. But after she joined Trinamul, Yasmin was made the party coordinator in the block. Trinamul leader Nazrul Islam, who had contested against Yasmin in 2016 when she was in the Congress, virtually revolted against her increasing importance. Recently, the block committee was announced and Sudhir Das, a Yasmin loyalist, was made its president. This angered Islam many other party leaders. On October 11, as the party organised the block-level meet, Islam and some others skipped it and claimed they were not invited. On Thursday, this group organised a meet in the block apparently to protest against the new farm bills and the Hathras atrocity. The meeting was convened under the banner of Trinamul’s minority cell of which Islam is the district chairman. Party insiders, however, pointed out that Thursday’s conference was convened as a message to Yasmin and district and state leaders not to dismiss Islam’s lobby. They invited Krishnendu Choudhury, who turned up and questioned some recent decisions of the party. “I attended the meeting as they invited me. I was not invited at the block conference. Those who are old leaders and workers of the party should be honoured,” said Chowdhury. Encouraged by his presence, the anti-Yasmin lobby made obliquely critical references against her. Yasmin, when contacted, said: “I was not invited to the event. The block committee was also kept in the dark (about the event). The party leadership should take suitable action against such activities by a section of people.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-341
16-10-2020||West Bengal||Durga at doorstep in Covid year||The Covid-19 pandemic has put a spin to the age-old festive cry of “Maa aschhe (the Mother goddess is coming)” in Midnapore town. The Rabindranagar Durgotsav Committee, among the largest pandal organisers in the town with an average footfall of up to a lakh, responded to this year’s pandemic with their innovative “Thakbe tumi ghore, thakur jabe dwaare (You will stay home, the goddess will go to your doorstep)” campaign. The Durgotsav committee, working with a curtailed budget of Rs 6 lakh this year, a drop of Rs 14 lakh from normal years, will not only have their regular pandal in Rabindranagar locality, but also host a smaller idol atop a flat-bed truck for a mobile “darshan” across the town’s 25 wards. The mobile “darshan” will give residents the opportunity to see the goddess from their verandas and balconies, maintaining social distancing amid the pandemic. “We are deeply appreciative of this initiative. In addition to addressing pandemic protocol, this attempt will also satisfy so many senior citizens of the town who are otherwise unable to leave their homes,” said district magistrate Rashmi Kamal at the inauguration of the pandal on Thursday evening. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee inaugurated this Durga Puja, along with many others in south Bengal districts, over videoconference. Kamal and the West Midnapore superintendent of police, Dinesh Kumar were physically present at the pandal. Sources said the Rabindranagar pandal was arguably the most popular Durga Puja in Midnapore town. Last year, in its 50th year, the club won the Biswa Bangla Shera Puja award among the 100 pujas held in Midnapore town. Club secretary Subhajit Mandal said the prime goal of this year was to maintain social distancing. “So we came up with a door-to-door darshan,” Mandal said, explaining that a tenth of their total budget would go towards fuel and vehicular expenditure. He added that because of the pandemic their budget had to be brought down from the usual Rs 20 lakh. “But we want to ensure safe and memorable celebrations,” added Mandal, a pathologist at Belda hospital who has been working on the frontlines of efforts against Covid-19 since March. Club members explained that along with a miniature idol, the truck bed would have room for a priest who would stop at a designated juncture of each locality and conduct a puja with residents’ floral offerings (pushpanjali). The truck is set to make rounds from Panchami up to the final day of Dashami from 10am to 5pm. Midnapore residents have welcomed the concept. “We have not been leaving home much since March, and our fears over Covid have increased anticipating possible Puja crowds. That’s why we are elated to hear about Rabindranagar club's noble initiative,” said Abani Dey, 68, a retired state electricity board employee.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-341
16-10-2020||West Bengal||Lab for cutting-edge roads||The Bengal government will soon begin research and development (R&D) on a new mechanism to build roads in rural areas of the state and ensure the construction of durable stretches meet international standards. The research wing of Rural Connectivity Training and Research Centre (RCTRC), set up under the panchayat and rural development department’s West Bengal State Rural Development Agency (WBSRDA), will soon become functional in Kalyani for R&D on new technologies to build roads in the state. Since the implementation of new road-laying mechanisms developed through R&D is mandatory in at least 15 per cent of roads built annually under the Pradhan Mantri Gram Sadak Yojana, known as the Bangla Gram Sadak Yojana in Bengal, state panchayat minister Subrata Mukherjee on Thursday visited the laboratory of the institute in Kalyani on Thursday to check its level of preparedness. The training unit of the institute had started working earlier but the lab operations were delayed because of the Covid situation though infrastructure and machinery installation were ready. “A major change in use of technology has occurred in road construction. Our aim is to evolve the best possible mechanism using modern technology and continuous research. Our engineers will conduct the research in the laboratory here and develop the mechanism for successful implementation of their outputs in the road projects in rural areas,” an official of the WBSEDA said. “We have implemented new mechanism using polythene in bitumen for a waterproof effect on the road’s black top and launched cold mix bituminous plants. Through research we can innovate effective mechanisms to build roads that suit our needs and geographical conditions,” an engineer said. Built with financial support of the Asian Development Bank on an area spanning over 7.38sqkm in B Block of Kalyani town in Nadia, the RCTRC has compression testing machine, core cutting machine, water distillation unit, rebound hammer, saybolt viscometer apparatus, skid resistance machine, ductility test unit, soil testing unit, sieve analysis unit, among others. The training unit for the engineers include faculty rooms, conference room, classrooms, guest house, kitchen and gymnasium. Officials attached to RCTRC said the centre would tie up with other institutions in the field to optimise research and training output.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-341
16-10-2020||West Bengal||Tea bonus ‘stimulus’ brews cheer in local economy||A Rs 400-crore stimulus package in the form of bonus to tea industry workers has suddenly brought cheer to north Bengal’s local economy with traders hoping the multiplier effect from festive spending sets cash tills ringing, and offset even partially the gloom and doom of a pandemic year. In north Bengal, around 3.5 lakh workers are associated with the tea sector. Another 10,000-odd people are staff and sub-staff, and 50,000 more work in small tea plantations and bought-leaf factories. “Altogether, the total sum of bonus would be around Rs 400 crores. Most gardens have already paid the bonus,” said a tea planter in Siliguri. Every year, the business fraternity in north Bengal eagerly awaits the tea bonus, but this year, retailers are seeing it as a “stimulus in crisis hour”. A garment shopowner in Bidhan Market, the main market in Siliguri, said signs of festive spending were visible. “We had been sitting idle and waiting for customers…but these past few days, we started getting customers and most of them are from tea gardens. They are shopping from their bonus payout,” said the middle-aged shop owner. Like everywhere else, north Bengal’s local economy had been limping because of the Covid-19-induced lockdown. The impact was felt more in this part of the country because the regional economy is largely dependent on tourism, a sector that has taken a beating since March and is showing only faint signs of revival, at least till now. Those associated with the sector pointed out that they have lost almost 70 per cent of business in the current year and have pegged their losses to over 3,000 crore. Against this backdrop, the tea industry bonus has injected liquidity in the market with shoppers coming back to shops and malls in Siliguri, the region’s biggest trade hub. Researchers and economists said that infusion of fresh funds in the market would be a boon for the local economy due to the multiplier effect, which means the final impact of capital injection will be more than Rs 400 crore. “The bonus distributed in the tea sector will largely help the economy because of the multiplier effect,” remarked Soumen Nag, a social researcher in Siliguri. “If people start shopping with the money received as bonus, it will surely have a positive impact on the economy.” Explaining “multiplier effect”, a term used in economics, he said that if a tea worker spends a part of his bonus to buy garments, the cloth seller would spend this money on more stocks and on other expenses, while those who receive the money from him in turn will use it for other purposes. “At a time economic growth halts or starts declining, this is how the economy can be improved. Also, governments have an important role to play for the revival of the economy and one of the ways is to infuse funds into the market by way of helping residents,” Nag said. A faculty member in the economics department of North Bengal University said that after bonus, local markets that are also tea hubs — places like Malbazar, Birpara, Kalchini and Alipurduar in the Dooars and Darjeeling and Kurseong in the hills — show an improvement in the scale of business, and this eventually increases businesses in places such as Siliguri and Jalpaiguri that supply the goods. “Every day, around Rs 100 crore used to be the trade volume ahead of Durga Puja in Siliguri markets. This year, the situation was dismal because of the pandemic. In such a time, the tea bonus has given the necessary fillip,” he said. Surajit Paul, convener of the Eastern ABC Chamber of Commerce & Industries, agreed. “For past few days, tourists have started arriving in the region but it would take several more months for the industry to get back on its feet. In such a situation, the tea bonus has come as a major boost for local markets. This is because almost the entire amount will be infused in the local market ahead of the festivities.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-341
16-10-2020||West Bengal||Tea workers better off in state: Moloy||State labour minister Moloy Ghatak on Thursday drew parallels between the condition of tea plantation workers in Bengal and Assam in terms of wages and rations and said they would be better off  as long as Mamata Banerjee was in power. Ghatak made the comment while inaugurating the distribution of food grains by the state on Kalchini tea estate in Alipurduar district. “Tea garden workers are secure only if Mamata Banerjee is in the chief minister’s chair. Each worker gets 35kg of free food grains a month from the state government. The daily wage in Bengal is Rs 176.. Tea estate workers receive a daily wage of Rs 130 and monthly ration of only 20kg food grains in Assam where the BJP is in power. Our government has decided to build pucca houses for each tea worker,” the minister said. Ghatak said the condition of tea garden workers in Bengal would worsen if the BJP came to power in the state. “For the improvement of tea industry and workers, it is imperative that Mamata Banerjee continues to be the chief minister,” he added. The minister announced that workers of two tea estates — Torsha that is shut and Raimatang which reopened recently — would receive Rs 1,500 each a month under the state government’s FAWLOI (Financial Assistance to Workers of Locked Out Industries) scheme.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-341
16-10-2020||West Bengal||Mission cancels Kumari Puja this year||The Kumari Puja held during Durga Puja at the Ramakrishna Mission here has been called off after the seven-year-old girl  chosen to be worshipped as the symbol of the deity tested Covid positive along with some of her relatives. Swami Tyagarupananda, secretary of the Malda branch of the Ramakrishna Mission, and two other civil workers of the centre also tested positive. Nearly 10,000 people rush to the Malda Ramakrishna Mission to see Kumari Puja every year. A monk of the Ramakrishna Mission said that earlier they had decided to hold a low-key Kumari Puja ceremony. But recently, when the girl finalised to be worshipped as the symbol of Durga tested positive, the Kumari Puja was called off. Swami Tyagarupananda added: “I am in quarantine and under treatment. Two other employees of the branch (Ramakrishna Mission, Malda) have also been tested positive. All others who stay at the branch have been asked to undergo tests in a day or two.” The decision by the Ramakrishna Mission authorities to cancel Kumari Puja left many Malda residents disappointed. Biswanath Sanyal, a teacher in a college, said on Ashtami, all roads in Malda lead to Ramakrishna Mission to witness Kumari Puja. “The pandemic has stopped it too. The charm of Durga Puja at the Ramakrishna Mission has been largely diminished by Covid-19,” he lamented. At Ramakrishna Mission, sources said entry of people on ashram premises would be restricted. “The office and quarters of the secretary were sanitised on Thursday. We will ensure there is no overcrowding on our premises,” said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-342
16-10-2020||West Bengal||Canteen, waiting hall opened at Siliguri park||Bengal tourism minister Gautam Deb on Thursday opened a waiting hall and a canteen constructed at a cost of Rs 35 lakh at the Bengal Safari Park near here. Inaugurating the new facilities, Deb said a centre for exhibition-cum-sale of local handicraft products and souvenirs would soon come up in front of the park. “The waiting hall and canteen can help visitors during their short stay inside the park. Senior citizens and children visiting the park could not find a place to take a brief halt as the entire park is in an open area. The waiting hall will help them during the monsoon and on scorching sunny days,” the minister said. The canteen, sources said, will be run by members of the forest protection committee. The state forest department spent Rs 34 lakh on the new facilities. The minister said a two-storied Karma Tirtha would be built on a five-cottah plot near the park where local people could set up stalls to exhibit and sell handicraft and different other products. “The building will have 14 stalls in total. The project cost is Rs 86 lakh. Local self-help groups will run the Karma Tirtha. Our idea is to provide an avenue of revenue to local artisans and residents. They are expected to draw buyers as hundreds visit the park every day,” said Deb. Located around 6km from Siliguri, the park is spread over an area of 297 hectares. After the lockdown, it was reopened for visitors on October 2, along with all other zoological parks in Bengal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-342
16-10-2020||West Bengal||Cop hit on eye in BJP-TMC clash||An assistant sub-inspector of police suffered serious injuries to the left eye when he was hit with a brick during a clash between BJP and Trinamul Congress supporters near the Jharalta 2 panchayat office in Jalpaiguri district on Thursday. Saran Pradhan, the ASI at the Dhupguri police station, was admitted to a private nursing home in Siliguri with blood oozing out of the eye. The clash broke out when BJP supporters took out a march to the panchayat office to protest against alleged anomalies in the selection of beneficiaries of a central housing scheme. As they reached in front of the office, an altercation took place between them and Trinamul activists present at the spot. “Soon, the members of the two parties attacked each other with bricks, sticks and stones,” said a source. Dhupguri police reached the spot to bring the situation under control. One of the flying bricks hit the chin and the left eye of ASI Pradhan. Seeing him bleeding, both the groups fled. Biren Roy, a local Trinamul leader, said the BJP supporters had started the violence. “They attacked Trinamul activists and six of them were injured. The BJP workers also attacked the police,” said Roy. The BJP has denied the charges. “We were marching to the panchayat office to submit a memorandum. But some Trinamul supporters attacked us without any provocation,” BJP leader Agun Roy said. The police said they were trying to trace those who had attacked the ASI. The CPM lodged a police complaint on Thursday after a handwritten poster was found on the wall of its office in ward 4 of Santipur municipality in Nadia district with a threat to kill two leaders unless they stopped visiting the office. The leaders are Bidyut Dutta and Amal Nandy. The CPM alleged that the poster had been pasted by members of unauthorised Happy Club.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-342
