17-10-2020||West Bengal||Soumitra's health condition improves further||The health condition of legendary actor Soumitra Chatterjee improved a lot on Saturday and he is speaking a bit as well as recognising people and identifying their voices, a doctor treating him at a private hospital here, said. The thespian slept well in the night (Friday) though a little bit of restlessness persisting, he said. "Mr Chatterjee is doing fine, better than yesterday. And every day he is improving consistently. However, there are issues of a little bit of restlessness, hesitation, non- complete recovery of the brain functions. But he is opening eyes, able to speak little words and is able to recognise people as well as their voices," Dr Arindam Kar, leading the team of 15 doctors, treating the veteran actor, said. The 85-year-old Chatterjee has no fever for over 70 hours now, he said. "He is still very weak, frail and complete recovery of neurological function is yet to be achieved. But it seems that he is going in the right direction. As of now, there is no new infection or any episode of fever," Dr Kar added. The veteran actor's oxygen saturation was 100 per cent, and did not require any BiPAP (a non-invasive ventilation used for breathing support administered via a face or nasal mask), he said. "Saturation is 100 per cent and we have reduced the oxygen support on the nasal cannula (tube). He did not require any BiPAP support. All the major organs are functioning fine. He is putting up a strong fight," Dr Kar added. The veteran actor was administered "higher doses" of steroids to enhance the recovery from COVID-19 encephalopathy. The critically acclaimed actor, who has the rare distinction of having worked with maestros like Satyajit Ray, Mrinal Sen, Tapan Sinha and Tarun Mazumdar, was admitted to the private hospital here on October 6 after he tested positive for COVID-19. He had to be shifted to the ITU after his condition deteriorated. Chatterjee tested negative for COVID-19 on Wednesday following which he was shifted to a non-COVID ITU for treatment. Chatterjee had resumed shooting a few days ago. Parambrata, another noted Bengali actor, completed the shooting of Abhiyan under his direction. Jisshu Sengupta will be seen playing the role of young Soumitra in the film. Soumitra himself plays his older self in the film. Chatterjee is best known for his collaboration with Oscar-winner Satyajit Ray and the Feluda series. Soumitra immortalised the titular role of Feluda in Ray's films. He was a part of several other works of Ray, including Apu'r Sangshar or The World Of Apu. Some of Chatterjee's best works include Ashani Sanket, Ghare Baire, Aranyer Din Ratri, Charulata, Shakha Proshakha, Jhinder Bandi, Saat Pake Bandha, and more.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-340
17-10-2020||West Bengal||Durga Puja government grant mainly for Covid protection: Calcutta High Court||The Rs 50,000 granted by the Bengal government to each puja cannot be used for any purpose other than buying sanitisers, masks, face shields and other articles of Covid protection and strengthening the “bonding” between police and people, Calcutta High Court said in an interim order on Friday. A division bench headed by Justice Sanjib Banerjee said that 75 per cent of the money should be spent on sanitisers, masks and the like. The rest should be spent on police-people bonding, which should include facilitation of the involvement of women in community policing. The state government had earlier said the money was being granted for sanitisation purposes. On Friday, the court made the puja committee office-bearers “personally responsible” for ensuring that the grant is spent only on these counts. The court “prima facie accepted that since Durga Puja may be the biggest festival in the state, irrespective of such festival being connected with a religious occasion, the festivities can be the springboard for promoting socially relevant programmes and there may not be any religious flavour to such secular programmers being pursued. The primary purpose in this case is... to strengthen the bond between the police authorities and the citizens and facilitating the involvement of women in assisting community policing activities.” It asked the puja organisers to furnish by November 10 their bills of expenditure and utilisation certificates before sub-divisional officers (SDOs) in the districts and before the police in Calcutta. A declaration of compliance too must be produced in the form of a court affidavit, vetted by the director-general of police, by November 17. The interim order came on a petition challenging the state government’s decision to hand out the Rs 50,000 grant to puja organisers. Some government lawyers said the court order was an embarrassment for the state authorities, who are yet to decide whether to appeal before the Supreme Court. The bench, which included Justice Arijit Banerjee, asked the police to print handbills and leaflets with details of the court order on the utilisation norms and distribute them among the puja organisers by October 22. It said the final verdict would ensure the subject of the grant did not come up before the court year after year. “The larger questions, including the very propriety of making such a grant, will be considered once and for all immediately after the Puja vacation (which ends of November 17) so that the repetitive exercise is not undertaken every September or October,” the court said. A law department source said: “Last year, too, our government’s decision to give a grant to Puja committees was challenged before the high court. After the high court refused a stay, the petitioner had approached the Supreme Court. That appeal is still pending.” Friday’s order said: “The state’s affidavit in opposition to the petition be filed within a week after the Puja vacation; reply thereto, if any, may be filed within a week thereafter.” The court will next hear the case two weeks after the Puja vacation. Senior lawyer Bikash Ranjan Bhattacharyya, who had appeared for the petitioner, said: “It’s impossible for a puja committee to spend money to strengthen the bonding between the public and the police. It’s also impossible now for the committees to spend a farthing from the dole for Puja purposes. So, a purpose of the petition has been served. We welcome the order.” Another high court lawyer said: “Since an appeal is pending before the Supreme Court on a similar issue, a high court division bench cannot strike down the grant and ask the clubs to refund the money to the state government. So it has framed guidelines for the clubs to restrain them from spending the money on Puja-related activities.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-340
17-10-2020||West Bengal||Bengal logs 3,771 Covid cases and 61 deaths||Bengal on Friday logged the highest number of Covid-19 cases at 3,771, resetting the maximum daily count of patients for the 13th time in October. Bengal’s total cases went past 3.13 lakh, which include nearly 2.75 lakh recoveries and 5,931 deaths. The state logged 3,194 recoveries and 61 deaths on Friday. The state again reported a dip in the recovery rate on a day Union health minister Harsh Vardhan said another “high level” central team would be despatched to Bengal, apparently in the wake of a surge in the cases. The recovery rate, which had reached a high of 87.98 on October 6, dropped to 87.73 per cent on Friday. The national recovery rate, which was far behind that of the state, is 87.63 now. “This is not good. After months of not being able to point a finger at us, the BJP-led Centre is once again trying to discredit our war effort in the pandemic using the excuse of the current spell of rise,” said a Bengal minister. “They are sending teams to Bengal, Kerala, Rajasthan, Chhattisgarh and Karnataka. Only the last one is BJP-ruled.” There had been public spats between such central teams sent earlier and the state government over alleged non-cooperation from Nabanna and suggestions of mismanagement in Bengal’s handling of Covid-19. The team this time, according to the Centre, will support the state’s efforts towards testing, infection prevention, control measures and efficient clinical management of the positive cases. “Why are central teams not sent to states such as NDA-ruled Tamil Nadu and Uttar Pradesh, which are doing far worse than Bengal?” asked the minister. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee has been repeatedly issuing warnings for the past few days against letting the pandemic’s spread widen. She said the disease had reached the dreaded community transmission stage in India, which the Centre has been in denial of. With 43,227 tests recorded on Friday, 39.04 lakh swab samples have been examined so far for the novel coronavirus. The tests per million people stand at 43,381 now. The renewed surge in the cases caused the positive confirmation rate to rise again in the past week or so to 8.02 per cent now. Of the total 5,931 deaths reported, Calcutta alone accounted for 1,956, with 13 being recorded during a 24-hour window till 9am on Friday. North 24-Parganas reported a total of 1,342 deaths, 19 of them on Friday. The state government reported 5,019 deaths (84.6 per cent) as those with comorbidity “present”. Bengal’s overall mortality rate is 1.89, substantially behind the national rate of 1.52 per cent. The state reported 37.66 per cent occupancy on 12,715 beds earmarked for Covid-19 at 92 dedicated hospitals. Till now, 3.39 lakh telemedicine consultations have been made for the pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-340
17-10-2020||West Bengal||‘Fully’ electrified Darjeeling||Come Saturday, Darjeeling will be “100 per cent electrified”, 123 years after India’s first hydel project was commissioned in Sidrapong here in 1897 by then Bengal acting lieutenant-governor Charles Cecil Stevens. The Gorkhaland Territorial Administration (GTA) will inaugurate a power project for Gorkhay and Samanden, two villages on the fringes of Singalila National Park, which still lack roads and can be reached only via a two-hour trek from Ramman after a three-hour drive from Darjeeling town. Surendra Gupta, GTA principal secretary, will visit Gorkhay to inaugurate the project. Arijit Mitra, executive director, GTA (power) said: “With this, entire rural electrification will be done (in the GTA area).” In 2013, the Centre sanctioned Rs 198.98 crore to the GTA for rural electrification under Rajiv Gandhi Grameen Vidyutikaran Yojana, later renamed Deendayal Upadhyaya Gram Jyoti Yojana. The GTA chipped in funds for villages that could not be brought under the ambit of the central scheme. “The funds for the project being inaugurated tomorrow (Saturday) were provided by the GTA. The project cost for these two villages was Rs 1.1 crore,” said Bimal Pradhan, GTA (power) superintending engineer. “Rural electrification in all 188 mouzas (under GTA) is now complete. Darjeeling will be 100 per cent electrified.” Sixty-six households in these two villages — with a population of a little over 200 — fall on the Phalut-Rimbick trek route. Most villagers are farmers or trekking guides. Horses and ponies are a popular mode of transport to these villages. Darjeeling’s tryst with electricity started with the Sidrapong hydel project, commissioned on November 10, 1897, by then Bengal acting lieutenant-governor Charles Cecil Stevens. It is the country’s oldest hydel power plant. Located 12km from Darjeeling at an altitude of 3,600 feet, it still generates 0.6MW electricity a day, fed by three streams, Barbata, Hospital and Kotwali.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-340
17-10-2020||West Bengal||Trinamul, BJP woo tea belt with schemes||With an eye on Bengal elections next year, Trinamul Congress and BJP are keen on wooing the brew belt. This was evident on Friday when state ministers and BJP MPs separately met tea stakeholders to elaborate on initiatives by state and central governments, respectively, to try and prove that these would eventually benefit tea workers. Raju Bista and John Barla, the BJP MPs of Darjeeling and Alipurduar respectively, visited some tea gardens in the Terai to tell workers about the new labour law recently passed by the Centre. Trinamul leaders such as state labour minister Moloy Ghatak and state tourism minister Gautam Deb held a meeting at the tea directorate office here to discuss implementation of “Cha Sundari,” the housing scheme by the Mamata Banerjee government for tea workers, and also draw up plans for a campaign on social welfare schemes of the state. In north Bengal, there are 270 tea estates which engage around 3.5 lakh people. Added to them is the small tea sector that engages 50,000-odd more workers. This region has at least 15 Assembly seats, the results of which are decided by the tea population. On his visit, Bista said: “We discussed the labour reforms bill and how it will transform the lives of our tea and cinchona workers on all fronts, from wages to health facilities to social security.” State tourism minister Deb, on his part, said after the meeting at the tea directorate: “We will gold camps with representatives of state departments at all tea gardens of north Bengal, including closed tea gardens and forest villages. The objective is to reach out to workers and ensure that everybody get benefits of welfare schemes run by the state. Last month, chief minister Mamata Banerjee announced that in the first phase, 3,694 tea garden workers would get homes, 2,641 of them in Alipurduar and 1,053 in Jalpaiguri.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-340
17-10-2020||West Bengal||Ganga’s rage can’t erode faith in Durga||The organisers of the Manikchak Diara Sarbojonin Durgotsav at Domhaat in Malda district have had to shift the goddess’s mandap or pavilion at least five times in the past 25 years. The frequent change in the autumn address of the goddess is another indication of how an aggressive Ganga is devouring its banks and changing the land map of this north Bengal district. One of the oldest community pujas in the district, the Domhaat puja, the organisers said, had started at Gangapara in 1905. Domhaat is in the Manikchak block and around 38km from the district headquarters. “There used to be no fear of erosion those days, but things have changed drastically in the past 25 years or so, forcing us to change the address of the devi mandap five times,” said Bholanath Mandal, a septuagenarian and a farmer by occupation. It was in 1995 that the erosion left its spell and the mandap was swallowed by the Ganga and the 90-year-old address had to be changed. “The puja did not stop even then. The goddess was shifted to an alternative mandap at Bechutola village and the puja continued there till 2006,” Mandal said. But then again, the erosion caused havoc and the second mandap was swallowed by the river. In 2007, the puja had to shift to the Palpara area but the mandap lasted only for four years. Then (in 2011), a local resident offered his mango orchard at Haddatola village, where the goddess was worshipped for six years. “The owner of the orchard sold his property and eventually, a portion of that land was also eroded away by the river. Thus, the goddess had to move to her present abode at Jotepatta in 2016,” said an organiser. A new mandap was constructed to venerate the goddess and her family. Since then, the puja has been organised at Jotepatta. Pradip Mondal, a school teacher, vividly narrated how the curse of erosion had forced hundreds of families to shift their houses. The address of the goddess also kept changing along with. “The goddess had moved with us and that’s why Durga is the symbol of our determination,” Pradip said. The organisers said the challenge of erosion had been replaced by the Covid-19 pandemic this autumn. “The Covid-19 pandemic has left us scared. But we are still organising the puja and if required, we will shift the venue again in the coming years and will build a new mandap. The puja has to go on,” said Ujjwal Karmakar, a resident.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-340
17-10-2020||West Bengal||IT staff now under govt contract||Mamata Banerjee announced on Friday that about 100 contractual employees in the information and technology wing of the public works department would be brought under the direct contract of the state government apparently to recognise their efforts in keeping the communication channel between districts and the state secretariat functional during the Covid-19 pandemic. The 100 IT professionals working with the IT wing of the PWD were engaged by either the WEBEL or the WTL, two state government firms. The decision would help the professionals as they would now get 30 days of annual leave, in addition to 10 days of medical leave, which they were not entitled till now. They can work till the age of 60 years uninterruptedly and would get a sum of Rs 3 lakh upon retirement. The professionals would also be brought under the Swasthya Sathi, a health scheme of the state government. The chief minister made the announcement in a tweet. “Bengal is known for its e-governance & today I’m pleased to announce my Pujo gift for young IT personnel working to improve our e-services for the people of Bengal. The IT staff engaged by Webel and WTL shall now be directly engaged as contractual staff of GoWB,” Mamata tweeted. Although the chief minister did not say whether their salary structure would be revised, sources at Nabanna said once the professionals were engaged directly by the government, their pay would be increased to some extent. “The agencies charge a service charge, up to 5 per cent of the salary of an employee, from the government for supplying the manpower. Now, the government can pay the IT employees directly,” said a senior government official. Sources said Mamata was very happy with the performance of the IT wing of the PWD after it worked hard to keep the communication channel open between districts and Nabanna during the pandemic. “The chief minister and the top government officials held a series of meetings over video conferencing with the districts as well as Delhi during the pandemic. The IT wing of the PWD developed and maintained the entire system during the crisis. The professionals worked very hard and the chief minister rewarded them,” said an official. A bureaucrat said the IT wing actually saved a sum of nearly Rs 5 crore of the government by developing and maintaining the entire system. “If a private agency had to be engaged for this, it would have charged at least Rs 5 crore to develop and maintain the system since March-end,” said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-340
17-10-2020||West Bengal||MLA Islam joins Trinamul to ‘strengthen Didi’s hand’||The CPM’s Basirhat North MLA Rafikul Islam on Friday defected to Trinamul, four years after he left Trinamul on being denied the ticket to contest the Assembly polls. Islam, 60, rejoined the ruling party in the presence of senior Trinamul leaders Aroop Biswas, Sadhan Pandey, Jyotipriya Mullick and Nirmal Ghosh, at party headquarters in Calcutta in the afternoon. “I was in this party. In 2016, I joined the Left Front over some differences, but I have come to realise that in the fight against the BJP, Didi (Mamata Banerjee) is the only hope. So, to strengthen her hand, I am joining Trinamul,” said Islam. This was the first defection by a sitting MLA to Trinamul in recent times. Since the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, Trinamul has been working hard to regain ground lost in the crucial district of North 24-Parganas. The district has the most Assembly seats — 33 — in the state. In the 2016 Assembly polls, Trinamul won 27 of the 33, and the BJP drew a blank. But last year, the BJP secured leads in 21 of those Assembly segments in the Lok Sabha polls. A senior minister from the district said the defection would help Trinamul. “Steadily are getting back much of what we lost in North 24-Parganas,” the minister added. In the 290-seat Assembly (excluding four vacancies caused by deaths of sitting members), Trinamul now has 204 MLAs, and the support of 19 defectors, including Islam, from the Left and the Congress. The Left, with 33 MLAs in 2016, now has 25 left, and the Congress, with 44 in 2016, now has 25 left. The BJP has an official strength of six and the support of nine defectors from various parties. There are two Gorkha Janmukti Morcha MLAs. Reacting to Islam’s defection, CPM state-secretary Surjya Kanta Mishra said the MLA was not formally a member of the party and hence there was no necessity of an expulsion. Left legislature party leader Sujan Chakraborty condemned the “culture” of inorganic growth through horse-trading and defections in both Trinamul and BJP.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-340
17-10-2020||West Bengal||Crash kills 3 of family, biker||Four persons, including two women and a child, died in a road accident in Milanpally area on NH81 in Malda district on Thursday night. Sources said an autorickshaw and a two-wheeler collided head-on on the highway under Ratua police station limits, which raised questions on whether the highway was adequately policed at night to prevent rash driving. The deceased, police sources said, were identified as two-wheeler rider Mozammel Hoque, 22, and autorickshaw passengers Aslam Sheikh, 12, Taslima Bibi, 35, and Sukri Bibi, 40. Policemen helped reach five persons — including autorickshaw driver — to a local hospital where doctors pronounced four of them dead. Autorickshaw driver Islam Sheikh is admitted to Malda Medical College and Hospital in a critical condition. Aslam was his son and the women his sisters-in-law. “The two-wheeler at breakneck speed rammed the autorickshaw head on. The rider fell with the vehicle, the autorickshaw also overturned on impact and all passengers got stuck under it. We rushed for help and found that four had died on the spot,” said a resident. Both the vehicles were badly mangled, he added. Eyewitnesses told police that auto driver Sheikh was returning from a fair at Pandua area in Gazole with son and sisters-in-law. The road was dark when the biker lost control and hit the autorickshaw. Residents of Milanpally claimed that most of the streetlights are out of order. “The accident might have been averted had this stretch of the highway been well lit,” a villager said. “We are probing if the biker was drunk,” a police officer said. Islam’s wife, who has come to know about the deaths of her son and two sisters, is frequently fainting in shock, said a neighbour. “She is lamenting that her son didn’t want to go to the fair but agreed only as his father kept on insisting on it,” the neighbour said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-340
17-10-2020||West Bengal||Finger at coal mafia for cracks on homes||Around 2,500 residents of Bansra and Sishubagan, on the outskirts of Raniganj town in West Burdwan, have accused coal smugglers of carrying out blasts that have led to cracks in their homes and on their farms. The residents, who include lawyers, schoolteachers, traders and farm hands, also said the sudden spurt in blasts to mine coal illegally barely 200 metres from their homes had endangered their lives. “Frequent explosions trigger subsidence. Minus police action, smugglers are so desperate that they carry out blasts even during the day,” said Sumanta Chatterjee, a trader who lives in Sishubagan. Cracks have developed on the floors at Chatterjee’s home and he fears bigger damage. Chatterjee said they had lodged many complaints with Raniganj police, the BDO and the management of Eastern Coalfields Limited over the last year but in vain. Residents on Thursday demonstrated at the site of an illegal coal pit and dismantled the makeshift structures allegedly set up by coal smugglers. A lawyer from Sishubagan ward 36 of Asansol Municipal Corporation, Subhadip Banerjee, alleged: “No policeman arrived during our agitation but goons threatened us.” On Friday, residents decided to submit another deputation to the local police station. “If they do not act, we will move court demanding our safety,” said Banerjee, whose home has also developed cracks. A police officer said that on learning about the illegal mining, cops visited the site on Thursday night. “We will fill up (illegal) pits soon,” he said, but denied charges of police inaction against the coal mafia. An ECL official in Raniganj said the area where  illegal mines came up in Bansra and Sishubagan fell under their leasehold area. “We got complaints from people earlier and urged the police to stop the menace. We will give technical aid to fill up the pits,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-341
