18-10-2020||West Bengal||Soumitra Chatterjee's health condition improving gradually: Doctors||Veteran actor Soumitra Chatterjee's health condition is improving gradually and the octogenarian is speaking a few words, opening his eyes as well as responding to verbal commands, doctors said on Sunday. Chatterjee's oxygen saturation has been consistent, his organs are functioning normally and all other parameters are fine, they said. "Mr Chatterjee is doing fine and gradually improving. But we have some ways to go for his complete recovery and going back home. He doesn't have any corona-related lung issues. "We have reduced the oxygen requirement as he is still holding on to his saturation which is above 96 per cent to 99 per cent," Dr Arindam Kar, leading the team of doctors to treat the veteran actor at the medical facility, said. According to the doctor, Chatterjee being drowsy is their only concern at the moment. "The only problem that we are facing is his consciousness. He is presently drowsy but completely arousable. He is responding to verbal commands. He is trying to recognise people, intent of speech but he is only speaking some words. We are also concerned about his age and the comorbidities he is having," Dr Kar said. The veteran actors's daughter Poulomi Basu said "Baba (father) is improving and his vital parameters are okay. But we are told that doctors are working on his neurological side which needs improvement." Chatterjee is still made to listen to music of his choice and on Saturday evening he communicated with his daughter when she visited him at the hospital, the doctor said. The actor has developed no new complications and has no fever, he added. "We are reasonably sure that he will recover from this deadly disease and in the coming four to five days he will be in a much better state," the doctor added. The critically acclaimed actor, who has the rare distinction of having worked with maestros like Satyajit Ray, Mrinal Sen, Tapan Sinha and Tarun Mazumdar, was admitted to the hospital here on October 6 after he tested positive for Covid-19. He had to be shifted to the ITU after his condition deteriorated. Chatterjee tested negative for Covid-19 on Wednesday after which he was shifted to a non-Covid ITU for treatment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-338
18-10-2020||West Bengal||North Dinajpur explosions injure 3 TMC workers ||At least three Trinamul supporters were injured on Saturday when crude bombs exploded during a clash in Lakkhipur area under Chopra block of North Dinajpur. Trinamul leaders blamed the CPM and Congress for the bomb attack. Denying the charges, the CPM and Congress accused Trinamul supporters of carrying bombs to a rally. The Chopra block committee of Trinamul Chhatra Parishad announced a rally against the recent Hathras atrocity and farm bills, said sources. Around 3pm, hundreds of Trinamul supporters assembled in Lakkhipur. A group of CPM and Congress supporters had assembled nearby. All got involved in a verbal duel, escalating to an exchange of blows and kicks, and attacks with bricks, stones and sticks. Crude bombs were also hurled. A police team brought the situation under control. It was found that three Trinamul workers were injured as some crude bombs had exploded near them. All three were rushed to the Dalua health centre and one of them was later shifted to the North Bengal Medical College and Hospital. “We planned a peaceful rally but some CPM and Congress supporters attacked our supporters without provocation. They hurled bombs at us which left three of our men injured,” said Mohammad Ajharuddin, a Trinamul leader and sabhapati of Chopra panchayat samiti. Congress and the Left leaders, however, denied the charges. “Some Trinamul leaders have planned to unleash violence in the area on the pretext of a rally. Many supporters of the party were carrying firearms and crude bombs. Ahead of the rally, some bombs in their possession exploded and injured some of their men,” said a Congress leader. Senior policemen who visited the area said the situation was under control. “Policemen have been deputed in the area. Our officers are trying to find out the source of such illegal crude bombs,” said a police officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-339
18-10-2020||West Bengal||Drive to restore Sunderbans mangroves||Members of the Paschim Banga Vigyan Mancha, one of the largest people’s science movements in India, along with a group of students, have launched a plantation drive in the Sunderbans to restore the mangroves damaged by Cyclone Amphan. The group of activists attached to the Paschim Banga Vigyan Mancha’s Ichchamati Vigyan Kendra, and Alter Life, a voluntary outfit of Calcutta University students, have since last week planted around 30,000 mangrove saplings along the 1.5km stretch adjacent to the thatched dam of Dansa river in the Rupmari-Bererchak area of Hingalganj in North 24-Parganas. “This is just the start. We will continue to plant saplings to restore mangroves of the Sunderbans that suffered damage,” said Pradipta Sarkar, secretary of Ichchamati Vigyan Kendra. According to a state government assessment, about 28 per cent of the Sunderbans, which spans over 9,630sqkm on the Indian side, was damaged by Amphan that hit Bengal on May 20. In a bid to restore the green mangrove, the Bengal government on June 5 or World Environment Day, launched a restorative plantation drive in the Sunderbans to cover around 1,200sqkm. Members of Paschim Banga Vigyan Mancha planted saplings of mangroves such as kalo bain (Avicennia alba), peyara bain (Avicennia marina), hargoja (Acanthus ilicifolius), kewra (Pandanus odorifer), geoan (Excoecaria agallocha), garan (Ceriops decandra), and sundari (Heritiera fomes). Plants belonging to the mangrove variety are shrubs or small trees that grow in saline or brackish water. With their dense network of roots and vegetation, they filter and trap sediments and other pollutants in water and help prevent erosion of banks. Sarkar said what they were doing “goes beyond a mere plantation drive”. “We have involved villagers to ensure the trees are taken care of.” Partha Mukherjee, president of Ichhamati Vigyan Kendra and Alter Life member Bipul Gyne, said their focus was plantation near thatched dams adjacent to the rivers in the Sunderbans to prevent soil erosion and flooding. A state forest department official welcomed the initiative. “Cyclone Amphan caused major damage to mangroves, with Patharpratima and Kultali in South 24-Parganas and Hingalganj in North 24-Parganas being worst hit. We (the government) planted around 4 crore mangrove saplings. But this is not enough. Any initiative to restore the mangrove through plantation is welcome.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-339
18-10-2020||West Bengal||Scramble for ‘character certificates’ ||Tanjila Biwi, 32, of Gangadhari village near Nowda, has been running from pillar to post ever since she received a “frantic phone call” from her husband who wanted a “character certificate” from the BDO so that he could continue to work as a mason in Indore. The call by Rakibul Mollah, 37, was triggered by the arrest of nine Murshidabad residents by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) for their suspected links with the al Qaida terror outfit. While the NIA picked up six from Murshidabad, three others were arrested from Ernakulam in Kerala, all on the intervening night of September 18 and 19. Since then, many migrant workers have been calling up their families back in Murshidabad, asking them to procure character certificates from the administration. Around 3 lakh migrant workers, mainly Muslims, from Murshidabad district are employed in various states. According to the 2011 Census, the percentage of Muslims in Murshidabad is 66.27. Working in Indore, Madhya Pradesh, Rakibul wants a character certificate from his home district to escape “possible harassment”, his wife said. “Ever since the youths were arrested, a feeling of insecurity has gripped us,” she said. The Nowda BDO office faced operational hurdles following the Covid death of BDO Krishna Chandra Das on September 1 and the acting BDO testing positive this month. But Tanjila said she had to keep trying for her husband’s certificate as they had two school-going children. “My husband can’t afford to lose his income or goodwill,” she said. Nowda panchayat samiti sabhapati Biswajit Ghosh confirmed the trend of migrant workers applying for “character certificates”. “But since it is a new thing, we have to look at proper channels,” he said. At Mullickpur in Lalgola, Lutfa Biwi, 45, said her son Harun Rashid, a mason in Hyderabad, asked her to contact the panchayat samiti urgently for a character certificate with his photograph. “We can give a letter approving his background. For more, we forward requests to the DM’s office,” said Lalgola panchayat samiti chief Jahangir Mian. District magistrate J.P. Meena said they had received such requests and that his office would coordinate with the labour department on them. Families of migrant workers in Nadia’s Tehatta are equally worried. Sources said the NIA investigation provided hints of militant links in the Nadia district, which shares a border with Murshidabad. According to the sources, employers at places like Bankura and Purulia and in states like Kerala and Tamil Nadu asked migrants who were set to return to their workplaces to rejoin their duties only after they submit NOCs or no-objection certificates. “These demands are mainly being put forward to Muslim residents of Murshidabad, but we are also coming under the radar owing to sheer proximity,” a labourer at Betai near Tehatta said on condition of anonymity. For more than a week now, he has been out of work, awaiting an NOC, which in many cases is difficult to procure by family members who are often aged or without access to resources. “This is an unusual trend. I have been working for about 10 years in Kerala but have never encountered such a problem. Generally, employers check voter identity cards or Aadhaar, but this time, our employer has asked to submit an NOC from police confirming no pending case against us because we hail from Tehatta,” Anwar Mondal (name changed) said, alleging that Muslim labourers were being “singled out and harassed” using the NOC. The sources, however, confirmed that labourers from other communities and hailing from districts other than Murshidabad and Nadia were also being asked to submit NOCs by employers. Biswanath Adhikary, who was set to join a Larsen & Toubro project in Bankura this month, was asked to produce an NOC by his employer. Biswanath, who has appealed to the Tehatta police to issue the NOC, said: “I was earlier working for a separate project in Madhya Pradesh. But after the lockdown, I was asked to go to Bankura, where they are now making me wait for the NOC.” A senior officer of Krishnagar police district said: “A few hundred applications have been received at several police stations recently, mostly under Tehatta subdivision. We have asked the District Investigation Bureau to check the antecedents of the applicants so that the necessary certificates can be issued.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-339
18-10-2020||West Bengal||Puja adds cheer to Digha tourism||The East Midnapore seaside tourist spots of Digha and Mandarmani have proved unlikely beneficiaries this Durga Puja season, contrary to the otherwise tepid lockdown-induced tourist market. Hoteliers in both towns, who are accustomed to weekend tourists from Calcutta and suburban towns for weekend picnics, have witnessed near capacity bookings for this upcoming week. Digha, where railway services were suspended since March 23, received a shot in the arm when South Eastern Railways resumed one special Howrah-Digha daily service running for the next 42 days. “Digha tourists are heavily reliant on trains and buses to get here, so our tourism industry had been depressed since March despite partial re-openings since July,” said Digha hoteliers’ association secretary Dipra Das Chakraborty. “But we are at above 50 per cent capacity in bookings for the coming week, which is a very pleasant surprise.” Sources said in addition to the Howrah special train, 52 government bus routes had been resumed this month to and fro Digha, Mandarmani and Tajpur. Sources added that though train fares were notably high, at a Rs 485 round trip (air-conditioned chair car), bookings were coming in thick and fast. “If things continue at this rate for another month we might even recover our losses from this year sooner than expected,” added a New Digha hotelier. Swarnali Hazra, 32, a resident of Howrah’s Bally, is eagerly looking forward to her family getaway next weekend. “We know crowds will spike in the city during the Pujas, so we are glad to be able to be in Digha, and be safe, for a few days,” said Hazra, adding she was “confident” about hotels’ Covid protocol. In Mandarmani, where most tourists travel by private cars, hoteliers’ association sources said pre-bookings had touched an “astonishing” 80 per cent. Association secretary Debdulal Das Mahapatra confirmed the trend: “We are confident in our safety protocol and believe our guests will take precautions. We are not relying heavily on public transport so that is a bonus.” Digha Sankarpur Development Authority has called for a mandatory safety meeting with all hoteliers on Sunday that will also be attended by the district magistrate and police superintendent. “We are taking care to ensure safe tourism here because this is the chief minister’s vision for Digha. We will take all precautions and instruct hoteliers (to do so too),” said DSDA vice-chairman Akhil Giri.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-339
18-10-2020||West Bengal||CPM admits to key ‘failure’ in hills||Some CPM leaders from the hills admitted to the party’s failure to properly address the ethnic issue in an event on Saturday to mark the 100 years of the Communist Party of India founded in Tashkent on October 17, 1920. K.B. Wattar, CPM district secretariat member and one of the two CPM leaders to win the Darjeeling Gorkha Hill Council (DGHC) seat in 1988, when the Subash Ghisingh’s Gorkha National Liberation Front (GNLF) swept the hills with the Gorkhaland slogan, admitted as much at a news meet. “Our biggest failure was not to address the ethnicity issue properly,” he said in reply to a question from The Telegraph. The CPM opposes a separate state of Gorkhaland and instead vouches for “the highest form of autonomy” to transfer all powers — except home and judiciary — to the autonomous hill body. Saman Pathak, former CPM Rajya Sabha MP and state secretariat member echoed Wattar. “We looked at...the working class but probably failed in addressing the ethnic issue. We tried a holistic approach by looking at the working class,” said Pathak. As if they regretted their opposition to Gorkhaland in 1986, Pathak said they were against the “political” tussle with GNLF then. “After three years (1988 when DGHC was formed) we were accommodating (to the GNLF),” said Pathak. Leaders also traced the history of communists in Darjeeling hills, recalling that in 1943, Communist leader Sushil Chatterjee tied up with the fiery Ratanlal Brahmin, who was later elected to the Bengal provisional Assembly in 1946. For decades, communists were a force to reckon with in the hills as they could unite tea garden workers against the British. The party’s slide started from 1986 when the GNLF raised the Gorkhaland issue which the CPM vehemently opposed. In the 2019 elections, CPM candidate Saman Pathak polled only 0.6 per cent of the total votes cast in the three hill Assembly segments of Darjeeling, Kalimpong and Kurseong. “In 1986, we had 8,000 party members. It went down to 102 in 1996 (when the breakaway CPRM was formed). Today, we have 400-odd members,” said Wattar. As Bengal heads toward another election , the CPM leaders’ collective admission about the mistake in the hills hints at the party trying to start afresh with the realisation that they cannot ignore ethnic politics anymore. Pathak said that despite being against the formation of Gorkhaland, they were raising ethnic issues. “We were the ones to support the demand for the inclusion of Nepali language in the 8th Schedule of the Constitution. We are demanding linguistic minority status for Nepali,” said Pathak. The CPM said that the “political permanent solution” that is being talked about in the hills could not be anything different from the autonomous body the party had talked about since 1955.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-339
18-10-2020||West Bengal||3,865 new cases, recovery rate dips||Bengal on Saturday logged 3,865 new Covid-19 cases, which took the total cases past 3.17 lakh, dragging the recovery rate further down to 87.66 per cent. This happens to be the 14th day so far in October when the figure for the highest jump in Covid-19 cases in the 24-hour window was reset. On Saturday, Bengal reported 61 deaths, with 15 each from Calcutta and North 24-Parganas, and 3,183 cures. Bengal’s recovery rate, which reached a high of 87.98 per cent on October 6, dropped to 87.66 on Saturday. The national recovery rate, which till recently was far behind that of Bengal, overtook it with 87.98. “This has been an alarming spell of relentless rise. None of our interventions paid off yet. The Puja is already here. We can only pray that this does not turn into a full-fledged public health emergency over the next couple of weeks,” said a minister. Bengal’s 3.17 lakh total cases include nearly 2.78 lakh recoveries and 5,992 deaths. On Friday, BJP state unit chief Dilip Ghosh and Midnapore MP tested positive. Before him, five MPs — Abu Hasem Khan Choudhury, Locket Chatterjee, Sukanta Majumdar, Jayanta Roy and Shanta Chhetri — had tested positive. Over 30 members of the Bengal Assembly, half of from the ruling party, have been infected since the onset of the pandemic, including nine members of the Mamata Banerjee cabinet. They are Rabindra Nath Ghosh, Tapas Roy, Manturam Pakhira, Suvendu Adhikari, Binay Barman, Jyotipriya Mullick, Sujit Bose, Swapan Debnath and Soumen Mahapatra. The virus also claimed the lives of CPM veteran Shyamal Chakraborty, besides Trinamul MLAs Samaresh Das, Tamonash Ghosh and Gurupada Mete. With 43,428 tests, the total tests went past 39.47 lakh, at 43,864 tests per million people. The renewed surge in cases has caused the positive confirmation rate to rise again, over the past week or so, to 8.03 per cent now. Of the total 5,931 deaths reported, Calcutta alone accounted for 1,971, with 15 till 9am. North 24-Parganas reported a total of 1,357 deaths, 15 of them on Saturday. The state government reported 5,072, or 84.6 per cent of deaths with comorbidity “present”. Bengal’s overall mortality rate is 1.88, substantially behind the national rate of 1.51 per cent. The state reported 37.82 per cent occupancy in the 12,751 beds earmarked for Covid-19 in the 93 dedicated hospitals for the pandemic, besides 3.43 lakh telemedicine consultations for the pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-339
18-10-2020||West Bengal||BJP leader Manish Shukla ‘killer’ a gold robber: CID||Subodh Singh, who allegedly planned the murder of BJP leader Manish Shukla, was involved in robberies at gold loan institutions in Asansol and Barrackpore and is currently lodged in a jail in Bihar’s Nalanda, CID investigators have found. The CID probing the case found that Singh had sent six shooters to Calcutta for the assignment and engaged men in Barrackpore to give logistic support to the shooters. “Subodh Singh is a history-sheeter with several murder charges. He is one of the most notorious bank robbers across the country and was involved in multiple crimes in Bengal,” said an officer. Shukla was gunned down on the night of October 4 in Titagarh in North 24-Parganas. Police had earlier arrested a Titagarh businessman named Khurram and two others, including one Subodh Yadav, from whom they came to know about Singh. “Singh engaged Yadav to give logistic support to the shooters,” an officer said. The murder triggered a war of words between the TMC and BJP as the saffron camp accused the ruling party of killing Shukla. Shukla’s father had named two TMC leaders in his complaint at Titagarh police station. Trinamul leaders had denied the charges. Amid the charges against the police for their involvement in the murder, cops arrested Khurram and a man named Gulab Sheikh within a day of the incident. The arrest of Yadav, who led the cops on Singh’s trail, followed shortly. A team of CID officers recently visited Nalanda’s Hirsa jail and questioned Singh in judicial custody. “He cited personal enmity with Shukla which we are in the process of verifying,” an investigator said. Singh was arrested by Patna police in January 2018. In December 2017, Singh’s armed gang had allegedly barged into a gold loan non-banking financial institute in Asansol and left with 27kg gold and Rs 4 lakh cash. A year back in December 2016, four armed men entered the gold loan non-banking financial company’s Barrackpore unit on BT Road and fled with 30kg gold. An investigator said the modus operandi was the same: “His men arrive on motorcycles, carry out the operation and flee. Then they dump the bikes and leave the city.” The six shooters hired for the work had fled the spot in two-wheelers and then left the city the same night catching buses from Esplanade, police have found. The two-wheelers used in the operation were later found  abandoned in Sodepur.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-339
18-10-2020||West Bengal||Amit Shah tiptoes around ‘just’ demand for central rule||Union home minister Amit Shah has said in reply to a question that law and order in Bengal is in tatters and it is “wajib (just)” on the part of his party leaders to demand President’s rule in the state. Shah, however, added that the central government had to view the situation through the Constitution before taking a decision. “Dekhiye, political party ke neta hain. Stithi itni gambhir hai ki wo maang karen, unki jagah wajib hai (look, they are political party leaders. The situation is so serious that if they are demanding, it’s just on their part),” Shah said in an interview to CNN-News18. The Union home minister was replying when asked for his views on demands by his party colleagues in Bengal to impose President’s rule. Shah added: “So far as the government of India is concerned, we have to view the situation according to the Constitution. We have to take the decision based on what report the governor gives, how the situation stands. But what the BJP leaders are demanding, I believe that the situation is so serious that their demand is not wrong.” Pointed out that he was suggesting the situation in Bengal hadn’t yet reached a stage to impose President’s rule, Shah replied: “Maine aisa nahi kaha (I didn’t say so).” BJP leaders said in private in the capital that they did not get the impression that the Centre was considering any option to impose President’s rule so close to the Assembly polls scheduled in the summer as it might generate sympathy for the Mamata Banerjee government. It is only being used as a political tool to build an atmosphere against the Mamata government, a BJP leader said. The interview was the first extensive TV appearance of Shah against the backdrop of rumours floating about his health after two rounds of hospitalisation. Shah’s scheduled Bengal visit before the Pujas has also been put off. The interview appeared to be an effort to show that the home minister is fine. Before speaking about President’s rule in Bengal, Shah in reply to a question sought to paint a grim picture in the state and claimed the BJP would form the next government. “The law-and-order situation in Bengal is in tatters. Relief operations after Amphan went haywire. Even food grains sent by the Centre were scattered here and there due to corruption. The kind of arrangements that should have been in place for corona was not made. Corruption is at its peak.… Infiltration is going on unhindered. Bomb-making factories are found in every district. The situation is very bad,” Shah said. Asked about projecting a chief minister face, Shah said: “That too can happen.” At the same time, he stressed the people of Bengal want to oust the Trinamul Congress and that is the main thing. On the Bihar polls, Shah asserted that the BJP would abide by coalition dharma and keep its promise of having ally Nitish Kumar as chief minister even if the Janata Dal United won fewer seats than the BJP. Shah did not rule out the option of Chirag Paswan’s LJP coming back in the NDA after the elections, keeping the perception of the LJP acting as a “B team” of the BJP alive. “The people of Bihar understand why and because of who the coalition was broken. We will see after the elections whether the LJP joins the NDA. We are opponents now and will contest accordingly,” Shah said, asked whether the LJP would be back in the NDA after the elections.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-339
18-10-2020||West Bengal||Give us this year our daily bread||Bablu, 88, lives in Dhaniakhali, a weavers’ town in West Bengal’s Hooghly district. In his considerably long life he has seen many things, but nothing has prepared him for this virus onslaught. “Markets have been down for a long time. But I have never seen such a lockdown,” he tells The Telegraph. Typically, Durga Puja is when Bablu and his ilk make earnings for the entire year, but this time it is going to be different. Last year, in the run-up to the Pujas, Bablu had woven 1,000 Dhaniakhali saris, traditional cotton weaves with red or black borders. This year he has woven a few hundred. “Nothing on order,” clarifies the man who has a wife and a college-going son to feed and support. What will he do with these saris? “When the trains start running, I will take them to shops in Calcutta,” he replies. His team of weavers has dispersed with other jobs. Says Bablu, “Some are working as cooks, some are helping out on the farms or at one of the construction sites.” “The lockdown has driven nails in the coffin that is Dhaniakhali... And to think that the place has one of the oldest cooperatives of handloom weavers; it was set up in 1944,” says Kasturi Gupta Menon, who is the honorary president of the Crafts Council of India (CCI) and former development commissioner, handicrafts, in the ministry of textiles. According to Sujata Goswami, who is the executive director of Sarba Shanti Ayog — a platform of the fair trade NGO, Sasha — “The impact has been enormous and disquieting as this sector [handicrafts and handloom] is the second largest provider of employment in India.” She adds, “Small artisans and producer groups do not have the financial cushion to hold through such a crisis.” By producer groups she means community-based groups and entrepreneurial units that are run by artisans. With the traditional markets (fairs, festivals) and contemporary ones (retail places) almost totally closed, the artisans have had minimal cash sales. Says Goswami, “Wholesale buyers are not yet in a position to place new or volume orders. Typically, orders are planned much in advance as the usual lead-time required to complete a production cycle is two to four months.” Sasha has tried to support producer enterprises by settling payments and dues, and also by providing working capital support so they can pay the artisans wages. Uttam Bhaskar, a woodwork artisan from Kalna, had supplied a six-foot Ravana to the CCI a year ago. He had crafted three-foot Durga, Radha Krishna and Ganesha idols too. Today, he doesn’t have the wherewithal to complete a single big order. Says Uttam, “I don’t have the cash to buy wood from Nabadwip.” Like the council and Sasha, Biswa Bangla — the state government enterprise to promote textile and handicrafts of the state — has tried to re-strategise. A lot of it involves tying up with e-commerce platforms. Even so, according to Snehasish Sarkar, Biswa Bangla’s COO, the brand has been able to achieve only half the business brought in by the brick-and-mortar stores. Ranjit, who runs a sari shop in Nadia district’s Phulia, is waiting for the local trains to start plying. He turns the tap on his list of woes, “We have just about managed to recover from Cyclone Amphan. Trees had fallen, the room where my loom was located was in a bad shape. Now we are confronted with transport issues.” Ranjit has tried his hand at online sales, but in that he is the exception, not the rule. “We are definitely thinking of going online but we have so little manpower,” says Nandini Mahtab of Bengal Home Industries Association. And while there are one-off efforts — private enterprise Paramparik Karigar is holding webinars for karigars and hosting online exhibitions for them — as former secretary of CCI Nandita Pal Choudhury points out, “There is a general lack of dynamism where handholding of artisans is concerned.” This year, according to the almanacs, Ma Durga arrives on horseback. Sign of an embattled year ahead; but then everyone including the artisans knows.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-339
