19-10-2020||West Bengal||People flout social distancing norms and go pandal-hopping in Calcutta||Braving intermittent rain, hordes of people were seen flocking big-ticket Durga puja pandals in the city on Monday morning with little or no regard for social distancing norms. Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee had last week announced that revellers can go pandal hopping from 'Tritiya' - three days before the rituals begin -- to avoid crowding on the last four days of the annual extravaganza. At some of the popular marquees in the city, such as Ekdalia Evergreen, Singhi Park, Sribhumi Sporting and Badamtala Asar Sangha, people were not allowed to step inside without masks. Crowd management, however, remained a challenge as swarms of revellers gathered outside the pandals, despite repeated warnings by the puja committees. At Sribhumi Sporting, in the northern part of the city, many were seen huddling at different corners to click photographs of the deity, bedecked in gold jewellery. Subham Das, a pandal-hopper from Dumdum, said outside the Sribhumi pandal, "This pujo is a must-see for me, Covid or no Covid. What is the point if I can't stay back a little after coming all way from my place, which is some 8km away?" Partha Ghosh, an office-bearer of Shivmandir Durga Puja in south Kolkata, said volunteers at the exit and the entry points are ensuring that people do not take off masks or push and shove one another. Thousands of people also thronged the city's shopping hubs for last-minute purchases. Rita Debnath, when asked why she wasn't covering her nose, hit back saying she was finding it difficult to breathe with the mask on. "Why just me, there are so many others who are not following protocols. This is the only time of the year I shop for my children and grandchildren...I can't break that tradition, the woman, in her mid-60s, said outside a shop in Gariahat. The COVID-19 death toll in Bengal went past the 6,000-mark on Sunday with 64 more fatalities, even as a record number of 3,983 fresh cases pushed the tally to 3,21,036.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-337
19-10-2020||West Bengal||No entry of visitors to Puja pandals, rules Calcutta High Court||The Calcutta High Court on Monday ordered that all Durga Puja pandals across the state be declared no-entry zones to prevent the spread of Covid-19. A division bench of the high court comprising Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Arijit Banerjee, hearing a public interest litigation, said that no visitors will be allowed to enter the marquees. For small pandals, barricades will have to be put up five metres from the entrance, while for the bigger ones, the distance has to be 10 metres, the court ordered. There should be no-entry boards on the barricades, it said. The court also ordered that only 15 to 25 persons belonging to the organising committees will be allowed to enter the pandals. The bench was hearing a petition by a leader of the CPM’s labour arm, Saurav Das, who had challenged the government’s decision to give doles to Puja organisers. The court had on Thursday asked the Bengal government what was the need to celebrate festivals at a time schools and colleges were closed because of a pandemic. Justice Banerjee raised several other questions. Some of them were: The division bench posed the questions to the state’s advocate-general, Kishore Datta, after he submitted that 37,000 clubs had been given a dole of Rs 50,000 each so they could distribute masks and sanitisers among people. Each of the clubs has been organising Durga Puja for at least 10 years. The court also asked why the government could not distribute the masks and sanitisers through police? “What is the necessity to engage Puja committees in the distribution of masks and sanitisers?” Justice Banerjee asked. Counsel for the petitioner and senior advocate Bikash Ranjan Bhattacharyya submitted before the bench that the government was encouraging the organisers to hold Puja without taking precautions against the spread of Covid-19. “There is every possibility of a massive spread of the disease after the Puja,” Bhattacharyya said. At this, Justice Banerjee asked the advocate-general: "Where is the blueprint of your safeguard measures?” He asked the lawyers from both sides to sit together to chalk out a blueprint of possible protection measures.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-337
19-10-2020||West Bengal||Plan to make Soumitra walk after significant improvement||Veteran Bengali actor Soumitra Chatterjee's health condition has improved significantly and doctors are planning to make him walk with support in a couple of days, a senior medical practitioner treating him at a private hospital here said on Monday. Doctors said the octogenarian was administered "rigorous" physiotherapy to help him improve quickly and they are planning to read out stories to him, besides continuing his music therapy. "We have given him higher doses of steroids and there have been no complications. Hopefully, its effect will be evident in the coming days. He has responded today also. There has been no growth in cultures. The good thing is that we made him sit on the bed. "We have intensified his physiotherapy so that he improves quickly. We have also given him chest and limb therapy. Maybe, in a couple of days, we will start making him walk with support," Dr Arindam Kar, who is leading a team of doctors treating the actor, said. The thespian's oxygen saturation levels have been consistent without support, his organs like heart and kidneys are functioning normally and all other parameters are also fine, he said. "His music therapy is ongoing and we are also planning to read out books to him to make him feel better. This may help in psychological stimulation in the brain," the doctor said. Chatterjee has not developed any new complication and does not have a fever, he said. "We are reasonably sure he will recover from this deadly disease and in the coming four to five days, he will be in a much better state," Kar added. The critically acclaimed actor, who has worked with renowned filmmakers like Satyajit Ray, Mrinal Sen, Tapan Sinha and Tarun Mazumdar, was admitted to the hospital on October 6 after he tested positive for Covid-19. He was shifted to the ITU after his condition deteriorated. Chatterjee had tested negative for the infection on Wednesday, after which he was shifted to a non-Covid ITU for treatment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-337
19-10-2020||West Bengal||Deb’s album of Tagore songs set for January debut||Bengal tourism minister Gautam Deb on Sunday announced that he had sung eight Tagore songs for an album slated for a January 1, 2021 release. He also released the teaser of his album titled “E Jibon Punya Karo” at an event in Siliguri. “Through this album, we have tried to put forth a message of harmony in these troubled times,” Deb said. The album also has legendary actor Soumitra Chatterjee’s recitations at intervals. Deb added that he had always been an avid listener of Rabindrasangeet but was convinced to take up singing by his Calcutta-based mentor, Aninda Sankar Majumdar. “He mentored me and convinced me to take up the challenge of singing. The entire credit goes to him,” said Deb at the event. Known for his proactive attitude in the field of administration and politics, Deb said that since November last year, he had been taking music lessons from Majumdar. “Since March this year, because of the pandemic, we have at times thought of stopping the entire project. But as things gradually started getting (somewhat) normal, we decided to go ahead,” said Deb. While this would be Deb’s maiden musical album, Chatterjee’s recitations make it an added treat. Chatterjee, who recently contracted the novel coronavirus, is under treatment in Calcutta. The teaser suggests that the album was shot in the picturesque locales of Darjeeling hills and the lush greens of the Dooars. “Making the album is just the beginning of a new journey for me,” said an emotional Deb. “It is like a transformation and taking refuge in Tagore. Through this album, we have tried to put forth a message of harmony in these troubled times. If everything goes fine, we will definitely try more such creative experiences in future,” he added. Along with the album, the minister, who is one of the senior political leaders of north Bengal, has started recording his experiences in politics, an arena in which he stepped as a young man back in 1975. “It is not an autobiography as such but I want to have a record of my experiences in politics,” said Deb. Subires Bhattacharyya, the vice-chancellor of North Bengal University who was present on the occasion, appreciated the album. “For someone remaining busy in political and administrative activities most of the time, it needs courage to explore a new avenue. What the minister did deserves appreciation,” said Bhattacharyya. In recent times, the most famous politician from Bengal who sings is Babul Supriyo. The Bollywood playback singer — with hits like Hum Tum to his credit — joined the BJP to win the Lok Sabha seat from Asansol. Supriyo is now a junior Union minister too.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-337
19-10-2020||West Bengal||BJP yet to get a puja for Modi’s address||BJP leaders in Bengal are still hunting for puja mandaps for the live telecast of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s speech to the people of the state on October 22 as most organisers are refusing to install giant screens or monitors. “Most of the puja committees are refusing to let us install giant screens or monitors.… We had plans to get a maximum number of puja committees on board for the programme. But that hasn’t happened at least till now,” said a BJP state leader. The BJP central leadership had instructed the state unit to use the puja mandaps for Modi’s address on October 22. “Our district leaders are informing us that the puja committees are rejecting our proposal... Most of these puja committees have taken the grant of Rs 50,000 from the state government and that’s acting as a deterrent,” said another state BJP leader. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee had announced that the state government would give a grant of Rs 50,000 to each Puja. Besides, she also announced a waiver of 50 per cent on electricity rates and complete waiver of fees that civic bodies and the fire brigade charge from puja committees. Sources in the state government said around 50,000 puja committees had already availed themselves of the package. “The government’s largesse for the organisers has taken away the advantage we gained during last year’s puja,” said a BJP leader. After the BJP won 18 Lok Sabha seats in the general election, party leaders inaugurated hundreds of Pujas last tear. But this year, most of the pujas have gone back to the Trinamul fold. A BJP leader in Hooghly recounted that party MP Locket Chatterjee had inaugurated 56 Durga Pujas in Hooghly alone last year. “We haven’t received a single invitation for inauguration so far this year. It seems the puja organisers are maintaining a distance from us... Against this backdrop, you can imagine how difficult it is for us to convince them to install giant screen or monitors for the PM’s programme,” the Hooghly BJP leader said. The Hooghly district president of the BJP, Gautam Chatterjee, however, tried to put up a brave face and said the party was still hopeful of getting on board at least 100 puja committees to telecast Modi’s address. BJP leaders in other districts like Birbhum and East Burdwan said they were facing resistance from Trinamul in getting the puja mandaps for the October 22 address. “Trinamul always tries to stop any event of the BJP and this time, it is with money,” said Shyamapada Mondal, BJP’s Birbhum president. Trinamul leaders said the decision by the chief minister to inaugurate pujas in districts also helped the party push the BJP away from the inauguration scene. “We know that BJP is contacting puja committees with requests to telecast Narendra Modi’s speech. But no committees are agreeing as they love their chief minister,” said Asish Banerjee, the state agriculture minister. He added that he and his other colleagues are flooded with invitations for inauguration pujas this year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-337
19-10-2020||West Bengal||Bengal logs 3,983 cases and 64 deaths||Bengal on Sunday logged 3,983 Covid-19 cases, which took the total number of patients past 3.21 lakh and dragged the recovery rate further down to 87.55 per cent. The maximum number of patients for a 24-hour period was reset for the 15th time in October on Sunday, the day on which the cases crossed 3,900 for the first time. The state also reported 64 deaths from the pathogen on Sunday, the third time to record the highest number of fatalities. The toll from the pandemic crossed 6,000 to touch 6,056. Bengal minister of state for labour Nirmal Maji tested positive for Covid-19. Maji, 59, a physician, tested positive on Saturday evening, barely a month after an attack of cerebral haemorrhage. Maji is the 10th minister to contract the novel coronavirus. North Bengal development minister Rabindra Nath Ghosh, minister of state for parliamentary affairs Tapas Roy, minister of state for Sunderbans affairs Manturam Pakhira, transport and irrigation minister Suvendu Adhikari, backward classes welfare minister Binay Barman, food and supplies minister Jyotipriya Mullick, fire and emergency services minister Sujit Bose, minister of state for micro, small and medium enterprises Swapan Debnath and public health engineering minister Soumen Mahapatra had been detected with the pathogen earlier. “Ten ministers make up 23 per cent of the cabinet whose total strength is 44,” said the senior minister. Over 20 Trinamul Congress lawmakers, who include the 10 ministers, form over half of the 40-odd Bengal MLAs infected with the novel coronavirus. Six MPs from the state have also contracted the disease. They are Abu Hasem Khan Choudhury (Malda South) of the Congress, Dilip Ghosh (Midnapore), Locket Chatterjee (Hooghly), Sukanta Majumdar (Balurghat), Jayanta Roy (Jalpaiguri) — all from the BJP — and Trinamul’s Rajya Sabha member Shanta Chhetri. Covid-19 has also claimed the lives of CPM veteran Shyamal Chakraborty, besides Trinamul’s Egra MLA Samaresh Das, Falta MLA Tamonash Ghosh and Indas MLA Gurupada Mete. With 43,520 tests logged on Sunday, the total number of swab samples recorded on Sunday went past 39.91 lakh and tests per million people are 44,347. The renewed surge in the cases has caused the positive confirmation rate to rise again, over the past week or so, to 8.04 per cent now. Of the total 6,056 deaths reported, Calcutta alone accounted for 1,984, with 13 till 9am. North 24-Parganas reported a total of 1,374 deaths, 17 of them on Sunday. The state government reported 5,125 deaths (84.6 per cent) as those with comorbidity “present”. Bengal’s overall mortality rate is 1.88, substantially behind the national rate of 1.51 per cent. The state reported 37.32 per cent occupancy on 12,751 beds earmarked for Covid-19 at 93 dedicated hospitals. Besides, there have been 3.47 lakh telemedicine consultations for the pandemic so far.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-338
19-10-2020||West Bengal||Army veterans from Nepal face citizenship poser||Born in Nepal, a retired subedar (name withheld on request) who served in the Gorkha regiment of the Indian Army for 28 years is increasingly feeling “stateless”. “I was born in a village near Pokhara (Nepal) and was recruited in the Indian Gorkha regiment as a youth. I have no family members in Nepal, no ties left there, as I have spent my life in India and my family is settled here. But I have nothing here, too,” the retired subedar said. A 1950 Indo-Nepal treaty allows citizens of both the countries to move freely and settle in each other’s territory. But many Gorkha jawans who were born in Nepal and served the Indian Army for decades feel “stateless” after they retire. There’s nothing to go back to in Nepal and the process of getting Indian citizenship is cumbersome, they say. After India gained Independence in 1947, an agreement generally called “Tripartite Agreement (TPA)” was signed the same year among the UK, India and Nepal, in which Nepal agreed to allow Gorkha troops in the armies of UK and India. Following the agreement, six out of 10 Gorkha regiments became part of Indian Army and the remaining four went with the British army. After the agreement, however, some Gorkha soldiers refused to join the British Army. To retain them, the Indian Army made the decision to raise the 11 Gorkha Rifles. Even though the TPA states that the Gorkha soldier must be recruited and must serve and be resettled as Nepal citizen, the British government allows personnel who have served for at least four years to settle in Britain (read: indefinite leave to remain) automatically and be naturalised as British citizens under law. While applying for citizenship in India, various documents like foreign passports are needed to be submitted to the Union home ministry. But a retired Captain born in Nepal who served for 34 years in the Indian Army said most jawans do not possess the passport. “We do not know what our future holds. We served the army as Indians....the bullets fired by the enemies never made a distinction (between soldiers of Nepal origin and Indians).” All he wanted now, he said, was a simplification of the process to get Indian citizenship. Colonel (retired) Keshab Rai, former secretary, Darjeeling Sainik Zilla Board, agreed with the retired Captain. “A simplified process to grant Indian citizenship rather than the normal cumbersome citizenship process should be facilitated for those jawans who want to settle in India. The process should start during the last year of their service,” said Colonel (retd) Rai. The retired Colonel added that most of these jawans were poorly educated and unaware of the process to apply for citizenship. “This is a growing problem…there a few thousand jawans facing this problem in our region,” he said, adding the lack of proper Indian citizenship deprives the jawans from enrolling with the Sainik Board, losing out on facilities, official recognition and education scholarship. Colonel (retd) Rai  made a strong case for the Indian government to simplify the process of granting Indian citizenship to such army personnel as “they spent their lives swearing by the Indian flag and anthem”. “The jawans are recruited at young ages, they spend anything between 17 and 34 years (depending on rank) in India and when they retire they prefer to stay in India because they have nothing left in Nepal,” he said. “Most of them are stateless persons...they languish as persons with no proper nationality even after having served in the Indian army for a long period of time. Their documents of Nepal are useless and they have no proper Indian documents.” Under the Indian Army, Gorkhas have served in Bangladesh, Sri Lanka, Siachen, and in the UN peacekeeping missions in Lebanon, Sudan and Sierra Leone.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-338
19-10-2020||West Bengal||DSP helps youths crack interview ||Chandan Das, the deputy superintendent of police (traffic) of Cooch Behar, is a happy man. As many as 55 of his “students” could succeed in the interview conducted to recruit constables in the Bengal state police force. For the past few months, Das had gone beyond the call of duty to guide a group of youths who were preparing for the final leg of the recruitment process, that is, the interview. Last Friday, he was pleasantly surprised to find many of his “students” in front of his office near Sagardighi of Cooch Behar town. Beaming broadly, they felicitated Das with a bouquet, cake and chocolates, as they told him that they had passed the interview and would be recruited as constables. One of them, Sourav Chakraborty, 22, said being a cop had been his childhood dream. “I had passed in the prelims, in physical fitness and in the main (of the recruitment exam). Then I had to wait for the interview. While waiting, I learnt that DSP (traffic) Sir is training some youths for interviews. I joined, and now because of his guidance my dream has come true,” he said. He and his friends said Das had held mock interviews and guided them on how to handle different and difficult questions calmly and confidently. Sources said that written exams were held last February and final interviews in August and September. Das, when asked about his unique initiative, said he had trained around 70-odd youths for the interview. “I helped them improve their confidence, guided their reading and showed them how to first judge a question, think it over and then answer. The mock tests, I believe, helped them. It gives me a good feeling as most of these boys are from economically weaker families,” the traffic DSP said. In Cooch Behar, the district police in July last year opened “Chila Roy Pathshala”, a training centre for job aspirants preparing for competitive exams. Das trained the youths at the centre located in district police lines. “The idea is to encourage youths and train them so that they can succeed in competitive exams. It is good that a batch of youths have proved their mettle,” said Cooch Behar district police chief Md Sana Akhtar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-338
19-10-2020||West Bengal||Women join hands for haat||Some women in Siliguri have joined hands to sell an array of products that they make themselves for extra earnings at a time the country is reeling under an economic crisis. Last week, they met at a community building for an exhibition-cum-sale of their products, which include garments, handicraft, jewellery, food items, handmade candles and colourful clay lamps. Christened the Rupang Dehi urban haat, the idea was to bring in buyers who can choose from a variety of products at one place and simultaneously create scope for each of the women to earn. “During the lockdown, I found so many women good at craft but do not find a place to sell their products. This made me float a campaign on social media. The campaign worked and many talented women contacted us. In fact, some left us amazed with the quality of their products, say handmade chocolates, and their dexterity. We drew up a plan under BRISK Educare and Culture, a community I had floated, to take up the task of bringing them together and connect to buyers,” said elocutionist Paramita Dasgupta, who initiated the endeavour. Paramita, who also teaches at a college, then started contacting the women who “responded spontaneously”. This made her plan “Rupang Dehi” on October 10 and 11. A community hall was chosen and participants were asked to come with their products for display and sale. “Each of those who participated showcased displayed and sold different products. It had the real essence of a ‘haat’ (a village market) and we could get a good number of buyers,” added Paramita. The response of buyers, who came to know about the haat from social media, has bolstered the confidence of the women, she added. “We want to continue the initiative,” Paramita signed off.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-338
19-10-2020||West Bengal||Puja alert in pandemic year||Senior officials of the administration and state health department have alerted people to adhere to Covid-19 protocols during Durga Puja. Sushanta Roy, the officer on special duty on Covid deputed by the state government in north Bengal, warned pandal-hoppers not to become lax. “We have started random rapid antigen tests in marketplaces (to test for Covid). Mobile testing kiosk vans are moving through north Bengal districts and tests are being carried out randomly. The idea is to isolate Covid positive patients before Durga Puja. However, if people keep crowding at different places ahead of and during the festival, there is always a chance that positive cases will steadily increase. There is no space for leniency,” said Roy. “We are in touch with Durga Puja organisers and asking them to maintain Covid norms,” Roy added. On Friday, administrative officials and those in the health department held a meeting here to assess the situation and draw up plans to make necessary preparations ahead of the festivities. In Darjeeling district, sources said that the positive rate was 14.92 per cent, slightly on the higher side. “If people don’t take care of the Covid norms during the festivities, the positive rate will surely go up,” a source said. The health department, sources said, has made preparations to handle extra patients. In Siliguri, there are 484 beds at the Covid hospitals of which 114 beds are on standby. There are 186 CCU beds in Darjeeling district with another 88 beds recently added. In all, 197 ventilators are available for critical patients to which 88 more will be added. “We have an adequate number of doctors, nurses and health workers but still we do not want anyone to come to the hospital,” Roy said, underlining the need for caution during festivities. Administrative and police officers are worried about the extent to which the safety alert would work, because in places such as Siliguri, Jalpaiguri and Malda, thousands move in from other towns, villages of Bengal and from neighbouring states of Bihar and Assam for pandal-hopping. “There is no curb on peoples’ movement. If people keep on coming to Siliguri to visit pandals, we don’t know what to do (to contain the spread of Covid). With overcrowding, there is always a risk that Covid cases would rise,” said a senior official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-338
19-10-2020||West Bengal||Nadda visit to focus on north Bengal seats||All eyes are on Siliguri now, thanks to the scheduled whirlwind visit of BJP national president J.P. Nadda here on Monday. A number of frontline leaders of the party and central leaders tasked with consolidating the BJP’ support base in Bengal, party MPs and MLAs have started congregating in Siliguri from Sunday. Elaborate arrangements are being made at a hotel off NH31 on the northeast end of the city where Nadda will address party leaders and workers and is likely to share strategies for securing most seats in north Bengal in next year’s crucial Assembly polls. In all, there are 54 Assembly seats and eight Lok Sabha seats in the region. At the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, BJP had secure seven seats and manage a lead in 38 Assembly segments. Trinamul, which could not bag even one Parliament seat from the belt, gained a lead in 12 Assembly segments. The Congress got a lead in four. A political observer said that since then, the BJP leadership had consistently focused on north Bengal. “The party wants to retain the leads in these 38 seats and increase the number of seats in the Assembly elections. Trinamul, on the other hand, is desperate to revive its support base. At this point, Monday’s meeting is significant as it is expected that the BJP president will unveil plans before party leaders and workers to perform better,” said a political observer. The observer pointed that Trinamul had started playing the development card again to woo voters from areas such as the tea belt and the Rajbanshi-dominated stretch. Nadda, party sources said, will reach Naukaghat More in southern parts of the city, from the airport. There, he will pay homage to Panchanan Burma, considered the most revered statesman of the Rajbanshi community. From there, he will visit a local Kali temple and then reach the meeting venue. He will leave for Delhi late in the afternoon. That the BJP will sharpen its political attack on the Mamata Banerjee government and her party and try and drum up support in the tea belt is evident from recent visits of Raju Bista, the BJP MP of Darjeeling, to the tea gardens of the Terai belt or gardens on the outer reaches of Siliguri. On Sunday, Bista visited Putinbari, Fulbari and Hansqua tea estates. Here, Bista met people and slammed the state government for poor road connectivity to these gardens. “Putinbari is hardly 10 to 12km from Siliguri and it was shocking to see people there do not have any road connectivity. There is a river midway and people here use tractors to cross it. During rainy season, over 5,000 people who live in the adjoining areas remain completely cut off from Siliguri. A bridge had collapsed years back and no initiative was taken by the state to rebuild it,” said Bista.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-338
19-10-2020||West Bengal||12km march to protest delay in river cleansing||Over 1,000 fishermen and nature activists from four blocks of Basirhat took out a 12km march on Sunday to protest the alleged administrative apathy to begin the long-awaited cleansing of the polluted Bidyadhari river. The protesters said the National Green Tribunal had last year ordered the cleansing of the Bidyadhari, along with 351 other polluted rivers. Despite the approval of a grant by the Centre, the work is yet to begin. Fishermen from Sandeshkhali, Hansnabad, Minakha and Haroa blocks gathered at Malancha on the Basanti Highway under the banners of the Bidyadhari Nadi Bachao Committee and the Dakshingan Matsyajibi Forum to start the march, which concluded at the Kulti crossing near Haroa. The fishermen said it had become a serious livelihood issue for them as the alleged pollution caused by the Bantala leather complex had been depleting several kinds of fish from the river. “Around 10,000 families in the four blocks are solely dependent on fishing. But because of the pollution in this long stretch, several species of fish have disappeared,” said a fisherman from Haroa who joined the protest march. An approximate 40km stretch of the Bidyadhari, from Haroa to Sandeshkhali, is polluted largely because of the alleged draining of industrial waste from the leather complex. “The leather complex authorities never realised they had been draining the poison into the river, not only endangering the riverine life forms but also robbing these people of their livelihood,” said Gopesh Patra, a Trinamul Congress leader who is also the convener of the committee. Last year, the National Green Tribunal directed state governments to ensure cent per cent treatment of sewage before release into river streams. The tribunal also directed the state government to begin installation of such treatment plants for sewerage and connecting drains by March 31, 2020 “After the order of the tribunal, the Centre had sanctioned Rs 4.5 crore for the work on a 20km stretch of the Bidyadhari. The state government was supposed to carry out the work, which is yet to begin,” said Patra. “We came to know that the state public health engineering department would do the work,” he added. A public health engineering department official in Calcutta said the detailed project report for the work has been finalised and sent for vetting. “We are hopeful of being able to begin the work soon.” A spokesperson for the Calcutta Leather Complex Tanners’ Association dismissed the allegations as “baseless”. “We have been adhering to the standard operating procedure from the state government and the state pollution control board. Had we not done so, they would have shut us down by now,” he said. Rakhal Halder, a fisherman from Haroa, said: “We want the state government to take care of the issue and ensure the work begins at the earliest, to save the river, to help us overcome the livelihood crisis.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-338
19-10-2020||West Bengal||BJP’s own puja widens rift  in party||The rift in the Bengal BJP appears to have widened over the decision to organise a Durga Puja this year, with one faction busy with the arrangements and another apparently disinterested in the event. While all puja meetings have been convened by the party’s Bengal minder Kailash Vijayvargiya, the absence of the party’s state unit chief Dilip Ghosh — even before he was taken ill with Covid-19 — and general-secretary (organisation) Subrata Chatterjee has become a talking point at 6 Muralidhar Sen Lane. “Dilipda and Subratada are seemingly unhappy with how Kailashji has been calling the shots about the Puja. In fact, Mukulda’s (Roy) involvement also didn’t go down well with them,” a BJP source said on condition of anonymity. “The idea to organise a full-fledged Puja came from Kailashji himself, but neither Dilipda nor Subratada was consulted for their opinion. All this has made the tussles between the Dilip-Subrata and Kailash-Mukul camps more palpable,” he added. Roy, the former de facto Number Two of Trinamul Congress, was made national vice-president of the party. This source also pointed out that Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s nod to inaugurate the puja showed that the plan had the approval of the party’s highest ranks. “It is a sign that the central leadership is slowly taking over the reins of the state unit, rendering the state leadership virtually insignificant. Of course, the state leadership isn’t very happy with this,” he said. Ghosh, in a recent news conference, said the BJP wasn’t involved in organising any Durga Puja. However, contradicting him directly, other party leaders went ahead with the planning of the event, to be held at the Eastern Zonal Cultural Centre, run by the Union ministry of culture. Sources said Ghosh was aware of the initial plan to hold a single-day cultural event on October 22, with the possibility of an address by Modi. “The change in the plan wasn’t communicated to Dilipda, which did not go down well with him,” said a senior party leader who was at the venue on Sunday evening to oversee the puja preparations. On Sunday, another Trinamul turncoat Sabyasachi Dutta, looking after the erection of the pandal, Rajya Sabha member Swapan Dasgupta and Hooghly MP Locket Chatterjee were present at the venue to inspect the preparations. Dutta is a known Roy acolyte and the other two are known for testy ties with the Ghosh lobby. “We are very excited about the event. The theme for our puja is an old zamindar house,” Chatterjee said. She confirmed danseuse Dona Ganguly, wife of BCCI president Sourav Ganguly, would perform there on October 22.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-338
19-10-2020||West Bengal||Kamtapuri study books sent for approval ||The Kamtapuri Bhasa Academy constituted by the state government has readied study books of all subjects which are taught at state-aided primary schools of Bengal in Kamtapuri language. The books were sent to the state government for approval while requesting introduction of Kamtapuri as a medium of instruction at pre-primary and primary classes at schools in the Rajbanshi belts of the state. On Saturday, members of the academy held a meeting in Jalpaiguri, where they also said they had used Bengali script for the books. In north Bengal, it is a longstanding demand of the Rajbanshi population to start primary education in Rajbanshi and Kamtapuri (a variant of Rajbanshi) languages. “We have carried out studies and have found out that several centuries ago, Kamtapuri languages had a different script. But for some reason or other, that script was not preserved and it would take years of research to collate the script. Also, we need to have software of the script for academic and other works like software of other languages. That is why we have decided to use Bengali script for the books,” said Bajle Rehman, chairman of the academy. He said in total, 33 books of different subjects from pre-primary till Class IV had been prepared and submitted to the state government for scrutiny. “It is necessary to check out the books to affirm that those are in consonance with the syllabus that is followed in primary schools. We are hopeful that from next academic year, Kamtapuri language would be introduced as a medium of instruction in some schools,” Rehman added. On Saturday, the academy members unveiled a book on the grammar of Kamtapuri language that has been written by Dharmanarayan Burma, a prominent researcher. The official magazine of the academy was also published on this occasion.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-338
