20-10-2020||West Bengal||Calcutta HC bars pandal-entry for visitors across the state||Visitors will not be allowed inside Durga Puja pandals this year, Calcutta High Court has said in a ruling that has spread a degree of relief among those bracing for a post-festival explosion in Covid-19 cases. The order by Justices Sanjib Banerjee and Arijit Banerjee is being hailed as the right step and one that is expected to go a long way in hammering home the gravity of the threat. The division bench laid down a series of measures to be taken in and around pandals to prevent overcrowding. “Life has not been normal for the human species since about March 2020 and it may have been better if restrictions were put in place as to how the Durga Puja festivities would be celebrated this year…. In public interest, all pandals where Durga Puja is being celebrated this year are made no-entry zones for members of the public,” the bench said. Areas within 10 metres of a big pandal or five metres of a small pandal will be barricaded as “no-entry zones”. The idol can be viewed from 10 metres “beyond the furthest extremities of the pandal” on any side at the big pujas, and from 5 metres at the smaller pujas. The state director-general of police and the Calcutta police commissioner have been directed to file compliance reports before the court on November 5. The bench underscored its constructive role, saying: “This order must not be seen to be a finding against the State for the inadequacy of the measures attempted to be put in place, but only as a supplement to ensure the proper implementation of such measures by the limited police personnel, volunteers and other administrative officials and workers.” Politically, the Mamata Banerjee government is now freed of a dilemma. The chief minister faced a stark choice: stop the pujas on her own or handle the issue with kid gloves and risk a spike in cases — either way, the BJP would have sought to reap political mileage. But administratively, the perception in the government is that if a similar court order had come earlier, it would have spared the pujas, especially the smaller ones, a great deal of effort. A plea by some puja committees for a review of the order is not ruled out. Several puja organisers in Calcutta said it would have been better had such restrictions come earlier rather than three days before the Puja. They said they had worked overtime to raise funds in a crisis year and build pandals abiding by the government’s restrictions. The question also remains how the Rs 50,000 grant, two-thirds of which the court had earmarked for safety features such as sanitisers in a separate case, would be used. The high court appreciated the government’s efforts and said there was only so much the state could do. “There can be no doubt that appropriate guidelines have been prepared by the state and individual aspects, such as the activities within the pandals, prohibition of carnivals and entertainment programmes and the like, have been extensively referred to in the guidelines. There is also no doubt that police personnel and administrative authorities across the state will put their best foot forward to ensure that the guidelines are followed just as all puja organisers are expected to adhere to the same,” the court said. It referred to the unrelenting onslaught of Covid while underscoring the need for caution. “The virus refuses to go away. Though the healthcare facilities in the state have been augmented, with the limited resources available, the state can only do so much. In such a situation, it may be judicious to err on the side of prevention than to allow the festivities to go on without any checks and repent later that adequate resources may not be available to provide for the massive cure that may become necessary.” The court acknowledged that implementation may be difficult, given the police’s limited manpower. “If the guidelines issued cannot be implemented in the lead-up to the pujas and the overcrowding in the markets in big city Calcutta and the small towns elsewhere in the state has remained by and large unchecked, the same cannot be allowed to be repeated over the four or five days during the Durga Puja celebrations.” The state’s advocate-general prayed for a stay on the high court order but it was turned down. Some government lawyers felt the government would not mind the order, given that the court had put a leash on overcrowding in and around the pandals. The order came on a PIL filed by advocate Saurav Chatterjee that alleged that although the number of people affected by Covid in Bengal is rising every day, the state has allowed organisers to hold Durga Puja as usual. “Instead of restraining the organisers from holding Puja, the state government had issued permission to all the committees,” counsel Bikash Ranjan Bhattacharyya told the court, moving the petition on behalf of Chatterjee.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-336
20-10-2020||West Bengal||Bengal government job balm for kin of elephant attack victims||The Bengal forest department has prepared a list of 749 families across districts who have lost their kin in elephant attacks, and submitted it to the state government. The move follows a recent announcement of chief minister Mamata Banerjee during her Jhargram visit, saying her government would provide the job of special home guard to one member of each of these families. The job offer comes over and above the existing cash compensation. “So far, family members of a person killed in an elephant attack were given Rs 4 four lakh as compensation. But from now, added to the compensation, one member of the family will also get a job,” said a senior forest official. At the meeting, the chief minister had also said all such families who lost one or more than a family member in such attacks from January 2011 to December 2019 would also get jobs. “This is why we have prepared the list of 749 families  and submitted it to the state government,” said Ravikant Sinha, the principal chief conservator of forests of the state. Sources in the department said that among the 749 people who died from attacks by wild elephants, 424 were from north Bengal and the rest 325 people were from south Bengal districts. “Area-wise, the highest number of deaths (105) from elephant attacks has been reported from the fringes of the Gorumara National Park in Jalpaiguri district,” said a forest source. For years now, the demand for jobs was raised by these families, who pointed out that in many cases the person killed in the elephant attack was the main or sole earning member in the mishap, plunging the entire family into financial crisis. A senior Trinamul leader in Alipurduar said this move could help the party draw support from people in the areas reporting frequent man-elephant conflicts. “A government job would be of immense help to these poor families. It would also help us (the party) approach them and seek their support as the chief minister has time and again proved that her government is sincere in addressing such long-pending demands of the people,” he said. Officials of the state forest department have decided to intensify patrolling and other protection activities in two sensitive locations — Zero Bandh in Gorumara National Park and Nathua forest range area in Jalpaiguri forest division — ahead of the festive season. Along with forest guards, pet elephants have also been deputed in these places to conduct patrolling in the forest areas. A senior forester, speaking on the decision, said the department had information that poachers from the northeast could sneak into forests around this time. Thus high alert has been sounded in the reserve forests of north Bengal during the next two months.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-337
20-10-2020||West Bengal||Covid-hit Bengal district hails Calcutta High Court puja order ||The Monday order of Calcutta High Court making pandals no-entry zones has come as a big relief to the administration of North 24-Parganas — one of Bengal’s high-incidence Covid districts — that on Sunday had got 1,096 Durga Puja organisers in Basirhat subdivision to pledge compliance to Covid protocol. Since Covid positive rate in North 24-Parganas district is hovering around 25 per cent, containing the spread of the virus during festive days is a challenge, which officials feel will become easier in the wake of the high court order. A senior district official said the high court order was a big relief. “The pandal no-entry order will discourage many from hitting the streets.” Basirhat district police authorities on Sunday had released an 11-point guideline and made Puja organisers swear adherence to it. It included compulsory wearing of masks for every pandal-hopper, sanitisation and entry regulations. The administration, nevertheless, is concerned about crowding for immersion of deities on Dashami in river Ichhamati. “Usually, people take joyrides on boats to watch the immersion,” Basirhat SP K.P. Barui said. “People from Bangladesh also join from the other side of the river. This year, we directed puja committees to keep immersion rituals to a minimum. Only five persons can accompany the deities for immersion.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-337
20-10-2020||West Bengal||Jalpaiguri administration readies homes for tea workers||The district administration in Jalpaiguri has geared up to implement “Cha Sundari,” the housing scheme announced by the Mamata Banerjee government for tea workers of north Bengal, with indications that distribution of homes in tea estates will start ahead of the Bengal polls next year. On Monday, Jalpaiguri district magistrate Abhishek Kumar Tiwary held a meeting with officials of various state departments and agencies to take stock and draw up a plan to implement the scheme in three closed tea estates in the first phase. The scheme announced by state finance minister Amit Mitra this February has been allotted Rs 500 crore. Last month, Mamata during her visit to Siliguri had announced that 3,694 families residing in tea gardens would get houses in the first phase. “In Jalpaiguri, 206 houses will be built in Manabari, 562 houses in Redbank and 285 houses in Dharanipur tea estate under this scheme. The state housing department will execute the project in association with some other departments,” said a source in the administration. District magistrate Tiwary told newspersons after the meeting that land and land reforms department had conducted surveys in these three tea gardens to identify land for the housing project. “As land leases of all these three gardens have been cancelled, the land is with the state government now and there is no problem in going ahead with the scheme. The survey has ended and now the design of the houses and overall planning would be done before the start of construction. After Durga Puja, a high-level team will visit these gardens for further steps,” Tiwary said. Similarly, houses would be built in some tea gardens of Alipurduar district. The scheme, political observers said, was important for Trinamul ahead of polls. “It was a longstanding demand of the tea garden residents and once implemented, could give considerable political mileage to Trinamul in the brew belt. Proactive moves on the administration’s part indicate that distribution of homes would commence ahead of Assembly polls,” said an observer. Workers of two tea estates — Kalchini and Raimatanag — of Alipurduar district have received state financial aid of Rs 1,500 per month for five closed months though both had reopened last month. “These gardens were closed from April to August this year. They received the entire sum, that is, Rs 7,500, at one go, though the gardens have reopened,” said a tea trade union leader. Additional reporting by our Alipurduar correspondent||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-337
20-10-2020||West Bengal||BSF shoots Bangladeshi national in cattle row in Nadia||The Border Security Force (BSF) gunned down a Bangladeshi national on the India-Bangladesh border in Nadia early on Monday, terming it as retaliatory fire to an attack by cattle smugglers. BSF and local sources said that on the intervening night of Sunday and Monday, two groups of cattle smugglers — one each from India and Bangladesh — gathered at Maluapara village close to an unfenced stretch of border. Multiple sources said smugglers on the Indian side gathered with cattle heads near the border road, the final line of domination of the BSF, for the Bangladeshi smugglers to receive the animals. A spokesperson for BSF’s South Bengal Frontier in Calcutta said: “As Bangladeshi smugglers aggressively moved towards their Indian counterparts, our personnel asked them to stop. They continued to approach fast by hurling stones at our personnel. BSF jawans adopted non-lethal measures to disperse them. But both groups of smugglers increased hurling stones at our personnel and attacked them with sharp-edged weapons. The BSF team was compelled to fire only two rounds from the lethal weapon in which a Bangladeshi smuggler was killed and others managed to flee.” This happened amid a growing demand by Bangladesh authorities for the BSF to use non-lethal weapons while guarding the border. Early this year, Bangladeshi foreign minister A.K. Abdul Momen urged the BSF to use non-lethal weapons during border vigilance and had identified areas where people from his country died in firing by the security forces. The BSF authorities of South Bengal Frontiers reaffirmed its commitment to honour the understanding reached with their counterparts in Border Guard Bangladesh (BGB) for use of non-lethal weapons such as pipe action guns (PAG) and slingshots (locally known as gulti). The body of the Bangladeshi smuggler was later handed over to Bhimpur police for post-mortem. BSF authorities also filed a case with the police.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-337
20-10-2020||West Bengal||Covid cases jump by 3,992 in a day||Bengal logged another high in daily spike with 3,992 new Covid-19 cases on Monday, a day Calcutta High Court stepped in with a landmark no-pandal-entry order aimed at preventing the pandemic in Bengal from spiralling out of control amid the festivities. This was the 16th time in October that the record for the highest 24-hour rise was reset. Bengal’s total novel coronavirus cases went past 3.25 lakh. It includes 2.84 lakh recoveries and 6,119 deaths. Bengal also reported 3,272 recoveries and 63 deaths on Monday. Eighteen died in Calcutta and 10 in North 24-Parganas. “The high court ruling, if implemented properly and adhered to by the masses, will possibly avert a major crisis,” a minister said. “From here, we are probably looking at a daily rise in numbers of 5,000 or so, because of the Puja. Not anything beyond that, which was being estimated before the (high court) order.” He admitted that October “has been relentless for us”. In the 19 days of the month so far, the state recorded nearly 68,000 new cases and 58,000 recoveries. In the same period, the total active cases rose from around 26,000 to over 34,000 now. There have been 1,161 deaths in these 19 days. The recovery rate is now 87.48 per cent, behind the national recovery rate of 88.37. Till recently, Bengal’s recovery rate was significantly higher than the national average. Of the total 6,119 deaths reported so far, the state government reported 5,172, or 84.5 per cent, as comorbid. Bengal’s mortality rate is now 1.88, the national rate is 1.51 per cent. At least 17 persons in Visva-Bharati tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday after over 100 persons in the varsity underwent rapid antigen tests. The offices of the vice-chancellor and registrar are shut. Additional reporting by Snehamoy Chakraborty in Santiniketan||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-337
20-10-2020||West Bengal||Nadda prod to win over north Bengal communities||BJP national president J.P. Nadda on Monday asked party leaders in north Bengal to reach out to different communities and apprise them of several schemes rolled by the Narendra Modi government. Nadda was in Siliguri to attend a meeting with BJP leaders in eight north Bengal districts. During his whirlwind visit, Nadda tried to reach out to different communities in the region and promised to meet demands like formation of Narayani Sena regiment in the Indian Army, establishment of a medicinal hub to boost cinchona plantations in the hills and improvement of railway services. The Rajbanshi population has for long been demanding Narayani Sena regiment on the lines of the one that existed in the Cooch Behar kingdom. “We had mentioned two major issues of the hills in our Sankalp Patra. One is a permanent political solution for the hills and the other is granting of Scheduled Tribe status to 11 communities. Our party is committed to meeting these demands,” Nadda said at the meeting. He then trained his guns at Mamata Banerjee. “Many welfare schemes introduced by the central government have not been implemented in Bengal. The entire responsibility is with chief minister Mamata Banerjee who keeps on saying ‘Hobe Na, Hobe Na (will not happen)’. We want to say, ‘Hobe, April e hobe (it will happen next April)’. Once our party is voted to power in the state, we will implement all these central schemes. Trinamul wants to divide people by offering them doles but we want to bind people together. People here should know this and then make their choice,” the BJP president said. He said the Citizenship Amendment Act would be implemented in Bengal and the delay was on account of the Covid-19 pandemic. Nadda also met representatives of different social and community organisations separately. Sayantan Basu, a state general secretary of the BJP, told media that Nadda was in charge of the party’s campaign in north Bengal during the 2019 general election. “Out of eight Lok Sabha seats in north Bengal, we could win seven. We will grab 50-odd seats in north Bengal in the coming Assembly polls,” said Basu. The Trinamul Congress said Nadda was in Bengal at a time the state is in a festive mood. “The irony is not lost when the President of the BJP talks about ‘divide and rule.’ ‘Divide and rule’ is a ploy learnt from the colonial past and played out deviously every day by your party,” reads a statement issued by Derek O’ Brian, Trinamul’s Parliamentary party leader in Rajya Sabha.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-337
20-10-2020||West Bengal||Puja relief and headache for Bengal government ||The restrictions imposed by Calcutta High Court on visits to Durga Puja pandals may be seen as a political relief to the Mamata Banerjee government, which has been apprehensive of the festival turning the Covid-19 pandemic into a full-fledged public health emergency in Bengal. At the same time, a section of senior officials said Nabanna feels the judgment was delivered too late and was too sweeping in nature for it to be implemented smoothly. Several seniors in the ruling party and the government said the high court had possibly helped avert a much larger crisis. “Having gone out of her way to enable the festival even during Covid-19, the restrictions have now come from the court. So, it is not something that can be held against the chief minister,” said a minister. “Had she imposed any restriction on the festival, the saffron camp would have accused her of being anti-Hindu. Because she allowed everything, they were gearing up to seize on the political opportunity from a major spike in Covid-19 cases after Puja,” he added. The minister said Trinamul was also pleased with several key observations of the court, which went in favour of the government, such as the stress on the administration’s right intentions which were evident from Puja guidelines. “The court also saved us any possible damage from malicious propaganda by the Hindutva brigade by ordering repeated announcements from all pandals what the restrictions are,” he said. Some in the top brass at Nabanna said the order would help them handle crowds in a far more efficient way and make them adhere better to the Covid-19 protocols. A source said the foremost priority of the state government would now be to duly barricade and cordon off the pandals in compliance with the order. “The state government has to ensure that physical distancing is maintained and devotees wear masks outside the barricades. This is a much easier job, especially with the smaller turnouts we now estimate,” said an official. “Considering the way people have been rushing to pandals from last week itself, it would have been very tough for us to manage crowds had the order not been issued,” he added. Senior government officials led by chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay had held a videoconference with district magistrates and the commissioner of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation, besides the city police commissioner, to finalise a plan of action to deal with the rush. “The surge in Covid-19 cases through October was enough of an indication. The chief minister herself had been warning against the revelry worsening the outbreak and asserting that community transmission had begun,” said a government official. Although Mamata herself has been out inaugurating several important pujas of the city, besides fulfilling some social commitments of the festival, she has been advocating strict adherence to the Covid-19 protocols. However, administrative sources in the state government said Nabanna was now worried how the judgment could be implemented. “It is already the second half of Tritiya. It is extremely difficult now to enforce such an order across tens of thousands of puja pandals in every nook and cranny of the state,” said a senior official. Puja is Bengal’s biggest festival and is a major emotive issue for the state and its residents, and rendering all pandals no-entry zones overnight is easier said than done, he added. Another senior state official said thousands of medium to small pandals in and around the city and elsewhere in the state didn’t have the means or the ability to comply with the order, having already completed the entire process of organising the festival. “The state government and a few agencies are not the sole stakeholders in this. There exist, among others, tens of thousands of organisers with so much at stake. In passing the order, one might argue, not everyone was adequately heard,” he said. “While the state government is unlikely to challenge the order and seek a review, there is every possibility that organisers, or some other stakeholders, might,” he added. The official also pointed out that the court had earlier ordered in a separate case that the Rs 50,000 grant to puja organisers from the state government was to be used on masks, sanitisers and Covid-19 management in and around the pandals. “Now, there is no clarity on what happens with that fund. Given the pandals being turned into no-entry zones, there cannot possibly be expenditure of Rs 50,000 under such heads,” said an official. The on-record statements issued by several senior Trinamul leaders, all associated with big-ticket pujas, were unenthusiastic. Most, such as urban development minister and the immediate past city mayor Firhad Hakim — principal patron of the Chetla Agrani Sangha puja — said they would like to go through the order fully before responding. Fire and emergency services minister Sujit Bose, principal organiser of the Sreebhumi Sporting Club puja, alleged “step-motherly treatment” towards Bengal’s biggest festival. The most balanced response from the ruling camp came from Calcutta’s immediate past deputy mayor — currently the member in charge of health at the board of administrators to run the civic body — Atin Ghosh. “As the principal organiser of 17 north Calcutta pujas, I have to say I am disheartened and in a state of utter confusion over what we can do to save those pujas,” said Ghosh, a foremost leader of the ruling party in north Calcutta. “But, as the person in charge of the city’s public health, I have to say some restrictions were necessary and the high court’s decision is welcome,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-337
