21-10-2020||West Bengal||Calcutta HC allows 45 people in pandals at a time||The Calcutta High Court on Wednesday partly modified its order on community Durga Pujas, allowing drummers to perform within the no-entry zones and raising the number of people who can be present inside the marquees at a time for big pujas from 25 to 45. Hearing an appeal submitted by Forum for Durgotsab, a division bench of the high court comprising Justices Sanjib Banerjee and Arijit Banerjee, retained its earlier order declaring all Durga Puja marquees no-entry zones and erecting barricades in front of the pandals to prevent visitors from entering inside in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. Counsel for the forum submitted before the court that Durga Puja is the biggest festival of the Bengalis and a lot of emotions are attached to it. They appealed that the number of people who can enter the marquees be increased for offering "anjali" and also during "sandhi puja". The bench ordered that the number of people who can stay inside the marquees be increased from 25 to 45 for big Pujas but retained it at 15 for the small ones. The 'dhakis' (drummers), an integral part of the celebrations, were allowed to stay within the no-entry zones of the marquees but they will have to maintain all safety and hygiene protocols. A list of 60 people who can stay inside the pandals for big pujas will have to be put up daily, the court said. The court also said a maximum of 45 people can be present inside the marquees at a time. For small Pujas, the maximum number of people who can stay inside the pandals at a time is 15, the court said. The court had on Monday declared all pandals across Bengal as no-entry zones to prevent the surge of Covid-19 cases in the state. The division bench had also ordered that no visitors would be allowed to enter the marquees.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-335
21-10-2020||West Bengal||Gautam Deb hops pandals to win support||State tourism minister Gautam Deb will visit 250-odd Durga Puja pandals in Dabgram-Fulbari area — his Assembly constituency — during the festive days. On Tuesday, Deb said he had started his pandal visits that would go on for the next few days, a move political observers deemed a strategy to reach out to his voter base before the crucial election. “There are 248 Durga Puja pandals in my Assembly area. I have already started paying them visits and will go to each of these puja pandals,” Deb, who was recently in the news for recording a Rabindrasangeet album, said. Along with the decision to visit the pandals, the state minister has also taken the initiative to secure permission from the administration for over 130 pujas. Once they get permission, their organisers will be eligible for the state government’s assistance of Rs 50,000 each, the tourism minister said. All these pujas, mostly small-scale ones, were being held for years now, but organisers could not obtain necessary permission till last year. Among these, around 70-odd pujas are in his constituency while the rest are in Siliguri subdivision. “All these pujas will get the required permission this year. Then, they can also get the state assistance of Rs 50,000,” Deb said. The minister’s plan — visit each Durga Puja of his Assembly area and help organisers in getting permission and state’s assistance —  indicates that he intends to explore the opportunity of reviving Trinamul’s support base in his seat, opined political analysts. It may be mentioned that in 2011 and in 2016, Deb had won from Dabgram-Fulbari, a constituency that is spread over 14 wards of Siliguri Municipal Corporation and four panchayats of Rajganj block in Jalpaiguri district. In 2016, he had won the seat with a decent margin of around 24,000 votes. However, the tables turned against his party at the 2019 Parliament elections like most other Assembly seats of north Bengal. In the Dabgram-Fulbari Assembly segment, which is under Jalpaiguri Parliament seat, the BJP could manage to secure a lead of over 86,000 votes in last years Lok Sabha polls. “It is evident that the minister and his party colleagues will have to toil hard to bring back support in the Assembly elections. Also, civic elections are due in Siliguri and as there are 14 (of 47) wards of SMC are under his seat. This is an additional pressure on him because if the civic polls are held ahead of Assembly polls, he has to prove he has managed to revive Trinamul’s support  by ensuring the party’s win in maximum number of wards,” said an observer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-335
21-10-2020||West Bengal||Cash cheer for workers of closed Bengal tea gardens||The disbursement of financial aid for three months and an additional ex-gratia for permanent workers of 13 closed tea gardens by the state labour department has brought cheers for these jobless workers ahead of the festivities. In Jalpaiguri and Alipurduar districts, 4,537 permanent workers of 13 tea estates have received the money from the state, sources in the labour department said. In closed tea estates, the state government pays a monthly assistance of Rs 1,500 to the permanent workers under the FAWLOI (Financial Assistance to Workers of Locked Out Industries) scheme. Added to it, the state has paid an ex-gratia of Rs 1,500 for the Durga Puja to each of these workers. “In Jalpaiguri district, we have paid three months’ assistance, that is, Rs 4,500 rupees, and the Rs 1,500 ex-gratia among workers of Redbank, Surendranagar, Dharanipur, Manabari and Raipur. In all, each worker of these gardens has received Rs 6,000 ahead of Durga Puja,” said Rajat Pal, the deputy labour commissioner of Jalpaiguri. However, the disbursement of cash assistance among workers evoked a mixed reaction among trade union leaders. While on one hand they appreciated the state government’s gesture, they also simultaneously demanded that steps be taken to reopen these gardens. “It is good that workers of closed gardens have been paid assistance and ex-gratia. But a number of tea gardens are lying closed for years now and no initiative has been taken by the state or the Centre to re-open them,” said Mani Kumar Darnal, a central leader of Intuc-backed National Union of Plantation Workers. Tarun Roy, the district general secretary of Bharatiya Mazdoor Sangh in Jalpaiguri, spoke on similar lines. “This cash can provide interim relief to workers but monthly assistance can never solve the problem permanently. The state should focus on reopening the tea estates,” he said. The dole extended by the state to the jobless workers is yet another attempt by Trinamul to woo the tea population, political observers said. “A considerable section of the tea population voted the BJP in 2019. Trinamul is desperate to try and win back their support,” said an observer. District Trinamul leaders, however, pointed out that the state government had been doing a lot for tea workers, “unlike the Centre”. K.K. Kalyani, the Jalpaiguri district Trinamul president, alleged that the Prime Minister and other BJP leaders had made certain promises to the tea workers but eventually had not delivered on them.  “Our chief minister and the state government, however, are putting every effort to stand by the tea workers,” Kalyani said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-336
21-10-2020||West Bengal||Covid bars dhakis from drumming up a storm in Bengal||The drop in the number of Durga Pujas in and outside Bengal amid the novel coronavirus outbreak has taken the rhythm out of the lives of many dhakis (traditional drummers) who look forward to this festive season as their main source of earnings in the year. For thousands of dhakis from the state it was a ritual to get calls from Durga Puja organisers outside Bengal to perform at their pandals. But the Covid-19 outbreak put the world on pause. In the new normal, most Durga Puja committees in states outside Bengal have decided not to organise the festival this year, a decision that has left the dhakis staring at a loss of income in an already tough year. Sources said thousands of dhakis from Bengal districts like East Burdwan, Birbhum, Purulia, Bankura and Hooghly would in other years travel to states such as Assam, Maharashtra, Delhi, Uttar Pradesh to perform at Durga Puja pandals and get higher pay than what they would have got in their home state. As most of these dhakis work as farm workers through the year, this extra money was most welcome. “If puja organisers in Bengal pay us Rs 5,000 for our performance during Durga Puja, we get between Rs 25,000 and Rs 30,000 from organisers outside the state,” said a dhaki preferring anonymity. He added that till last year he used to perform at a Mumbai pandal. He did not get a call from Mumbai this year because the organisers cancelled the community puja in the wake of the Covid-19 situation in Maharashtra. Bablu Das, a seasonal dhaki from East Burdwan’s Kalna, would go to Mumbai during Durga Puja every year for the past 11 years. The rest of the year, he ekes out a living as a farm worker. The extra income during Durga Puja — Bablu earned a handsome Rs 25,000 last year — helped him fund his children’s education. Bablu will miss this money, he said, as that particular community Durga Puja in Mumbai is not happening this year. “Organisers would give me a fee of Rs 25,000, pay for my travel, food and stay in Mumbai,” Bablu recalled wistfully. “The fact that all this won’t happen now is another blow for me in the lockdown year.” Every year, a group of 30 dhakis from East Burdwan’s Kalna got called to perform in Mumbai. This year only one among them has been invited. The lucky man, Prasenjit Das, boarded his flight to Mumbai on Monday. “I was in distress till I received the call from organisers late last month. The money I earn during Durga Puja helps my family survive for at least four months. This year, cash is important because all of us could not earn much throughout the year,” Prasenjit said. Some dhakis said that though they could not travel outside Bengal, they were still lucky if they got calls from Bengal puja organisers. When budgets are low, organisers play recorded beats of the dhaki in pandals. However, several organisers in Bengal have decided to go ahead with dhakis to add the traditional fervour to festivities with the state government offering a dole of Rs 50,000 to each puja committee. Malay Das, a dhaki from Kalna, said he did not get a call from Assam, where he habitually went, for Durga Puja this year. But he is lucky enough to beat the festive drums for a community puja in Kalna itself, he added. “I will at least earn Rs 5,000,” Malay said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-336
21-10-2020||West Bengal||Gurung camp irked with Centre over statehood and ST tag||Leaders of the Bimal Gurung faction of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha have openly started speaking against the BJP’s “lack of will” to solve Darjeeling issues, the trend prompting some observers to suggest that the relationship between the allies is getting strained and there is a likelihood of the hill party charting its own course. Gurung has been supporting the BJP since 2009, helping the saffron party win three consecutive Lok Sabha polls from Darjeeling. During last year’s Darjeeling Assembly byelection, Gurung had supported GNLF leader Neeraj Zimba who had contested on a BJP ticket. However, local leaders of the Gurung faction started speaking against the BJP and many believe they would not “dare” making public statements against the saffron camp without direction from top leaders, most of whom are on the run. Suman Rai, the president of the Mirik subdivisional committee of the Gurung faction, said the BJP was only making promises. “They (BJP) are only making promises but we have now started to feel that they do not have will (to solve the hill problems). We now feel they (BJP) will not do anything for us,” said Rai, adding that there was “still time for them (BJP) to act.” The Mirik Morcha leader said the hill people were “not vote casting machines” and the BJP had “not done anything for the Gorkhas” despite electing three MPs. The local leaders of the Gurung camp have even come out with a list of the BJP’s failures. They highlighted Bengal BJP leaders’ statement that the permanent political solution was not Gorkhaland. Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s assurance on granting tribal status to 11 communities but the Centre’s failure to deliver on it and the BJP’s silence during the Gorkhaland agitation in 2017 are also being highlighted by the Gurung camp. “When the BJP had no MPs in Bengal, Bimal Gurung helped them win a seat in the state. Now, the BJP has 18 MPs and its Bengal leaders are talking differently,” said Rai. Modi’s failure to deliver on the promise of granting tribal status to hill communities is discussed regularly by Morcha leaders.Rai has also been asking about the fate of hundreds of Morcha activists who are on the run, including Gurung and Roshan Giri, the general secretary of the Morcha. “They (BJP) talked about helping them return (home), nothing has been done,” said Rai. Gurung has a number of criminal cases against him in connection with the violent 2017 statehood agitation and unless he gets legal reprieve, his return to the hills would be difficult. “A close analysis of statements by second-rung Morcha leaders and their activities —the Gurung faction is slowly mobilising with leaders coming out in public — suggest Gurung is having a re-look at the alliance with the BJP,” said a political analyst. Gurung, the analyst feels, can influence results in six to seven Assembly seats in north Bengal. “If he goes alone and manages to win three hill Assembly seats and influence other constituencies, he will be in a win-win situation with the government that comes to power in Bengal... He may be keeping his options open,” said the analyst. Morcha leader Rai was, however, soft on Darjeeling BJP MP Raju Bista and said he was doing “more than what he can in his capacity” by raising issues in Parliament. The Mirik Morcha leader said Bimal Gurung’s support base in the hills was intact and that “they would stand by whatever decision our party president (Gurung) takes”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-336
21-10-2020||West Bengal||Fresh mask-up drive in Bengal||The Bengal government has launched a fresh drive across the state to make people aware of the necessity of wearing masks. Sources said police had been asked to send people back home if they stepped out without wearing masks but no fine or punishment would be imposed. “It was decided during a videoconference between chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay and district magistrates on Monday that the state should ensure wearing of masks during the festive season,” said an official. A couple of district magistrates from south Bengal said they had deployed more than 100 teams in each district for the campaign. “The police have been given the go-ahead to ensure that people don’t come out of their homes without wearing masks. During the initial days of the lockdown, the police had played the role proactively. We have to strengthen the measure to prevent rapid spread of the virus,” said the official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-336
21-10-2020||West Bengal||Bengal government waits for Calcutta HC call on review plea||Bengal government has decided to wait till Wednesday before sending out necessary instructions to district authorities as well as civic officials and puja organisers on how to implement the Calcutta High Court order of making pandals no-entry zones. “The government has already issued required instructions on issues related to handling of Covid-19 during the festive season. But we have to wait till Wednesday before asking the authorities to implement the high court order. This is because a review petition was filed in the high court and it is likely to come up for hearing on Wednesday,” said a senior government official. According to sources, the government has to take a series of measures to implement the high court order. First, it has to ensure that all puja pandals are barricaded following the guidelines laid out by the high court. “It is a Herculean task. The state has about 37,000 community or Sarbojonin pujas. Barricading all the pandals is easier said than done,” said a source. Second, the pandals have to be divided into two groups — small and big ones — before putting up barricades. This is also an arduous task as officers need to assess the pujas by visiting the sites and they may face resistance from the organisers, sources said. “If the order stays, the government has to work on war footing to convert the pandals into no-entry zones and police might have to put up barricades at majority of the pandals as some organisers have already refused to cooperate,” said an official. The sources said given the grievances among the puja organisers, the state government had no option but to wait for the judgement on the review petition. “It might be tough for us to implement the order at the last moment.... But we have to wait for the order on the review petition as putting up barricades around the pandals right at this moment may invite law-and-order problems,” said another bureaucrat. While the government would wait for the hearing of the review petition, it has already announced plans to introduce more than 2,000 beds at dedicated Covid hospitals within a month as part of preparations to tackle more cases after the festival period. Of the extra beds, 535 beds are ICU beds and remaining 1,639 would be general beds, said a source, adding 37 per cent of the existing 12,751 Covid beds were occupied as of Monday. “We are not in the midst of a crisis given that the bed occupancy ratio is still below 50 per cent. But we can’t be complacent as the spread of the novel coronavirus is still not under control. That is why we are laying stress on upgrading our infrastructure,” said a senior government official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-336
21-10-2020||West Bengal||Sanitise bus terminals and markets, orders Bengal government||A spike in Covid-19 cases ahead of Durga Puja prompted the Bengal government to ask all districts to launch a special sanitisation drive in crowded zones, especially marketplaces and bus terminals. District sources said the government top brass asked district magistrates to start the sanitisation drive urgently as Covid infections in Bengal had increased in October. According to state health department data, between October 1 and 19, the number of people in Bengal who contracted the infection is 64,324, far more than 53,145 between August 1 and 19 and 56,239 between September 1 and 19. A Birbhum official said the spurt came ever since people hit the streets for Durga Puja shopping since last month. “Data shows the rise (in Covid cases) is related to people stepping out in large numbers for festive shopping in Calcutta and the districts. If we can’t ensure people obey Covid protocol there will be an explosion in infections after Durga Puja,” said a health official. The sanitisation directive prompted Birbhum, Purulia, Bankura and East Burdwan to start the drive in their respective markets and bus stops. “We have been asked to sanitise crowded places like markets and bus terminals immediately. We started it on Tuesday and will continue it,” said Birbhum district magistrate Moumita Godara Basu. To prevent crowding, Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Arijit Banerjee of Calcutta High Court on Monday issued an order banning entry of visitors inside pandals citing the pandemic situation. The court also directed that the areas within 10 metres of a big puja pandal and five metres of a small pandal be barricaded as no-entry zone.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-336
21-10-2020||West Bengal||Covid: 4,029 new cases and 3,382 recoveries||Bengal on Tuesday reported a spike in Covid-19 cases by over 4,000, which took the total number of active patients past 35,000, both for the first time. The state logged 3,382 recoveries, also the highest in a 24-hour span, and 61 deaths. Bengal is now in the fifth position on the list of states with most active cases. The first seven states of Maharashtra, Karnataka, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Bengal, Andhra Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh on the list now have over 68 per cent of the active cases in the country. Bengal alone had 4.71 per cent of India’s active cases as of Tuesday. The state reported 4,029 new cases on Tuesday, resetting the highest 24-hour rise for the 17th time in October. “If the Covid-19 safety protocol is adhered to by the majority of Puja revellers, we might just escape with a daily rise of 5,000 or so. If there is carelessness and disregard, daily cases of 8,000-10,000 are not out of the question. The healthcare infrastructure might not be equipped to handle the additional load from that kind of explosive surge,” said a source in the state government. The total of novel coronavirus cases in the state went past 3.29 lakh, which include 2.87 lakh recoveries and 6,180 deaths. “Things worsened drastically over the past month, with 1.04 lakh new infections, which pushed the total of active cases from 24,000-odd to 35,170 (on Tuesday),” said a Bengal minister. The recovery rate, which had reached a high of 87.98 on October 6, dropped to 87.43 per cent. The national rate is 88.68. “We had been in the top five on the list of states with the highest recovery rates for months. Now, we are in the 22nd place,” said the minister. He has said the five high-incidence districts of Calcutta, North 24-Parganas, South 24-Parganas, Howrah and Hooghly are now part of the Centre’s high priority districts, nationally, for intensive Covid-19 management measures. “These five districts added over 42,000 cases in 20 days of October alone,” he added. Of the total 6,180 deaths reported, the city alone accounted for 2,019, with 17 till 9am. North 24-Parganas reported a total of 1,397 deaths, 13 of them on Tuesday. The state government reported 5,223 deaths (84.5 per cent) as those with comorbidity “present”. Bengal’s overall mortality rate is 1.87 now, still substantially behind the national rate of 1.51 per cent. “We were out of the top 10, in the list of states with the highest mortality rates, for so long. Now, we are fourth,” said the minister. With 43,762 tests, the total tests went past 40.78 lakh, at 45,318 tests per million people. The positive confirmation rate is 8.07 per cent now. The state reported 37.85 per cent occupancy on 12,751 beds earmarked for Covid-19 at 93 dedicated hospitals on Tuesday, besides 3.55 lakh telemedicine consultations for the pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-336
21-10-2020||West Bengal||10 hurt in clash over gold dues in Bengal||Two shops were ransacked and at least 10 persons were injured when two groups clashed over payment of gold ornaments in South Dinajpur district’s Balurghat on Monday night. Balurghat police rushed to the spot at the bus stand Chingishpur and bring the situation under control. A police picket was raised in the area to avoid further breach of peace. Among the injured, seven are under treatment at the super-specialty hospital in Balurghat. Sources said trouble started brewing when Mintu Prasad of Prasadpara in Chingishpur placed an order to Dalim Sarkar, who runs a jewellery shop near the bus stand, to make some gold ornaments for him. On Monday, Prasad and Sarkar got into an altercation over payment of dues for the ornaments. Soon, the altercation led to a clash as both called up their close associates and family members and attacked each other. During the clash, Sarkar’s shop was ransacked and another nearby shop that sells plastic pipes was ransacked and torched. Both groups attacked each other with bricks, stones and iron rods, which left 10 persons injured. Most were hit on the head and taken to the hospital in Balurghat. The violence continued for about an hour and the situation came under control only as police reached the spot. Amit Prasad, Mintu’s brother, said Mintu had been to Sarkar’s shop to know details as to how much money he owed to the jeweller. “The jeweller attacked him without provocation. My brother informed me (about the attack), and I went to the spot with him and some others. Suddenly, the jeweller and his brothers attacked us with iron rods. We were caught by surprise, most of us got injured. We have filed a complaint with the police.” Jeweller Sarkar’s family members, on the other hand, said the jeweller was attacked the moment he asked Mintu to clear the dues. “The shop was also ransacked,” said a family member. Senior police officers said they had received complaints about the incident. “Our men have been posted in the area. Investigations have started,” a police officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-336
21-10-2020||West Bengal||Meet the Bengal rural NEET champs ||Three youths from poor families and remote villages in Malda and Cooch Behar districts have re-written their destinies by cracking this year’s National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET). The to-be doctors are Mohammad Rishad Sheikh of Bangitola village and Asmaul Haque of Uttar Laxmipur village in Malda, and Alobaidul Haque, who is from Patchara – a village around 22km away from Cooch Behar town. Rishad and Asmaul of Malda have secured ranks of 3,723 and 5,523 respectively, while Alobaidul of Cooch Behar is ranked 33,822. While Rishad is the son of a small poultry farm owner, Asmaul’s father is a daily wage worker at a carpentry unit and mother at a bidi factory. Alobaidul’s father is a farmer. These boys have all known financial struggle at home but they did not let these constraints come in the way of their medical dream, their  proud kin say. Mohammad Helaluddin, Rishad’s father, admitted he did not have the financial wherewithal to get his son special coaching to crack the medical entrance. “But his performance in Madhyamik paved the way for him to get coaching from a private institution against a nominal cost. Now, he has proved his mettle,” the proud father said. Asmaul’s father Nijamuddin recounted how he and his wife Kabira Bibi lost their home to river erosion and had to shift their family to another village. Those were hard times but his son stayed glued to his textbooks, the father recalled. “It took us time to build a hutment in the new place. But despite the tension and the financial constraints, our son was always focussed on his studies and could finally succeed in his aim. It will be our  dream come true the day he becomes a doctor,” said Nijamuddin. But Asmaul is a worried youngster. This was not the first time that he cleared NEET. Last year, he had managed to secure a rank that gave him the chance to enroll at a dental college in Calcutta. “This year, my rank is much better and I hope to get admission in Calcutta Medical College & Hopsital or in NRS Medical College & Hospital,” the youngster said. “But I have to pay Rs 1.10 lakh to the dental college to get my release so that I can enroll for the MBBS course. I am exploring options to arrange the money.” Alobaidul’s father Ajijul Islam has two reasons to be proud. Alobaidul, his son, has made him proud by clearing NEET and intends to be a dental surgeon in future. Along with Alobaidul, his sister Afruja Parveen surprised everyone by securing 94 per cent marks in her higher secondary exams this year and cleared the entrance test for the nursing course. But the farmer is not free of worries. He just hopes his son gets a berth in a government college so that his studies are affordable. “My son did not have the option to take coaching from any private institution as I do not have the financial capacity to bear those expenses. He prepared for the exams on his own. It is nice to see that my son cleared the first step to be a doctor. We hope he will find a berth in a government college,” Ajijul said. Alobaidul’s sister Afruja said she was fortunate that she would be able to take admission in a government-run nursing college. “My father cannot bear the expenses of a private institution,” she said, adding she was very happy for her brother’s success in NEET.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-336
