22-10-2020||West Bengal||Stay home, stay blessed||The world’s largest community-driven event got off to its quietest start in living memory on Panchami after Calcutta High Court stuck to its resolve to give primacy to public health in the middle of a pandemic. The high court on Wednesday allowed more organisers to enter community puja pandals but did not modify its earlier order that kept visitors out. The division bench of Justices Sanjib Banerjee and Arijit Banerjee permitted big pujas to name each day 60 people who can be granted access to the pandal and its immediate vicinity. In the earlier order issued on Monday, that number was 25-30. Although 60 people can now be named on the list, no more than 45, including the priest, can be allowed inside at any point of time. For smaller pujas, the list can be of 20 people but no more than 15 will be allowed inside. The court defined a big puja as one that occupies 300sqm, leaving out the dais where the idol is placed. The court allowed the dhak players in the space between the pandal and the barricade demarcating the no-entry zone. By dusk, the impact of the court order was visible on the ground with few visitors seen around pandals. If the Panchami response is an indication, it appeared that prospective revellers were so far paying heed to the public-health concern that compelled the court to put in place the restrictions. At Singhee Park in Gariahat, a barricade had been put up at least 50 metres from the pandal. A group who said they wanted to go to one of the shops in the stretch in between was told by a policeman: “I can’t do anything…. Go to the police station if you have a complaint.” A woodwork artist who had set up a roadside stall at Hindusthan Park said he had not had a single buyer all evening. Eight applications had been filed before the high court seeking relaxations on its earlier order. The petitioners wanted staggered anjali during Saptami, Ashtami, Navami and Sandhi Puja, held in the cusp of Ashtami and Navami. They also wanted Sindur Khela, in which women smear vermilion on each other after offering it to the Goddess. The final order only makes a concession on the number of organisers allowed inside and the dhak players. The court rejected a bid by a group of doctors to ask for more restrictions. “An attempt has been made by a body of doctors to intervene. Considering that today is Panchami, the first day of the six-day celebrations, no submission for further possible restrictions has been allowed at this stage,” the order said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-334
22-10-2020||West Bengal||Staff at Covid hospital strike in Jalpaiguri||Over 50 casual employees of the Covid-19 hospital in Jalpaiguri struck work and held a dharna on the premises on Wednesday demanding immediate payment of their due salaries. Some ancillary services at the hospital were affected because of the strike which was lifted in the evening after a senior official of the Jalpaiguri district health department had assured the casual staff of necessary intervention to solve the issue. The Covid hospital was opened at Biswabangla Krirangan, a sports complex, six months ago. After the facility was opened, 57 casual employees were engaged by a private agency as security guards, ward boys and housekeeping staff. In September, the district health department engaged another private agency for providing casual workers, but the earlier staff were not removed as they were experienced. “The new agency asked us to continue our work as we gained experience. However, the old agency did not pay us our salaries for September. The festivities are ahead and we are sitting here high and dry. That is why we have resorted to cease-work and want our salaries to be disbursed immediately,” said Manoj Singh, one of the casual workers. Rakhi Rajbanshi, another casual employee, said none from the new agency had contacted them so far. “It is fine that we have not been removed from our jobs but none from the new agency has spoken to us. Many of us do not have any idea of the new agency. On the other hand, those in the old agency are dilly dallying in paying our salaries. We are in a fix now,” she said. As the demonstration continued, an official in charge of the hospital spoke to the agitators and assured them of necessary steps. Later, Gayaram Naskar, the superintendent of the Jalpaiguri district hospital, said the authorities were looking into the issue. “We have spoken to the private agencies concerned and hope the issue will be resolved soon. It is good that the casual employees have withdrawn their protests and joined their work,” Naskar said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-334
22-10-2020||West Bengal||No to CBI probe, yes to fresh autopsy: Calcutta High Court||Calcutta High Court on Wednesday ruled out a CBI probe into the death of Raiganj BJP activist Anup Kumar Roy but directed the state government to conduct a fresh post-mortem of the body at RG Kar Medical College in Calcutta. Anup, 23, had allegedly died in police custody on September 2, a few hours after his arrest in a case related to snatching. Anup’s name had cropped up during police interrogation of some youths in an August 28 snatching case. The cops had claimed that during interrogation, they had come to know that Anup, a resident Nandangram of Itahar, had been the “mastermind” in that snatching case. After Anup’s death within some hours of his arrest, Biswajit Lahiri, president of BJP North Dinajpur district committee, had alleged: “He was beaten to death in custody.” Anup’s mother Geeta Roy had lodged a complaint at Itahar police station against five policemen — Nihar Ranjan Das, Md Murtaza, Prabir Ghosh, Sandip Chakraborty and Uttam Modak — of Raiganj. After the first post-mortem that was “hurriedly done”, Geeta had appealed to the Raiganj district court in early September for a fresh video-recorded autopsy of her son’s body in the presence of a magistrate. On the basis of her appeal, the court had ordered a repeat of the post-mortem. Following Wednesday’s high court’s order, a third post-mortem would have to be conducted on Anup’s body, the state panel lawyer said. The high court also directed the state government to start a fresh magisterial inquiry into Anup’s death.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-334
22-10-2020||West Bengal||Blast hits health centre in Birbhum||An explosion ripped through a one-storey homeopathic clinic run by the Hetampur gram panchayat in Birbhum district early on Wednesday. Residents of Champanagari village in Dubrajpur block alleged that crude bombs stocked at the two-room building by criminals had exploded. Police, however, suspect the explosion was triggered by a leak from an LPG cylinder kept in one of the rooms of the free health centre. The room was used by the villagers to store utensils and gas cylinders for public events. Two concrete walls of the building collapsed in the blast. “Criminals had stacked the room with crude bombs that went off. It was a close shave for villagers as it had happened in the early hours,” said a villager. Sources said the Hetampur gram panchayat had constructed the clinic on land donated by a few villagers. “The explosion happened in the room attached to the free health centre. The police are investigating the matter and will take action according to law,” said Mohammed Jasimuddin, the chief of the  panchayat. The intensity of the explosion was such that a heavy iron door got detached. Birbhum police chief Shyam Singh visited the site of the blast. “Primarily, it seems LPG cylinders stored there triggered the explosion. However, we have asked a forensic team to ascertain whether explosives had been stocked there,” said Singh. Several clashes between factions of the Trinamul Congress had been reported from various corners of Dubrajpur and its adjoining areas in the past few months. In most  clashes, crude bombs were used. A section of Trinamul insiders said the tradition to store crude bombs at government buildings was not new in Bubrajpur. In 2016, an ICDS centre was rocked in a powerful explosion. Even then, it was suspected that crude bombs stacked at the centre had led to the explosion. “Crude bombs have become an integral part of the political clash. We have seized thousands of bombs in several police station areas of the district. However, the practice remains unchanged,” said a police officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-334
22-10-2020||West Bengal||Tour ban in West Sikkim, Lachen lifted||Entire West Sikkim was thrown open to tourists from Wednesday with the lifting of the ban on the entry of visitors imposed by a few local bodies of the district because of Covid-19 fears. The dzomsa (traditional local body) of Lachen in North Sikim also lifted the bar on tourists on Wednesday. However, the ban remains in force at Lachung, the other tourist hotspot  in the north district. The dzomsas of the two hotspots were the first to bar the entry of tourists into their areas in early March. In West Sikkim, the panchayats of Yuksom, Bermiok-Berthang and Thingling-Kheciperi lifted the ban on the entry of tourists at the intervention of the Sikkim government. “All of them (panchayats) have lifted the ban. There is no place in the district where any sort of restriction on the entry of tourists is in place,” said Karma R. Bonpo, the district collector of West Sikkim. With the lifting of the ban by the Yuksom panchayat, tourists can now go on a trek along the picturesque Dzongri-Goeche La route. Even though the Sikkim forest department had lifted the ban on access to the popular trekking trail last week, there was uncertainty over its reopening because of the ban imposed by the local panchayat. After a gap of eight months, a three-member team of tourists from Khardah in north Calcutta embarked on a trek from Uttarey, which also is West Sikkim, on Wednesday. The trio took the Chewabhanjyang trekking trail which will end on the fringes of Singalila National Park in neighbouring Darjeeling district. “This was the first trek involving tourists in eight months. We have received over 20 bookings so far. If everything goes well, we should be hosting tourists till December,” said S.B. Subba, who runs a trek and tour agency at Uttarey. Earlier on Wednesday, the district collector of North Sikkim, Tenzing T Kaleon, had said: “I am given to understand that the dzomsas of both Lachen and Lachung have told the local MLA that they will lift the ban on the entry of tourists, but nothing has reached me in writing.” Efforts to reach the office-bearers of the Lachung dzomsa and local MLA Samdup Lepcha, who is also Sikkim’s roads and bridges minister, proved futile.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-334
22-10-2020||West Bengal||Durga Puja organisers go big on virtual darshan in Siliguri ||A number of clubs organising Durga Puja in Siliguri have planned to offer residents virtual options to watch the puja from the safety of home amid the pandemic. These options include virtual streaming of the puja on Facebook accounts, YouTube channels and web portals of the organisers. Amid apprehensions of a surge in Covid-19 cases in Bengal in the crowded festivities, Calcutta High Court on Monday ordered that Durga Puja pandals would become no-entry zones for visitors and upheld the order on Wednesday with a few relaxations. While some puja organisers had made these plans earlier, others came up with the decisions following the pandal no-entry directives of the Calcutta High Court. Prominent Durga Puja organisers of Siliguri like Central Colony, Haiderpara Sporting Club, Collegepara Durga Puja committee, Subrata Sangha and Dadabhai Sporting Club are working on plans to reach out to people online. “The idea is to deter people from coming out in large numbers and swarming near the pandals, which will violate social distance and create a health risk. We will be live on various social media platforms to give a virtual experience of the pandal happenings to people as they sit back at homes during the puja. There are plans to introduce a web portal and use our official Facebook page for live streaming,” said Kanchan Roy, club member of Central Colony in New Jalpaiguri. Nirmal Kumar Paul, the joint secretary of Haiderpara Sporting Club, another popular destination for pandal-hoppers in the northern part of the city, said: “Every ritual of the puja will be streamed live on our official Facebook page. This would enable people, particularly senior citizens and children more vulnerable to the pandemic, to have a real puja experience without risk.” Clubs are floating webpages, opening YouTube channels and even introducing apps to reach out to people on festive days. Some, like Collegepara Durga Puja Committee, have also introduced an option for devotees to donate online. “We have created a QR code and have circulated it among people through leaflets and social media. Anybody interested in donating any sum can scan the code and pay online,” said Somnath Moulik, the secretary of the puja committee.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-335
22-10-2020||West Bengal||Bimal Gurung severs ties with BJP, supports Mamata ||Bimal Gurung, the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha leader on the run since 2017, resurfaced in Calcutta on Wednesday after three years, announced his decision to sever ties with the BJP and expressed his desire to see Mamata Banerjee continue as Bengal’s next chief minister. Gurung’s dramatic appearance and his comments at a hurriedly convened news conference indicated that the equations in hill politics — and north Bengal — were all set to change in the run-up to next year’s Assembly polls. North Bengal has at least seven Assembly seats where the Gorkha community’s votes are decisive. “We have supported a party (the BJP) for the past 12 years but that party has not met the commitments made to us. These include a permanent political solution for the hills, which I believe can only be Gorkhaland, while the other demand was the conferment of Scheduled Tribe status to 11 hill communities. That is why we have decided to separate ourselves from the NDA,” Gurung said. Gurung’s reference to Gorkhaland was probably directed at his hill constituency. The Trinamul Congress is against the statehood demand. After announcing the decision to part ways with the BJP, Gurung, who had earlier been critical of Mamata, went on to praise her and express a desire to see her continuing as Bengal chief minister. “While I was sitting back for the past three years, I saw Mamata Banerjee meet whatever commitments she had made to the people. We have decided that in the Assembly elections of 2021, we will stand with her and Trinamul. She is an idol and we want to see her again in her post (of chief minister),” Gurung said. The hill leader, who was last seen in public during the Independence Day celebrations at Ging tea garden in 2017, however, kept his option open for the 2024 Lok Sabha polls. He said he would support whichever party accepts the hills’ demand (for statehood). The Telegraph had on Wednesday reported that Gurung was peeved with the BJP for lacking the “will” to solve the hills’ issues and was looking to chart a new political course. Through the day there were whispers in the hills that Morcha (Bimal camp) leaders had held a meeting with some Trinamul politicians in Calcutta but there was no official confirmation till late in the evening. Gurung was first spotted around 4.30pm in front of the Gorkha Bhawan in Salt Lake, seated in an SUV bearing a Jharkhand registration number. Drama unfolded as the Bhawan – which comes under the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration, currently headed by Gurung’s rival Anit Thapa – refused to open its gate.
About an hour earlier, Roshan Giri, general secretary of the Bimal faction, had told journalists that Gurung would be addressing a media conference at the Bhawan. The venue was eventually shifted to a city hotel. The hills were avid with speculation about Gurung’s possible return to the hills. “If he can resurface in Calcutta, why not in Darjeeling? It is just a matter of time,” said a Gurung supporter. Gurung, asked about the cases registered by the state government against him, said: “I’m not a criminal or an anti-national. These are political cases and I intend to resolve those politically. Whatever I have done was for my land and my people. Even then, if I’m arrested, I’m ready with a smile.” The Morcha leader said he had been in Delhi in 2017 and that he had been staying in Jharkhand for the past two months. The BJP, probably stung by the developments in Calcutta, raised the issue. “How can Gurung, against whom several FIRs including charges under the (anti-terror law) UAPA are pending, roam around in Calcutta with the police not arresting him? This is because Mamata Banerjee is trying to be in power by hook or crook,” said Dilip Ghosh, state BJP president. It needs to be seen how Mamata handles Gurung and the rival Binay Tamang-Anit Thapa camp. “A law-and-order problem in the hills between these two factions would not be in Trinamul’s interest,” said an observer. Trinamul welcomed Gurung’s commitment to peace and his decision to withdraw support to the NDA and repose faith in Mamata’s leadership. “The BJP’s attempt to use the Gorkhaland issue for petty politics and their untrustworthy nature now lay (sic) fully exposed before people of Bengal,” Trinamul tweeted. On how the other Morcha faction might react to the latest development, Trinamul’s official response was balanced. “We are confident that all the key stakeholders in the hills, including political parties and the GTA, along with civil society, will work together and join hands with us for the peace and prosperity of our motherland,” the party said. Keshav Raj Pokhrel, spokesperson for the Binay Tamang camp, said the developments had shown that Gurung was the “bigger” betrayer -- a tag the Bimal camp had given to the Tamang faction for joining hands with Trinamul in 2017. “Gurung’s biggest challenge will be to convince the Gorkha population that he remains in the vanguard of the Gorkhaland demand despite joining hands with Trinamul,” an observer said. BJP leader Ghosh slammed Mamata and Trinamul while attempting damage control on the subject of statehood. “The BJP had never supported the (demand for a) Gorkhaland state. Is Mamata Banerjee giving in to Bimal Gurung’s demands? Why is he suddenly all praise for her Thousands of Gorkha men have been out of Darjeeling for the past three years and so was Bimal Gurung because of the Trinamul government. What will happen now?” Ghosh said. He conveniently overlooked how his party’s central leadership had repeatedly, though obliquely, mentioned the statehood issue in its manifestos ahead of parliamentary elections in recent years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-335
22-10-2020||West Bengal||Durga Puja no-crowd drive picks up pace||The Bengal government started a slew of measures to implement the Calcutta High Court order declaring puja pandals no-entry zones to contain the spread of Covid-19 as soon as the high court on Wednesday upheld its previous order with minor changes. From public announcements on the court order to barricades around pandals and vehicle curbs within a 2-3km radius, districts are trying to ensure festive crowding is kept to the minimum amid the pandemic. A senior state government official said they wanted to ensure no crowding. “District authorities have been given a go-ahead to implement the high court order and make puja pandals no-entry zones. As steps could vary from one pandal to another, districts have been asked to decide on the required measures to ensure that visitors are kept away from pandals,” the official said. In several districts, authorities have deployed teams making public announcements of the key features of the Calcutta High Court order, and explaining why it was prudent to stay indoors. “The massive campaign is being carried out mainly in district towns where thousands flock to puja pandals. Major Durga Pujas, including some family ones outside the district towns that draw huge crowds every year, are also under the scanner,” said a district magistrate. He said the mass awareness campaign would continue for the next few days. “We will also make people aware that wearing masks is a necessity if they come out of home during this festive season. We are also explaining why they should not visit puja pandals this year,” said another district magistrate. Most district authorities have decided to create a buffer zone around major pandals in the districts. Authorities have already restricted the movement of passenger vehicles, including rickshaws and e-rickshaws, within a radius of 2-3km of major pandals. “This will help us manage the crowd efficiently. If we can restrict the movement of people by creating a buffer zone ahead of barricades surrounding puja pandals, it would be much easier for the police to prevent people from approaching pandals,” said a police officer in a south Bengal district. District authorities have also asked organisers of major pujas to put up barricades surrounding their pandals. “We don’t want to force anybody (to put up barricades) and we seek cooperation from puja organisers. This is why puja organisers have been asked to barricade their pandals to help the administration. As most puja organisers received financial support from the state government, it may not be a tough task,” said a district official. A Nabanna official said district officials were in talks with major puja organisers in districts to find out if live streaming of puja on Facebook for a certain period of time on festive days could be arranged. “This (puja streaming) will help us manage the crowd. If people can see puja pandals by sitting at home, it is expected that lesser number of people could come out on streets,” said the official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-335
22-10-2020||West Bengal||Covid: Bengal logs highest daily cases and deaths||Bengal on Wednesday reported 4,069 new Covid-19 cases, 64 deaths and 3,596 recoveries, all the three figures the highest for a 24-hour period. This is the 18th time in October that the maximum daily tally of the novel coronavirus patients was reset. The state had logged the highest daily death toll of 64 three times before. The total cases in the state now are over 3.33 lakh, which include 2.91 lakh recoveries and 6,244 deaths. Since the number of cured patients were also high, Bengal saw a slight rise in the recovery rate for the first time in a couple of weeks, from 87.43 on Tuesday to 87.45 per cent on Wednesday. On October 6, the rate had reached the state’s highest of 87.98, after which it took a tumble. The national rate, which had been far behind the state rate for months, is now 88.82. “Given how masses showed utter disregard for Covid-19 safety protocols over the past week or so, in the run-up to the Puja, things could have been worse. So, a daily rise of 4,000-odd is still not a cause of big worry,” said a Bengal minister. “There has not been a corresponding surge in deaths and the recoveries have been rising, which are heartening indicators,” he added. “October, so far, has been the most difficult month for us in the pandemic.” In the three weeks of October, the state has had over 76,000 new cases and 1,286 deaths, besides around 65,000 recoveries. The total of active cases spiked from 26,000-odd to nearly 36,000. Bengal alone now has around 4.8 per cent of the active cases in the country. The five high-incidence districts of Calcutta, North 24-Parganas, South 24-Parganas, Howrah and Hooghly — now part of the Centre’s high priority districts for intensive Covid-19 management measures — collectively reported a rise of nearly 45,000 patients in the three weeks. “In those five districts, the total of active cases was 12,574 exactly a month ago. On Wednesday, it is 20,251,” said the minister. Of the total 6,244 deaths reported, the city alone accounted for 2,038, with 19 till 9am. North 24-Parganas logged a total of 1,416 deaths, 19 of them on Wednesday. The state government reported 5,276 deaths (84.5 per cent) as those with comorbidity “present”. Bengal’s overall mortality rate is 1.87, behind the national rate of 1.51 per cent. With the examination of 43,592 swab samples reported on Wednesday, the total tests went past 41 lakh mark, to reach 41.22 lakh, at 45,318 tests per million people. The positive confirmation rate is 8.08 per cent now. The state reported 37.31 per cent occupancy on 12,751 beds earmarked for Covid-19 at 93 dedicated hospitals on Wednesday. Besides, 3.59 lakh telemedicine consultations for the pandemic have been made till date.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-335
22-10-2020||West Bengal||Covid caution for hotels at seaside towns in Bengal||Authorities have issued a set of directives for hotel owners at seaside resort towns in East Midnapore district to ensure that social distancing and other novel coronavirus-related health norms are strictly followed during the festive season. The directives were issued on Sunday at a meeting between officials of the Digha Sankarpur Development Authority and hoteliers of Digha, Mandarmani, Tajpur and Sankarpur. District administration and police officials were also present. “A number of tourists are coming to the beaches without proper precautions. There is a high risk of contamination. That is why the hotel owners have been cautioned,” said Akhil Giri, the vice-chairman of the DSDA. “Boarders at hotels and lodges will have to maintain social distance. The norms are to be maintained on roads and beaches as well. If people are found without masks, police will take necessary steps. Rooms will have to be sanitised twice a day,” he added. A large section of the visitors flouts social distance norms and doesn’t wear masks on streets and beaches. The police are making regular announcements on the beaches, requesting people to keep distance amongst themselves even during bathing, but in vain. The Digha police had already detained 100 tourists for flouting distancing norms or not wearing masks. They were later released. “After the high court banned entry of visitors to puja pandals, there has been a spike in the number of bookings at Digha. The directives from the administration will help us rein in tourists violating Covid protocol,” a hotel owner said. He added that the hoteliers were asked at the meeting to ensure that all visitors underwent thermal screening while they checked in. “With special trains between Digha and Howrah running since October 16, the number of tourists increased. It is only natural that the number will go up during Puja,” the hotelier said. “I have asked all hotel owners in Digha to ensure tourists abide by social distancing and other health norms. It is their job to ensure that tourists follow rules,” said Bipradas Chakraborty, the joint secretary of the Digha Sankarpur Hoteliers’ Association. “Our safety is our responsibility. Only if we all remain cautious, we can keep the coronavirus at bay,” he added. Ten officials of the Digha police station, including the officer in-charge, three assistant sub-inspectors, two constables and a civic volunteer have already tested positive for coronavirus. Till Tuesday, East Midnapore district recorded 13,430 Covid positive cases and 171 deaths. According to Chakraborty, there are around 600 hotels and lodges in Digha. Krishnendu Pradhan, the officer in-charge of Digha police station, has been quarantined after testing positive for coronavirus. While speaking to The Telegraph over the phone, he sounded concerned. “Tourists have been flouting the rules and not listening to us. We have taken ill while being on duty. If hoteliers look into the matter strictly, there will be some improvement in the situation,” Pradhan said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-335
22-10-2020||West Bengal||Covid test hubs dot highways in Bengal||Around 100 temporary rapid Covid testing centres have come up on national and state highways in Bengal to check if drivers and passengers entering the state are carriers of the pathogen. Sources said the initiative was taken after chief minister Mamata Banerjee, at an administrative meeting in West Midnapore’s Jhargram on October 7, flagged this concern. “A large number of trucks from Jharkhand, Chennai and other states entered (Bengal) via Jhargram. The virus is being carried by those trucks and it is the reason behind hike in Covid cases here…. As cases are rising in Jhargram, take precautions before Puja,” Mamata had asked officials. Though Mamata referred only to Jhargram, the health department asked all districts to set up test centres at strategic entry points. Most highway testing centres are in districts that share borders with Jharkhand, Bihar and Odisha. “Hundreds of trucks from Bihar, Jharkhand, Assam and Odisha can’t enter Calcutta during Durga Puja days because of traffic curbs. Trucks wait at roadside dhabas or hotels. All districts have been asked to set up testing centres near popular dhabas or hotels,” a state health department official said. A health department official said reports were handed over in under 90 minutes. Sources said a few districts like Birbhum and Purulia had started the testing centres and some such as East Burdwan would start them from Thursday. In Birbhum, 12 roadside testing centres have been opened and six are working. In Purulia, that shares a long border with Jharkhand, 11 testing units have come up. Officials said most trucks from Jharkhand or other states reach Calcutta via the Durgapur Experessway. Hence, six rapid testing centres would run on the stretch from Thursday. Pranab Roy, chief medical officer in East Burdwan, also said testing centres would run from Thursday and those found positive would be sent to safe homes. In Birbhum’s Bolpur, two Durga Puja pandals have been selected for rapid antigen tests as many visitors from outside the state visit them. “We have selected a club where rapid antigen tests would be carried out for those coming to see the puja of Baro Bari in Surul village. Another testing unit has opened at Sonajhuri where many from Calcutta come to see the puja. The testing will start from Friday,” said a district official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-335
