23-10-2020||West Bengal||Covid: Ichhamati boat rides on Dashami banned||Traditional boat rides on the Ichhamati river for the immersion of idols of goddess Durga will not be held this year on Dashami with the Taki civic administration on Thursday banning such events because of the Covid-19 pandemic. The civic administration after a meeting with police and district administration on Wednesday directed Durga Puja organisers to immerse the idols in the river at two designated ghats where only 10 persons will be allowed to enter to complete the ritual. The Taki municipality authorities made it clear to the puja organisers that no boat would be allowed to sail with the deities on the Ichhamati for immersion on Dashami. The authorities also said that boats would not be allowed to take people on joy rides. The administrator of the civic board and its former vice-chairman Azizul Gazi said: “The Covid situation is yet to be brought under control. Calcutta High Court has declared puja pandals as no-entry zones to avoid the gatherings. We have also decided to take similar precautions by placing a ban on any assembly on the bank of the river during the traditional immersion. People will not be allowed to enjoy a boat ride on the river.” On the Dashami, a few thousand people on either side of the river gather to witness the spectacular immersion of Durga idols while many people hire boats to enjoy a ride on the river on the occasion. On the Indian side, the deities are immersed in Taki, while the deities from Bangladesh are immersed across the river in Satkhira. While idols are immersed in the river, the custodians of the border of the two countries — BSF and BGB — patrol on speed boats through the middle of the river to create a line of control with ropes so that no boat from either side could sneak into other’s territory. “We are aware that many people eagerly wait for Dashami to experience the spectacular immersion in the Ichhamati. But this year we are going through an unusual situation due to the pandemic. We cannot put people’s lives at risk by allowing such a huge gathering of a few thousand people,” Gazi said. “We had suspended public celebration of Eid for the same reason. We have spoken to Durga Puja organisers, the police, and officials of the district administration before we decided to ban the boat ride for immersion in the Ichhamati,” he added. An officer of Basirhat police district said: “Puja organisers have been discouraged to take the deities to the river. In case they bring it there, we have told them to immerse it at the designated ghats.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-333
23-10-2020||West Bengal||North Dinajpur puja portrays idols as frontline warriors||When a virus is the enemy of the entire human race, it is only fitting that Goddess Durga takes on the avatar of a doctor fighting the Covid-19 mahishasur (demon). Her daughters Lakshmi and Saraswati are a nurse, journalist. Her sons Ganesha and Kartik are a policeman and a hygiene worker. The coronavirus, the lockdown and the plight of migrants have dominated themes at community puja pandals across the state this year. Amid them, Adarsha Sangha, a prominent club in Islampur of North Dinajpur, stands out. During this year’s Durga Puja, Adarsha Sangha has portrayed the idols as frontline warriors against the novel coronavirus. It is the club’s way of honouring the frontline warriors who are combating the pandemic, Raju Sahani, a member of the club, said. “For over seven months now, doctors and others associated with healthcare, the police force, the cleaning staff and mediapersons are working in their own diverse ways, tirelessly, to combat the pandemic that has infected over 77 lakh people and claimed the lives of over a lakh in our country. That is why we thought of honouring them by depicting the idols as frontline warriors,” Sahani said. While the idols have been presented as frontline workers, the entire pandal too, not surprisingly, sports a Covid-19 theme. “On the outer side of the pandal, we have showcased nature and wildlife while the pandal on the inside models a hospital where the battle against the virus is going on,” added Sahani. The goddess, who is in the doctor’s white coat, has an injection syringe and not the trident in her hand. As a doctor, she will use the syringe to slay the demon, that is, the novel coronavirus that causes Covid-19. The organisers said that they took every preventive measure according to the order of the Calcutta High Court and safety protocols stated by the state government to prevent crowds and ensure the safety of all those associated with the puja. “No visitor would be allowed to enter the pandal and violate social distance rules. We have installed a sanitisation tunnel nearby. Thermal guns are checking the temperature of all, and anybody found without masks will be immediately given one,” said Sahani.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-333
23-10-2020||West Bengal||Milind ambassador of next Darjeeling hill marathon||Milind Soman, India’s supermodel, actor, producer and one of the most well-known fitness promoters in the country, became the first person to register the name for the seventh edition of Darjeeling Hill Marathon, the biggest such event in north Bengal. Soman is the ambassador of the November 22 marathon organised by Darjeeling Police. He interacted with people of Darjeeling live from Mumbai at an event organised by the police on Thursday. “I have been to Darjeeling many many times and am looking forward to participate in the event. Hopefully, my wife (Ankita Konwar) and my 81-year old mother will be taking part in the event. She (mother) will be very excited to participate in the marathon,” said Soman. The past marathons had attracted runners not only from across India but also from countries like Kenya, Nepal, US and Australia. Given the travel restrictions in force because of the Covid-19 pandemic, the number of international participants might fall but the organisers are expecting a huge count of Indians at the event as the marathon route has been “internationally recognised”. In keeping with the present situation, the tag line for the marathon is “Time to R-Unlock.” Darjeeling superintendent of police Santosh Nimbalkar, who is also a physician, advised people to take care of their fitness. “During the Covid pandemic, the best way out is to improve fitness and this will protect us from diseases. Start running, start building your stamina,” said Nimabalkar. The marathon, which has two sections of 21.1km and 10km runs, will start and finish at Chowrasta and has been divided into six categories. “There are categories for police, under 45 years and above 45 years for both male and females. Registration will be done only online through www.townscript.com/in/darjeeling and the runners’ blips will be sent to participants in Darjeeling and Kalimpong districts through local police stations,” said Abhishek Gupta, additional SP (headquarters). Outstation runners will be handed over the blips in Darjeeling a day earlier. Soman, however, was all praise for hill runners and said “they are much better” than those in coastal areas. “Remember, everyone can run but at your own pace. It is not about finishing past but reaching the finishing point. Find your own space,” advised Soman. SP Nimbalkar, Gupta, Everester Jamling Tenzing Norgay Sherpa, runner Priti Rai and others launched the finisher’s medal, jersey and a promotional video titled “Darjeeling Calling” produced by the Darjeeling police. The top three winners of the 21.1km marathon will receive prizes of Rs 1 lakh, Rs 50,000 and Rs 25,000 while the podium finishers of the 10km run will take home Rs 25,000, Rs 15,000 and Rs 10,000.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-334
23-10-2020||West Bengal||Gurung volte-face changes hill equations, creates room for GNLF||Bimal Gurung’s decision to join hands with Trinamul Congress, a party which opposes the demand for a separate state of Gorkhaland, may be seen as a masterstroke by Team Mamata Banerjee, but the hill leader has come under criticism from a large section in the hills. After Gurung formally snapped ties with the BJP and embraced Trinamul at a news meet in Calcutta on Wednesday, questions have started doing the rounds in Darjeeling hills about the new flag-bearer for the Gorkhaland issue. Gurung’s new political stand seems to have created a vacuum in hill politics as statehood continues to be the most influential political issue in the hills. Gurung, who resurfaced in Calcutta after a gap of three years, did talk about Gorkhaland being his main issue and said he would pursue it during the 2024 Lok Sabha election. But now, after joining hands with Trinamul, his credibility may be under question. Staunch statehood proponents may not buy Gurung’s stand. “The reality is that there still exists a strong anti-TMC feeling in hills largely because of the party’s opposition to the statehood demand. Gurung’s decision to join hands with Trinamul has taken the sheen out of his aura,” said an observer. Sources maintain that other regional parties, mainly the GNLF, have started redrawing strategies in this emerging situation. On Thursday, some senior GNLF leaders held a meeting in Siliguri. Sources told The Telegraph that the GNLF is now taking a lead to work out a new political equation. A senior GNLF leader said as of now it was “100 per cent advantage GNLF”, but added they would cautiously watch people’s mood. “The word till now was that Bimal Gurung is the only one for Gorkhaland, but that myth has been busted... Even the BJP, if they want anything in Darjeeling, they can’t ignore the GNLF,” said the GNLF leader. The GNLF, an ally of the BJP, has been sulking that the saffron party is not giving it importance despite its help in ensuring Raju Bista winning the Darjeeling Lok Sabha seat. However, Gurung’s latest decision, observers said, can change the direction of hill politics and much will depend on how the GNLF plays its cards. There is a possibility that contours of the BJP-GNLF relationship may change as well, as the hill party will have a higher bargaining power now. “Bimal Gurung’s arrival in Darjeeling will not ensure all votes will go to him,” the GNLF leader said. A political observer said that it would be interesting to see how the GNLF leadership manages to use this opportunity to prove they are the vanguards of the Gorkhaland issue. “Back in 2007, the party’s support base had fallen apart following the emergence of Morcha. During the past few years, GNLF has managed to revive its support, as the Morcha got divided into two factions (Bimal Gurung and Binay Tamang),” the observer pointed out. He also said that steadfast advocacy for statehood by Gurung and other leaders of his party and their vehement opposition to parties in power in Bengal opposed to the demand — the Left earlier and Trinamul now —  helped the Morcha draw immense support of hill people. “But now that both factions of Morcha (Gurung and Tamang) are closer to Trinamul, GNLF will try to win back its support base with statehood,” the observer added. Sources privy to the negotiations between Gurung and the Trinamul leadership said that he might soon be offered a post that can also have a significant impact in hill politics. Gurung has a number of cases pending against him, including charges under the UAPA. “It is obvious that GNLF and some other parties may raise questions if the state takes a soft stand about him,” said a political analyst. While hill residents and political pundits are waiting for GNLF’s next move, they are equally curious to see the Binay Tamang faction react to ripples of Gurung’s decision to back Trinamul. On Thursday, Anit Thapa, general secretary of the Tamang faction, was at Pintail village in Siliguri, where he hinted that their faction had not thought of any reconciliatory approach (towards Gurung) so far. “We are in the GTA and will continue to run it. I have spoken with the chief minister on the issue. So far the party is concerned, Binay Tamang is our leader and we will continue to work for the hill people. Anybody is free to return to Darjeeling but if he makes any attempt to revive his old image, common people will not accept it,” said Thapa. Gurung supporters have started coming out in the open. Some held a meeting at Vah-Tukvar, others in Kurseong plastered welcome posters.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-334
23-10-2020||West Bengal||4157 new Covid cases in Bengal||Bengal on Thursday logged 4,157 new Covid-19 cases, 64 deaths and 3,608 recoveries, all the three figures highest for a 24-hour period. This is the 19th time that the highest 24-hour rise in the cases was reset in October. The day’s toll of 64 was reported for the fifth time, though still the highest so far. Calcutta reported 16 deaths and North 24-Parganas 18 on Thursday. Bengal’s total number of Covid-19 cases are now over 3.37 lakh, which include nearly 2.95 lakh recoveries and 6,308 deaths. Bengal climbed this month to the fourth spot among states with most active cases, after Maharashtra, Karnataka and Kerala. “Bengal alone has about 5 per cent of India’s total active cases now,” said a government source. “States such as Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh, which were relatively far worse off, are doing marginally better now,” said a government source. Bengal’s recovery rate, ahead of the national rate for months, was 87.44 per cent on Thursday, slipping well behind the current national rate of 89.33. Bengal’s mortality rate is 1.87, again behind the national rate of 1.51 per cent. “For months, we were in the top 3 or top 5 among states with the highest recovery rate. Now, we are languishing at 24th place. October damages have dragged us down, undoing much of the good work,” said a source in the government. “We can only hope that this (spurt in cases) does not worsen drastically over Durga Puja, given the high court’s intervention. Otherwise, we might have a full-fledged public health emergency before Kali Puja,” he added. In just a month, Bengal added nearly 1.06 lakh new Covid-19 cases while only 93,000 have recovered and 1,825 people have died. “Over 62,000 of new cases in the month were reported from five high-incidence districts (Calcutta, North and South 24-Parganas, Howrah and Hooghly),” said the government source. In those five districts, the total active cases was 12,805 exactly a month ago. On Thursday, it stood at 20,213. The state government termed 5,330 or 84.5 per cent as deaths with comorbidity “present”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-334
23-10-2020||West Bengal||Modi virtual presence can’t hide rift in Bengal BJP||Even the Prime Minister’s virtual presence couldn’t hide the rifts in Bengal BJP. As Narendra Modi inaugurated Bengal BJP’s Durga Puja at the Eastern Zonal Cultural Complex through a virtual speech on Thursday, many from state party president Dilip Ghosh’s “lobby” skipped the event. Ghosh’s absence was justified as he had recently contracted Covid-19, said a source. But virtually all leaders at EZCC were close to the Kailash Vijayvargiya-Mukul Roy lobby. “Dilipda’s lobby has taken a back seat,” a party source told this paper. Parliamentarians Locket Chatterjee, Babul Supriyo, Swapan Dasgupta and Arjun Singh, Arvind Menon, the party’s co-minder in Bengal, national joint general secretary (organisation) Shivprakash and two other TMC turncoats — Sabyasachi Dutta and Shankudeb Panda — attended the event. Bengal BJP general secretaries Subrata Chatterjee and Sayantan Basu, said to be close to Ghosh, did not show up, though *Basu* later said he was in Howrah *while Chatterjee was in Burdwan*. Ghosh’s aides Pratap Banerjee, Agnimitra Paul and Raju Banerjee came, but the latter looked disinterested in the goings-on. When leaders inside the auditorium were asked to come onstage and play the dhaak, Raju Banerjee stayed away. Basu later explained his absence. “I am the president of different pujas in Howrah. I had told the party that I would be in Howrah listening to the PM,” he said. In the evening, the media cell of the state BJP unit circulated a Durga Puja video message by Ghosh that had no mention of the puja hosted by his own party.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-334
23-10-2020||West Bengal||Effusive Modi sweet-talks Bengal||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday invoked Bengal’s icons, tried speaking the “sweet language”, spoke of the “sonar Bangla” dream and rolled out a long list of what the BJP-led Centre had done for the state in his 25-minute address from Delhi live-streamed across Bengal. “I feel like I’m in Calcutta among you and not in Delhi,” he said in his speech that was part of an inaugural event of a Durga Puja hosted by the Bengal unit of the BJP in Salt Lake. Billed as a message to the people of Bengal for Durga Puja, the contents of Modi’s speech made it clear that he was trying to woo voters in poll-bound Bengal though he steered clear of any reference to elections or Trinamul. The virtual event started with BJP MP Babul Supriyo singing a Tagore song in the presence of senior state BJP leaders, and Modi taking it up from there. Modi listed Bengal’s notables — Sri Ramakrishna, Swami Vivekananda, Rabindranath Tagore, Syamaprasad Mookerjee, Baba Lokenath, Thakur Anukulchandra, Kazi Nazrul Islam, Satyajit Ray, Uttam Kumar  — and juxtaposed his government’s commitment to adhere to the path shown by some of the state’s luminaries. He included Panchanan Barma, a 19th century Rajbanshi reformer, and Harichand and Guruchand Thakur, founders of the Matua sect, in the list. “If I continue to take the names of such Bengalis, the day will end but we won’t run out of names,” Modi said. “Whenever the need was felt in India’s history, Bengal has always led the way...” Linking the  autumn festival with woman empowerment, he went on to say what his government had done for women, including Jan Dhan accounts for 22 crore women, Beti Bachao, Beti Padhao scheme, among others. Modi referred to Ujjwala Yojana and Jal Jeevan Mission, which he claimed helped thousands of Bengal households. “Our government sanctioned Rs 8,500 crore for the East-West Metro corridor in Calcutta,” he said. “Besides, crores of rupees have been invested to build better roads among India, Nepal and Bangladesh,” he added. He also reminded people to be cautious during the festive season so that the pandemic situation did not worsen. “I urge everyone to ensure (social) distancing and wear masks during celebrations at all times,” said Modi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-334
23-10-2020||West Bengal||Tourists barred from stormy sea at Digha||The East Midnapore district administration barred tourists from venturing into sea for three days from Thursday because of stormy weather triggered by a depression in the Bay of Bengal. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has forecast heavy to very heavy rainfall and squally wind conditions in coastal Odisha, Bengal and northeastern states from October 22 to 24. As a precautionary measure, the district administration has barred bathing in the sea and asked fishermen not to venture into the rough sea for the next three days. Those who have gone for fishing have been told to return. Ramnagar 1 block development officer Bishnupada Roy said: “In response to the forecast issued by the meteorological department, we have barred anyone from venturing into the sea from October 22 to 24. The weather turned stormy since Wednesday night and the sea is rough.” Roy said a control room had been opened at the block office to deal with any eventuality. The administration is also using the public address system to inform tourists about the weather and the ban imposed on bathing in the sea. Civil defence and police personnel have been deployed at the sea resorts of Digha, Mandarmani, Shankarpur and Tajpur to keep an eye on tourists and stop them from taking the plunge. A 22-member team of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) has arrived from Barrackpore in North 24-Parganas to deal with any emergency situation. Civil defence personnel Ratan Das said the sea had turned turbulent from Wednesday evening. “A woman was being swept away while bathing on Wednesday evening. We rescued her and took her to the hospital. She has returned home. From today (Thursday), we will not allow anyone into the sea,” Das added. Since Thursday morning, Digha wore a cloudy look and this dampened the spirit of tourists, many of whom had come to the sea resort after Calcutta High Court banned the entry of visitors inside Durga Puja pandals across the state in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. Sumana Dasgupta, a resident of Tollygunge in Calcutta, had come to Digha with her family to enjoy the four days of Puja. The ban on bathing has left her gloomy. “My 14-year-old son and 11-year-old daughter have been planning for long to have a great time in the sea. Our plan has gone haywire with the ban on bathing in the sea. We arrived this morning and booked rooms till October 24. We will return early,” she said. Joint secretary of the Digha-Shankarpur Hoteliers’ Association, Bipradas Chakraborty, said: “The seaside resorts were slowly coming out of the lockdown blues but the change in weather has led to cancellation of bookings.” Assistant director of fisheries, marine, of East Midnapore, Surajit Bagh, said: “Fishermen have been asked to stay off the sea for three days beginning Thursday. Those who are in the sea have been asked to return fast.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-334
23-10-2020||West Bengal||Social harmony at North Dinajpur, Malda pujas||The amity between Hindu and Muslim communities dwelling in remote pockets of North Dinajpur and Malda districts has once again come at the forefront during the annual festivities this year. In Mehendigram, a village in Raiganj block around 10km from the district headquarters, sees hundreds from both communities celebrating the Durga Puja for over 400 years now. Hindus and Muslims at a locality in Gazole of Malda are also busy in making final arrangements for a more recent puja being held since 2007, and initiated by a Muslim man for Dalits. “Our religions may be different, but every year we celebrate Durga Puja together. Right from collecting subscriptions to immersing idols, we join hands in every endeavour. Our puja might not have the grandeur and glamour like the pujas held in towns but this uniqueness of our puja draws hundreds of visitors from villages and towns every year,” said Rafikul Islam, one of the active members of the puja committee. At the village, the “mandap” or the pavilion located amid the lush green agricultural fields, elders and youngsters assemble every day to prepare for the puja. “Right from Sashthi to Dashami, all Muslim families here refrain from eating non-vegetarian food. They partake of vegetarian food just like us, join the puja and even offer bhog to the goddess. The puja here is more of an annual celebration for all of us and has kept us bound together for centuries now,” Rameshwar Roy, a senior resident, said. This particular Durga Puja, residents said, started way back in 1611. “We have learned from our ancestors that Durlabh Roy Choudhury, who was a zamindar of Haripur (now in Bangladesh), had started the Durga Puja,” said Roy. In those days, residents of Mehendigram used to walk up to the zamindar’s house in Haripur to collect the items needed for the autumnal worship and then return to the village. “Since that time, Hindus and Muslims have been working together for this Durga Puja. It is a symbol of amity now,” said a social researcher in Raiganj. In 2007, Bobby Ahmed of Malda town, a dry-cleaning shop owner, decided to collect a few people and start a new Durga Puja in Gazole for Dalits — the Aikya Sangha Puja. On why he decided to start the Durga Puja, Bobby said he was pained to see members of the Dalit community who stay close to his shop near the local bus stand in Gazole, some 25km from district headquarters, usually stayed aloof from the festivities. “I was shocked to see that even now the issue of untouchability is there and that is why they stay away from the pujas. This made me plan a puja where they can all join. I invited some youths of their community and other Muslim and Hindu youths joined me. We discussed among ourselves and since 2007 have been convening this puja. People from different communities join us every year,” said Bobby. In its 14th year, Bobby is depressed that the pandemic situation robbed their Durga Puja of much of its grandeur. A resident said that down the years this Durga Puja had earned many laurels. “Whether it is the pandal decoration, idols or lights, the Aikya Sangha Puja has bagged several awards,” said a resident. Though organisers have scaled down this Puja in view of the pandemic, members from different faiths — Ajit Ghosh, who is the club president, Dhiraj Harijan, Nannu Harijan, Sunny Harijan, Imtiaz Sheikh and Salauddin Sheikh — are busy with last-minute arrangements. Bobby, who also happens to be the club general secretary, said: “It is because of their relentless efforts that we can successfully host the puja every year.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-334
