24-10-2020||West Bengal||Covid: More beds after high toll||The Bengal government has decided to introduce 245 high dependency unit (HDU) beds for critical Covid-19 patients across North 24-Parganas after the district recorded alarmingly high deaths from the pathogen in the past few days. “A total of 2,174 Covid beds, including 535 ICU beds, will soon be introduced across the state. Of them, 245 HDU beds are for North 24-Parganas as the number of deaths in the district in the past few days are alarmingly high,” said a senior state government official. According to the figures available with the state health department, North 24-Parganas recorded 19 deaths from Covid on Wednesday, 18 on Thursday and 16 on Friday. Only Calcutta logged a similar number of deaths in the past three days. The toll from the novel coronavirus in the city was 19, 16 and 24 on Wednesday, Thursday an Friday, respectively. “Higher deaths in Calcutta is nothing unusual as critical patients are referred to the city from all over the state. If a district records similar number deaths like Calcutta, it demands highest attention from the state government,” said a senior bureaucrat. According to the plan, the administration would soon set up 50 HDU beds at CNCI, Rajarhat, and 25 HDU beds at the Sagar Dutta Medical College and Hospital, both in North 24-Parganas. Besides, 30 beds at the Ashokenagar State General Hospital, 40 beds at the Naihati State General Hospital and 40 beds at the Sree Balaram Seva Pratisthan in Khardah would be upgraded to HDU beds. Besides, 80 beds at the Baranagar State General Hospital have been earmarked for Covid patients and 60 of them are HDU beds. Sources said the HDU beds offered more intensive observation, treatment and nursing care than the beds in general ward but slightly less than those in intensive care units (ICUs). “As critical Covid patients require oxygen support more than anything else, the additional HDU beds are likely to help the authorities bring down the number of deaths in North 24-Parganas,” said a senior government official. The sources said the Covid graph of North 24-Parganas had prompted the state health department to upgrade the infrastructure in the district as it was putting additional pressure on the hospitals in Calcutta. “The number of coronavirus patients were increasing alarmingly in both Calcutta and North 24-Parganas. If critical cases of North 24-Parganas can be treated within the district, it would ease the pressure on Calcutta hospitals,” said a bureaucrat. The bureaucrat said considering the manner in which Covid cases were shooting up in Calcutta, patients in the city might require more critical support in coming days. “The only way we can deal with the situation is by decongesting the beds at Calcutta hospitals. This could be done if we can minimise the cases being referred from districts,” added the official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-333
24-10-2020||West Bengal||Dilip disbands district youth panels||Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh dismissed all district committees of the party’s youth wing on Friday, a move that yet again brought the organisation’s inner conflict out in the open. Saumitra Khan, the state chief of the Yuva Morcha, had formed the committees and appointed their presidents over the last couple of months. “The committees were declared without following the due process. District leaders are unhappy. We had to dissolve all the committees,” Ghosh told The Telegraph. “In our party, the state committee of the youth wing is supposed to discuss and approve the names suggested by the district leaders before announcing the names of the Yuva Morcha district committee members and their respective presidents. However, in this case, the suggestions from the districts were overlooked,” Ghosh said explaining the reason for the dissolution of all the district committees. This is not the first time that Ghosh has shot down a list prepared by Khan, a Trinamul turncoat, who won the Lok Sabha election from Bishnupur. In August, Ghosh had discarded a list of district presidents within minutes of Khan circulating it in various social media groups. A notice, signed by Ghosh, announcing the disbanding of the district committees and dismissing their presidents stated that the respective district presidents of the BJP would look after the affairs of the Yuva Morcha. The row over the district committees of the youth wing, sources said, exposed the power struggle in the state BJP, where the differences between the Ghosh camp and the rest are growing. Leaders close to Ghosh and Khan spun different narratives about the incident. Sources close to Ghosh said the committees were disbanded because of several allegations of misconduct against Khan. Multiple sources in the party said the decision of dissolving the committees was taken by senior leaders in Delhi and Ghosh executed their wish. “In the past few days, some eight to 10 members have left the official WhatsApp group of the Yuva Morcha. There are some serious allegations against Saumitrada about which Delhi isn’t happy and that’s why the committees formed by him were disbanded,” a source in the Yuva Morcha said. This person refused to reveal what these allegations were citing party protocols. The Telegraph couldn’t contact Khan on his phone. However, in a television interview, Khan said he had seen the notice from Ghosh and would speak to him about it. Sources close to Khan said he was livid with Ghosh’s decision and had already brought the matter to the notice of senior BJP leaders in Delhi. “Dilip-da wants to run the youth wing, the women’s wing and also the parent party... This cannot go on,” said a source. Another Trinamul turncoat Shankudeb Panda, who was named a vice-president of the youth wing on Thursday by Khan himself, blamed Khan for the fiasco. “He (Khan) has not handled a responsibility as serious as the chief of a party’s youth wing previously and to announce district committees without the consent of the seniors was irresponsible. Senior leaders should strictly look into this issue. Otherwise, this would have an adverse effect on the party,” Panda said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-333
24-10-2020||West Bengal||Speeding car kills elephant||A wild elephant crossing NH31C was killed when a car rammed into the animal on the fringes of Gorumara National Park and Chapramari Wildlife Sanctuary in Jalpaiguri district on Thursday night. “The car was damaged and the driver suffered injuries. But he did not stop on the spot. We informed police about the incident and they traced the car to a garage at Malbazar. Our department will take legal action against the driver and the vehicle’s owner,” said a senior Bengal forest department official. Panjhora, where the elephant was killed, is around 10km from Malbazar. “There are clear markings and signals on the particular stretch of NH31C that the road falls in an elephant crossing zone and vehicles should move at a lower speed. Even then, such an unfortunate incident took place,” the forester said. According  to the residents of Panjhora, the car was at a high speed when the accident occurred. Veterinarians conducted a post-mortem on the carcass of the sub-adult elephant in the Panjhora beat of the Chapramari forest on Friday. They suspect the elephant died because of serious injuries and haemorrhage in the head. The forest department conducted a raid on the Naya Sylee tea estate in the Nagrakata block of Jalpaiguri district on Thursday night and seized two leopard skins. A team of foresters led by Ayan Chakraborty, the range officer of Gorumara south range, conducted the raid and arrested Sanicharoa Mahali, a resident of the garden. “He will be produced in a court in Jalpaiguri and we will seek his custody. He needs to be interrogated to collect more details,” Chakraborty said. According to him, the forest department had a tip-off that some people, who were associated with a racket that deals in animal parts, would hand over the leopard skins to prospective buyers in the tea garden. The raid was conducted accordingly and the skins were found packed in bags. Apart from Mahali, some others were also on the spot but they managed to escape. “One skin is of an adult leopard. The other appears to be the skin of a sub-adult leopard,” said a forester. “We need to know whether the skins were smuggled in and if so, from where, or whether the animals were killed in the forests of our region.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-333
24-10-2020||West Bengal||After 40 years, no Chandi Path||Durga Puja at the Mukherjee family in Birbhum’s Mirati will witness a break in a tradition of at least 40 years this time. There will be no Chandi Path on Ashtami as former president Pranab Mukherjee who used to recite it passed away in New Delhi on August 31. Pranab, the eldest member of the Mukherjee family, is believed to have set the four-decade-old tradition of reciting hymns from the book of Chandi on Ashtami and every year, a large audience would turn up to hear the veteran politician’s recitation of the shlokas glorifying goddess Chandi. Sri Sri Chandi, a mythological text containing 700 verses on goddess Chandi, is part of the Markandeya Mahapurana. The verses narrate the tales of goddess Chandi fighting and destroying the evil forces of Madhu, Kaithabha, Mahishasura and Shumbha and Nishumbha. Pranab used to visit his ancestral home in Mirati, around 220km from Calcutta, during Bengal’s biggest festival and would spend all four days of Durga Puja by taking part in the rituals. Even in his heyday as a Congress leader and Union minister, Pranab would reach Mirati by the afternoon of Mahasasthi and supervise the beginning of Puja every year. “Even after he became the President, he never missed Durga Puja for a single year. He would monitor the puja rituals on all four days. The puja had become special for us because of his presence,” said a family member. A family member of the Mukherjees said the former President’s absence was being felt at the puja this year. “We cannot imagine Chandi Path without him. So, we decided not to have Chandi Path this year,” said a family member. “The priest used to do all the formalities but on Ashtami, my father spent hours reciting the hymns. As my father used to recite hymns from the book of Chandi, in his absence, we have decided to exclude the Ashtami ritual. I or any other member of my family will not take part in any puja rituals because of my father’s death,” said Abhijit Mukherjee, the former Jangipur MP and son of the former President. “Next year, I will try to bring an expert who can recite the hymns of Chandi. The ritual has been put on hold at least for this year,” he added. Pranab’s presence at the puja used to attract hundreds of visitors, who would throng the remote village to catch a glimpse of the man. “Since my days as a student leader, Durga Puja meant the one held at the Mukherjee household in Mirati. Those of us visiting the Mukherjee household for years during Durga Puja will miss him at the puja mandap and his recitation of Sanskrit mantras,” said Milton Rashid, district Congress president and MLA from Birbhum’s Hasan. Villagers recalled how Mukherjee would become “one of their own” during the Puja days. “Everyone had the privilege to meet him personally during Durga Puja and the protocol associated with the high office he held never came in the way,” said a Mirati villager. “Pranab babu used to sit in the courtyard of his house and interact with people who would come to meet him. He could recall the names of many villagers as he knew them personally. We will miss him this year,” said Jayanta Chakraborty, a resident of Kirnahar and a regular during the Puja in Mirati. Prabhakar Bandopadhyay, who teaches English at Mukherjee’s alma mater Kirnahar Sibachandra High School, said: “Since my childhood, I had been hearing his Chandipath. There will be a break in the tradition for us too.” The Taki municipality on Friday withdrew the ban on traditional boat rides on the Ichhamati river for immersion of idols on Dashami this year. The blanket ban had been announced in view of the raging Covid-19 pandemic. While announcing the withdrawal of the ban, Taki municipal chairman Somnath Mukherjee said only 10 persons would be allowed to ride a boat with the deity. “For a personal ride on the river, only five people are allowed for a small boat and 10 for a big one,” said the chairman. Additional reporting by Subhasish Chaudhuri||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-333
