25-10-2020||West Bengal||Gorkha Janmukti Morcha flag signals Gurung return||Supporters of the Bimal Gurung faction of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha hoisted the party’s flag atop Gitangadara — a podium where most public meetings in Darjeeling are held — in a symbolic move which is seen as a precursor to his return to the hills after more than three years. Gurung had resurfaced in Calcutta on October 21, after being on the run since the violent Gorkhaland agitation in 2017, and announced his party’s decision to quit the National Democratic Alliance and join hands with the Trinamul Congress in the 2021 Bengal Assembly polls. Until the announcement of his tie-up with Trinamul, many had felt Gurung was the most popular leader in Darjeeling who had not compromised on the statehood issue. But since then, the Gurung faction has come under the scanner largely because of Trinamul’s opposition to the statehood demand. Against this background, Saturday’s development at Chowk Bazar here was significant. “The party leaders are definitely preparing ground for Gurung’s most probable return to the hills and also trying to send a message that many are still with Gurung despite his alliance with Trinamul,” said a hill observer. Gurung had earlier said he would soon return to the hills and many observers believe that this could be possible after the handshake with Trinamul, even though there are legal hurdles in the way. On Saturday morning, his supporters not only unfurled the Morcha flag on the rooftop of Gitangadara but also raised slogans in favour of Gurung, an act which was considered impossible until a few days ago. “We promise that our leader is returning soon. We will welcome him in a grand manner,” said Noman Rai, the working president of the Gorkha Janmukti Yuva Morcha (Gurung camp). The Gurung camp is justifying the decision to ally with Trinamul on the ground that the tie-up would facilitate the return of “5,000 supporters who are on the run”. At his news conference in Calcutta on Wednesday, Gurung had said: “While I was sitting back for the past three years, I saw Mamata Banerjee meet whatever commitments she had made to the people. We have decided that in the Assembly elections of 2021, we will stand with her and Trinamul. She is an idol and we want to see her again in her post (of chief minister).” Rai on Saturday criticised the BJP for not even fulfilling small demands like “central university for the hills, not to talk about major demands” in the past 12 years of allying with the BJP.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-332
25-10-2020||West Bengal||Mascots at pandals for mask awareness||The district administration of Cooch Behar and Durga Puja organisers have come up with a mascot called “Mohan”, which resembles the rare turtle with the same name found at a pond in Baneswar, to create awareness of the need for people to wear masks to keep the novel coronavirus at bay. At different puja pandals across Cooch Behar, a Mohan can be seen, donning a mask and imparting a message “Amar Mask, Amar Vaccine” (My mask is my vaccine). “We wanted to ensure that all those coming out of their homes during and after the festival wear masks in a proper manner. Consistent use of masks can considerably reduce the risk of Covid-19 infections. That is why we thought of using Mohan, as the rare turtle found at the Baneswar pond is called by residents here, as a mascot. The clubs have also responded to our call and displayed the mascots on their premises. We feel this initiative would help in disseminating awareness of the need to wear masks among people,” said an official of the district administration. Locally known as Mohan, the turtles found in Shib Dighi, that is close to a Shiva temple of Baneswar, are of Nilssonia nigricans species, commonly known as black softshell turtles. “These are indeed rare species as the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) classified them as ‘extinct in the wild.’ We believe the decision to present the species as the mascot will also impart awareness among people of the need for their conservation,” said Animesh Bose, a wildlife conservationist in Siliguri. Ranadip Bose, a resident of Gosani Road in Dinhata who is also associated with Gosani Road Sarbojonin Durgotsav, said he had found many pandal hoppers taking out masks or buying ones after seeing the mascot. “We have displayed the mascots at a number of spots near our puja and have seen people, particularly youngsters, taking out masks from their pockets and wearing the same after seeing the mascot,” said Bose. There is an apprehension that Covid-19 cases will surge in the state if health safety protocols are not properly followed during the Durga Puja days. In every district, the administration, in association with the health department, has drawn up plans to handle such a possible situation. Rathindranath Saha, a painter based in Dinhata, said: “Residents of Cooch Behar have a different sentiment for the Mohans of Baneswar. We believe they will follow the message.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-333
25-10-2020||West Bengal||Essex’s Sankalpo ensures Puja in pandemic||What is it about Essex that inspires great voyages? The answer might lie in the name of an association of residents that has beaten all odds to organise Durga Puja. Sankalpo, which translates to “pledge”, has refused to be brow-beaten by the pandemic and has soldiered on amid adversities to celebrate Durga Puja and in the process “spread hope and cheer” in these times of gloom. If Essex had cradled Daniel Defoe’s Moll Flanders and Joseph Conrad’s Heart of Darkness, both tales of epic and transcendental journeys, it has spurred Sankalpo on to dip into its reserves and make the best out of the situation. Sankalpo, an association of over 100 members at Chelmsford, Essex county’s only city 64km from London, is organising this year’s puja inside a garage of one of the organisers. The garage and the idols have been decked up by the association members, many of whom till last year participated in a puja at the local church’s sprawling community centre. The festivities, held with strict adherence to precautions at a time there has been an alarming resurgence in Covid cases in the UK, are being live-streamed on Sankalpo Chelmsford’s Facebook page for the community’s 137 members. The group also aims to “advance cultural values” among South Asian communities through Bengal’s biggest festival. “Building hope and spreading positivity is the challenge of our times. This very thought led to the birth of Sankalpo this year,” said Meghdut Biswas, 46, an entrepreneur and one of the organisers of the puja, during a telephone interview with The Telegraph. Over the years, Durga Puja has been celebrated in Chelmsford to the beats of the dhak and the call of the conch at Writtle Christian Centre, which has a church and a community hall. Although much of the fervour is missing this year owing to the pandemic, the spirit has not ebbed. A London-based puja committee has donated the idols to Sankalpo. The organisers said the Facebook group members of Sankalpo were offering “pushpanjali” from their homes as the rituals were being live-streamed. The intention, the organisers said, is to bring festive cheer and ensure that everyone enjoys Durga Puja from the safety of their homes. “This year’s puja is different from other years. This time it is a virtual puja. Purohit Proloy Mukherjee is performing the puja in front of the deity and the rest of us are watching and participating from our own homes,” said Debalina Gupta, 46, a spokesperson for Sankalpo. “My role of blowing the conch shell remains the same, but this time I am doing it from my own home and it is being live-streamed,” said Debalina, senior National Health Service transformation and commission manager. Debalina said she was originally from Salt Lake. “We have tried to recreate the ambience of Calcutta. The beauty of Durga Puja is that it is for all — sarbajanin. This year, we are making ananda naru and cooking bhog at our homes and distributing them from the puja venue, maintaining physical distancing. We have done everything to give it the feel of our own parar pujo back home in Calcutta,” she said. Debalina said only a few of the members of Sankalpo were Bengalis but everyone participated in Durga Puja. “Despite the restrictions this year, we have had an overwhelming response from the members of the community,” she said. Anurag Lohia, a software consultant from Indore and a resident of Chelmsford, weighed in: “Durga Puja feels like a family wedding…. We feel very much a part of the celebrations and feel blessed to be able to serve Ma Durga during the three days of celebrations.” “Sankalpo Chelmsford’s Durga Puja is where the east meets the west, the north meets the south, and people come together as part of a mega community festival. Transcending borders, breaking cultural barriers, together we have united from across the globe and the Indian subcontinent to celebrate Puja. It’s a microcosm of India with a firm focus on our beloved Calcutta,” Lohia added. Meghdut, who has been in Chelmsford for a decade, said it was Sankalpo’s aim to foster cultural values and send a message of inclusiveness amongst South Asian communities in Essex and surrounding areas by organising festivals celebrated in various parts of India. “In the face of this adversity, we’ll remember it (pandemic) as one of the toughest things that humanity has ever dealt with. The only solace we can take is that once we get through this, we can pledge and build a world together that’s more ready for the future we know is coming,” Meghdut said. Sankalpo also plans to raise funds to help the needy in Essex and also in India in fields as varied as education, sports, food and shelter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-333
