26-10-2020||West Bengal||‘Bimal go back’ chants at Binay camp’s rally||Supporters of the Binay Tamang faction of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha hit the streets of Darjeeling on Sunday, sloganeering against the leader of the party’s rival faction, Bimal Gurung. This is the first major reaction of the Binay camp after Bimal resurfaced in Calcutta a few days ago after three years and announced his decision to ally with Trinamul, which also has the support of the Binay camp. The timing of the Binay camp’s rally in which thousands took part during the middle of Dashain (Durga Puja) festival suggests the underlying tension in hill politics. “The youths organised the demonstration to appeal for peace… we are not weak, helpless. Good things are not coming, some are challenging us, we are protesting these developments,” said Alok Kant Mani Thulung, president of the Morcha’s Darjeeling subdivisional committee, Binay faction, referring to their fractious relationship with the Bimal camp. This is the first time that the Binay faction galvanised its supporters after Bimal resurfaced in Calcutta on October 21 announcing his support for Mamata Banerjee. Since then, Bimal supporters have slowly started coming out in the open. On Saturday supporters of Bimal camp had hoisted their party flag atop Gitangadara, a prominent stage for public meetings, at Chowk Bazar in Darjeeling. His supporters plastered posters and come out in the open in places like Kurseong, Sukhiapokhri and Mungpoo too. However, the Bimal faction’s flag was removed from Gitangadara by supporters of the Binay faction within a day. Bimal’s supporters use the Morcha flag bearing his picture while Tamang supporters use the original flag of the party. The slogans raised during Sunday’s hour-long rally from 11am included “Bimal Gurung go back”. The speeches of the leaders of the Binay faction were also directed against Bimal and his supporters. “Their cadres (those who were on the run with Bimal) are showing a vindictive mindset, that of revenge. This is not good, if they have such thoughts their leader will never be able to enter hills as none would want a law and order situation,” said Thulung. He also added that a political settlement (Bimal announcing his support to Mamata Banerjee) and a judicial process (in cases against Bimal) were two different issues. Thulung’s statement and allegations is a clear indicator that the Trinamul has a sizeable task at hand of balancing both the Bimal and Binay factions in the hills. “This balancing part could be the most difficult part of the new political development,” said an observer. Many hill residents also voiced their apprehension on the law and order situation. Bimal faction leaders on Saturday had, however, assured people of peace in the hills. Reconciliation between the two factions of the Morcha seems farfetched for now at least. “Your leader (Bimal) will have to ensure Binay Tamang’s victory in the coming election if Binay Tamang decides to contest, just to prove his (Bimal’s) leadership ability. Don’t be overenthusiastic right away,” Thulung told Bimal’s supporters. During the last Darjeeling assembly bypoll, Binay was supported by the TMC but lost to GNLF leader Neeraj Zimba, who had contested on a BJP ticket. Darjeeling apart, the Binay faction also organised rallies in Sonada and Kalimpong on Sunday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-332
26-10-2020||West Bengal||Techies print 3D idols||The National Institute of Technology, Durgapur, has designed and made five Durga idols using 3D printing technology. Teachers at the department of mechanical engineering said using the technology was a new concept they adopted for showpieces and idols. “We made five idols of Durga using 3D printing, using different materials, depositing them layer by layer,” said Shibendu Sekhar Roy, a teacher of mechanical engineering, adding that the pandemic-induced closure of the institute and long gaps between online classes afforded him the time to try this out. The five idols, of various sizes, were made within two days, October 21 and 22. He said 3D printing is a modern manufacturing skill for fabrication of engineering components for all engineering disciplines, including aircraft components. “This is the construction of a three-dimensional object from a digital computer-aided design model, by depositing specific materials layer by layer,” Roy said, adding that materials used to make the idols were polymer, wood dust-based filament, clay and ceramics. Two types of models, weighing between 30gm and 175gm, with dimensions between 2x1.5 inches and 6x4 inches were designed and manufactured. A Calcutta-based company that manufactures idols has evinced interest in using the process to make the items on a large scale. “Talks are on, we can transfer the technology to the company,” said Roy. “Dokra and terracotta artisans from Bankura can adopt this technology too. We can train them.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-332
26-10-2020||West Bengal||Trench to ward off elephants||Regular incidents of elephant attacks in some areas of Jalpaiguri district that cause loss to life and property have made the district administration come up with a plan that can help address the problem and generate jobs. At Rajadanga area of Malbazar subdivision, where herds of wild elephants often enter villages, the administration has taken up a project to dig a 15-km-long trench to deter elephants. The project has been taken up under the 100-days’ work scheme of the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Scheme, administrative officials said. “On one hand, the rampage of elephants in villages can stop, and on the other, water conserved in this trench can irrigate nearby farmlands. We have dug around 9km of the trench while the rest of the work would be carried out after Durga Puja,” said Surajit Chatterjee, the nodal officer of MGNREGS in Jalpaiguri district. According to him, in Rajadanga and Odlabari, which are near forests Kathambari and Apalchand and also the fringes of the elephant corridor of north Bengal, 9km of the 15km trench (4km in Odlabari and 5km in Rajadanga) have already been dug. Around 3,000 man-days have been created through this project and only local residents hired under the 100-days’ work scheme. A resident said that the trench was seven feet in depth and 12 feet in width. “It won’t be possible for any elephant to cross the trench.” In Jalpaiguri, villages in Malbazar, Matialli and Nagrakata blocks see elephant attacks. “We plan to dig trenches in some other places too in consultation with officials of the state forest department,” said Chatterjee. Jalpaiguri district magistrate Abhishek Kumar Tiwary said they were also reviving the old water sources (hilly streams or jhoras) in the hilly tracts of the Dooars.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-332
26-10-2020||West Bengal||Queue outside Jalsaghar palace puja||It’s quieter times for the 155-year-old bonedi (ancestral) Durga Puja at the Nimtita Rajbari near Murshidabad town, made famous by Satyajit Ray’s 1958 classic Jalsaghar (The Music Room) on the life of a lonely landlord and patron of music. Mounting pressures posed by maintenance demands of the mammoth 150-room property and lockdown restrictions imposed on the Puja celebrations this year have caused visitors — who still flock to the decrepit palace once a year to see the thakur ghar (prayer room) — to dwindle. The family of landowners Rabindra Narayan Chowdhury (known among locals as Chhotobabu), who are settled in Calcutta, came here for a week last Wednesday to supervise what residents termed a “muted” celebration at the Rajbari. “Initially we had thought of having a strictly family Durga Puja, barring the entry of outsiders to the palace because of the prevailing pandemic situation. However, relenting to the pleas of villagers we decided to allow them inside the palace but have imposed strict curbs on their movement,” Chowdhury said. The Chowdhurys have hired a private security agency to enforce the Calcutta High Court directives on curbing puja crowds. Not more than 20 people are allowed inside the palace, said sources. “Despite the Rajbari’s worsening condition, the palace occupies a special place in our hearts for the residents of Nimtita. Moreover, Satyajit Ray’s film brought the palace widespread fame,” said local resident and schoolteacher Tarun Singha, 42. Singha said that though the police were only letting 20 people into the thakur ghar at a time this year for social distancing, they were all willing to patiently wait in the queue. “We are willing to wait for our turn. The palace might never know its former glory again, but it is our duty to be present at the yearly puja,” Singha added. One-hundred-and fifty-five years old, the palace, like the fictional aristocrat of Ray’s film shot here, has clearly seen better days. Sources said though the palace had a team of staff, it did not receive financial assistance of any kind from the government. “We were all quite upset this year when we learned that we would not be able to gather inside our beloved Rajbari for the Puja. No one is coming from the cities either. But still something (entry with restrictions) is better than nothing,” added the villager, standing in a short, socially-distanced queue outside one of the palace’s five courtyards.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-332
26-10-2020||West Bengal||4,127 new Covid cases and 60 deaths but recoveries inch up too ||Bengal on Mahanavami Sunday logged over 4,000 new Covid-19 cases for the sixth consecutive day, with 4,127, and 60 deaths, including 14 in Calcutta and 18 in North 24-Parganas. On the brighter side, Sunday also marked the third consecutive day of a break from new highs in the spike, and saw 3,857 recoveries, the highest single-day number yet. While the total Covid-19 cases for the state, since the first was detected on March 17, is 3.49 lakh now, over 3.06 lakh of those are recoveries, besides 6,487 deaths. “Given the trends in the first couple of weeks of October, we were apprehensive of a major spike in the number of cases found daily by now. Had the damage we were fearing taken place, we would have seen much worse numbers now,” said a minister. “Instead, we have been seeing a sharp rise in recoveries. Another seven-10 days of this, and we will overcome much of the progress that we lost earlier this month,” he added. The rise in recoveries over the past few days contributed to a rise in the recovery rate, which had taken a tumble since the October 6 high of 87.98. Having fallen to 87.43 per cent on Tuesday, it rose gradually to 87.56 on Sunday. The national rate, far behind the state for months, is now 89.98 per cent. Over the past month, Bengal reported nearly 1.09 lakh new cases on one hand, and over 95,000 recoveries on the other. In that period, there have also been 1,822 deaths. Now, Bengal ranks fourth in the country after Maharashtra, Kerala and Karnataka among the states with the most active cases, currently at 37,017. It alone has over 5.5 per cent of India’s total active cases. Of the total 6,487 deaths reported so far, the state government attributed 5,463, or 84.2 per cent, to comorbidities. Bengal’s overall mortality rate is 1.85, behind the national rate of 1.5 per cent. With 42,538 tests, the total of tests is over 42.98 lakh, at 47,759 tests per million people. The positive confirmation rate, on the rise again since the sharp spike in new cases, is 8.14 per cent now. The state reported 36.3 per cent occupancy in the 12,751 beds earmarked for Covid-19 in 93 dedicated hospitals for the pandemic, besides 3.74 lakh telemedicine consultations so far this pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-333
