27-10-2020||West Bengal||Kalimpong rain hits tourists on Dashami||A sudden bout of downpour in the upper reaches of Kalimpong hills since Sunday night came as a spoiler for hundreds of tourists and day-outers who had gathered on Dashami Monday near streams that originate from Kalimpong and move through some prominent tourist destinations of the Dooars. In Kalimpong hills, it rained close to 50mm in some locations, which raised the water level of streams such as Murti and Neora that pass through the fringes of the Gorumara National Park. Officials of the state forest department deputed forest guards near banks to prevent anyone from wading into the streams. “We are keeping a watch on the banks. Unless the water levels recede, we will not allow anybody into the streams,” said Nisha Goswami, the divisional forest officer of Gorumara wildlife division. Visitors were disappointed. “We had made plans to bathe in the Murti and then enjoy a festive lunch on occasion of Dashami at any nearby food joint. But we found that the river had swollen and was gushing forth. For safety’s sake, we only stood on the banks and took a walk on the bridge,” said Debasish Chakraborty of Jalpaiguri who went with wife Mou to Murti near Lataguri, the most popular tourist destination in the Dooars. While Neora flows through a comparatively deserted area, the swollen Murti also left the local taxi stand inundated. Also, the space where tents are laid on the banks of Murti for tourists got flooded too. The downpour led to mudslides in some locations, and damaged a house in Rocky Island, another destination for tourists near Samsing in Matialli block of Jalpaiguri. In the Lower Rumtikhola area, the house of one Robin Pradhan was completely damaged by a mudslide on Monday. “We are fortunate that the slide occurred in the morning. Initially, stones and boulders started falling on the house. We immediately shifted to a nearby place. Then we saw a mudslide approaching the house, and that eventually left the house completely damaged. We are homeless now and don’t know what to do next,” said Pradhan. Sources in the Met office said that southwest monsoon had started withdrawing from most places. “However, there is still a forecast of moderate rainfall in some north Bengal districts and in Sikkim during next couple of days,” said a weather expert.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-332
27-10-2020||West Bengal||Kid rescued from drowning in Digha||Members of the civil defence team rescued a seven-year-old boy from downing in the sea in Digha on Monday morning. The Howrah boy, who had come with his parents Sheikh Saibuddin and Noornagina Begum, and sisters aged 13 and 15, had been told to sit on the crowded beach as his parents and elder siblings went bathing in the sea. Sources said that the boy, Dilanur, decided to follow his family and bathe in the sea too. But as soon as he stepped into the water, the boy got caught in the swift currents and got dragged away. Members of the civil defence force, locally known as nulias and are deployed in the sea and on the beach to respond to any emergency, spotted Dilanur being swept away, jumped into the sea and brought the child to safety. “There was a huge crowd in the sea. Everyone was busy enjoying sea-bathing. Suddenly, we spotted a child being dragged away by the sea. Our team members jumped into the sea and pulled him out of the water,” said Ratan Das, a nulia and member of the civil defence team. The task to search for his parents proved to be a bigger challenge. Though the child could tell the name of his parents, he did not know their phone numbers. Das added that he and fellow beach guards carried Dilanur on their laps and searched for his parents in the sea and on the beach for two hours. “The crowd was so huge on Monday that it was difficult for the child to spot his parents. After two hours, we spotted his parents who were enjoying the sea, oblivious to the close shave that Dilanur had,” he said. Shocked when told her son was being swept away by the sea, Dilanur’s mother Noornagina said: “We had come to Digha after 10 years and wanted to make the most of it. We had left our child on the beach hoping our fellow tourists would keep an eye on him. We are lucky to have got him back.” She added that her son was very obedient and she had never thought he would venture into the sea. Father Saibuddin, a bus conductor, added that they did not want the boy to enter the water for fear of his catching a cold. Police said the family had come on a day’s trip to the sea resort and were scheduled to return home in the evening. They were part of a group that had hired a bus to the sea resort. Officer-in-charge of Digha police station Krishnendu Pradhan said that this was not the first time people left their children on the beach and hit the sea. “A few years ago, a couple from EM Bypass in Calcutta had gone for a bath leaving their daughter on the beach. The girl entered the sea and drowned. Dilanur was lucky that nulias noticed him.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-332
27-10-2020||West Bengal||‘Covid warriors’ on Durga Puja pandal duty in Bengal||Hundreds of cured novel coronavirus patients, who have been named “Covid warriors” by the state government, were on duty at many popular Durga Puja pandals across Bengal during the four days of festivities to tell people how to stay safe from the virus. “All the districts were asked to depute two to four Covid warriors at popular Durga Puja pandals to spread awareness. For each day of duty, each Covid warrior was paid Rs 500,” said a state government official. The Covid warriors explained the need to wear masks to fight the disease if anyone was found without one. They sprayed sanitisers on the hands of visitors while advocating the need to maintain physical distance. The Covid warriors also asked pandal-hoppers to wash hands with soap at regular intervals. Officials said local gram panchayats and municipalities had been asked to select the Covid warriors from among those who needed work or were jobless migrant workers. Each district had selected between 50 and 100 popular pandals. “Thousands of migrant workers in the districts recovered from the disease. We asked local bodies to select those who are jobless for the awareness duty,” an official said. For example, Sekhar Sain, the block development officer of Bolpur, explained that Birbhum’s Ruppur gram panchayat had appointed four Covid warriors on Baro Bari Puja premises in Sriniketan’s Surul village. “The Baro Bari Puja is very old and attracts thousands. As Calcutta High Court had placed restrictions on pandal-hoppers because of the prevailing pandemic, four Covid warriors had been deployed here on coronavirus awareness duty,” Sain said. Rabindranath Sarkar, deputy chief of the gram panchayat, said: “We selected the Covid warriors from poor families.” “It is not a permanent source of income. But this small earning helped me a lot during Durga Puja,” said a Covid warrior in Purulia||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-332
27-10-2020||West Bengal||‘Permanent solution’ question hangs in Darjeeling hills||The sudden change in the political contours of Darjeeling hills with Bimal Gurung’s volte-face has raised questions on the “permanent political solution”, a concept that despite being unclear had been steering hill politics till date. During the last Lok Sabha elections, the BJP, which was supported by Gorkha Janmukti Morcha (Bimal camp), Gorkha National Liberation Front (GNLF), Akhil Bharatiya Gorkha League and other hill-based parties and apolitical organisations, had promised a “permanent political solution” and tribal status to 11 hill communities in its election manifesto. Without a doubt, the Bimal camp of the Morcha was one of the bigger influencers to help BJP candidate Raju Bista win the Darjeeling seat. On Vijaya Dashami day, discussions invariably veered on the present political developments in many hill homes. In the hills, Vijaya Dashami is the most important day of Dashain (Durga Puja festivities) as relatives visit each other’s homes to seek blessings from elders who anoint tika (made of rice, curd and vermilion) on the family members. Visits to relatives’ homes carry on for a fortnight and this social aspect of the celebration is the most important event of Dashain in the hills. But this year, most people are discussing the sudden change in the political landscape that has cast a shadow on the “permanent political solution”. “Now with the Bimal camp severing ties with the BJP (and backing Trinamul), the question is about the fate of the permanent political solution,” a resident of Darjeeling said. On October 21, when Bimal decided to join hands with Trinamul in Calcutta, he unequivocally said that “permanent political solution” should be a separate state of Gorkhaland. Gurung’s demand, however, will be turned down by his new ally Trinamul, which is clearly opposed to forming a separate state of Gorkhaland. Both factions of the Morcha, headed by Bimal and Binay, are now with Trinamul. The Binay faction heads the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration. The BJP has not spelled out the details so far on this aspect. The GNLF has maintained the solution should not be anything less than a Sixth Schedule status for the hills. Raju Bista, Darjeeling MP of the BJP, however, said that though Bimal and his party leaders might have their own understanding and compulsions for negotiating their safe return, the BJP was committed to fulfill their promises made to the people. “I can assure you all that irrespective of the ever changing political scenarios, BJP will fulfill the promises we have made to the people from our region,” said Bista. The Darjeeling MP stressed that BJP’s national president J.P. Nadda also iterated the party’s commitment towards finding a permanent political solution and including the 11 left-out Gorkha sub-tribes as Schedule Tribes during his recent visit to Siliguri. Observers however believe that BJP actually has very few options. “The BJP government might want to start the process of finding a permanent political solution but these negotiations would be fraught with failure as it would not have the participation of both factions of the Morcha,” said a hill resident. Another said the state government was unlikely to participate in talks on a permanent political solution as it believes in the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-332
