28-10-2020||West Bengal||Dhankar set to meet Amit Shah in Delhi on Thursday  ||Amid incidences of political violence and killings in Bengal, Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar will meet Union Home Minister Amit Shah in New Delhi on Thursday. Dhankhar has been vocal about the political killings which have taken place in the past few months, attracting criticism from the Mamata Banerjee government in the state. Bengal Governor Shri Jagdeep Dhankhar would be on an official visit to Delhi from Oct 28-30. Governor Dhankhar leaves for Delhi on the evening of Oct 28 and returns to Kolkata on Oct 30. His engagements include calling on the Union Home Minister Shri Amit Shah on Oct 29, a Raj Bhavan communique said on Wednesday. Following this he will be on a month-long visit to Darjeeling from November 1, the sources said. Dhankhar's scheduled visit to Darjeeling will take place at a time when political equations in the hills have changed after the supremo of the undivided Gorkha Janmukti Morcha (GJM), Bimal Gurung walked out of the BJP-led NDA accusing it of not fulfilling its promises. Gurung had during his dramatic reappearence in the city after absconding for three years lent support to the ruling TMC. The TMC got a shot in the arm as he vowed to support it in the next assembly polls. "Dhnakhar will be stayinng at the Raj Bhavan in Darjeeling, the statement said. He is also scheduled to address a press conference at Siliguri on November 1. The TMC has expressed apprehension over the governor's scheduled visit to the hills. Dhankhar has been at odds with the Mamata Banerjee dispensation since assuming charge over a year ago. "He (Dhankhar) can always visit any part of the state. But we don't think it's a routine visit. We are apprehensive about his visit," a senior TMC leader from north Bengal said. The BJP came out in support of the governor and said being the constitutional head of the state, he has the right to visit any part of the state. "Why is the TMC afraid about his visit? Does it have anything to hide? The governor has the right to visit any part of the state," a senior state BJP leader said. The TMC is hopeful that the new political realignment of Gurung with the party will have "far-reaching political impact" in north Bengal, one of its leaders said. Banerjee's party had drawn a blank in the 54 assembly segments in the area in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. Sources in TMC said the political realignment will change several ground equations in north Bengal in the party's favour as Gurung enjoys influence in 12-14 assembly seats and holds sway over 11 Gorkha communities, who form a deciding factor in 18-20 assembly seats spread across Darjeeling, Kalimpong, Jalpaiguri and Alipurduar. The picturesque Darjeeling Hills have repeatedly witnessed violent agitation over the demand for a separate state for more than three decades, the latest being in June 2017 when the Hills saw a 104-day-long strike over the issue. The agitation had led to a split in the GJM, with Binay Tamang, once a deputy to Gurung, taking over the reins of the party and expelling his supremo. The Gurung faction had then continued to support the BJP, while Tamang and his group had joined hands with the TMC.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-331
28-10-2020||West Bengal||Eye on weekend Covid count in Bengal||Bengal logged 16,539 new Covid-19 cases and 238 deaths on four Puja days on one hand and 15,175 recoveries and over 1.74 lakh tests on the other as the rate of cured patients climbed up again after a two-week slump. In what the government hopes is an indication of things to come, the state on Tuesday logged a notable slump in the spike with 3,957 new cases and a drop in the total of active cases — the first since September 7. “There is a reason to be pleased. The numbers have given us hope,” said a Bengal minister. There were 58 deaths, 3,917 recoveries and 42,108 tests reported on Tuesday. “We did not expect to set new records in recoveries and a resurgence in the recovery rate during and immediately after Puja. If this trend holds for a few more days, we are looking at a turnaround,” he added. Bengal’s total cases now are 3.57 lakh, including over 3.14 lakh recoveries and 6,604 deaths. It remains to be seen whether Calcutta High Court’s intervention to keep unbridled revelry from worsening the outbreak into a full-fledged public health emergency was effective. “The impact of the Puja days would be palpable in the Covid-19 figures from this weekend as it is between days six and 10 of the infection that most cases get detected,” said a minister. “But what we saw on the Puja days was a reflection of the week or 10 days that preceded the festival, marked by alarming disregard for Covid-19 safety protocols by the masses in the shopping and preparation stage. Given that background, the Covid numbers during the Puja days are certainly not as bad as they could have been,” he added. On all four Puja days, Bengal did log over 4,000 new cases daily. But the highest rise of 4,157, recorded on Mahasashthi, remained unsurpassed. “In a heartening indicator, the highest number of recoveries in a day were reset on all four days, with the highest being reported on Vijaya Dashami (3,889). On Tuesday, it rose to yet another new high of 3,917,” said the minister. With the Puja came a resurgence in the recovery rate, which had taken a tumble since the October 6 high of 87.98. Having fallen to 87.43 per cent on October 20, it rose gradually to 87.64 on Vijaya Dashami. The recovery rate on Tuesday rose further, to 87.76. The national rate, far behind the state for months, is now 90.66 per cent. “Given the trends in the first couple of weeks of October, we were apprehensive of a major spike in the number of cases found daily by now. Had the damage we were fearful of taken place, we would have seen much worse numbers by now,” said the minister. Of the total 6,604 deaths reported, the state government attributed 5,564 (84.3 per cent) to comorbidities. Bengal’s overall mortality rate is 1.84, still behind the national rate of 1.5 per cent. The total of tests is over 43.82 lakh, at 48,696 tests per million people. The positive confirmation rate, on the rise again since the sharp spike in new cases, is 8.16 per cent now. The state reported 35.63 per cent occupancy on 12,751 beds earmarked for Covid-19 at 93 dedicated hospitals. Besides, 3.82 lakh telemedicine consultations have been made so far. The authorities of Basirhat and Taki municipalities in North 24-Parganas on Tuesday morning started the cleansing of the Ichhamati river following the pollution of water during immersion of idols on Dashami. Workers fished out wooden structures of the idols and other puja materials during the cleansing. Additional reporting by Subhasish Chaudhuri||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-331
28-10-2020||West Bengal||Two civic bodies plunge into river cleansing after idol immersions ||The North 24-Parganas district administration on Tuesday morning started the cleansing of the Ichhamati river following the pollution of water during immersion of idols on Dashami. The authorities of Basirhat and Taki municipalities launched the cleaning drive with workers fishing out wooden structures of the idols and other puja materials. Municipal authorities have said the paint on the idols leads to chemical pollution of the river and it affects fish and other aquatic lives. The cleaning was undertaken immediately after the immersion to reduce adverse impact on the aquatic lives, an official said. “Since we were not in a position to stop immersions in the Ichhamati, which is the lifeline of the area, we decided to remove the waste as fast as possible. The crowd was less compared to other years because of restrictions imposed by Calcutta High Court. This helped us begin cleaning the river from the early hours of Tuesday,” said Basirhat municipality chairman Tapan Sarkar. Nature activists have welcomed the alacrity shown by the administration, but at the same time demanded a complete ban on immersion in the river in compliance with the directives issued by the Centre last year that disallowed immersions in the Ganga and its tributaries. They demanded setting up temporary water tanks at designated locations for immersion of idols and discourage immersion in the river in the name of tradition. Since Monday afternoon, most of the 1,096 community puja committees in the Basirhat subdivision immersed idols in the Ichhamati. In Taki, till Monday evening, 75 idols were immersed under the supervision of the BSF and police. Attempts were made to clean the Ichhamati in Hansnabad, Hingalganj, Swarupnagar, Baduria, Haroa and Nazat also. “We remove waste every year, but we began the job early this year so that people also become aware of the problem,” Sarkar added. The idols are usually made using clay and plaster of Paris. The chemical contents of the paints are toxic and pollutes water when it dissolves in the river. “Plaster of Paris contains calcium sulfate hemihydrate that takes a long time to dissolve in the river water,” said Tanmay Sanyal, an expert in limnology and fisheries who teaches at the Krishnagar Government College. “At the same time, it reduces dissolved oxygen (DO) level in the water, causing harm to fish and other aquatic lives. The paints also contain various carcinogenic heavy metals like chromium, cobalt, lead among others that directly affects the quality of water. “Even researches indicate that flower which is a bio-degradable cause pollution because chemical fertilisers and pesticides are used to grow them. Such metals and chemicals change the chemical parameters of water affecting the bio-diversity creating food crisis for fish,” Sanyal said. President of Paschim Banga Vigyan Mancha's Basirhat zonal committee Ranjit Mukherjee said: “It is a welcome move but much cannot be achieved until the administration bans immersion in the river and makes an alternative arrangement for the purpose.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-331
28-10-2020||West Bengal||3 Bengal districts report 4 unnatural deaths||A murder and three suspected murders have been reported from three districts of north Bengal during the past 24 hours. Police have registered separate cases and initiated probes for all the incidents. In Cooch Behar, 50-year-old Ruhidas Biswas, a resident of 538 Singimari village under Brahmattar-Chatra panchayat of Sitai police station, was gunned down at home on Monday night. The police said Biswas, a farmer, was sitting in his room around 11.50pm, when some criminals entered and fired at him. A bullet hit him on the head and the criminals fled. His family members rushed him to the subdivisional hospital in Dinhata where doctors pronounced him dead. The police said his family members apparently have no inkling as to who might have killed him. Two unnatural deaths were also reported from Malda district. Though kin suspect murder in both cases, the cops are waiting for post-mortem reports. On Monday night, Hanumant a.k.a. Hanuman Rai, a railway employee, was found dead at his residential quarters in ward 22 of Englishbazar municipality. Hailing from Bairampur in Gajipur district of Uttar Pradesh, the elderly Rai was set to retire on October 31 and leave for his native place by train on November 5. He was alone in the quarters and his family had left for Uttar Pradesh some days ago, said sources. Narendranath Tiwari, former councillor of the ward, said neighbours found Rai dead in a pool of blood. The police took him to Malda Medical College and Hospital where doctors pronounced him dead. “We suspect murder because of bleeding and injury marks,” Tiwari said. In the other case, the body of a seven-year-old girl, missing since Saturday, was found near Mahananda river on Monday morning. Her family alleged murder as her body bore several injury marks. The police are probing both cases, said Alok Rajoria, the district police chief. In South Dinajpur, family members of a 32-year-old man alleged on Tuesday that his friends killed him by poisoning his drink. The police sources said Dhruba Das of Chakbhabani area of Balurghat town, who worked in a private pathological lab, went out on Monday morning with a friend. He had some drinks with his friends and fell unconscious. His family members found him at the same friend’s house and took him home. On Tuesday morning, Dhruba suddenly fell ill at home. Rushed to the district hospital in Balurghat, he was declared dead. The police have ordered a post-mortem. “We suspect that his friends poisoned his drink,” Narendranath, the victim’s father, said. A Balurghat police officer said they would speak to Dhruba’s friends and were waiting for the post-mortem report.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-331
28-10-2020||West Bengal||Devi stays back to bless farmers||The Durga Puja festivities got over across Bengal on Monday with the immersion of Goddess Durga, except for pockets of north Bengal. Every year on Ekadashi, the day after Dashami, the Rajbanshi community organises Bhandani Puja in north Bengal, including Dakshin Ulladabri of Maynaguri block in Jalpaiguri and Bholardabri in Alipurduar. The worship of Devi Bhandani, another form of Durga, is among the biggest festivals of the Rajbanshi community. According to regional mythology, while the Devi was returning to her heavenly abode, she stayed back for a day in the region on the pleas of the Rajbanshi farmers who wanted her blessings for a good harvest. “Here, the Devi’s face is of red hue. The mahishasur (demon) is not present as it is believed that the Devi returns home after destroying him... Also, the Devi does not have 10 but two hands. Her children, however, are with her and worshipped together,” said Dinesh Roy, secretary of the Bhandani Puja Committee of Dakshin Ulladabri. The puja with which he is involved is over 500 years old, he added. Social researchers working on the Rajbanshi community said it is an old practice that the community worships Devi Bhandani, believed to be an incarnation of the Durga, expecting the goddess would shower her blessings on farmers for a better harvest. “The word Bhandani seems to have been coined from the word ‘bhandar’ which means a stockyard of food grains. This also goes in consonance with the aspiration of farmers who want the goddess to bless them with good crops,” said a researcher in Jalpaiguri. As the puja brings thousands of people to different venues in north Bengal every year, fairs are held and in several places animal-sacrifice rituals are performed. “However, due to the Covid-19 crisis, we have cancelled the fair like in other venues. Also, certain restrictions have been imposed over the entry of devotees to the pandal. The puja however has been held according to the religious practices,” said Birendra Roy, one of the organisers of Bhandani Puja held in Bholardabri BFP School in Purba Bholardabri of Alipurduar-I block. In Alipurduar district, the puja is organised in four venues but this is the oldest, said Birendra. “This is our 115th year. We are following all health safety protocols at the venue,” he said.Chief minister Mamata Banerjee has greeted people on this occasion. “I extend my greetings to the Rajbanshis and people of all other communities of Jalpaiguri, Alipurduar and Cooch Behar districts on occasion of the puja of Devi Bhandani, the goddess of prosperity,” she tweeted on Tuesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-331
28-10-2020||West Bengal||Jolt death finger at Trinamul leader||An 11-year-old schoolgirl of Bagjaan in Maynaguri block died of electrocution while plucking flowers from the home of a Trinamul panchayat member on Monday, the incident sparking tension in the area. Furious residents ransacked the home of the panchayat member Asit Chandra and cremated the girl’s mortal remains on the premises of the house. Police have arrested Chandra and started a probe. Sources said Chandana Roy, a class V student of Singimari High School in Maynaguri, daughter of tea plantation worker Ratna and migrant worker in Kerala Sushil, had gone to Chandra’s house to pluck flowers where she touched a live wire and fainted. Residents rushed her to the rural hospital in Maynaguri where doctors pronounced her dead. Mother Ratna alleged that the panchayat member had earlier asserted before villagers that he had laid electric wires to prevent people from plucking flowers from his garden. “We did not think what he said was true. I lost my daughter because of him. How can he put live wires in such a manner, knowing well that it can be fatal?” she asked. Angry villagers in hundreds ransacked Chandra’s house. The panchayat member tried to escape but was intercepted. Police also arrested Chandra. Chandra initially denied his involvement. Residents, however, did not let the police vehicle leave and demanded a written undertaking from Chandra. After about an hour, Chandra apologised for the incident and villagers let the police take him away. Later, Chandana’s body reached the village after autopsy, villagers blocked NH-31 that connects Maynaguri with Malbazar, demanding exemplary punishment for Chandra. The villagers then took the girl’s body to Chandra’s home and cremated it on the campus in front of the police. On Tuesday too, the area simmered with tension. Policemen were posted at the ransacked house and elsewhere in the village. The incident also acquired political overtones. A delegation of the BJP led by district president Bapi Goswami met the girl’s family and held a protest rally in Maynaguri, demanding stringent legal steps against Chandra. “We want punishment for the accused. Our party will give all possible help to the girl’s family,” said Goswami. Manoj Roy, a Trinamul leader, said: “It is unfortunate and the law will take its own course. But the way in which the girl’s body was cremated in front of the house was inappropriate.” Vikramjit Lama, DSP (crime), Jalpaiguri, said a probe had started.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-331
28-10-2020||West Bengal||Lakh witness Ravana in flames||Covid protocol and directives of Calcutta High Court were trampled upon in West Midnapore by around a lakh people and an administration that preferred to remain a bystander as Ravana went up in flames on the occasion of Dussehra in Kharagpur on Monday evening. Instances of people preferring to overlook pandemic protocol were observed in several districts in south Bengal. Wherever such violation took place, the administration has been accused of looking the other way. Sources said the tradition of Dussehra, which is locally known as Ravan Pora (burning of the effigy of Ravana), is a century-old tradition in Kharagpur and lakhs of people turn up at the Ravan Maidan every year to witness the spectacle. The festival committee had initially planned to cancel this year’s event because of the rising Covid graph in the district but later changed the plan to honour “local sentiment”. Among the lakh people who gathered at the ground on Monday were district magistrate Rashmi Kamal, who is a doctor, local Trinamul MLA Pradip Sarkar and Trinamul’s district president Ajit Maity. Sarkar, the president of the festival committee, is believed to be the man behind Monday’s show. Several residents, however, questioned the presence of the district’s administrative head and political figures. An official of the administration, however, tried to explain Kamal’s presence by saying that the annual event was held to honour the sentiments of the local people. “Primarily everyone was asked to maintain social distancing norms but the huge rush made it impossible to do,” said a police officer on duty at the event. Before the event began, Kamal said: “This festival has been organised for many years. Despite the fear of coronavirus, many people have come here but all of them are wearing masks and I am happy.” However, after the programme ended and there were murmurs of criticism of the DM for taking part in a large gathering, Kamal preferred not to take calls. Trinamul insiders said that despite knowing about the violation, the leadership did not want to risk hurting the sentiment of the people in the run up to next year’s crucial Assembly election. “The BJP would have indulged in politics if we had cancelled the programme. The Trinamul did not want to take the risk of losing its support base by not holding the event,” said a ruling party leader in Kharagpur.Trinamul district president Ajit Maity admitted that it was impossible to control such a “huge and emotive crowd”. The BJP, however, criticised Trinamul for violating Covid protocol. “Trinamul is trying to woo Hindu voters and to do that they did not care for Covid protocol,” said Samit Das, BJP president in West Midnapore. In Birbhum’s Nalhati over 1,000 people joined a procession to immerse an Durga idol on Monday night. Police sources said they had asked the crowd to vacate the place citing Covid protocol but a large number of people started to agitate. If the police were accused of inaction in Kharagpur, in Nalhati it used force to disperse the gathering. “There was no way but to disperse the mob to abide by Covid protocol. After the crowd was dispersed, a few members of the Puja committee and cops joined hands to immerse the idol,” said Shyam Singh, Birbhum police chief. The promptness of the cops in Nalhati was absent in Nadia’s Kalyani where a few hundred revellers danced to popular Hindi numbers on the evening of Ashtami (Saturday) at the town’s Central Park violating all restrictive protocols imposed by the court. Local sources said the organisers allowed nearly a thousand people inside the ground and allegedly encouraged them to dance violating Covid proto. “Initially the police did not act for 30 minutes. When more people began to join the crowd and after receiving several calls from anxious citizens, the police asked the puja committee to stop the event,” a resident of Kalyani said. "It was terrible to see such violations during a pandemic. Kalyani is a small town and till date 526 persons have tested Covid positive. We do not want a spike in Covid cases and those behind the show should be punished," he added. Near Calcutta in Rajarhat's Sjikharpur a clash broke out among Trinamul Congress and BJP supporters over an immersion procession. At least seven men have been injured after the two groups who were part of two different immersion processions fought with bricks and stones. According to a Trinamul Congress supporter the csh broke out when an idol of a local club being taken for immersion was blocked by another that enjoyed the patronage of the BJP supporters. Though Trinamul leaders accused the BJP of attacking them, Sabyasachi Dutta of the BJP blamed the rivals for the incident. Additional reporting by Subhasish Chaudhuri and Snehal Sengupta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-331
28-10-2020||West Bengal||Lepcha dharna on board ‘transfer’ in Kalimpong ||Members of the Lepcha community started a dharna in Kalimpong on Tuesday, demanding that the Mayel Lyang Lepcha Development Board, which is currently under the aegis of the state government, be not transferred to the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration. During an administrative review meeting in Siliguri a few weeks ago, the chief minister had said a monitoring committee would be formed under the GTA to supervise the activities of 16 development boards the state government had formed for different communities. Mamata Banerjee had said minister Aroop Biswas, GTA chief Anit Thapa and Gorkha Janmukti Morcha leader Binay Tamang would be part of the committee. Members of the development boards interpret the monitoring committee as the transfer of the boards to the GTA. Eman Lepcha, coordinator of thoom sezoons of the Indigenous Lepcha Tribal Association (ILTA), said: “We want to request the state government not to bring the development board under the GTA.” Eman, however, added that while those participating in the dharna were members of the ILTA, the agitation was being organised by common Lepchas. The ILTA functions on a three-tier system. The lowest unit is called kqoung sezoon and is similar to a gram panchayat, followed by thoom sezoon (block level) and poom sezoon (central committee). There are 31 thoom sezoons in Bengal and Eman said “representatives” of all the thooms were present at the dharna being held in front of Kalimpong Town Hall. “The dharna will continue through the night,” said Eman. He added that the demonstrators also wanted different Lepcha leaders to come together on a common platform and work for the community. Of late, there have been allegations and counter-allegations against Lepcha leaders over various issues related to the functioning of the development board. At a time when Mamata is facing the Herculean task of balancing the Bimal Gurung and Binay Tamang factions of the Morcha, the agitation by the Lepcha community could pose fresh challenges for the chief minister. The issue raised by the Lepcha committee resonates across not only members of other 15 development boards but also a section of Trinamul Congress leaders in the Darjeeling hills. “We could at least deliver something through the development boards which were independent of the GTA. Keeping the development boards under the GTA would mean strengthening the Morcha’s Tamang camp,” said a hill Trinamul leader. The GTA is currently headed by Anit Thapa, leader of the Tamang faction. “We had not much to offer in the hills, apart from Mirik where the civic body is with us. If we lose our grip on the development boards, our party will be further weakened,” said a Trinamul hill leader. Another hill Trinamul leader, however, tried to assuage the fears among the Lepchas and said the development board would only be “monitored” by the committee and all other decisions would be taken by the board. Development boards provide a sum of Rs 2 lakh each to construct houses, build pathways and execute drinking water schemes among others. The Lepcha board was the first to be formed in 2013 and it was largely seen as an attempt to counter Bimal Gurung who was then heading the GTA but had frosty relations with Mamata. Over the years, there have been allegations of irregularities in the execution of housing schemes by some boards. Observers believe the development boards have not been able to bring the desired political benefits to Trinamul. “These factors might have prompted Mamata Banerjee to announce the monitoring committee,” said an observer. Lyansang Tamsang, the chairman of the Lepcha development board, did not respond to calls from this newspaper.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-331
28-10-2020||West Bengal||5 drown as boat with huge idol capsizes in Beldanga||Five persons drowned when one of the two boats carrying a massive idol of goddess Durga for immersion overturned in Beldanga’s Dumnidaha lake on Monday evening. The Durga idol was from Beldanga’s famed 350-year-old Hazrabari Puja, two of whose family members were among the deceased. Police said the deceased — Mohor Hazra Banerjee, 34, Somnath Hazra Banerjee, 23, Arindam Banerjee, 23, Tinkon Pal, 23 and Sukhendu Dey, 20 — had possibly gone under the weight of the idol as it had fall into the water when one of the boats, both tied together to carry the idol, capsized. The five persons were initially not even counted missing in the chaos. “Prima facie, it seems most members of the immersion party were intoxicated and the (two) boats were overloaded with revellers. The Hazrabari puja was the only one to be allowed a boat immersion on the grounds of tradition. The water was not more than 5ft deep where the incident occurred. The deaths possibly happened because the deceased persons had come under the huge weight of the idol when it fell into the water,” said a police officer. Over 30 persons of the immersion party fell into the lake along with the idol but were able to get out of the water. On returning home, puja organisers found five persons who had accompanied them on the boat were missing. They informed the cops and a search was launched in the lake. Around 9pm on Monday, all the five bodies were fished out and sent for post-mortem. District superintendent of police K. Sabari Rajkumar has ordered a probe. Eyewitnesses, including the boatmen who survived, said the incident could easily have been averted had the police present at the time of immersion restricted the number of people who had boarded the two boats. “I have been plying boats for many years and have repeatedly told the puja revellers to keep their numbers low on the boat and not to drink, but to no avail. The boat had overturned because of overcrowding,” said boatman Atmaram Haldar, 60. Asked, district superintendent of police K. Sabari Rajkumar said: “This was the sole procession that was granted permission to use boats on the grounds of tradition, but such a large number of people should not have been on the boats. We are awaiting the post-mortem results.” Asked why so many people were allowed to board the boat, Rajkumar said: “Around 25 police personnel, including three officers, had been deployed on immersion duty in Beldanga. They were present on the spot when the incident happened. I have asked to hold an inquiry into how the incident took place and if there were any lapse on the part of the cops on duty.” In Nadia's Hogolberia, a third-year BA student, Bibhash Das, 20, drowned in a pond when Durga idol apparently fell on him during immersion on Monday evening. The body of Bibhash Das, 20, was recovered from the pond on Tuesday morning. The incident occurred in Nasirerepara village. Bibhash, a student of Dumkal College, was initially making a live video of the immersion procession, but later joined hands to carry the idol for immersion in the water. “Since the idol was too heavy, the carriers failed to manage its weight and we apprehend it eventually fell on Bibhash and some others,” said Sayan Ghosh, a close friend of the deceased. Police sources said the body could be retrieved only after the idol’s structure of bamboo and timber was removed from the river.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-331
28-10-2020||West Bengal||Facebook lesson for Trinamul in BJP fight||The Trinamul Congress launched a new campaign on social media — “Mark yourself safe from BJP” — at the start of Durga Puja to assess the ruling party’s support base, especially among youngsters. More than five lakh Bengal residents, mainly aged between 18 and 35, marked themselves “safe from BJP” in the past six days. Trinamul leaders have said the concept is along the lines of the Facebook safety check feature, activated by the social media giant of Mark Zuckerberg during natural or man-made disasters and terror-related incidents, to promptly determine whether people in the affected geographical area are safe. Sources said the drive was triggered by a remark by chief minister Mamata Banerjee at the end of her rally in Calcutta against the Hathras incident on October 3 when she identified the BJP as the “biggest pandemic”. Leaders of Mamata’s party said the drive had been getting “good” response. “Nowadays, it is a social media trend for people to mark themselves safe from calamities, natural or man-made. The BJP is a man-made calamity that is finishing the country. The younger generations seem to have loved the campaign,” said a Trinamul Rajya Sabha member. “During Puja, the party does not undertake full-fledged political activities, while young people spend a lot of time on social media. That’s why we picked this time,” he added. Trinamul sources said poll consultant Prashant Kishor and his team I-Pac launched a website (savebengalfrombjp.com) on October 21 for the campaign. “The site contains questions such as ‘Are you going to speak out against dictatorship?’, ‘Do you take a stand against inequality?’, ‘Are you against hatred?’…. It is a single window website and people can mark themselves safe from the BJP by one touch on the screen of their smartphones. Over 5.26 lakh people have done so already. Besides, over 82,000 registered with the Facebook page of the site,” said a Trinamul leader. The BJP’s IT cell has been running a similar campaign against Trinamul, called “Ar Noy Annay (Injustice, no more)”, for months. “The BJP uses fabricated stories, lies and a lot of deliberately misleading content in its social media campaigns. Our chief minister has been bitterly critical of this regularly. Our campaign uses no lies, nothing fake,” said a Trinamul leader. A Bengal minister said the drive would help the party get a better understanding of the areas of the support base and also identify places with a lack of response. “Leaders in all districts have asked to share the link in their local social media groups…. It would be easier for us to focus on those pockets from where the number of participants is low,” he said. “Timely repair and damage-control at those places will be very helpful ahead of the polls,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-332
28-10-2020||West Bengal||Random drive to gauge north Bengal Covid spread||The state health department has decided to carry random tests across north Bengal from Wednesday to find out the surge, if any, in Covid-19 cases during Puja. Ahead of the festivities, doctors and social researchers had expressed fears that there would be a steep surge in Covid cases across Bengal if people did not adhere to health safety protocols. Sushanta Roy, the officer on special duty for Covid deputed in north Bengal by the state, said administrative officials and chief medical officers of health (CMOHs) of all districts had been asked to start random tests of both rapid antigen and RT-PCR to find out the extent of infections. “Despite repeated alerts, crowds were seen at some locations and we feel it necessary to find out if the pandemic has spread during the past few days. That is why health officials of all districts have been asked to start random tests. Every day, at least 1,000 such random tests should be conducted in each district. The exercise, we believe, will continue for two weeks or more,” said Roy. Roy said the state government had tried its best to make people avoid crowding during Durga Puja and wear masks. In north Bengal, the alerts worked to an extent till Ashtami but on Nabami, thousands came out in the streets, both in towns and villages, for pandal-hopping, sources said. “On Dashami, I was worried to see the crowd at the immersion ghat on the bank of the Mahananda river in Siliguri,” said a doctor in Siliguri. “Many were not wearing masks and intermingling freely. I later came to know that eventually police approached these people and asked them to leave.” In Alipurduar, health officials said they have initially planned to conduct such random tests for the next seven days. Every day, they will collect 600 samples for rapid antigen tests and another 400 samples for RT-PCR tests. Four places of the district, Birpara Chowpathy in Madarihat, the Jaigaon town at India-Bhutan border, Kumargram and the Birpara Chowpathy near Alipurduar town, have been identified for collection of samples. “We will initially carry out random tests for seven days. Once we receive the reports and assess the situation, random tests might continue further,” said Girish Chandra Bera, CMOH, Alipurduar. Additional reporting by our Jalpaiguri correspondent||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-332
