29-10-2020||West Bengal||Jagdeep Dhankhar meets Amit Shah, discusses 'state of affairs and affairs of state'||West Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar on Thursday met Union Home Minister Amit Shah and discussed with him the "state of affairs and affairs of state". During the hour-long meeting, the governor apprised the home minister about various issues concerning the state. Addressing reporters later, he alleged that the police and bureaucracy were being politicised in West Bengal and they were working as "foot soldiers" of the state government. "West Bengal Governor Shri Jagdeep Dhankhar called on the Union Home Minister Shri Amit Shah today at his residence. Governor Dhankhar was with the Union Home Minster for over an hour and state of affairs and affairs of state in West Bengal were traversed," read a post on the official Twitter handle of the West Bengal governor. The meeting bears significance as the governor is known for often expressing his disagreement on various matters in West Bengal, inviting sharp reactions from Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee and her government. Last month, Banerjee and Dhankhar were at loggerheads over the latter summoning the state's Director General of Police and calling the state "home to illegal bomb-making" in a following note. Dhankhar had also alleged in the note to the DGP that the police "overlooked rampant and open loot in PDS distribution, cyclone 'Amphan' relief funds, and criminal negligence by officials during the COVID-19 pandemic". Addressing reporters after the meeting, Dhankar said that while he could not go into the specifics of the meeting, he discussed the "status of democratic institutions and issues of public interest" with the home minister. "I have witnessed continual decline of democratic governance. Political violence, vendetta is a daily affair. Target killing being seen very often. As constitutional head I have witnessed it.
"The greatest challenge is that the police and bureaucracy are being politicised. They are working as foot soldiers of the state government. I have time and again appealed to them that what you are doing is beyond your Constitutional rights... It has become a police state," he said. The governor asserted that government officers are accountable and they must remember it. "No arm of law will spare anyone." "I sent an input to the DGP apprehending threat perception for an association with an MP. But after the Manish Shukla was murdered. The chief minister took a stand on behalf of the DGP after it through a letter. How can a constitutional head have a sound sleep sound when violence, vendetta is taking place," he posed. Manish Shukla, who was a close aide of Barrackpore's BJP MP Arjun Singh, was shot dead in front of the party's office in North 24 Pargana's Titagarh on October 4. The state Criminal Investigation Department (CID) has so far arrested three persons in connection with the killing. Dhankar further said, "I am committed to ensure a free, fair, fearless atmosphere... My concern is not who is being elected but my concern is how the election is taking place," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-329
29-10-2020||West Bengal||BJP activists clash with cops over taking out protest rally in Howrah||Bengal BJP activists clashed with the police in Howrah district's Bagnan on Thursday after they were prevented from taking out a protest rally against the killing of a saffron party worker in the area. The BJP had called a 12-hour bandh in the Bagnan assembly constituency area against the killing of its worker Kinkar Majhi, who succumbed to his gunshot injuries on Wednesday. Majhi was allegedly shot at by a TMC worker, also his neighbour, over a land dispute on October 24. He was undergoing treatment at a hospital in Calcutta. BJP Yuva Morcha state president and Bishnupur MP Saumitra Khan went inside the Bagnan police station to talk to senior officers after the saffron party was denied permission to take out the rally. However, even as Khan was speaking with the senior officers, BJP workers attempted to scale the closed gates of the police station, leading to a scuffle with the deployed personnel. "Our party worker was killed but we are not being allowed to take out a rally and our activists have been beaten up by the police and arrested, while TMC leaders were allowed to take out a rally today," the BJP MP told reporters. The police said the BJP workers were denied permission to take out the rally as it could have created a "law and order problem in the area". The area has remained tense since Wednesday evening following Majhi's death, with reports of violence and arson, even as police personnel patrolled the area. The TMC leadership has claimed that miscreants had shot at Majhi due to a family dispute and accused the BJP of trying to "politicise the issue".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-329
29-10-2020||West Bengal||Soumitra's condition still critical, says doctors||With little improvement of his consciousness level on the neurological front, the condition of veteran actor Soumitra Chatterjee remained critical on Thursday though he is responding to treatment, the hospital where he is undergoing treatment said in a statement. The 85-year-old Chatterjee, who has been under ICU support for 22 days, is little stable now than in last 4 days, the statement by one of the attending doctors said. "His blood pressure level is holding on. Oxygen saturation 95-100 per cent with ventilation support, with 40- 50 per cent Oxygen given," the doctor said. He said to improve renal functioning of the octogenarian, there was already a first session of dialysis and three consecutive dialysis was being done. "There was little improvement in the neurological condition of the legendary actor", the doctor said, adding that he is opening eyes in response. "But 22 days of ICU support and Covid encephalopathy are taking a toll," he said. Chatterjee's haemoglobin count has gone down and there was blood transfusion, the statement said, adding that there has been no external bleeding and he was being given all antibiotics. "There has been no fever, no shooting up of BP and other functions are within acceptable range," he said. While Chatterjee's "prolonged stay in ICU and little improvement in consciousness state shows he is definitely critical, he is also responding to treatment," the doctor said. Chatterjee has been "unconscious" since last week. The ace actor, the first Indian film personality to be awarded the Ordre des Arts et des Lettres -- France's highest civilian award -- was admitted to hospital on October 6 after he tested positive for Covid-19.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-329
29-10-2020||West Bengal||Malda railway employee strangled||Police investigating the death of the murder of Hanumant a.k.a. Hanuman Rai, a railway employee found dead at his railway colony quarters here on Monday evening, confirmed on Wednesday that he was strangled. Rai, who was to retire later this month and leave for his native home in Uttar Pradesh on November 5, was found lying in a pool of blood by neighbours. “The autopsy report confirmed he was strangled. Primary probe suggests some monetary transactions might be the reason for his murder,” Alok Rajoria, Malda superintendent of police, said on Wednesday. “The probe is in progress and we are exploring some other angles,” he added. Sources said Rai doubled as a moneylender. A youth has been detained in this case. Sources said that the police have ascertained that there were at least four persons at Rai’s room when he was murdered.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-329
29-10-2020||West Bengal||Firearms haul in Sunderbans ||The Sunderbans coastal police seized a huge cache of firearms from a house in Radhanagar area of the Baruipur police district, South 24-Parganas, in the early hours of Wednesday. Police have also arrested two persons in connection with the illegal stockpiling of arms in the house. The duo were apparently waiting to hand over the consignment to members of a suspected arms racket active in the area. Though senior police officers of the Baruipur police district refused to disclose the exact details of the recovered arms, an officer of the coastal police station said the haul include five long-range guns, three one-shooters, at least nine pistols and various types of ammunitions. Sources said that acting on tip-off, a team of the coastal police station searched the house one Muchhakali Mollah in South 24-Parganas’ Radhanagar village early on Wednesday and seized the arms. “We had information that the house had a huge stockpile of arms and ammunition waiting to be supplied to members of an arms racket. The house owner had been under scanner for a long time for his suspected activities. During the raid we found the cache of arms and nabbed Muchhakali Mollah along with one of his close aides. They are being interrogated,” a police officer said. An investigating officer said it was not yet clear if the arms were being readied for sale to the racket or would have been handed over for use in subversive activities. A case against Muchhakali and his aide was filed under the Arms Act, he added. The police began a combing operation in the area suspecting there could be a stockpile of more such arms. However, till Wednesday evening no further recovery of arms was reported, said an official of the Baruipur police district.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-329
29-10-2020||West Bengal||Darjeeling: Jamuni tour site opens||The Gorkhaland Territorial Administration partially opened a tourist site that had been lying in utter neglect for the past three years at Jamuni near here on Wednesday. The opening was facilitated by local people who had voluntarily cleaned up the spot. The GTA had already invested Rs 50 crore in the project whose foundation had been laid by Subash Ghisingh as the chairman of the Darjeeling Gorkha Hill Council with the inauguration of Happy New Year Bridge on January 1, 2006. As the GTA chief executive, Bimal Gurung pursued it as the hill body’s pet project. On Wednesday, boating was launched on the lake on the site. Asked about the general feeling of neglect of the place, Suraj Sharma, assistant director of tourism, GTA, said: “The area had been closed since 2017. No regular staff had been appointed at the facility. During the agitation (in 2017), a lot of things were stolen and damaged.” The lake apart, a lodge, children’s park and a Shiva temple make up the tourist site. The GTA official said even though the boating and children’s park had been closed for the past three years, the hill body did carry on with development works. “We completed a lodge with 22 rooms. Four riverside cottages with 12 rooms were also completed in March but they could not be made functional because of Covid-19 pandemic,” said Sharma. These lodges will be inaugurated soon. Such was the state of the tourist spot that local people volunteered to clean up the place. “Yes, around 100 Gorkha Janmukti Yuva Morcha members and local people started a cleanliness drive and they worked for three days. Without their support, the reopening would have been difficult,” said Sharma. However, the children’s park still needs maintenance. Lamps, fences and benches, too, have to be revamped. “Maintenance of the park is our primary focus, after which we will think of other components,” said Sharma. The GTA on Wednesday introduced four boats at Jamuni, which is 15km from Darjeeling town. “We will charge Rs 50 per person for a ride, apart from Rs 20 as the entry fee,” said Sharma. The area also falls on the route between Darjeeling and Jorethang-Pelling in Sikkim.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-330
29-10-2020||West Bengal||Two injured BJP workers die, party blames TMC||Two BJP workers, one from Howrah and another from North 24-Parganas, died of injuries on Wednesday, prompting the party to blame Trinamul for the murders and the ruling party to deny the charges. BJP worker Kinkar Majhi, shot at on Sunday in Howrah’s Bagnan, died at NRS Medical College and Hospital, Calcutta. Blaming Trinamul for the murder, the BJP called a 12-hour bandh in Bagnan from Thursday 6am in protest. Trinamul’s Bagnan MLA Arunava Sen dismissed BJP’s allegation and said the police had been asked to bring the culprits to book. “The incident has no political link and is a fallout of an old rivalry,” Sen said. Another BJP worker, Milan Halder of Chanditala area of Jagaddal in North 24-Parganas, allegedly thrashed by suspected Trinamul workers on Saturday night, died at RG Kar Medical College and Hospital in Calcutta on Wednesday morning. Speaking to the media on Halder’s alleged murder, BJP MP Arjun Singh said: “Trinamul, afraid of losing in the Assembly elections, has unleashed terror across Bengal. The ruling party’s sole objective is to eliminate our party activists with the tacit support of police”. Trinamul’s observer for Jagaddal Assembly segment Somnath Shyam called it “a fallout of BJP’s internal bickering”. No one has been arrested in both the murders as of now.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-330
29-10-2020||West Bengal||Lakshmi Puja Covid safety alert in Darjeeling ||Preliminary data on Covid-19 cases during the past few days has made health officials ring an alert in Darjeeling district ahead of the upcoming Lakshmi Puja and advise priests to undergo Covid tests before they move out and perform puja in various households. Lakshmi Puja will be celebrated on October 30. According to senior officials of the health department, there has been a rise in the number of cases in Darjeeling district during Durga Puja days. From October 15 to 21, 722 people in the district got infected with the pathogen among whom 393 were from Siliguri, said a health official. However, during the five days of Durga Puja, that is, from October 22 to 26, the total number of new Covid patients was 593 in the district. Among them, 335 were from Siliguri, the official added. “The numbers are an indication that people should stay away from crowded areas and public places. Random testing (to assess the spread of Covid) has started from Wednesday and we are waiting for the reports to know more about the trend,” the official added. Sushanta Roy, the officer on special duty (OSD) deputed in north Bengal for Covid-19, said he was aware of the numbers. “It is high time that people in this district, particularly Siliguri, strictly adhere to the safety protocols during the upcoming Lakshmi Puja,” Roy said. “This puja is held almost in every second household. Markets get crammed with people ahead of the puja and there is always a risk of infection. People should take all safety measures while going to markets,” said Roy. On Lakshmi Puja day, hundreds of priests go to multiple households to perform the puja, which is also a matter of concern this year, Roy said. “Those calling priests for the puja at home should ensure that all health safety protocols are maintained. Also, we would like to advise the priests that before puja day, they should get themselves tested to confirm that they are Covid negative. Otherwise, they can be prospective transmitters of the contagion,” Roy added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-330
29-10-2020||West Bengal||Farmer spots crack on tracks, stops train in Birbhum||Four farmers ran for over 500 metres on railway tracks waving a red towel to stop a train from the opposite end and avert a derailment after one of them spotted a crack on tracks near Birbhum’s Ahmedpur station around 9am on Wednesday. A railway official said the special train had been carrying railway staff from Birbhum’s Rampurhat to Burdwan. There were around 300 passengers on board. Sources said Pradip Sarkar, a farmer from Kusumjatra village in Birbhum’s Sainthia, was walking on the road along the tracks when a good train passed him by with what seemed to the farmer an “unusual sound”. The farmer checked the tracks closely and spotted a gap of around 5 inches on the tracks. Sarkar immediately called three other farmers and they started walking towards a level crossing, around a kilometre away, to inform the gateman about the crack. On their way, they saw a passenger train speeding on tracks. “Fearing an accident, I asked my friend Jibon Das (one of the farmers) to wave a red towel as we ran towards the train to draw the driver’s attention. After we had run for about 500 metres, the driver saw us and stopped the train,” Sarkar added. Railway officials admitted that had Sarkar and his friends not intervened on time, the passenger train could have met with an accident. “The passenger train was travelling at a good speed and the crack was enough to derail it. After the train stopped, a team of railway staff repaired the tracks. The train was delayed by an hour,” an official said. Another official said a change in temperature around this time of the year could account for the crack. “We thanked villagers for their timely effort in preventing an accident,” he said. “This crack was either missed by the inspection team or it happened after the last inspection,” an official of the railway inspection team said. Nikhil Kumar Chakrobarty, the chief of public relations officer of Eastern Railway, said the crack was repaired immediately.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-330
29-10-2020||West Bengal||Diwali bonus at closed tea garden ||Around 750-odd permanent workers employed at the Jateswar division of Birpara tea estate of Alipurduar district — a garden owned by the Duncans Goenka Group and closed for months now — are each set to receive a festive bonus of around Rs 3,000 ahead of Diwali. Though the garden is closed, the informal cooperative that these workers run earn by selling tea leaves of the garden. This cooperative has decided to disburse a part of the sale proceeds among the workers, a move considered rare in the tea industry because the garden is officially closed. Mahadeb Bagwar, a panchayat member from Jateswar division of the garden, said they had paid a similar bonus to workers ahead of Durga Puja. “We checked the available funds, basically sale proceeds of tea leaves that we have managed to accumulate after paying wages to workers, and found that a portion of the money can be distributed among workers again. That is why we intend to pay them an ex-gratia of Rs 3,000 or so ahead of Diwali,” said Bagwar. Senior tea planters have pointed out that many times even open tea gardens negotiate on bonuses and arrive at a lower rate than the one fixed in the industry agreement. Also, there are instances that such open gardens pay bonus in tranches and even falter in clearing the dues on time. “Also, in case of closed gardens, charges of misappropriation of funds are often raised at the committees. It is nice to see that in Jateswar, there is transparency and workers are being provided with ex-gratia out of the profits,” said a planter based in Siliguri. The cooperative in Jateswar, sources said, plans to keep aside a fund for pruning and other maintenance work during the lean seasons. “In the winter months, we need to carry out maintenance work in a proper manner to ensure a good yield next year. We will engage workers so that their earnings do not dry up during lean months. That is why a part of the proceeds have been kept aside. We also plan to distribute woollens among the workers and their families,” Bagwar said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-330
29-10-2020||West Bengal||Visitors make Bijoya sweets sweeter in Hooghly’s Goghat||Vijaya Dashami, which marks the victory of good over evil, is also a time for guests and mishti mukh. In Hooghly’s Goghat, this tradition received a unique twist on Wednesday. A group of imams and muezzins visited 300 homes, including those of Hindu priests, with sweets and roses to spread the message of social harmony. The eight-hour-long event, an initiative of the Trinamul Chhatra Parishad’s Goghat unit, had a political intent as the ruling party’s student wing wanted to stem the impact of the “religion card” allegedly played by the BJP ahead of the Assembly polls. The imams and muezzins distributed 2,000 laddoos and 500 roses among the families as they wished them on the occasion of Vijaya Dashami. “As our area has been touched by BJP’s divisive politics, we thought of the need to send across the message that Bengal celebrates festivities irrespective of religion. A dozen Muslims, mostly imams and muezzins of local mosques, visited 300 families to wish them on Vijaya Dashami,” said Syed Ashik Hossain, the president of Trinamul Chatra Parishad in Goghat I block. In the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, the BJP had made considerable inroads in Hooghly. The district sent BJP’s Locket Chatterjee to Parliament. The BJP also set up organisations in various pockets of the district, including Goghat in Arambagh subdivision. “In the Goghat Assembly segment, Trinamul had lagged behind the BJP by 8,000 votes (in the Lok Sabha elections). In the adjoining Pursura Assembly segment too, our party had trailed behind the BJP. This emboldened the BJP to push its divisive agenda in the area. We feel the need to combat it,” said a Trinamul leader. At every home, the visiting group of imams and muezzins enquired about the health and welfare of the families amid the prevailing pandemic. After taking part in the event, Sheikh Abdul Malek, a muezzin of the local Sanbandhi mosque, said it was for the first time that he took part in such a project. “I felt overjoyed,” said Malek. “The members of the families, including the priests that we had called on, thanked us for wishing them on the occasion of Vijaya Dashami. Such efforts are needed at a time certain forces are trying to create divisions among people,” the  muezzin added. Sajal Goswami, a priest and a clerk at the local block land reforms office, was pleasantly surprised when a group of Muslims knocked on his door to wish him Subho Vijaya. “I was really happy when our Muslim brothers came to wish us on Vijaya Dashami. It is normal that people from my community would wish me Subho Vijaya, but now our Muslim brothers came as well. The sweets of Vijaya turned sweeter with their presence,” said Goswami.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-330
29-10-2020||West Bengal||Trinamul banks on Gurung in north Bengal||Gorkha Janmukti Morcha leader Bimal Gurung’s decision to sever ties with the BJP and extend support to Mamata Banerjee has rekindled hopes among a section of Trinamul Congress leaders in north Bengal, who believe a majority of Gorkhas will support the ruling party and help its turnaround. According to Trinamul insiders, the organisational support extended by Gurung had helped the BJP win thrice the Darjeeling Parliament seat. “Even in 2019, when the Binay Tamang faction of the Morcha had backed our party, the BJP had managed to win the seat. Gurung’s recent decision has, however, changed the political landscape. We feel Trinamul can get more support in the hills as both the factions of the Morcha, the strongest political forces here, are with us,” said a Trinamul insider. He added that Gurung’s assertion that he was miffed with the BJP, which had time and again promised to look into the demand of separate statehood to secure support of the hill population, would impact the saffron party’s support base. While extending support to the chief minister and her party, Gurung had also mentioned that in the 2024 Parliament polls, he would support the party that would meet the principal demand of Gorkhaland. “Through this statement, we believe, he has tried to send a message to Gorkhas that the BJP has failed to meet their aspirations. It is evident that his remarks would also have an impact on his supporters, many of whom are already disenchanted with the BJP. This can also turn things in our favour as our party or the state government has never made any false promises to the hill people like the BJP,” the Trinamul leader said. Some Trinamul leaders in the Dooars think Gurung dumping the BJP would work to Trinamul’s advantage. Delivering on the expectations of the Trinamul leadership, however, would not be easy for Gurung, as he has to re-establish himself in the hills, where he had been missing for over three years. This is because after asserting that he would support Trinamul, protests have been witnessed in different corners of the hills, particularly by the Binay Tamang faction of the  Morcha. “Gurung’s decision to ally with Trinamul has also drawn ridicule from a section of the hill population...So, one should not expect that he can produce a miracle,” said a political observer. The fact that the road ahead for Gurung is not simple became clear again on Wednesday as local people held protests and shouted slogans against him. “Trinamul’s hopes can only be fulfilled if Bimal Gurung manages to regain his support. It is going to be a tall order as he will have to reach out to people,” the observer said. Additional reporting by our Jalpaiguri correspondent||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-330
29-10-2020||West Bengal||Active Covid cases drop for two days on trot in Bengal||Total number of active Covid-19 cases dropped for the second consecutive day in Bengal on Wednesday in what was being deemed as a “major positive”. The state’s total number of active cases, which were 37,190 on Monday, fell to 37,111 on Wednesday. The continuous decline is the first since a 15-day spell of such drop ended on September 7. Since Thursday, the state reported six consecutive days of decline in the daily count of new cases which were 3,924 on Wednesday. The death toll rose by 60. More importantly, for the ninth consecutive day, the highest recovery count in a day was reset on Wednesday with 3,925. The last time, prior to Wednesday, the state reported more recoveries than new cases in a day was September 6. “This is a major positive. We were so apprehensive of what the figures would look like after Puja. We could not have been more pleasantly surprised in the first two days,” said a Bengal minister. The recovery rate, which had taken a tumble since the October 6 high of 87.98, rose again to 87.9 on Wednesday. The national rate is 90.84 per cent now. It remains to be seen whether Calcutta High Court’s intervention to keep unbridled revelry from turning the outbreak into a full-fledged public health emergency was effective. The impact of the Puja days would be seen in the Covid-19 figures from this weekend. “The new patients are largely people who got infected in the weekend before the Puja when shopping rush and a near-total disregard for safety protocols were witnessed. That’s what prompted the judiciary to step in,” said the minister. “In that context, these numbers make us very hopeful…. We will cautiously wait to examine the numbers over the next few days. But if this is the onset of a new trend, we are looking at a remarkable turnaround, which nobody had anticipated,” he added. Bengal’s total cases now are over 3.61 lakh, including nearly 3.18 lakh recoveries and 6,664 deaths. With 42,553 tests on Wednesday, Bengal went past 44 lakh tests, to touch 44.25 lakh, at 49,169 tests per million people. The positive confirmation rate is 8.17 per cent now. Of the total 6,664 deaths reported, the state government attributed 5,610 (84.2 per cent) to comorbidities. Bengal’s overall mortality rate is 1.84, still behind the national rate of 1.5 per cent. The state reported 35.57 per cent occupancy on 12,811 beds earmarked for Covid-19 at 94 dedicated hospitals. Besides, 3.85 lakh telemedicine consultations have been made so far for the pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-330
29-10-2020||West Bengal||Dilip’s right hand shifted, hint of RSS hand||The central leadership of the BJP removed Subrata Chatterjee as the general secretary (organisation) of the party’s Bengal unit and appointed Amitava Chakraborty in his place — a shuffle that bore the sign of the RSS’s growing assertiveness ahead of the Assembly polls. A press communiqué issued by BJP national general secretary Arun Singh on Wednesday evening said party president JP Nadda had appointed Chakraborty as the Bengal general secretary (organisation), the most important post in the state unit. Chakraborty, who was serving as one of the two joint general secretaries (organisation), has been asked to take charge with immediate effect. There was no mention of the future role of Chatterjee. “There were a lot of complaints of various natures against Subrata-da... His removal was just a matter of time,” said a BJP insider. Over the past few months, the discontent against Chatterjee, who enjoyed the support of state president Dilip Ghosh, was almost open in the state BJP circles. “Subrata-da and Dilip-da were running the party’s affairs according to their whims. Even the Sangh (RSS), from where Subrata-da came to the party, had problems with him,” said a source. In the BJP, the position of general secretary (organisation) goes to people inducted into the party from the Sangh. Chakraborty is also an RSS man and had served as an ABVP activist and a joint general secretary (organisation) of the party in Odisha. Multiple sources in the BJP said Chattarejee’s removal was “a decision of Nagpur (the RSS headquarters)”. “A change in the post of general secretary (organisation) just six to seven months ahead of the Assembly polls is an indication that Sangh will assert itself more and more in the affairs of Bengal,” said a source. A section in the BJP thinks the change is significant as there is a message for Ghosh as well, who along with Chatterjee, formed “a syndicate of sorts” in the Bengal unit of the party. “Dilip-da has become a face of the party, and hence, he cannot be removed... But there is a message to him with this change,” said a senior state BJP leader. According to him, as the party’s central leaders are confident of wresting the seat of power in the state, they didn’t want to keep someone like Chatterjee at the helm as complaints were pouring against him. “If someone is not liked by most of the leaders, he has to go,” a BJP source said. One of the major allegations against Chatterjee and Ghosh has been their reluctance to involve those who had crossed over from other parties in the affairs of the BJP. Besides, Chatterjee was also accused of having disregard for meritocracy and promoting only those who were close to him. The sources said Chatterjee had testy ties with not only BJP’s national vice-president Mukul Roy but also junior Union minister Babul Supriyo and MPs Locket Chatterjee and Jagannath Sarkar and the central leaders were aware of the growing discontent against him. “The last straw was the absence of Subrata-da and Dilip-da from the puja organised by the party and inaugurated by the Prime Minister himself,” said a source. Many believe the removal of Chatterjee indicated more power for Kailash Vijayvargiya, the party’s minder for Bengal, who is believed to be the man behind Roy’s elevation to the post of national vice-president. Chatterjee couldn’t be contacted, but he put out a tweet congratulating Chakraborty. BJP national president JP Nadda will be in Bengal on November 6 and 7 — his second visit to the state in a month. He had visited north Bengal ahead of Durga Puja on October 17 to meet BJP workers. “Naddaji will be in Bengal on November 6 and 7. He will meet workers from two zones,” said state BJP chief Dilip Ghosh. On the first day, Nadda will meet the workers from Birbhum, East Burdwan, Asansol, Purulia and Bankura districts that form the BJP’s Burdwan zone. The following day, he will meet the members from the Midnapore zone that includes the districts of East Midnapore, West Midnapore, Jhargram, Howrah and Hooghly. “We are yet to finalise the venues,” Ghosh said. “He might address a core committee meeting in between,” a source said. The party has also requested home minister Amit Shah to visit Bengal. “We have sent a list of dates to his office and asked Amitji to choose according to his convenience,” this person added. If things go as planned, Shah might come to Bengal sometime in November.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-330
