30-10-2020||West Bengal||Alpona to welcome Devi Durga ||Some New Town housing complexes take pride in the alpona they draw during Durga puja. The Telegraph Salt Lake puts the spotlight on two of the best. All footsteps headed for the covered space housing the goddess were stopping at the four-point crossing on the approach to the puja venue. It is here that a beautiful circular alpona about 22ft in diameter was drawn. Some took pictures while others clicked selfies with the street art as backdrop. “The alpona is a speciality of our complex’s puja,” said Mrinmoy Biswas, secretary of the housing complex in Action Area IID. “We are doing it from 2011, which was the third year of our puja. There was a break of two or three years in between but otherwise we do it every year.” The credit goes to Tapas Debnath, an artiste from Birati, who takes on the responsibility every year guided by Jyotibindu Choudhury, a resident. “He gives Tapas ideas but because of the pandemic, we discouraged him as well as other residents from coming down this time,” Biswas said. Debnath started work on Tritiya and completed early on Panchami. “He must have worked all night!” said vice-president Arpan Pal. The committee members are full of praise for the artist. “It is more his passion than profession. He drew another alpona in front of the goddess, about 17.5ft in diameter. But because the colour of the columns was not matching with his alpona colour scheme, he painted the columns on his own,” said Subrata Dasgupta, joint treasurer. Enamel paint, used for wall painting, is applied for the alpona. “The colour usually stays till the next monsoon. The remnants are washed off with soap water before the Puja and a fresh alpona is drawn,” added Pal. The complex touched up last year’s alpona but the effect was no less stunning. “A brother-sister resident duo  had drawn it last year,” said Subho Dasgupta, treasurer of Moonbeam Apartment Owners Association. “It was in good condition so some resident teenagers retouched it.” Moumita Saha, who has completed a six-year art course from Rekhachitram in Salt Lake, had drawn two huge peacocks on the road with a traditional circular motif in between. “I had painted it in acrylic paint over five days with the help of my brother Bhuban. It was a great experience. This year, we were not at Moonbeam during Puja.” If the pandemic situation improves next year, she plans to draw a fresh set of motifs.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-328
30-10-2020||West Bengal||This Month, That Year  ||2017: The 2017 FIFA U-17 World Cup tournament kicks off at Salt Lake stadium on October 6. This is the first time India hosts a FIFA event. Games are held in six cities and attendance is a record 13,47,133. The final match, won by England, is also held in Salt Lake. 1911: Social reformer Sister Nivedita breathes her last in Darjeeling on October 13. Born Margaret Noble, also in October of 1867, the Irish lady moved to India and was a disciple of Swami Vivekananda, who renamed her. Nivedita worked tirelessly on girls’ education, plague relief work and even for the Indian nationalistic movement. Her epitaph at a memorial in Darjeeling reads: “Here lies Sister Nivedita who gave her all to India”. 1932: The Indian air force is founded on October 8 as an auxiliary of the British air force. It is formed with the mission of securing Indian airspace and conducting aerial warfare when required. The force goes on to rank fourth in the world in its complement of aircraft assets and personnel. 2014: A diamond merchant from Surat stuns the nation by offering his 1,260-odd employees a Diwali bonus worth Rs 3.06 lakh. They are asked to choose between a flat, car and jewellery. Chairman of Hari Krishna Exports, Savji Dholakia, is known for his generosity and says the bonus is simply the employees’ reward for hard work and an attempt to wipe off memories of the 2008-09 recession. 1553: October 1 marks the coronation of Mary, the first de facto regnant queen of England. To come to power, Mary I had her rival Lady Jane Grey beheaded and her five-year reign is remembered for its violence. The queen has hundreds of Protestants burnt at the stake, for instance, earning her the epithet of “Bloody Mary”. 1910: Dwarkanath Kotnis is born in Maharashtra on October 10. He grows up to become a doctor and is sent to China to provide medical assistance during the 1938 Sino-Japanese War. He earns much respect for his tireless work. He marries a nurse and has a son whom they name Yinhua, meaning India and China. At the age of 32, in 1942, Kotnis dies of epileptic seizures and the nation, led by Mao Zedong, mourns his loss. 1950: Indian mathematician Shakuntala Devi appears in a BBC show in London on October 5 where she is asked to solve a complex sum mentally. Her answer, however, does not match that of the computer and she is dismissed. Upon cross-checking Shakuntala is found to be correct. She is henceforth labeled ‘human computer’ and becomes a household name. 1975: Boxer Muhammad Ali takes on arch rival Joe Frazier in a fight dubbed as “Thrilla in Manila” (picture above before a different bout between the two). The bout takes place on October 1 in the Philippines, in what is remembered as one of the most exciting and brutal fights of the sport. The game is watched by a record audience of a billion TV viewers and Ali wins by technical knockout. The contest got its name from a boast by Ali, that the fight would be “a killa and a thrilla and a chilla, when I get that gorilla in Manila.”

1978: Cricketer Virender Sehwag is born on October 20. An aggressive batsman, he sets several records like scoring the highest runs by an Indian in Test cricket (319 against South Africa in Chennai in 2008). This was also the fastest triple century in the history of international cricket (off 278 balls). Sehwag retires from international cricket in October 2015. 2001: Apple launches the iPod on October 23 and changes the way the world listens to music.  The compact devices play music using the iTunes software and are quickly accepted by the market where alternatives are big and clunky or small and inefficient with poor interface.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-328
30-10-2020||West Bengal||Nihar Naturals’ #ThirdEye campaign enables a safer pandal experience this  Pujo||Durga Puja this year was a markedly unique experience. The usual five-day long festivities were muted in light of the covid-19 pandemic, dampening pandal-hopping plans for a number of Calcuttans. Pujo committees across Bengal had to bear additional responsibilities and undertake extra efforts to ensure a safe pandal experience for devotees. A part of these responsibilities has been ensuring women’s safety at pandals. While Pujo is a time of joy for many, it is also a time when women have to be on guard against unscrupulous activities in crowded and uncomfortable pandals. In a bid to make Pujo safer for everyone, Nihar Naturals partnered with select pandals across Kolkata to set up a network of surveillance cameras disguised as Maa Durga’s #ThirdEye, to watch over pandal-hoppers and keep them safe. The cameras were outfitted in Maa Durga installations across a cluster of pandals. Live feed from the cameras were streamed to LED screens in prominent locations, in addition to being monitored by pandal security. Through these cameras, Maa Durga’s #ThirdEye watched over the crowded pandals and adjoining streets, enabling women to freely and confidently partake in the festivities this Pujo. This emotional digital film around the campaign showcases the impact that such a positive, practical and grass-root initiative can have on women’s safety.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-328
30-10-2020||West Bengal||Woman falls prey to cyber fraud||A woman residing in the Manikchak block of Malda district has fallen prey to a cybercrime racket and has lost around Rs 30,000. She filed a complaint at the cybercrime police station in Malda, following which a probe was ordered. Juthi Basak, who is a health worker by occupation, said she had recently purchased a power bank from a popular online shopping company by paying Rs 2,500. “It turned out to be a faulty one and I returned it to the company through the delivery boy. As my money was not refunded within the stipulated time, I collected the customer care number of the shopping company from a popular search engine and called up. The person who took the call asked for my bank account details and my debit card number and promised a quick return,” said Basak. What left her surprised is that, instead of getting the refund, money started getting deducted from her bank account. By the time she could block her debit card, around Rs 30,000 was withdrawn from her account, she said. The woman then went to the cybercrime police station and filed a complaint. “It had never occurred in my mind that the helpline number that was displayed on the internet was a fake,” the health worker said. Police officials, who are probing the case, said this is a new trend of cheating. “This is a new sort of trap used by the fraudsters. They mostly furnish false contact numbers of popular and well known concerns in search engines. Once someone makes a call in these numbers, they are asked for details of their bank accounts and debit and credit cards and then the data is used to draw the money. People should be on alert and should not get exposed to such monetary victimization,” said Ajay Singh, an official of the cybercrime police station. He also hinted that recovering the lost amount may take time. “We suspect that the bank account, to which the money was credited from the complainant’s account, might also be a forged one. The enquiry and the technical investigation is not an easy process,” the official added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-328
30-10-2020||West Bengal||Fall in active cases, rate of recovery rises again||Bengal for the third consecutive day on Thursday reported a drop in total active Covid-19 cases with another new high in daily recoveries at 3,945, taking its recovery rate past 88 per cent for the first time. Though its total active cases — 37,094 on Thursday, down from 37,190 on Monday — account for over 6 per cent of the national total, Bengal has not seen such a spell of fall since the 15-day streak that ended on September 7. The state on Thursday also reported 3,989 new cases and 61 deaths. The total Covid-19 cases in Bengal went past 3.65 lakh, including nearly 3.22 lakh recoveries and 6,725 deaths. Bengal’s recovery rate, which had fallen to 87.43 on October 20, became 88.02 on Thursday, inching towards the national rate of 90.98. “Much depends on the numbers we get over the next seven-10 days. But if these immediate post-Puja numbers are indicative of a trend, we are looking at an incredible turnaround for the state,” said the minister. He added that even if the turnaround happens, Bengal had to cover a lot of the ground it lost for over a month till Durga Puja. Bengal is fourth among states with the most active cases, after Maharashtra, Kerala and Karnataka. Delhi is fifth. These five states have 59 per cent of India’s active cases. Bengal’s overall mortality rate is 1.83 now, still behind the national rate of 1.49 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-328
30-10-2020||West Bengal||Extra space for security check at Bagdogra ||The Airports Authority of India opened an extended portion of the security hold area of the Bagdogra airport for passengers on Wednesday. Arvind Singh, the chairman of the AAI, inaugurated the facility, which would accommodate 300 more passengers, via video-conference. “So far, the security hold area could accommodate 600 passengers. With the extension, the capacity has increased to 900. It will help passengers,” said a source at the AAI. The terminal at Bagdogra is inadequate to meet the rush of passengers. “On one hand, the AAI pressured the state for additional land so that a new terminal and some ancillary infrastructure could be developed. On the other hand, we explored options to make optimum use of the existing building and create space for more passengers. The extension of security hold areas was one such initiative,” the source said. The AAI had already received land for the terminal upgrade.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-328
30-10-2020||West Bengal||Hard life for Kulgam victims’ kin||A year on, the sleepy hamlet of Bahalnagar off NH12 in Sagardighi wears a forlorn look. The place, where mainly Muslim families live, was home to five migrant labourers who were gunned down by militants in Kashmir’s Kulgam on October 29, 2019. Kamruddin Sheikh, Mursalim Sheikh, Rafikul Sheikh, Rafiq Sheikh and Naimuddin Sheikh were the five youths from this village whose murders put paid to the long tradition of Murshidabad youths spending winters picking apples in Kashmir’s orchards. The attacks took place after the Narendra Modi government on August 5, 2019, revoked the special status granted to Jammu and Kashmir. The labourers used to earn Rs 15,000 to Rs 17,000 each month in Kashmir. Breadwinners gone, survival is the main concern of the bereaved. But their fates are not the same. A relative of Kamruddin said they spent all day (Thursday) in prayers. Kamruddin’s wife Roshanara Biwi is jobless, he added. At the home of late Rafiq, who is survived by three married daughters, at the end of prayers there came a din of thanks for minister Suvendu Adhikari, who reportedly secured jobs in the transport and irrigation departments for all three daughters. Each now earns Rs 12,000 every month. At Mursalim’s home, wife Saira Biwi led the prayers. Saira works in the same role as Parvin, one of Rafiq’s daughters, with Kulgam attack survivor Zahiruddin Sarkar now back on his feet after months of treatment. Sources, however, said that Kamruddin’s wife Roshanara and Rafiqul’s wife Maria Biwi had been “overlooked” for jobs as they had not completed schooling. Jangipur MP Khalilur Rahaman helps both the women with Rs 3,000 every month. “Though these families have been paid large amounts by the government and NGOs, some of them are still jobless owing to their lack of qualifications,” said a source, pointing to an air of existing discontent. “These two women are not middle school graduates and so have been overlooked. This should be rectified,” a source added. Asked about the two women, Sagardighi BDO Subhajit Kundu pointed out that their lack of educational qualification was a roadblock to a job. The tragedy that had struck the five Bahalnagar families in 2019 led to a steady stream of VIPs, including chief minister Mamata Banerjee, visiting the village soon after the incident. These days, however, no visitor comes to enquire about the families. But villagers are grateful that at least the roads built for VIPs are permanent. Sources said a Rs 29 lakh tender for fortifying the concrete road leading into the village was currently underway and would be completed soon.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-328
30-10-2020||West Bengal||Bengal BJP agog over ‘tweaks’||The sudden removal of BJP state organisation (secretary) Subrata Chatterjee, also seen as state party unit chief Dilip Ghosh’s right hand, is being seen in state BJP circles as the outcome of discontent with Chatterjee’s “style of functioning” and has left many curious on other tweaks in the party before the 2021 Assembly polls. BJP national president J.P. Nadda replaced Chatterjee with Amitava Chakraborty as the state unit’s general secretary (organisation). Till Thursday evening, no official party communiqué had arrived on Chatterjee’s future role. On Thursday evening, Ghosh told mediapersons: “It (Chatterjee’s removal) is an organisational decision. I’ve worked with Amalenduda (Chatterjee, Subrata Chatterjee’s predecessor), then Subratada and will continue the teamwork with Amitavada.” Over the past few months, many high-profile Bengal BJP leaders such as Babul Supriyo, Swapan Dasgupta, Arjun Singh and Jagannath Sarkar had accused Chatterjee of “favouritism”. “Subratada ruined the careers of many party workers by promoting others. What happens now to leaders who enjoyed power by virtue of their proximity to Subratada will be keenly watched,” a senior state BJP leader said. Chatterjee had bypassed Chakraborty, then joint general secretary (organisation), in key organisational decisions, the source said. “Though Amitavada was in-charge of Calcutta and Nadia zones, Subratada would appoint people close to him in the district committees of the two places. Amitavada wasn’t even consulted,” the source said. According to multiple sources, Chatterjee’s removal was only a matter of time and yet Wednesday’s decision was a surprise as it was sudden. “None of us had any clue till the notice was uploaded on our party’s website,” a BJP leader said. “We did not expected a change in such a key position with Assembly polls a few months away.” Sources at 6 Muralidhar Sen Lane, the state BJP headquarters, appeared to be divided on Chatterjee’s future. A senior leader told this correspondent that Chatterjee had been asked to report to the RSS, his parent cadre. “Subratada has been asked to report to the Patna office of the RSS,” the senior leader said. Sources close to Chatterjee denied this. They said Chatterjee spoke to RSS leaders over phone and is waiting for orders on the way forward. “Subratada will be in Calcutta for a few more days. It is unlikely that he will be asked to hold any position in the state unit any longer,” a source said. In BJP’s scheme of things, the post of general secretary (organisation) goes to people loaned from the RSS. Once their tenure in the party is over, they usually return to the RSS. “Amalendu Chatterjee, who held the post before Subratada, had quietly gone back to the RSS after his removal. What happens to Subratada next is completely the Sangh’s prerogative,” the source said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-328
30-10-2020||West Bengal||Tiny hamlets now tourism focus||The Bengal tourism department has drawn up a plan to promote rural tourism in the new district of Kalimpong and promote it as a model district in rural tourism. The decision comes in the wake of homestays, private resorts and other accommodations mushrooming across the district’s rural areas. As a part of the plan, Gautam Deb, the state tourism minister, has started paying visits to prospective destinations and places already known but are yet to gain popularity among tourists visiting the region. During the past few days, he visited Nokdara and Rishop, tiny hamlets of the hill district located within 35km  of the district headquarters of Kalimpong. Officials of the district administration and his department accompanied him. “I have visited a couple of destinations in Kalimpong district where rural tourism can be developed with proper planning. We are exploring all possibilities to develop such facilities and will assess the potential of new destinations in the district. If rural tourism is promoted properly, it will also create employment for local residents,” said Deb. Rishop’s idyllic hilly landscape is picture-postcard peaceful and also useful for short-distance nature trails. Nokdara, the other location, is a new site that can be developed into a destination for tourists. An official who was with the minister on the trip, said that Nokdara has a lake where boating can be introduced. “The serene location is surrounded by lush green forests. Also, visitors can enjoy a majestic view of the snow-capped Kanchenjungha, along with fabulous sunrises and sunsets. It is just 34km from Kalimpong town,” he said. Raj Basu, a veteran in the tourism industry in the region who is assisting the department to conduct the survey, pointed out that the growth of rural tourism in Kalimpong district was encouraging more and more people to come up with accommodations in newer or less-known locations. “The entire Kalimpong district has huge potential for village tourism,” Basu said. “In a number of places, local residents have developed facilities for visitors along with some private tour operators. What we now need is concrete planning from the state’s side to create more sites and also promote the locations,” added Basu, who is also the convener of the Association for Conservation and Tourism.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-328
30-10-2020||West Bengal||Goons injure do-gooder||A 55-year-old tailor from Nadia’s Santipur is battling for his life at a private hospital in Calcutta after goons attacked him with an axe and rods on Monday night when he tried to save a teacher from them. The government school primary teacher, Kuntal Sinha Roy, 38, had become the target of the goons’ ire for protesting against gambling on his residential premises. When the goons came to attack him, Kuntal called up tailor Chanchal Sinha Roy, who happens to be his neighbour too, for help. According to Kuntal’s complaint with Santipur police, Chanchal immediately rushed to the teacher’s residence and asked the criminals to leave. Angry goons then attacked Chanchal on the head and broke his leg. In his complaint lodged with Santipur police, Kuntal said he had called up tailor and neighbour Chanchal Sinha Roy for help when the goons had come to attack him on Monday night. “Around 10am on Monday I asked some youths to leave when I found them gambling and creating a nuisance in the backyard of our residence,” he said. “They left then but returned in the evening in a big group armed with sharp weapons and iron rods. They tried to barge inside by breaking the door of my house,” Kuntal said. “Fearing a ghastly attack, I called up the police. Since they were taking time to arrive, I sought Chanchal kaku’s  help. I thought that as an elderly man, his intervention would help. The goons, however, struck his head with an axe, injuring him critically outside the door of our house,” Kuntal said. The goons also attacked Chanchal with iron rods and broke his left leg, Kuntal said. He said the goons left only when other neighbours had rushed to their rescue. The police have started a case of attempt to murder against 27 persons on the basis of the complaint lodged by Kuntal. A police officer said two prime accused in the case were arrested on Wednesday night. An investigating officer of Santipur police station said: “We have arrested two prime accused who led the attack. However, the other accused  are on the run ever since the condition of the victim started deteriorating.” Chanchal is undergoing treatment at the intensive care unit at a private hospital in Calcutta where he was shifted from Kalyani’s JNM Hospital. His condition has taken a turn for the worse since Wednesday evening. A doctor said he suffered heavy bleeding.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-328
30-10-2020||West Bengal||Comorbidity priority for vaccine||The Mamata Banerjee government is set to prepare a complete list of persons with comorbities in Bengal to ensure that they get the Covid vaccine after frontline workers, once the injection reaches the market. “The comorbidity list will help us identify people who would require the Covid vaccine on priority basis. As we had started the work about three months ago, Bengal could be the only state that would have a full list of vulnerable people by the time the vaccine arrives in the market,” a senior bureaucrat told The Telegraph. The Centre asked the state during a meeting last week to keep a list of Covid frontline workers for vaccination in the first phase, which could start latest by March 2021. Frontline workers include doctors, nurses, other health workers like lab technicians of government and private hospitals, and municipal workers engaged in garbage disposal and cleaning of hospitals or similar establishments. Sources said the state government’s stress on vaccinating persons with comorbidities on a priority basis comes from their vulnerability to infection. Of the total 6,725 Covid-19 deaths reported till Thursday, the state government attributed 84.1 per cent to comorbidities. Sources said the survey of health parameters of nearly 10 crore people is complete and the data are being compiled now. “It is a Herculean task as we are trying to prepare the list on the basis of the degree of comorbidities. Those more vulnerable will be given the vaccine first,” said an officer. But other officials said the uploading of comorbidity data in Calcutta was lagging behind schedule. Bengal Assembly’s deputy Speaker Sukumar Hansda breathed his last on Thursday. He was 66. The two-term Jhargram MLA was suffering from cancer. Mamata Banerjee, in a tweet, said she was “deeply grieved”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-329
30-10-2020||West Bengal||Chilahati-Haldibari rail link eyes Dec, March hope for Siliguri-Dhaka||The Sheikh Hasina government in Bangladesh intends to start train services along the Haldibari-Chilahati route from December 2020 as well as a passenger train service to connect its capital  Dhaka with Bengal’s Siliguri from March 2021. The route between Cooch Behar’s Haldibari and Bangladesh’s Chilahati is likely to open on December 16, which both countries celebrate as Bijoy Dibosh or Vijay Diwas to mark the day in 1971 when Pakistani troops surrendered to the allied forces of India and Bangladesh, ending war of liberation for Bangladesh. The Dhaka-Siliguri route is likely to come up on March 26, Bangladesh’s Independence Day. In 2021, Bangladesh will celebrate 50 years of independence. Trains used to run through this route over five decades earlier — Bangladesh was East Pakistan then — but had stopped in 1965 during the India-Pakistan war. During the past few years, governments of both India and Bangladesh had taken the initiative to lay railway tracks and put up ancillary infrastructure to run trains along the route. Work is almost over on both sides of the border. Last week on October 21, Bangladesh railway minister Nurul Islam Sujon met Vikram Doraiswami, the new high commissioner of India at Dhaka’s Rail Bhawan. After the meeting, an official release issued by the Bangladesh government the next day stated that the railway minister said the tracks for the Haldibari-Chilahati route would open this December. “The railway minister said the railway line from Haldibari in India to Chilahati in Bangladesh will be launched in December,” said the release. In an official post, the High Commission of India in Bangladesh said that at the meeting, Doraiswami and Sujon had discussed “ways to further enhance #IndiaBangladesh connectivity.” The news release issued by Bangladesh press information department stated that its government was also mulling another plan, that is, introduction of passenger train services between Dhaka and Siliguri. “….Besides, there are plans to run a passenger train from Dhaka to Siliguri on March 26 next year, the minister added,” reads the release. Across north Bengal and in Bangladesh, there has been a steady demand to introduce train and air services. Thousands of Bangladeshi nationals visit Siliguri and nearby areas for education, healthcare, commerce and other reasons. Many Bangladeshi tourists visit the hills every year, including Sikkim. As of now, there are four rail routes that connect Bengal with Bangladesh, Petrapole-Benapole, Singhabad-Rohanpur, Gede-Darshana and Radhikapur-Birol. Bus service is available from Siliguri to Dhaka via Changrabandha of Cooch Behar. Trial runs have been conducted to run buses along the Dhaka-Siliguri-Kathmandu route as a part of the transport agreement signed among the neighbouring countries but the service is yet to start. “A passenger train service linking Bangladesh will give a major boost to the regional economy of north Bengal. We are eagerly waiting for the day,” said Samrat Sanyal, general secretary, Himalayan Hospitality and Tourism Development Network. Sources associated with the Haldibari-Chilahati route rail project said that chances were high that the route opens on December 16. A trial run by the Bangladesh Railway two days back has cheered the residents of Cooch Behar’s Haldibari. “It was nice to see the locomotive of the Bangladesh Railway approaching the border after years. On both the sides, work is on in full swing and it will be great if the track is finally commissioned in December,” said Satish Dutta, an elderly resident of Haldibari. Officials of Northeast Frontier Railway (NFR), the zone of Indian Railway that has been working on the rail project, said tracks have been laid till the border. “Some ancillary works at Haldibari station are in progress. We do not have any information as to when the rail route will open but we have instructions to finish the work by December,” said S. Chanda, the chief public relations officer of NFR. Additional inputs by Anirban Choudhury in Alipurduar||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-329
30-10-2020||West Bengal||Beach guards demand Covid-safe gear||Teams of civil defence workers or nulias, who supervise safety and rescue operations at tourist beaches in East Midnapore’s Digha, Mandarmani and Tajpur, have complained about the alleged neglect by authorities in helping them stay Covid-proof amid the pandemic. These beach guards are deployed in the sea and on crowded beaches and respond to any emergency that a tourist might encounter while bathing in the sea. On Monday, members of the civil defence team rescued a seven-year-old Howrah boy from drowning in Digha. Around 56 nulias, who report to civil defence authorities in Digha have alleged that since March they had not been provided proper PPE or new life jackets by the police or district authorities. “We are wearing years-old life jackets and are using poorly made masks purchased with our own funds. We expect better treatment from the government and police when we are behind the vital tourist revival over here,” said a nulia in Digha. He added: “We have to frequently come close to victims of near-drowning or beach accidents. Then, obviously, we can’t afford to think of social distancing norms. Tourists often come drunk to the seaside and create problems that require us to save them or pull them out of the sea. We are risking our lives in a pandemic and the least we can expect is good protection that includes proper masks, gloves and sanitisers. We are poor and cannot afford costly essentials to keep ourselves safe from Covid.” Sources said teams of nulias had already petitioned Digha police and the Digha Sankarpur Development Authority a couple of months ago for required essentials to stay Covid-safe. “We have not even heard from them (the authorities), let alone get proper gear,” said another nulia as he kept a keen watch on revellers in the sea at Digha. He added that his own life jacket had to be sewn together by his wife after three years of constant use. District disaster management official Mrityunjay Haldar said his office would be sensitive to the needs of nulias. “We are responsible for their salaries but we have not received any equipment requisitions yet. We will certainly look into it and route their demands through the BDO,” he said. “We have given civic workers equipment last in March, and they can always come to us with their needs,” added officer-in-charge, Digha police station, Krishnendu Pradhan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-329
30-10-2020||West Bengal||Sylee tea garden to reopen||Gates of the Sylee tea estate in the Malbazar block of Jalpaiguri will reopen from Friday. The decision was made at a bipartite meeting held here on Thursday. Sources said at the industry wide agreement on bonus that was held in September this year, it was decided that the management would pay a bonus at 15.5 per cent. The workers did not agree to the proposal and demanded a bonus at 20 per cent, that is, the rate fixed for most other gardens. They resorted to demonstration at the garden from September 22 and even held protests in Malbazar town. On October 5, the management had announced suspension of work, citing lawlessness in the garden.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-329
30-10-2020||West Bengal||Watch over Covid patients at home||The West Midnapore district administration has set up specialised teams of admission committees at gram panchayats to regularly supervise Covid-19 patients in home isolation and help them get admitted to hospitals if their health worsens. The official, preferring to speak anonymously, added that at least 50 per cent of the 184 coronavirus-induced deaths in the district till Tuesday occurred because patients in home isolation couldn’t be admitted to hospitals on time. Nimai Mondal, the district chief medical officer of health, broadly concurred. “Several patients in home isolation couldn’t be saved because they weren’t brought to the hospitals on time,” he said. “In case the patient is suffering from some other ailment or has suddenly fallen seriously ill, the admission committee will arrange for his or her admission to the hospital.” Till Tuesday, 12,564 persons of the district contracted the infection. There are 1,750 active cases here. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee expressed concerns over the rising number of active coronavirus cases in the district at the administrative review meeting held on October 6 in Kharagpur. Mamata had asked the district administration to keep an eye on the conditions of patients in home isolation. Though the decision to form admission committees at panchayat levels had been taken before the chief minister’s visit to the district, it was only after her strict directives that the plan was quickly executed. The district health department shares a list of Covid-19 patients in every block with respective block officials every day. This list — which comprises phone numbers of patients — is in turn shared with members of the admission committees to facilitate transfer to hospitals in case of an emergency. Each of these committees comprise the secretary of the respective village panchayat, ASHA workers, auxiliary nurses, midwives, civic volunteers and village resource persons. The ASHA workers monitor the households and enquire about the patient’s health over phone twice a day. “There is a format specified by the district health department. ASHA workers have to follow it and take down the details of the patients’ health,” another source at the district administration said. Abhishek Mishra, the BDO of Chandrakona-1 block, hoped that supervision of these committees minimise the risk of patient’s succumbing to the virus. “In our experience, patients in home isolation have a tendency of not reporting at hospitals unless their condition is critical. Some families are to be blamed for the same reason,” he added. Kamalkrishna Samanta, the chief of the Nandanpur-1 panchayat of Ghatal block, said patients under his administration were being regularly monitored. “With the help of admission committees, anyone whose condition gets serious can promptly be admitted to the hospital,” Samanta said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-329
