31-10-2020||West Bengal||New liquor prices across Bengal from Sunday||The West Bengal Government has revised the price structure of liquor brands to be sold through the retail route in the state which will come into effect from Sunday, sources said. The government has made 22 new slabs for wine and beer across all categories after rationalizing the price structure, the sources said. The state government, in an apparent bid to shore up excise revenues, had imposed a 30% tax on liquor in the second week of April when the lockdown was in force. But that move had resulted in a steep decline in wine and beer sales in the state to the tune of 40% as compared to the previous year during this time, director-general of Confederation of Indian Alcoholic Beverage Companies (CIABC) Vinod Giri said. Giri said representatives of the association have met the State Finance secretary and Excise commissioner and urged them to revisit the price structure. “The government has been very receptive and indicated that it would visit the price structure because of the ongoing festive season,” he said. A leading wine retailer of the city informed that the government has made 22 new slabs for wine and beer across all categories after rationalizing the price structure after 30% sales tax imposition. He said most of the prices of the various brands have gone up which is detrimental to the liquor industry in the state. “Owing to this, people are being forced to switch over to country spirits and everyone had been scaling down the value ladder due to the price rise,” he added. Those retailers having old price tags will be able to sell as previous prices till stocks last.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-327
31-10-2020||West Bengal||Dhankhar begins month-long north Bengal tour||Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar has left for north Bengal to begin his month-long tour of Darjeeling from November 1. Dhankhar said he will connect with the people and the administration and work towards "fulfilling people's expectations". "In train for North Bengal to connect with people and work towards fulfillment of their expectations. Harnessing of its enormous travel, tourism, economic, educational potential would improve lives of the people. Would connect with people and administration @MamataOfficial," he tweeted on Saturday. In another tweet, Dhankhar said he has reached Malda station and was "touched" by the warm response from local people led by BJP's Malda Uttar MP Khagen Murmu. In an earlier statement, the Raj Bhavan had said Dhankhar will tour Darjeeling from November 1-30. He is also scheduled to address a press conference in Siliguri on Sunday. The governor's tour of Darjeeling comes in the backdrop of Gorkha Janmukti Morcha supremo Bimal Gurung announcing his party's exit from the NDA and pledging support to the Trinamool Congress during next year's assembly elections. Dhankhar had also called Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Thursday and discussed the "state of affairs and affairs of state". Supporters of both Bimal Gurung and his rival GJM faction led by Binoy Tamang have taken out separate rallies in the hills in the last few days. Gurung, while recently making a dramatic appearance in Calcutta after remaining in hiding for three years, walked out of the BJP-led NDA, accusing the political alliance of not keeping its promises. The TMC received a shot in the arm with Gurung's announcement and welcomed his decision. The Binoy Tamang-led GJM faction is already allied with the ruling party in the state. The TMC leadership, however, is apprehensive of Dhankhar's visit to the hills as he has been at loggerheads with the Mamata Banerjee dispensation since assuming charge as the governor over a year ago. "Dhankhar can always visit any part of the state but we don't think this is a routine visit. We are apprehensive about his purpose," a senior TMC leader from north Bengal had said. The BJP, however, has come out in support of the governor and said Dhankhar has the right to visit any part of Bengal as the constitutional head of the state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-327
31-10-2020||West Bengal||175 trucks with wheat seized||Customs authorities over the last few weeks have seized 175 trucks laden with wheat packed in gunny bags with FCI tags suspecting that essential food grains meant for public distribution were being illegally exported to Bangladesh through the Ghojadanga land port in North 24-Parganas. After preliminary verification, customs authorities handed over the trucks to the Basirhat police on October 20 and lodged a complaint as well. Basirhat police on the basis of the complaint have begun a case against 13 exporters on Thursday accusing them of possessing, receiving, dealing, and concealing stolen property. The entire consignment of the wheat loaded in the 175 vehicles is estimated to be around 4,500 tonnes and remain parked outside the Ghojadanga land port under police vigilance. The incident has angered the exporters who have refuted the allegations claiming that the customs authorities were harassing them even though they had submitted bills to prove that the wheat had been bought from open markets in Bengal and other states . They also claimed that the gunny bags with the FCI tags do not necessarily mean the food grain were meant for public distribution as such old gunny bags with such official tags are openly available in the market. The exporters, who are from North 24-Parganas, Malda, Murshidabad, Habra, Barasat, Ashoknagar, Bongaon and other places, have appealed to the Federation of Indian Export Organisations to take up the issue with the customs authorities. State food and supply minister Jyotipriya Mullick, however, appeared unconvinced with the claim of the exporters and alleged that the consignment of wheat from Punjab was being “smuggled” to Bangladesh through the Bengal land port. “This is a big scam that has been going on for a long time now. In the recent past, the state administration had also nabbed such consignment of wheat at Benapole,” the minister said, adding that seized food grain would be distributed among the people through the local administration if the court permitted it. A customs official posted in Ghojadanga said: “We have strong reasons to suspect foul play in the procurement of wheat since all the bags had FCI tags. It is not clear if the tags were fake or the food grain was packed in old bags. After preliminary examination we felt suspicious about the authenticity of procurement of the consignment and requested the police to investigate.” An officer of the Basirhat police said on the basis of a complaint by the Customs officials, a case had been started. “We have got in touch with the exporters and asked them to meet the investigating officers with their procurement documents,” he said. An exporter said: “We have all the necessary documents of purchase, export apart from clearance for loading for export. We have handed over all the documents to the police. Hope the police will act without prejudice.” FCI sources admitted that old gunny bags were often sold in the market and it often led to confusion. A police officer said: “It is true that reused gunny bags with FCI tags are available in the market. But we need to ascertain it”. An exporter also pointed out that in 2018, Patna High Court had dismissed a criminal case filed by Bihar Food and Consumer Protection Department that accused a trader of illegally dealing with rice packed in similar gunny bags with FCI tags claiming it was meant for public distribution.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-327
31-10-2020||West Bengal||Electric shock kills three kids||Three children who were taking part in a religious procession were electrocuted  and 15 were injured in Islampur on Friday. Sources said some residents were moving on a truck with flags atop long poles through the bypass of NH31 when one of the bamboo poles came in contact with high tension electric wires of the highway. Almost all those on the truck got jolt and suffered injuries. Three children, who were in the vehicle, also received electric shock. All of them were rushed to the subdivisional hospital in Islampur where doctors pronounced Mohammad Rajiv, 11, and Anjali Khatun, 10, dead. Later, five of them were sent to North Bengal Medical College and Hospital in Siliguri where Tahir Reza, 11, succumbed to his injuries. Around 10 others are under treatment at Islampur hospital. Senior police officials and Golam Rabbani, an MLA of North Dinajpur and the minister of state for labour, rushed to the spot. Police have started an investigation. “The state government is with the bereaved families,” Rabbani said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-327
31-10-2020||West Bengal||Madrasah clerk faces scholarship bribe slur||A clerk at a state-aided madrasah in the Chanchal subdivision of Malda has been accused of demanding money from girl students while promising them enrollment in a state-run scholarship scheme launched to encourage girls to continue their education. A section of students and their guardians filed a complaint with the subdivisional officer of Chanchal and demanded a probe. According to sources, Mohammad Harun, clerk at Jalalpur high madrasah in Chanchal 2 block, has been asking for Rs 5,000 each from a number of girl students who are beneficiaries of Kanyashree-II category. The madrasah has around 200 girl students, said the sources. “He has demanded Rs 5,000 from some girls, including my daughter. He has also mentioned that if the money is not paid, the student concerned would be deprived of the scholarship. We have lodged a complaint with the SDO of Chanchal and want them to look into the issue,” said a guardian. The guardians have also circulated a video in social media (The Telegraph did not check the authenticity of the clip) where the clerk is allegedly seen seeking money from the girls and assuring them of the scholarship. According to the scheme, girls who come under Kanyashree-II category are entitled to receive a one time grant of Rs 25,000 for higher studies. Another guardian alleged that Tofajjal Hossain, the teacher-in-charge at the madrasah, was also involved in the corruption. “If we see the video, the clerk is seen saying he will have to pay a share to the teacher-in-charge. There should be a complete investigation,” the guardian said. Hossain denied the charges and questioned the authenticity of the video. Harun could not be contacted. “The administration should probe such a serious charge. We, on behalf of the managing committee, will also look into the allegation,” said Habibur Rahaman, the president of the madrasah’s managing committee. Sabyasachi Roy, the SDO of Chanchal, said he had asked the BDO (of Chanchal 2 block) to conduct a probe and submit a report.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-327
31-10-2020||West Bengal||Shukla ‘killers’ held in Punjab||Bengal CID took into custody two men who had alleged gunned down BJP leader Manish Shukla after the duo had been arrested in Punjab in connection with a robbery at Ludhiana. Former Titagarh municipal councillor Shukla had been killed in public view on October 4 by motorcycle-borne assailants who fired at least 17 rounds, most of which hit their target. “The arrested duo were brought to Bengal on transit remand and produced in a Barrackpore court on Friday,” said a source. Sources in the CID said Punjab police had arrested Sujit Kumar Rai, 26, and Roshan Kumar Yadav, 20, for their alleged complicity in the robbery of 30kg gold from a loan firm on Dungri Road in Ludhiana. Rai and Yadav are from Samastipur and Vaishali, respectively, in Bihar. “Both Rai and Yadav were part of the gang that executed the plot to kill Shukla. Both are members of the Subodh Singh gang, which specialises in looting gold loan institutions. The gang is accused of robbing two such institutions in Barrackpore and Asansol. During interrogation in Punjab, they admitted their involvement in the murder,” said a source. The murder of Shukla became a political issue in Bengal as the BJP and the deceased man’s family pointed fingers at the Trinamul Congress. The state CID, however, found no evidence that suggests the involvement of any ruling party leader in the case. Police had already arrested three persons, including alleged mastermind Subodh Singh who had purportedly planned the murder from inside a jail in Bihar’s Nalanda. With the fresh arrests, the number increased to five. Mohammed Khurram — a Titagarh-based businessman who had apparently personal enmity with Shukla — was also arrested. Another person arrested earlier was Subodh Yadav — who was engaged by mastermind Subodh Singh for providing logistical support to the hired sharp shooters who had come to the city a week before the plan was to be executed, the police said. The third arrested man was Gulab Sheikh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-327
31-10-2020||West Bengal||Daily recoveries cross 4,000||Bengal for the first time logged over 4,000 recoveries from Covid-19 in a day with 4,015 patients being reported cured of the pathogen on Friday, outnumbering 3,979 new infections. The higher recoveries resulted in a drop in the total number of active cases for the fourth consecutive day. There has not been such a spell of fall in the total of active cases in the state since a 15-day streak ended on September 7. Bengal on Friday reported 59 deaths, including 18 each from Calcutta and North 24-Parganas. Since Durga Puja ended, the state has been reporting numbers that the government hopes is the onset of a decisive turnaround in the pandemic. The recovery rate, which had taken a tumble since the October 6 high of 87.98 and fallen to 87.43 on October 20, was 88.16 per cent on Friday. The national rate is 91.12 now. “For 11 consecutive days now, the record for the new high in daily recoveries was reset. On all four days after Puja, the new case count has been sub-4,000. We still have to see what numbers we get over the next week or so, but these early indicators give us some scope to be optimistic,” said a minister. The total of novel coronavirus cases in Bengal went past 3.69 lakh. But they include nearly 3.26 lakh recoveries and 6,784 deaths. With 43,774 tests on Friday, Bengal went past the milestones of 45 lakh tests and the 50,000-mark in tests per million people, with 45,12 lakh tests at 50,136 tests per million. The positive confirmation rate is 8.19 per cent now. Of the total 6,784 deaths reported, the state government attributed 5,705 (84.1 per cent) to comorbidities. Bengal’s overall mortality rate is 1.83 now, still behind the national rate of 1.49 per cent. The state reported 34.81 per cent occupancy on 12,811 beds earmarked for Covid-19 at 94 dedicated hospitals on Friday. Over 3.92 lakh telemedicine consultations have been provided on the pandemic so far.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-327
31-10-2020||West Bengal||Shah, not Nadda, to visit Bengal||Union home minister Amit Shah will be in Bengal on a two-day visit early next month to hold organisational meetings of the BJP’s four zones, state party president Dilip Ghosh said on Friday. Earlier, the BJP had announced a two-day programme of party president J.P. Nadda, who was supposed to be in Bengal on November 6 and 7. “There have been changes in the programmes,” Ghosh said. “Amitji will come instead of Naddaji. He would address the workers of Burdwan and Midnapur zones on November 5 and those from the Calcutta and Nabadweep zones the following day,” he added. The state BJP had requested both Shah and Nadda to visit Bengal during the festival period and meet party workers to prepare them for the next year’s Assembly polls. “Amitji’s health is better now. Since he is coming, it has been decided that he will cover all the four zones together,” a state BJP leader said. Shah had been afflicted by Covid-19 recently. In the BJP scheme of things, Bengal is divided into five different organisational zones. Nadda had addressed the north Bengal zone on October 17. The national leadership had recently made a key change in the BJP’s state unit by replacing Subrato Chatterjee with Amitava Chakraborty as the BJP’s general secretary (organisation). The BJP on Friday also announced its plan to hold a business conference by the end of this year. “We would discuss the aspects of industrialisation in Bengal with various industrialists and other stakeholders. We want to understand what the investors want from a new government if we come to power,” MP Swapan Dasgupta told a news conference here. The business meet will be held by December or January, Dasgupta said. “Whether it would be a virtual event or an actual one will be decided on after taking the pandemic situation into consideration.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-327
31-10-2020||West Bengal||From Raiganj, Kanchenjungha direct||Friday morning brought a pleasant surprise to residents of Raiganj who were mesmerised to catch a glimpse of the glittering silver lining in the northward landscape as Kanchenjungha, the third highest mountain in the world, was visible from different parts of the town. The residents of Raiganj recalled that the last time they had witnessed the spectacle was on October 8, 2013. “It was like a dream coming true. Back in 2013, I was not in town and had missed seeing the Kanchenjungha. But I am lucky this time. I had been to Darjeeling and Sikkim to see the Kanchenjungha range, but seeing it from my hometown was a delightful feeling,” said Aritra Day, a college student. Since morning, hundreds of Raiganj residents were seen swarming into their rooftops. Some of the enthusiasts even moved out of the town or climbed up multi-storied buildings to have a better view of the peak that stands at 8,586m (28,169ft). “Around 40 years ago, Kanchenjungha was often visible from places like Raiganj, Islampur and Kishanganj. But these days, because of rise in pollution levels, it is rare to get a clear sky free of dust particles and clouds. It is because of consistent rainfall in the region, coupled with lower pollution levels on account of the prolonged lockdown, that we could see the mighty peak again from here,” said Tapan Basak, a schoolteacher. He also said because of smog and dust which float in the atmosphere, the mountain was rarely visible from Raiganj that is 190km from Siliguri. From Siliguri, Kanchenjungha can be seen during clear summer days and during autumn and winter. Even on Friday, the peak and its entire range — also known as the “Sleeping Buddha” — were visible from Siliguri. Along with Raiganj, residents of some other towns of north Bengal like Jalpaiguri, Maynaguri and Dhupguri could also witness the magnificent Himalayan peak. The peak was crystal clear from all parts of the Darjeeling hills and Sikkim, which left locals and a handful of tourists visiting the region elated. Those associated with travel trade and even residents of the hills, however, rued the absence of tourists from the region because of Covid-19. Sandipan Ghosh, general secretary, Eastern Himalaya Travel & Tour Operators’ Association, said thousands of tourists visited Darjeeling and Sikkim to catch a glimpse of the peak but this year, the inflow of tourists was comparatively low because of the pandemic. “Usually, the hills and the Dooars remain flooded with tourists during this time of the year... But the present situation has held many of them back at their homess,” said Ghosh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-327
