03-06-2020||News||Corporate managers must rise to the challenge||Countries have been pushed into wartime-like efforts to combat the coronavirus disease (Covid-19)-sparked crisis. The only parallel is the time when in the 1940s, large swathes of industry in the United States (US) were pressed into the production of goods required for the war. The current war against the virus has, by reopening debates about the deepening inequalities in society, raised the question of how companies, with their talents and efficiencies, can play a larger role in solving some of the challenges. The slew of economic reforms announced by the government provides an opportunity for Indian companies to now play such a role. Achieving this will require a paradigm shift in thinking across banks, company-owners and the government.The government’s stimulus package has some broad themes. First, the government intends to revive micro, medium and small enterprises (MSMEs) through the provision of guarantees to ensure the flow of credit. It will also do so by releasing capital locked into the reverse repo with the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) or the cash reserve ratios with banks. However, transmitting unlocked reserves requires a different approach to risk-taking. Bankers will play a national role if they can, at least in the case of MSMEs who are existing borrowers, avoid total risk aversion, and encourage sensible lending that balances the need to keep jobs and consumption intact. After the depression, JM Keynes noted that when the facts change, economic theory must change. So too after Covid-19, lending practices must change to enable small business to recover.In this connection fintech lenders have, since 2015, made deep inroads into precisely the types of businesses facing the maximum pain now. In the US, major fintech lenders have been eligible for direct Federal Reserve funds, which are fully guaranteed, as a means to help fund small businesses. If banks and non-banking financial companies were to refinance fintech platforms, this will speed up credit flow. Large sums have been identified for investment through funds in the small and medium enterprises and agriculture space largely overseen by the Small Industries Development Bank of India. Here too conventional investment logic, which requires all projects to meet high hurdles for return, has less meaning when the more urgent need is to revive a stalled economy. There needs to be a clear acceptance that the multiplier effect of job creation, wages generation and demand can largely offset the impact of poor investment or lending.The desire to reform and privatise agricultural procurement, coal, defence and power distribution is commendable. In doing so, it is important to put aside old hang-ups which include concerns about anti-competitive behaviour and corruption during bidding processes, which held back past reforms. In the light of the fears among officials by the 2G and coal scams, there has to be clear communication from the government that officers will be rewarded for bona fide, aggressive steps to bring about change. This is not to say that gross negligence or cases of corruption should be allowed to pass muster. While not denying the likelihood of these risks, economies do not come out of crises by playing safe. A less noticeable-but-important change in approach is required of large shareholder investors. In assessing the returns they want from investments, they need to examine why when shareholders have done well in recent years, these increases in valuation have not touched other critical issues such as job creation, improving their green quotient or providing even two months of salary safety nets. In recent years, valuations of a few companies, especially in the technology sector, have left behind organisations which create high quality jobs, in the way General Motors (GM), Hilton or Unilever do. The desire for the market outperforming returns at all times has seemingly meant an unwillingness for investment in solid, useful, economy-enhancing plays, which pay 3-4% above the cost of capital but do not provide dramatic pay-offs. This is why, for example, in India, there is no market for a mortgage guarantee company, which would materially improve the quality of life. The institutional investing community may need to re-examine the lens through which it reviews its investments.Last and most critical, the proposed reforms provide a chance for industry to rise to the occasion as their forbearers had done in the immediate post-Independence era. Large corporate houses, which drive most of industry, have the opportunity to pick up the gauntlet in several new areas where privatisation has been offered. There is a full alignment between meaningful risk taking and national reconstruction as demonstrated by groups such as the Tatas, whose investments in power, software, chemicals and other industries were, in their day, pioneering, even though they might have been seen as risky at the time. Many other Indian groups have similar stories involving entering unrelated areas and placing their best talent behind new projects.Even with supportive mindsets from the groups above, successful national rebuilding will come by only if India’s large management pool relishes the opportunity to thrive under uncertainty and challenge. In the 1950’s Charlie Wilson, the CEO of GM said, “What is good for GM is good for America”. The opposite was also true. What is good for the country is also good for the individual company. As the government faces arguably the biggest challenge in India’s history, managers can play a greater part in the national response as some already do. Great managers are used to operating in difficult competitive environments. They will do a fantastic job of facilitating nationally meaningful outcomes such as job creation or privatisations of key industries without compromising on-long term returns if they are backed by their investors and promoters to do so. One hopes that the response to these bold reforms will be India’s World War II moment, after which the corporate sector applies its talent, financial muscle and risk appetite to the task of nation-building.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/corporate-managers-must-rise-to-the-challenge/story-JBLpDj5XCt85KfoJPbak1H.html
03-06-2020||News||‘Immune organisations’ can withstand disruptions||There is this immortal verse in JRR Tolkien’s Lord of the Rings to describe the all-powerful Ring, which has the power to destroy the biggest known evil, Sauron, the Lord of Mordor: “In the Land of Mordor where the Shadows lie/ One Ring to rule them all/ One Ring to find them/ One Ring to bring them all, and in the darkness bind them.”The coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic is unfolding around us in all its destructive horror as the world races to find the One Ring which can destroy it — a vaccine. The right vaccine, it is hoped, will grant immunity by triggering the creation of the right antibodies against a future outbreak. But what if Covid-19 itself was a vaccine, and the organisations and societies of today could learn from it to build the antibodies they need to garner immunity against future disruptive calamities? If vaccine technology can help a human body become immune with an inoculation of “weak” pathogens, then it is conceivable that we can adopt the same approach for our companies. Could we use and apply the learnings of this disruption and leverage technology and design to build an “Immune Organisation”, which is resilient to future shocks? So, when the next big disruption (perhaps triggered by global warming, for instance) comes, it may not prevent a complete business interruption, but could help the world get on its feet much faster if the right antibodies were developed. As Gandalf, the Grey says in the Lord of the Rings, “The burned hand teaches best.” I have identified seven such “antibodies” which an organisation can develop. One, the decentralisation of work. Decentralisation resists disruption much better than centralisation. Take work for example, where working from home, and in fact anywhere, has saved the day for many companies. Decentralised kirana stores perform better than malls, a decentralised gig-economy such as food-delivery and e-commerce has kept many countries running. To survive future disruption, companies need to decentralise their operations.Two, re-imagining business models. Businesses with purely digital models have gained; those with purely physical ones have ground to a halt. Not all businesses can be totally digitised, but companies will need to rework business models to digitise whatever they can — build e-commerce, health companies to develop tele-health, schools to build online education.Three, building a partnership ecosystem. Companies will need to build a strong, unconventional partner ecosystem. Witness the ITC Foods-Dominos tie-up, or liquor companies riding on Zomato and Swiggy. Four, automation. Everything that can be automated needs to be. This will ensure business continuity and productivity, even when people cannot be there to do the work. It will also cut costs, unfortunately often at the cost of jobs. But automation is inevitable for companies and a powerful antibody to immunise a company.Five, lifelong learning, multiple jobs. The future of work has been fast-forwarded by the virus. Work from anywhere is one indication of that. The other is that employees will need to continuously re-skill to stay relevant. Additionally, employees may hold multiple jobs, so that if one goes, the other survives. Companies will be far more tolerant of this, and the permanent-temporary employee distinction will disappear. Lifelong learning, not lifelong jobs, will be the norm. Six, re-imagining customer journeys. Covid-19 has change the customer journey, with social distancing, sanitisation and work-from-home becoming the norm. This will mean that every company will have to tweak its business for this new customer journey, and future proof itself.Seven, mindset and cultural transformation. This is the most formidable, the Gandalf of antibodies. While culture and organisation changes move sometimes in glacial, geological time frames, a cataclysmic event such as a pandemic can change mindsets and cultures almost instantly. All the other antibodies require this most potent one to be developed first. Once created and internalised, it is so much easier to build the others, and develop a high degree of organisational immunity. For example, CEOs have had an instant change of heart on a previous anathema, working from anywhere. The pandemic has also forced delegation, and authority has moved down to the customer-facing roles. One of the great paradoxes of this pandemic is that it has slowed the world down, but simultaneously accelerated change. It is not the easiest of times to live in. But we need to make the most of it; we need to grasp this change, learn from it, and immunise ourselves against future shock. “I wish it need not have happened in my time,” said Frodo Baggins in the Lord of the Rings. “So do I,” said Gandalf, the Grey, “and so do all who live to see such times. But that is not for them to decide. All we have to decide is what to do with the time that is given us.”Jaspreet Bindra’s latest book, a short read called The Immune Organisation released recently on Kindle. He has also authored The Tech Whisperer, and is a digital transformation and technology expert The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/immune-organisations-can-withstand-disruptions/story-F7ZJ3diop4K2YWB4pJ3pzI.html
03-06-2020||News||India is sensitive to China but won’t allow change in any border sector||At the 2019 informal summit between India and China at Mamallapuram, on the periphery of Chennai, Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi and President Xi Jinping decided to celebrate the 70th anniversary of bilateral relations in 2020 by deepening exchanges at all levels — between the legislatures, political parties, cultural and youth organisations, even the militaries of the two countries. The two leaders also decided to organise 70 activities, including a conference on a ship that would trace the historical connect between the two civilisations.No one expected that rosy diplomatic picture would turn as grim as it has now, with the spread of the coronavirus that was first reported from Wuhan — ironically, the site of the 2018 informal summit between India and China — and with war clouds gathering over eastern Ladakh. This has happened within seven months of the Mamallapuram meet, which saw the reiteration of a desire for peace and tranquillity in the border areas and a commitment to work on additional Confidence Building Measures (CBMs). Yet, today, the Indian Army is facing two aggressive Combined Arms Brigades of the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) at Galwan Valley and Pangong Tso patrolling points along the 3,488-kilometre-long Line of Actual Control (LAC).ALSO WATCH | Explained: Trump’s G7 offer for India, how it may help amid China standoffIn May, PLA first activated LAC at Naku La area in north Sikkim and then at three points in Galwan and one point at Pangong Tso. While the Chinese defence ministry spokesperson has said that the situation in Ladakh is “stable and controllable,” this appears to be a gross understatement as the two armies are literally at each other’s throats. This fragile situation does not augur well for bilateral relations. It has already turned the normally-dormant LAC active, forcing India to deploy troops on the northern border and prepare for the worst-case scenario. Much as India’s detractors would like to remind it about the 1962 border skirmish with China, the fact is that even PLA would have to move troops from the hinterland to protect its own territory if the red flag goes up. As of now China has 76 and 77 group armies (around 45,000 men) along with an option of six to eight divisions of troops from Tibet and Xinjiang military district holding the Western Theatre Command facing India. With India rapidly building force levels in eastern Ladakh, it will be only a matter a time before PLA calls for reinforcements from the hinterland if status quo ante is not restored.Given that India’s lines of communication and air bases are closer to LAC, the scenario may not favour PLA. For instance, its Russian copy fighters will suffer severe load penalty if they take off from the rarefied Tibetan plateau. The PLA has already lost the element of surprise after days of stand-off, and the next question facing Chinese generals would be whether their troops can force a decisive victory. The PLA generals, who have studied the Kargil war more seriously that anyone, know that the Indian Army can and will fight against all odds. Even though China is now sabre-rattling at the border, it also knows that India has a very strong leader in PM Narendra Modi, who has not named China for spreading the Covid-19 virus, maintained a studied silence over the treatment of minorities in Xinjiang, not commented on the draconian laws in Hong Kong, and stayed silent while others have pushed for an observer status for Taiwan at the World Health Organization.By openly favouring a direct dialogue with China on the border issue, India has also kept its ally, the United States, at bay as it does not believe in hyphenation and fiercely guards its strategic independence. PM Modi’s move to restrict foreign direct investment from neighbouring countries — a move clearly aimed at China — shows that India has the capacity and capability to react. But it is also not catalysing the resentment against China at the behest of the Trump administration. The fact is, it is Beijing which is using neighbours such as Pakistan and, more recently, Nepal to project its dominance in the Indian subcontinent and beyond. The argument that the Ladakh stand-off is a result of the Modi government abrogating article 370 in Jammu and Kashmir does not hold good as no less than Foreign Minister S Jaishankar flew to Beijing last August to reassure China that India was not raising any additional territorial claim on contested areas in the region. By aggressively posturing on the border, China has added insult to injury as Beijing has hardly addressed India’s demand to reduce the trade deficit, which stood at $51.68 billion from January-November 2019 before the pandemic struck the world.Still, with both leaders previously committing to not turning bilateral differences into disputes, it would be in the interest of both parties to withdraw to their respective base camps in Eastern Ladakh as there is no way that India is going to allow China to make unilateral changes in either of the sectors. The Modi government will also not come under pressure from China on its legitimate border infrastructure upgrade, which is happening well within its own territory. After 21 rounds of hardly productive Special Representative Dialogue on the resolution of the boundary issue, it is time that the two sides at least exchange maps of the western and eastern sector so that the two armies know each other’s positions on the ground. The two leaders need to keep their communication channels open as both their bureaucracies and militaries carry a huge historical baggage and cannot think beyond protecting their silos. The direct channel will assume further importance as the succession of the Dalai Lama is on the horizon with China expected to come up with its own candidate as it did in the case of the Panchen Lama. The two most-populated nations in the world, the countries with the first and second largest armies in the world, cannot be adversaries forever.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/defusing-the-india-china-dispute/story-JZX8lbEALeBGCc2E7SSlmK.html
03-06-2020||News||Migrant workers: The emergence of invisible India||We are living in challenging times brought on by the coronavirus diseases (Covid-19). When India imposed its lockdown, everyone extended full support to the move in the belief that we need to stand as one in the fight against the virus.Now that India is opening up, it is clear that the strategy to combat the virus did not consider all Indians as one. A country of over 1.3 billion people was locked down, at four hours’ notice, ignoring the needs of the poorest and migrant workers. The government’s response came with an inherent class bias built into it. If you were an Indian abroad, the national carrier was pressed into service to fly you back, even from countries such as China, where the virus had already spread. I support this as an action any responsible country must take for its citizens stranded abroad. Yet, migrant workers, stranded away from their homes and families, found themselves out of jobs with no money or food security.I am from Padrauna in Kushinagar district in eastern Uttar Pradesh. Thousands of men leave this district every year to find work in the cities often leaving their families behind. Within days of the lockdown, Congress workers reported that many migrants from my district were stranded in different states. I set up a helpline with my team. As soon as we made the numbers public, we were deluged with calls. They all had one demand in common: Basic rations to get by. All their money had been exhausted with the overnight shutdown of factories.One of the saddest calls was from a group of young boys stuck in central UP. Left with no wages, they had pooled together and sold three mobile phones to buy food. Selling a mobile phone, the only connection with their families, has become an act of ultimate desperation to survive in these times.The Congress Working Committee and president as well as Rahul Gandhi warned the government that this was becoming a humanitarian crisis of unimaginable proportions. This was dismissed as carping by the Opposition.The irony is, we have treated migrant workers as outsiders, though they have been crucial to nation-building. Their needs were invisible to those who made grand announcements, until they came out to walk on the very streets and highways they had built, on the way back to their homes.During election campaigns, I have often gone to areas where there is a dominance of people from UP. They have all told me the same thing — they are considered outsiders who are good enough to build metros and skyscrapers, but not considered deserving even of habitable accommodations. They are outside the safety net of most state government schemes because they don’t have domicile documents.There are three constructive action points we need to consider urgently. One, we need a database of people working and living outside their states. For too long, the fact that they are working in the informal sector as contract labour has made them almost non-existent. This database would make it easier to accurately assess how many need to be given food or shelter or transported during a crisis such as this.Two, the government has now taken up the proposal put forward by the former United Progressive Alliance (UPA) government of one-nation, one-ration card. This must be taken a step further. Workers with an identity document from another state should be allowed to access all government schemes and facilities of the central government or of the state where they are currently living. Also, workers from other states must be allowed to vote where they are living. This will give them political value and access to the local elected representative. Both Aadhaar and the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme are UPA government schemes. They must now be strengthened.Three, instituting labour reforms does not mean making it easier to exploit workers. We must now formulate a universal social security scheme for workers using an authentic database. In reply to a recent public interest litigation in Gujarat, the state said only 7,512 of an estimated 2.25 million migrant workers were registered. The government has no accurate estimates of the numbers of migrant workers or their locations which explains the inadequate response to their plight today.The only silver lining in a dark cloud is that India’s urban residents seem to have finally woken up to the circumstances in which many of their fellow citizens are living. They have begun to realise how much these voiceless, faceless people contribute to their lives.The most humbling conversation I have had during these last two months was with the father of a 19-year-old boy, Arjun Chauhan, who came from my district. He was killed in a road accident in Auraiya, UP, on his way home in the back of a crowded truck. His father told me his son had left his village for the first time in his young life, just a few months ago, to earn a decent living for himself and his family. Will his death be seen as a fall-out of the pandemic, the apathy of the State, or just another statistic to be forgotten? Most importantly, will it be a wake up call to India’s policy makers?||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/migrant-workers-the-emergence-of-invisible-india/story-NfDyNBSpOxI45KjxnSNXML.html
