13-06-2020||News||I had Covid-19. And society decided to stigmatise me||It was the afternoon of June 3 when I got my coronavirus disease (Covid-19) test report as ”detected “. It was done voluntarily so I would not have be quarantined at Srinagar airport where I had intended to go for a break.It came as a rude shock and the next step was mandatory home quarantine. I started it at once by moving to a nearby flat to avoid any exposure to relatives who may have been at high-risk.This quarantine has been a nightmare because of a cascade of events initiated by my neighbours who sent a written complaint to the district magistrate (DM) and Station House Officer of the police station nearby, alleging that I was putting the lives of the residents in grave danger. I could see them taking pictures of me the surrounding balconies and CCTV’s footages of mine were also kept as evidence. I got a warning from DM following a First Information Report (FIR) recorded by the police saying that I shouldn’t move out of the premises until June 16. It was a very unpleasant experience for me to see children looking frightened when they saw me and even one neighbour showering abuses at me. I started getting abusive WhatsApp messages from them and the resident welfare association accusing me of being a liar and a threat to them. The maid who used to bring food once a day to my doorstep was set upon by a neighbour and so she stopped coming. The local chemist who used to send medicines after a phone call also refused to send any medication.The garbage collector also declined to pick up the bags. The newspaper vendor stopped giving me newspapers. Stigma is a global phenomenon and becomes prominent from time to time. Well known examples include Mary Mallon (Typhoid Mary), the asymptomatic typhoid carrier who was captured by authorities in early 1900s. The injustice done to African-Americans stigmatised for spreading syphilis in early 2000s comes to mind. Misconceptions related to HIV-AIDs are in our recent memory. Finally, it was Magic Johnson, the baseball star and a champion of under-privileged youth, whose confession of being HIV-positive helped a great deal in increasing awareness of the disease. I was reminded of old days when leprosy patients were supposed to carry a bell to inform others to be careful and move away. This stigma is a part of the history of humanity, despite the fact that it is a disease with low communicability. Leprosy patients used to be quarantined for life in colonies. Some of them, with physical deformities brought on by the disease, are still seen begging on roads being carried in carts. In this case, I have seen personal discrimination from close quarters and also numerous media reports on patients and their families being treated as outcasts. There are reports of dead bodies being disowned by their families and crematoriums not accepting them for their last rites. Do individuals living alone in quarantine for the virus not require even one meal a day? I am fortunate in that I have a separate place of my own. But what about asymptomatic persons who do not need hospitalisation? Hospitals of Delhi and many other cities are already full of patents who need monitoring and special care.Are we are making Covid-19 into a sort of disease like leprosy where the stigma has been transferred? By now, we know the preventive methods to contain the spread. This stigma needs to be tackled through education and also, in extreme cases, by punishing the perpetrators legally. At the current rate of spread, who knows whether you may be the next person in line to become infected and, then, unfortunately, ostracised.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/i-had-covid-19-and-society-decided-to-stigmatise-me/story-pwLgTsUbUycqrAqI9CAROL.html
13-06-2020||News||Indian Railways has never been safer. What next | Opinion||If the number of deaths on tracks is a measure of safety performance of Indian Railways (IR), the performance in 2019-20 is truly commendable. In 2014-15, 292 people were killed in railway accidents. This figure drops to 5 in 2019-20. Overall too, the number of accidents have come down from 135 in 2014-15 to 55 in 2019-20. This is a standing ovation to the sincere and long-drawn safety measures executed intelligently. And there is more. There were no casualties at Unmanned level crossings (UMLC) in 2019-20, a sharp contrast to 2014-15 when 130 people were killed. The elimination of UMLCs has led to visible dividends. It couldn’t have been better, the best so far since 1853 when Railways started in India. Now what next?The aim is to have zero accidents with robust safety systems in place. But accidents do happen, fewer than in the past. In 2019-20, derailments constituted a significant proportion - as many as 40 out of 55 accidents. The Linke Hofmann Busch (LHB) design of coaches has reduced fatalities during derailments but the railways certainly need to bring down cases of derailments in the first place. A safe rail wheel interaction at normal and high speeds, ensuring copybook rail maintenance parameters as also of coaches undergear should now be the focus of a realizable dream. Infusion of track machines in a big way would provide a much wanted fillip to reliable, quicker track maintenance. Another step would be to eliminate manned level crossings (MLC). This can now receive priority as UMLCs are now almost eliminated. Of course, getting rid of the MLCs is expensive and needs joint action with state governments but it’s time that MLCs are also targeted.But what remains a cause for continuing worry is the high contribution of “Failure of Railway staff “ as a prominent cause of accidents. As many as 40 out of 55 accidents in 2019-20 fall in this category. To be sure, this is a vast improvement over the 135 accidents classified under this category in 2014-15. Continuous training for skill upgradation and efforts to match the requirements of new technology will continue to occupy the attention of railway brass across departments.It is also time to take a hard call on deaths that happen because our trains do not require the doors of coaches to be shut before the train starts. Among the world’s major railways, it is only on Indian Railways that a train can start without closing and locking the door. But there is technology available to close this chronic lacunae and it isn’t too expensive. It will have a positive spinoff for passenger security on trains. The Tejas experiment is a welcome step in ensuring door closing before starting a train and needs to be carried forward. Air Conditioned trains are ideal to start with.Yet another effort should be to fence the tracks, especially in congested areas. Habitation near tracks is hazardous and reducing the speed of passing trains is at best, a temporary solution. If need be, people living too close to the tracks should be given alternate accommodation where feasible. It is difficult to fathom the distance of an approaching train when it is close to approach especially at night. Lives can be saved here.The strategy adopted by the current leadership of funding the safety efforts through Rail Suraksha Kosh seems to be working well. Once the funds are in place, safety enhancement is a matter of attitude and patience. The past performance indicators seem to reassure that the railways, under PM Modi’s leadership, are on the right track.(Arunendra Kumar is a former chairman of the Railway Board)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/indian-railways-has-never-been-safer-what-next--opinion/story-nVW6iUR35Z2v6lzickxKHK.html
13-06-2020||News||PM Modi re-engineered, reformed and cleaned up MGNREGS, writes Gajendra Singh Shekhawat||Sanjaya Baru, former press adviser to prime minister (PM) Manmohan Singh, in his tell-all book The Accidental Prime Minister, wrote about the morning of September 26, 2007, when a newly-selected general secretary of the Congress, Rahul Gandhi, visited the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) with Sonia Gandhi’s political adviser Ahmed Patel. The latter handed over a statement to be issued by the PMO , which said that Gandhi had urged the PM to expand the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS) to 500 districts. Baru protested since it wasn’t the tradition of the PMO to issue statements given out by visitors to the PM. Yet, by late evening, every media outlet was running the contents of the statement as a headline. Baru also noted the “Congress’s party obsession” to give the entire credit of MGNREGS to the Gandhi family. These incidents underline the obsession of the Gandhi family with the ownership of MGNREGS. Sonia Gandhi recently wrote an article where she accused the National Democratic Alliance government of falling back on the scheme after first criticising it. But she forgets that it was the abysmal handling of MGNREGS along with a string of corruption charges that led to the Congress-led government’s undoing in 2014.When this government came to power, MGNREGS was in a poor shape. It had the inherent power to be much more than the scheme that the Congress had envisaged. After understanding its problems, and the shoddy job that the previous government did in its execution, the PM declared MGNREGS as a living monument to the Congress government’s failures, but said that he would not let it die. Thus, the government re-engineered MGNREGS, fool-proofing it, pushing reforms, intertwining it with technology and making the feedback mechanism stronger. Riding on these reforms, this government revitalised MGNREGS. The funds allocated to MGNREGS for this fiscal year, excluding the additional allocation of Rs 40,000 crore in the wake of the Covid-19 crisis, was Rs 61,500 crore. This was larger than the combined budgetary allocation of Rs 60,000 crore during the last two years of the Congress (2012-13 and 2013-14). During the first tenure of the Modi government, Rs 2,64,864 crore was allocated to the scheme and the total expenditure was Rs 2,53,245 crore. On corroborating the yearly increase of budget allocation to programme during the first Modi government, one finds a 12.87% yearly increase in budget allocations. The rural job scheme is alive and kicking only because of this. Today, 99% wages under MNREGS are being paid electronically against 37% in 2013-14. There was massive corruption in how work was being given out; only a fraction of wages were reaching the intended beneficiaries. It was not that the Congress government had not acknowledged the presence of this massive fund leakage. PM Manmohan Singh, in 2009, admitted to the leakage of funds, yet, over the next five years, he did little to plug this.It was the late Rajiv Gandhi who said that of every rupee spent, only 15-17 paisa reached the beneficiary. Yet, despite being in power for many years, the Congress government failed to ensure that the taxpayers’ money did not end up in the pockets of spurious characters. Today, 400 schemes come under the Direct Benefit Transfer. Another famous-yet-abandoned child of the Congress was Aadhaar. The Modi government used it well and through the trinity of schemes — Jan Dhan, Aadhaar and Mobile (JAM) — plugged fund leakages. Another big issue was the massive use of fake job cards under MGNREGS. In 2010, the Planning Commission after evaluating MGNREGS had spoken of delayed payments and mass-scale corruption. The Modi government went on a massive cleaning spree. In 2017, nearly 10 million fake MGNREGS job cards were found and stuck-off from the scheme. It is indeed confusing to find Sonia Gandhi accuse this government of not issuing job cards, when fake job cards proliferated under her party’s rule. It is pity that she accuses this government of delayed payment, when only 34% of payment was done on time during her regime. In the Comptroller and Auditor General of India report (2007-12), it was mentioned that only 30% work under MGNREGS had been completed. Today, all the work is geo-tagged and target-driven approach towards MGNREGS has been given primacy. In the words of late Arun Jaitley: “Wage through MGNREGS will be through works that are more productive, asset creating and linked to agriculture and agri-related activities”. By converging various aspects, almost 60% of the work helps in natural resource management. Another major reform by this government is the addition of individual beneficiary work; today, 67% of all work amunts to individual beneficiaries. Apart from creating sustainable livelihoods, it is this reform that will aid our fight against Covid as this work can be done while maintaining social distancing. Today, when a resolute Modi 2.0 government is fighting the virus and its various outcomes, the Rs 1,01,500 crore allocated for MGNREGS will help India navigate this temporary crisis. The only reason why this government is using MGNREGS in its fight against Covid-19 is not because this government believes in the scheme’s political legacy that the Congress claims to own, but because we believe in the work done in reforming it and making it the reliable and powerful tool that it is today.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/pm-modi-re-engineered-reformed-and-cleaned-up-mgnregs/story-80o3t8U6dfwSjIUAVL1UfL.html
