19-06-2020||News||How the Galwan Valley tragedy can transform Himalayan geopolitics||The brutal clash between Indian and Chinese soldiers on the night of June 15 has exposed the People’s Liberation Army (PLA)’s well-planned design of stealthily wresting the entire Galwan Valley from India’s control. It also carries a set of underlying messages and possibilities. First, immediately after the incident, PLA’s Western Theatre Command (WTC) issued a statement on June 16, claiming China’s territorial “sovereignty” over the entire Galwan Valley. That was followed by a June 17 statement from Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson, Zhao Lijian, that echoed, in verbatim, WTC’s line claiming China’s sovereignty over the Galwan Valley area.Second, it appears to have been triggered by local factors at a micro-level, with, at the most, instructions from WTC headquarters. Clearly, it is a case of a disengagement process not being handled properly at the local level and things going out of control. There have been other violent hand-to-hand clashes in this area since the 2017 Doklam standoff. It turned more violent this time with PLA using more lethal weapons, stones, boulders, rocks wrapped with barbed wire and wooden logs studded with nails. A third, inter-related, point is that the top PLA officials of WTC seem to enjoy more autonomy than other Chinese military theatres. In this case, the Chinese government only seems to have endorsed WTC’s line, which has a specific mandate or a direct and wider strategic direction from Beijing to alter the ground situation in consonance with China’s national vision for western provinces ie Xinjiang and Tibet. It also has a larger focus agenda with regards to securing Chinese interests, including safeguarding China’s ambitious Belt and Road Initiative (BRI)-related projects moving just north of the Karakoram Range. PLA views India’s building of strategic roads in Ladakh as potentially causing disruption to the security of the BRI/Chinese Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC).Fourth, the incident can either spark greater escalation or actually, counter-intuitively, lead to de-escalation. The Indian Army has lost 20 personnel, including a commanding officer in the vicious attack. This is the biggest military clash in over five decades and the risk of the border standoff escalating into a full-scale confrontation is clearly present. However, unconfirmed reports suggest the Chinese side too suffered “proportionate casualties”, with at least 43 PLA personnel either dead or injured in the clash. If this is the case, then the balance of tragedies is established, and opens up the scope for further de-escalation to continue as agreed upon during military talks held on June 6.What happens now also depends on the political will of the two countries. If the political relationship between India and China is not smooth, the Chinese party leadership may find it hard to control PLA, which is generally seen as more hardline on India. At the same time, the situation can still be brought under control by political and diplomatic interventions at a higher level. The clash has finally compelled both sides to open up talks at the foreign minister-level. However, if China refuses to revert to a pre-standoff status quo position, India may be forced to evict PLA from the Indian side though a military intervention.Whether there is escalation or not is also closely related to how the two sides tell the story of the incident to their people. The Chinese side is not giving the exact figure of casualties. We do not know if they are embarrassed or whether they want to hide the figures from their own people and underplay the incident to prevent escalation. Where does this leave New Delhi? India must respond to China’s move, not just through military means but through a forward-looking strategic, economic and connectivity vision matching China’s BRI project. It must think about reconnecting and resuming old trade links. Ladakh is a geostrategic axis or a pivot point for India to reach out to central Asia, Europe and Russia. The Dorbo-Shayok-DBO road should be called the Ladakh economic corridor. It should be India’s approach to go beyond the Himalayas. Otherwise, India is destined to remain defensive in posture.This, however, is contingent on India reworking the governance priorities in Ladakh. It is the locals who have the best understanding of the border. The region has already remained neglected for a long time due to Article 370 and 35A. The way forward must have several components. First, the Ladakh administration should distribute the entire stretch of vacant land in eastern Ladakh (from Chumur to Karakoram) among the population of the Leh district for agriculture, horticulture and other economic activities. Two, the government must expedite infrastructure airport/road network expansion in eastern Ladakh. The Indian Air Force must reactivate the Fukche/Loma airport for both civilian and military use. Attempts should be made to reopen and refurbish the old Chuchul airport base. Three, authorities must re-populate the area with legal ownership to citizens and not leave the borderland vacant. The government must provide incentives for Changpa nomadic farmers presently settled in Leh (Kharnag-Ling settlement) to return to the borderland areas and encourage them to reactivate their nomadic Rebo herding skills. Security forces should be directed not to prevent their movement along the border areas.Four, large-scale forestation and large-scale grass-sowing activities through aerial seeding and use of drip-irrigation technology must be undertaken. Five, NITI Aayog should prepare a defence-development plan for area development. And six, the Indian Army should revisit the idea of legalising the existing illegal border trade at specific places such as at Dhumtsele and Demchok. Galwan has changed geopolitics in the Himalayas. India must step up.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/how-the-galwan-valley-tragedy-can-transform-himalayan-geopolitics/story-v9IdSlR8DjZYxmMlSIZUYL.html
19-06-2020||News||The micro-challenges to the Make in India campaign||Last year, I was on a family holiday to the United States (US). As the heatwave raged across Texas, we took a break on the beach. We also decided to retrofit the car windows with tint. We found a dealer who showed us a selection of brands of tint films. “This one,” the dealer said, “is from India.” As we drove-off with the sun control on the glass surfaces, we felt proud of sporting a “Made in India” brand.This month, I decided to start my car’s engine after two months of hibernation. On opening the car doors, I realised there was a strong toxic smell of burnt plastic, coming from the faux leather seat covers exposed in the harsh Delhi sun. Recognising the dire need for shade to cool down the cabin temperature, I decided to put sun control film on the glass surfaces in the car.I googled for an appropriate dealer in Delhi and learnt that there is a complete ban on tinting of car windows and windscreens in India. I had been aware that the Indian Motor Vehicle Act had prescribed a standard for light transmission but not that tinting in the aftermarket was completely banned. I researched a bit. Why is this Indian product, available and doing well in the US, but banned in India? Which government entity banned it? When? In that story lies a microcosm of the challenges faced by the Make in India initiative and boosting manufacturing in India. It also illustrates the challenges to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s quest for a self-reliant India, which strongly relies on a thriving domestic industry which is local but acts globally, and is an integral part of global supply chains. In a Public Interest Litigation (PIL) filed in 2012 at the Supreme Court (SC), a Kolkata-based petitioner prayed that in view of the rising crimes against women, carjacking and such, the black film should be banned. SC banned not only the black film but all films that could be applied to glass surfaces of vehicles. It’s acceptable if the tint in the vehicle’s glass came with the manufacture, which is as per Indian Standards. But the same luminosity, conforming to the Indian standards, is not permissible if the tint is achieved by adding a film. Overnight, the tint film application industry was declared illegal.But the SC appears to have been misled. The PIL stated that tinting in the aftermarket is not allowed even in developed countries. It quoted the examples of the United Kingdom, Germany, and the US. This was quoted in the judgment. But the fact is that tinting, by externally affixing film, is allowed in most countries around the world, including the US; only, on account of the federal nature of the country, the permissible light transmission standards are different. The Indian brand I encountered in the US is recognised as a reputed brand in the international market in more than 80 countries.Adding tint to automobile glasses in a hot country like India has its merits. The cabin heat of a parked car puts the engine under extreme stress as it takes the additional load of the air conditioning system for prolonged periods. Unlike in colder climates, radiation from direct sunlight and its reflection from the ground makes the cabin temperature unbearable.As per a The Energy and Resources Institute report, tinting can save fuels worth a thousand crore as well as reduce Co2 consumption. We must remember that the factory-fitted tinted glass in vehicles comes at a very high price and most cars on Indian roads do not have that. It therefore has the potential to optimise energy resources and contribute to climate sustainability. There are safety benefits as well. A crash may shatter the windscreen but the film will arrest shards of glass from flying. And most importantly, tinting, according to the International Window Film Association, can filter 98% of the harmful, cancer-causing ultraviolet rays.While the order also relied heavily on the perception that having tinted glasses could undermine women’s safety, data on the automobile-related snatching of jewellery and purse, theft of computers from car cabins, humiliation, and harassment to women due to a lack of privacy makes for a strong case in the favour of tinted glass in India. In fact, violent crimes including rapes have taken place after identifying women as passengers in the car and dragging them out. There are some broad lessons. When an industry grows, think carefully — and scientifically — about all elements associated with it before introducing restrictions, either through executive or judicial orders. When an industry is doing well globally, allow it to leverage domestic markets if it is not in violation of the law. Create an enabling environment for it. And only then will India become both self-reliant and a true manufacturing hub. Sanjay Singh is former principal resident executive, Tata SonsThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/the-micro-challenges-to-the-make-in-india-campaign/story-5mBeSbvPAPOwa3OEpYE3TK.html
19-06-2020||News||Opening with care||India is gradually reopening the economy. Home deliveries, in parts, have become functional, workers are returning to factories, shops have started lifting their shutters, and those working from home for months will soon resume their office routines.But in all this, women, as usual, will likely be left behind. This seems paradoxical. Companies have laid out new work from home policies. Chief executive officers talk excitedly about the ease of Zoom calls and the diminished value of travel. With a pandemic-induced work-from-home world, they realise the potential of another talent pool they can tap into—the 120 million secondary-educated women who do not yet participate in paid work. Work from home models can meet the latent demand. In one national survey, over a third of women engaged primarily in domestic activities said that they would prefer paid work if working from home was an option. And this goes beyond theories and surveys. A popular career platform for women in India saw a dramatic rise in the number of women looking to start or restart their careers in recent months. This coincided with a 30% increase in work from home job postings on the platform in March 2020. This seems straightforward. But those who are working from home during the pandemic can attest that, outside the computer screen, there is an equally demanding world—which requires you to answer the doorbell, prepare meals for the family, and look after the children and elders. Such tasks further exacerbate the time constraints women normally face. Even before the pandemic, for every hour of housework—cleaning, nurturing, cooking, teaching, managing— that Indian men put in, women put 10, far higher than the global average of three, and among the highest levels of gender disparity in unpaid work in the world. Even at minimum wage rates, unpaid work could contribute $300 billion to India’s economy.The coronavirus disease (Covid-19) has added to the burden of unpaid work that women already carry – by an estimated 30%, according to the consulting firm Dalberg. With schools shut, millions of children are now home for an indefinite period. Due to the threat of the virus, families are wary of letting children in daycare centres or allowing part-time help in their homes. Even as work from home arrangements hold immense promise for women, the absence of reliable care services tilts the balance against them.Steps to ramp up and professionalise India’s care economy will ease up the usual burden on women. Functional care centres for children and older people employing safe and trained domestic workers can help women pursue career options. The absence of extensive national standards or certifications in India for paid childcare—such as mandatory pupil-to-teacher ratios or teacher-training standards—reduces the incentive for childcare providers to raise quality. It also makes it harder for parents to find and evaluate good childcare options. A service industry model, with accredited training and certification, can address the concerns. A public-private approach, where care services are viewed as public goods with powerful economy-wide productivity benefits, is worth trying too.A professionalised care system will reap dual dividends—not just enabling many women to work, but also creating employment for many others. By our estimates, India’s care industry has the potential to absorb up to 10 million women into the workforce and create another four million jobs, a vast majority for women. Some countries have shown evidence to this effect. Mexico’s Day Care Support for Working Mothers programme has generated more than 40,000 paid jobs for (mostly female) community-based care providers and aides, while Singapore has created opportunities for almost 250,000 foreign domestic workers – the demand for care workers in the country is expected to grow up to 300,000 by 2030.The benefits of working women tend to trickle down. For example, when children were enrolled in community daycare centres in Rajasthan for prolonged periods, they showed gains in nutrition, hygiene, cognition, and school readiness.One way to go about creating an effective care economy is by implementing “Bridgital” solutions (technology that leads to more and better jobs). Childcare workers—whether attached to a care-centre or are home-based—can be integrated into a cloud-based management system that allows them to report completed tasks, monitor health and other outcomes, and undergo training. This will allow real-time monitoring by supervisors and better feedback to parents. Care professionals can acquire portable credentials on such platforms, while organisations that embrace such services and standards will have an edge in talent recruitment.Without solving for care work, we cannot leverage the opportunity offered by work from home arrangements. By acknowledging the economic rationale of the care economy, India can make it easier for women to work for pay—and equally reap the productivity gains of doing so. Roopa Purushothaman is the chief economist and head of policy advocacy at the Tata Group, and the founder of Avasara Leadership Institute. Anu Madgavkar is a partner at McKinsey Global Institute. Vivek Pandit is a senior partner at McKinsey & CompanyThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/prioritise-care-work-to-integrate-women-working-from-home-into-the-economy/story-QCCWBFL2j5Qm6G6NuULm1O.html
