25-06-2020||News||Prepare for a new, aggressive China||The carefully built and nurtured framework of cooperation with competition with regard to the India-China relationship in the past two decades has been demolished in the wake of the clash in Ladakh’s Galwan Valley and China’s attempt to coerce India through massive military deployment in Aksai Chin.Former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh famously said, in December 2006, that a fast-growing India and China can each pursue their respective ambitions despite inevitable competition. “My own view is that the world is large enough to accommodate the development ambitions of both countries,” Singh told Japan’s Yomiuri Shimbun newspaper.That was the Hu Jintao era in China. Fourteen years later, Hu’s successor, President Xi Jinping clearly doesn’t believe in either cooperation or competition. As China’s self-appointed supreme leader for life, Xi has ambitions to make China the unchallenged hegemon. He has long abandoned the widely-quoted 24-character dictum of Deng Xiaoping, who told the Chinese Communist Party, “Observe calmly; secure our position; cope with affairs calmly; hide our capacities and bide our time; be good at maintaining a low profile; and never claim leadership.” Xi, instead, feels China’s time has to claim global leadership has come. And, to achieve this, he would not mind using a combination of coercion, inducement and brinkmanship.No matter how the current border stand-off with India gets resolved, it is difficult to envisage the India-China relationship returning to the old normal that we saw in the first 19 years of this century. Admittedly, the power differential between China and India has grown over the years. Beijing has cleverly been using this period to make inroads both into the Indian market and India’s traditional geopolitical backyard even as New Delhi took its eyes off the ball. The bilateral trade deficit has grown alarmingly; India’s influence in South Asia now has to increasingly compete with China’s inducement-laden policies in smaller countries in the neighbourhood.With a more assertive and reckless China determined to open new fronts across the globe, India will have to draw some lessons from countries with similar problems. It is noteworthy that China today has a dispute with Japan in the East China Sea, and is locked in territorial contestation with Vietnam, Philippines and Indonesia in the South China Sea, besides the long-standing unresolved boundary issue with India. In each of these cases, China employs the same playbook: Make a claim, establish some kind of a presence, withdraw, and then cite that precedent in future negotiations in addition to invoking some vague historical reference and miraculously producing ancient maps to buttress its claims.In this backdrop, India will have to devise a new strategy to deal with Xi’s China. This will have to be multi-pronged and calibrated. It should include ways to restrict the dominance of Chinese products and raw materials, prevent Chinese tech giants such as ZTE and Huawei from gaining entry into projects under the national security matrix, and limit Chinese investment in Indian unicorns and start-ups. Some steps in this regard are already visible and should start showing results down the line. However, India will have to make haste slowly, lest these measures hurt Indian entities in the short-term.On the military-strategic front, New Delhi is still trying make sense of the immediate reason for China’s unprecedented show of strength in Aksai Chin. Various theories have been advanced. One is that the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) is testing its own military deployment and mobilisation effectiveness; another is that it is a message to India, warning it against any alignment with the United States (US). It could be a combination of the two, but there is also a likelihood of PLA implementing a long-term strategy of two steps forward, one step backwards, wherein it tests the adversary’s response to a sudden crisis, restores status quo ante and attacks again with a larger force to deal the final blow. The Indian military in all its four dimensions — land, air, water and space/cyber — will have to be ready for a far bigger confrontation in the not-too-distant future.New Delhi will have to assess the current episode carefully and then undertake a comprehensive review of its strategic approach to China in the defence and foreign policy domains. While there is no choice but to stand up to China, Indian policymakers will have to come up with a grand strategy that seeks to engage Beijing at the highest politico-military level, even as it builds capabilities that serve as a credible deterrence against a China determined to become the most dominant world power by 2049 which is one of its stated aims. In doing so, India will have to be pragmatic and practical, taking into account the reality that in dealing with China, it stands alone, no matter which alliances and groupings it becomes a part of. Quad (India, Australia, US and Japan), Quad plus three, the Bay of Bengal Initiative for Multi-Sectoral Technical and Economic Cooperation (Bimstec), and the Solar Alliance are good diplomatic platforms to work with. But the world’s longest and most-contested border between India and China will have to be settled bilaterally. In this effort, India should not expect anyone’s support.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/prepare-for-a-new-aggressive-china/story-mVfHU1BBvXYVWVkujqwzyL.html
25-06-2020||News||The lockdown worked. It helped battle Covid-19, turn India self-reliant||Hindsight is a wonderful thing to have. As Australian-American activist-actress Helen Reddy said, “It’s always very easy to second-guess after the fact.” What is difficult is to decide which actions will have a bearing not just on the present, but on the future. But difficulties also present opportunities.The Covid-19 crisis is one such example. It allowed the Narendra Modi government the opportunity to devise solutions to build the India of the future. As the virus took the world by surprise, countries were forced to lock down, and India was no exception. India used the lockdown to spread awareness about the coronavirus as it prepared to deal with a disease that has no vaccine, yet. As the country’s 1.3 billion people came together in an unprecedented show of discipline heeding Prime Minister Modi’s call, the government doubled up its efforts to equip hospitals with ventilators, oxygen cylinders, masks, personal protective equipment (PPE) kits and beds. The government also ramped up testing. From one Covid-19 testing lab in March, India now has 1,000. Over seven million people were tested through Reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction tests.India has fared well so far. It has just 151 cases per million compared to over 6,000 cases per million for the United States (US) and Spain. India’s case fatality rate is low at 2.8% compared to Germany (5%), France (19%), the US (6%), Italy (14%) and the United Kingdom (14%). Rather than resorting to confrontational politics, the government remained committed to cooperative federalism. With the PM having held six meetings with chief ministers over the last three of months to ensure productive engagement, the Centre is giving all necessary guidance and support to the state governments. These efforts will go a long way in strengthening cooperative federalism. Internationally, it ensured medical help to over 80 nations — a move that has cemented India’s global stature as a responsible partner. Throughout this period, the government has been mindful of the plight of migrant workers. It first reached out to them with the assistance of a ~1.7 lakh crore package. It also ensured that, through direct benefit transfers, relief money was transferred to the accounts of the most vulnerable. Shramik trains also allowed them safe passage back home.Now, migrants are returning to cities as India is steadily unlocking. As the PM said, green shoots are visible in the economy. The Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy said India’s unemployment rate has eased to pre-lockdown levels and recovery is expected in the coming months. The slowdown also led the government to move towards India becoming atmanirbhar (self-reliant). The policy paralysis before the Modi government took office has given way to policy intervention aimed at sustainable development and a self-sufficient economy.Over the last three months, the government has committed to the creation of 7,200 new self-help groups (SHGs) for the urban poor, including migrant workers. The existing 12,000 SHGs produced over 30 million masks and 120,000 litres of sanitisers. It created employment opportunities for the urban poor. Migrants who have returned to villages have been given jobs under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme. These schemes are critical to building infrastructure.The State also amended the Essential Commodities Act to enable farmers to sell farm produce to a wider spectrum of buyers. The Agricultural Produce Market Committee Act was also amended. It also extended a package of ~3 lakh crore to micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) and amended the definition of MSMEs to allow more businesses to avail these benefits.To achieve self-sufficiency in coal, the government has announced coal block auctions. This is likely to generate 2.8 lakh jobs, a revenue windfall, and will also help India become atmanirbhar in meeting its energy requirements. And since it was already working towards creating an enabling business environment when the pandemic struck, several policy interventions were made in this regard. The government has also standardised its labour laws to global standards and made them more humane. The 44 labours laws that existed earlier have been amalgamated into four codes — on wages, industrial relations, social security and safety, health and working conditions. These also take into account gender parity and proportionate representation in the workplace.The government has decriminalised company law to help businesses grow. It has been pushing for farmers’ produce organisations and primary cooperative societies to solve the problem of credit for farmers, while it merged 10 public sector banks into four to improve efficiency and address the problem of growing non-performing assets.The response to the Covid-19 crisis has been effective because the government had laid a firm foundation to build a new India over the last six years. The measures the government has announced in the last three months will ensure the rapid development of an atmanirbhar Bharat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/the-lockdown-worked-it-helped-battle-covid-19-turn-india-self-reliant/story-AscJPtjsbcNXJKI2C2McyH.html
25-06-2020||News||How India can keep China in check | Opinion||The June 15 clashes between India and China have finally broken the four-decade record of relative peace on the Himalayan frontier. Reactions have been sharp, ranging from calls to evict the Chinese from their entrenched positions to others calling for a Cold War.The debate over China’s rise has been raging for the past two decades, if not since 1950, when the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) swept into Tibet. India-China relations have seen it all — from engagement to a dramatic collapse in 1959, a brief-but-traumatic war in 1962, a hiatus of no- war, no-peace in the decades that followed. And, finally a diplomatic breakthrough with the 1988 modus vivendi that paved the way for India and China to build a relationship without settling the border dispute. The core premise was that the stable development of relations is predicated on a peaceful periphery. It reflected pragmatism and broader shifts in Chinese and Indian priorities in favour of economic transformation at home and a peaceful neighbourhood. The June 15 clashes have dented that agreed-upon edifice.It is clear that the next phase of the relationship depends on a peaceful frontier. But this should not mean merely a restoration of the status quo ante. If, by the status quo, we mean two large nuclear-armed countries resuming their aggressive jostling and humiliating each other, that is unsustainable. To anyone who has viewed leaked videos of the border face-offs in recent years, the Line of Actual Control (LAC) grey zones have been transformed into a nasty tit-for-tat game, waiting to explode.For the past decade, both sides have adopted forward policies matched by new connectivity links to the frontier. A belief that an array of confidence-building measures (CBMs) would cushion this changing balance of power in the forward areas has been misplaced. It is time now for stock-taking and re-envisioning a new conflict-management framework. There were two main reasons to engage in proactive probing in the grey zones — as a symbolic ritual of showing the flag to demonstrate consistency over claim lines, and, keeping an eye on each other so that nobody changes the status quo on the ground. But there was a complementary political element too. High-level talks between the special representatives were intended to lay out a framework within which each side would bring forward their claims for serious bargaining to commence. But with that political process stalling in recent years, tactical forward probing along LAC has assumed a life of its own, disproportionate to the envisaged goals.Why can’t Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi and President Xi Jinping settle the dispute? Chinese scholar Yun Sun summarises the key problem obstructing a settlement — “Key concessions India demands from China on the border settlement are hard commitments that cannot be reversed. By contrast, what China seeks from India, such as its neutrality in the US-Chinese strategic competition, is ephemeral and easily adjustable.” This problem of uncertainty and fluidity in strategic intentions has no apparent solution for the foreseeable future. However, stabilising the frontier through new norms is possible and in the interests of both states. Creative approaches such as agreed buffer zones in the most contentious pockets and coordinated or restricted patrolling regimes to avoid violent scuffles must be integral to the new status quo.In their excitement or jingoism, many have declared a breaking point in the India-China relations. This is precisely the time to avoid such hyperbole.The relationship has not suddenly gone south. The warning signs have been apparent for some time. It has been falsely claimed that Delhi has been oblivious to China’s rise. In fact, Modi’s China policy has been uncompromising across the board. From the Belt Road Initiative (BRI) to maritime security to emerging high technologies such as 5G, Delhi has been bold in its rhetoric and actions. Even in the geopolitical arena, India has been unabashed and dogged in engaging the United States (US), despite an unenthused president in the White House. Across Asia too, Delhi has been proactively tapping China’s neighbours as a future countervailing hedge. With traditional ally Russia too, Modi’s renewed outreach in recent years is reminiscent of the old geostrategy — promoting a balance of power in Eurasia.If anything, India’s policymakers could be critiqued for getting ahead of themselves and precipitating counter-balancing moves from China without having a credible strategy in place. But Delhi’s real failure has been to not match its realpolitik words and deeds with a broader foreign policy framework where sustained engagement with China was also part of a grand strategy to emerge as a “leading power” in a multipolar world. Instead, Delhi has found itself leaning against China with an empty treasury and unpredictable partners.History shows that when India possessed strong and positive ties with the great powers, it was taken seriously by China. Yet, history also shows the clear limits of what leveraging that balance of power can do for India. The India-US and India-Soviet (Russia) ties worked to stabilise the India-China relationship when India remained firmly grounded in recognising and pursuing its own interests rather than becoming an object in a great game. So only when two conditions simultaneously held was India able to shape a mutually beneficial relationship with China — shrewdly leveraging the international environment and maintaining a sophisticated China policy.Zorawar Daulet Singh is an adjunct fellow, Institute of Chinese Studies, Delhi, and author of Power and Diplomacy: India’s Foreign Policies During the Cold WarThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/how-india-can-keep-china-in-check/story-qewM1ByMphyfDAO3eh7JQM.html
25-06-2020||News||On the AGR issue, the court must keep in mind the greater common good | Opinion||We all have grown up with the tales of emperor Vikramaditya embedded in our subconscious. Known for his wisdom, he is remembered as the greatest judge in history. The hallmark of his justice was that both sides understood the rationale behind his thinking and were always satisfied by his solution. And so, in India, whenever a judge pronounces a judgment with great skill and wisdom, it is said of him, “ He must have sat on Vikramaditya’s seat of judgment.” It’s another matter, though, that there is a fable of why that seat does not physically exist today, which is probably symptomatic of the times.The Supreme Court is one our finest institutions and has displayed great wisdom over decades in pronouncing thoughtful, well rounded judgments and meted justice with an unquestionable fairness to all concerned. Though there have been rising instances of judicial overreach over the last decade, the Adjusted Gross Revenues (AGR) proceedings seem to be in quite a different bracket.This was a case where the court had ruled that the telcos are liable to pay the department of telecom (DoT) the disputed amount. So far, so good. The court’s role was perfectly understood till its ruling on the “applicability” of the AGR to telcos was concerned. DoT was the appellant, the telcos were the appellees, and there was a disagreement. Since then, though, the court seems to have adopted a “commercial” role in negotiating the best bargain on behalf of a seemingly reluctant DoT, despite difficulties expressed by all telcos, including Vodafone Idea, in meeting the deadline. Surprisingly, DoT itself is not an aggrieved party as it has expressed willingness to accept a 20-year payment period. Ostensibly, DoT, and by implication, the government would have carefully evaluated the wide implications of Vodafone Idea’s collapse. Being a listed entity, its financial position is in the public domain and any professional finance expert — if appointed as an amicus curiae —will be able to advise on the nuances of financial disclosures to prove the public perception that Vodafone Idea’s balance sheet cannot support funding the required ~51,000 crore in the medium term, and the only possibility of paying up is by ensuring its survival to earn adequate profits over the long-term.In this context, the court’s comments on the existence of “profits” due to a provision of contingent liabilities, providing bank guarantees, personal guarantees of directors and its demand for a “reasonable” amount of upfront payment would seem unreasonable. Any insistence on squeezing immediate cash flows for the telcos would be tantamount to encouraging a duopoly in India as Reliance Jio is unaffected by the AGR situation. Surely, from a public policy perspective, that could not be an outcome which is either desirable,or acceptable, to any institution mandated to uphold the interests of public good. The court has also brought up the concept of upfront payment by telcos to help the government in its resource augmentation efforts. Remember, the government had not pleaded this position at all and its resource constraints are gigantic multiples of these small upfront payments.It must be appreciated that unless Vodafone Idea is allowed to remain competitive (which requires further massive investments), it will not survive long enough to pay the dues to DoT and the banks. Given its high leverage, the banking system will suffer immediate losses far in excess of AGR dues. And, given its obvious financial constraints, cash is the most critical resource it needs to conserve. Regrettably, it is this precise resource which is sought to being appropriated by a court judgement in a curious case where the creditor itself is willing to accommodate a reasonable payment schedule. The government understands the implications of the collapse of Vodafone Idea on the banking system, employment , policy messaging to the international community and, of course, handing over the telecom market to two players ( Bharti and Reliance Jio ). As I have written elsewhere, Atmanirbhar Bharat can get off to a flying start almost immediately if strategic telecom-technology alliances are encouraged, without the hangover of uncertain policy and judicial pronouncements which stymie business and investments. This will reap immediate benefits for India as it desperately seeks avenues of accessing global capital to revive growth. The providential time window, though, provided by the current state of play in global technology trends, is short, and policymakers and courts must recognise the urgency of a genuine “ease of doing business” paradigm in India. Google’s reported interest in Vodafone Idea is a low hanging fruit waiting to be plucked. I trust the Supreme Court will weigh the implications of its going down the present route in totality. It must revert to its role of engaging only in disputes between parties. When it ordains its occasional undeniable role in public policy matters, then it must be guided by the larger interests of the entire community. That would remind the world of ancient Indian wisdom and that the judgment seat of Vikramaditya still endures in contemporary times.Prabal Basu Roy is a Sloan Fellow from the London Business School, director and adviser to chairmen of corporate boards. The author has formerly been a Group CFO in various companies.The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/on-the-agr-issue-the-court-must-keep-in-mind-the-greater-common-good/story-L7Zp9Ed9G59ArsZmQThdRN.html
25-06-2020||News||Decoding the Centre’s plan for migrant workers, writes Ram Madhav||Eight decades after he formulated his General Theory, John Maynard Keynes remains a demigod to many liberal economists. Keynes’ “trickle-up” theory is seen by them as a panacea for the migrant working class affected by the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). Keynes suggested that to kickstart a stagnant economy, the government must boost demand by cutting taxes, increasing government spending and putting money in the pockets of the middle-class.Keynes’ disciples in the Opposition are criticising the finance minister (FM)’s package for not making direct money transfers into the accounts of the poor. The government has already extended substantial support to the rural poor, including migrant workers. The rabi crop has been purchased by the government at the cost of Rs 75,000 crore which has benefitted over 90 million farmers. Additionally, Rs 19,000 crore has been deposited into the bank accounts of eligible farmers under PM Kisan. A crop insurance bill of Rs 6,000 crore has been paid. Women from over 300 million poor families have been receiving Rs 1,500 over three months in their Jan Dhan accounts.To top this, the FM announced the allocation of a little over Rs 1,00,000 crore for the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS) taking the total man-days available for the rural poor to 300 crore. Estimates by economists suggest that around Rs 12,000 have gone directly into the accounts of every single poor family through these measures. All this came from the Centre, with the states doing their bit. Yet, there is distress manifested in the large-scale flight of migrant workers from destination states such as Maharashtra, Gujarat, Punjab, Rajasthan, Haryana, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka and Telangana to the home states of Uttar Pradesh (UP), Bihar, Jharkhand, West Bengal, Orissa, Chhattisgarh and the Northeast. There has been a lot of politics over this. The migrant issue in such circumstances is complicated. And it isn’t unique to India. Many countries in Europe such as Spain, Germany, Italy and France are struggling with issues of farm workers who migrate in the harvest season from Eastern European countries. “Host countries are torn between fear of losing harvests, fear of importing infection and a fear that predates the pandemic — that of foreigners taking jobs. Populists sense opportunity as the economic fallout solidifies political battle lines”, according to a piece in The Guardian.India’s migrant population is over 130 million. Their movement en masse back to their home-states would have been an unmitigated disaster. To prevent this, the Centre turned its attention to agriculture and micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs). Over 44% of India’s workforce is dependent on agriculture. The government’s decision to allocate Rs 1 lakh crore for farm-gate infrastructure development is to ensure that the workforce is engaged in productive agricultural activity. Of the rest, 70% of jobs are provided by the MSME sector. The government gave the sector high priority by arranging additional easy lending options to the tune of over Rs 400,000 crore. Compared to the fiscal measures taken by other G20 countries, India has done better than most. According to an International Monetary Fund report, the aggregate fiscal measures as a percent of GDP are in two dimensions — spending and revenue measures; and loan, equity and guarantee measures. Germany, which topped the fiscal relief chart had announced 1% of GDP in additional spending and 6% in loan guarantees. India, with a stimulus package of 10% of GDP, is well ahead of its G20 peers.It must be remembered that while a section of the migrants undertook their homebound journey, a large number stayed back. There are two important reasons for it. One, the appeal to employers by Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi to continue paying wages; and two, the government’s stimulus to MSMEs and agriculture.Migrants have been supported by states and non-governmental organisations during the lockdown. Yet, their anxiety to get back to their families and villages has pushed many to defy the lockdown and set off home. To manage this migration, a coordinated approach was needed between the Centre and the states, and between destination and origin states. Uttar Pradesh has set an example by arranging to ferry not only its own migrants, but also those bound for neighbouring Bihar, in over 1,200 buses. It alone received and transported over two million workers to their destinations. Gujarat has quickly arranged trains for these migrants while Maharashtra has been found wanting. The role played by the Indian Railways is exemplary. It has so far transported over two million migrants to their home states. Bihar and West Bengal are two states that did not show enough interest in receiving its own migrants, leading to huge numbers being stranded in Mumbai and Delhi. Madhya Pradesh, though neither a destination nor a home, has come forward with 1,000 buses to help the migrants reach their destinations.Leo Varadkar, former PM of Ireland, joined European Union leaders a few weeks ago supporting the movement of cross-border agriculture workers. Back home, he was critical of a Dublin fruit company for bringing in Bulgarian workers to pick strawberries. Similarly, the Opposition criticises the Centre for the migrant crisis, while the origin or destination of the migrants is in the states under its control. What we need today is collective federal action to address the migrant issue, not the political blame game we are witnessing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/decoding-the-centre-s-plan-for-migrant-workers/story-CC1VWXswh9ky0RMfD8YREK.html
