01-06-2021||Shimla||Himachal HC puts interim stay on collection of toll at Sanwara toll plaza||The Himachal Pradesh High Court on Tuesday ordered an interim stay on the collection of toll at Sanwara in Solan district.A division bench of Chief Justice L Narayana Swamy and Justice Anoop Chitkara issued the direction while hearing a public interest litigation which contended that the toll was being levied in violation of rules.Staying the collection of toll till the next date of hearing on June 2, the division bench issued notices to the central and state governments and the Chairman and the Project Director of the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI).Petitioner Adit Singal contended that the establishment of the toll plaza at Sanwara is illegal and contrary to the National Highway Fee (Determination of Rates and Collection) Rules, 2008.The petitioner stated that according to rules, a toll plaza cannot be established within 60 km of another in the same section of a highway, and that there are two -- Chandi Mandir in Haryana's Panchkula district and Parwanoo in Solan district -- within the prescribed limit of Sanwara toll plaza.He also alleged that the certificate stating completion of 95 per cent work on the highway was wrongly and arbitrarily issued by NHAI.The petitioner stated that the toll is being levied before completion of the work.The public is compelled to pay toll for incomplete facilities that too at exorbitant rates, he added.He further alleged that the toll road has not been maintained properly and a part of the stretch is accident prone as there is no proper barricading of the roads connecting the toll road from the towns and villages along the national highway.The petitioner also sought quashing of the contract, construction, completion certificate issued to the executing company by NHAI. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-hc-puts-interim-stay-on-collection-of-toll-at-sanwara-toll-plaza-261789
01-06-2021||Shimla||Himachal Pradesh records 921 fresh Covid-19 cases, 38 more deaths||Himachal Pradesh’s Covid-19 caseload surged to 1,91,251 on Tuesday with 921 fresh infections while the death toll climbed to 3,165 as 38 more people succumbed to the disease, according to the health department.There are 12,407 active Covid-19 cases in the state, the department said.As many as 2,097 coronavirus patients recovered from the infection in a day, taking the total number of recoveries in Himachal Pradesh to 1,75,657, it said. --- PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-pradesh-records-921-fresh-covid-19-cases-38-more-deaths-261785
01-06-2021||Kullu||Minister distributes medical kits||Education Minister Govind Singh Thakur distributed home isolation kits provided by the state government among patients and gave oximeters, thermal scanners, masks, gloves and sanitisers, donated by Hans Foundation, to Asha workers of Burua, Shanag and Vashisht panchayats in Manali subdivision of this district today. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/minister-distributes-medical-kits-261577
01-06-2021||---||300-kg marijuana seized in Paonta Sahib village||Solan, May 31The Paonta Sahib police seized 303.056 kg of marijuana in the state from a truck at Shivpur village on the Paonta Sahib-Puruwala road in Sirmaur district, at 2:40 am on Monday.As per the police, it is sold for Rs 50,000 per kg, while good quality contraband fetches even higher returns.Bir Bahadur, DSP, Paonta Sahib, who monitored the entire seizure said Vijay Raghuvanshi, SHO, Puruwala, stopped a truck for checking and during its search, 31 parcels wrapped with brown cellotape were found. They contained 303.056 kg of marijuana. It emits a strong odour, so an attempt was made to escape detection by wrapping tape around it, the DSP said.The police got a tip-off about the contraband being transported in a truck, and in a bid to arrest the culprits, a well-planned strategy was adopted.Three local youth, Yusaf (32), a resident of Upperli Bhangani, Kadar Ali (43) of Singhpura and Tohid Ali (30) of Upperli Bhangani had been arrested with the contraband.During investigation, it was revealed that the contraband had been brought from Tripura.A case was registered under the NDPS Act and further probe was under way.The marijuana was to be supplied to all northern states, including Uttarakhand, Punjab, Himachal, Jammu and Kashmir, UP and Haryana.This is the third such major drug seizure by the Paonta Sahib police in the last one year. Earlier, 1,300 kg of poppy husk was seized in two cases by the Puruwala police.Three arrested||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/300-kg-marijuana-seized-in-paonta-sahib-village-261303
01-06-2021||Bhanu P Lohumi||Cyber criminals targeting people looking for work amid pandemic||Tribune News ServiceShimla, May 31Cyber criminals are now targeting the vulnerable segment of the society that is already reeling under financial crisis. They are trying new SMS phishing ideas in the form of Whatsapp links offering part-time jobs.“Messages with texts like ‘’Spend a few minutes every day. You can earn 30,000 per month. Let us unite and beat the new coronavirus. Long press the message or reply to the number 1 to join us’’ are being circulated on Whatsapp along with a malicious phishing link to dupe innocent people,” said Narvir Singh Rathore, ASP, Cyber Crime.These fraudsters are running malicious phishing campaigns through Whatsapp API. They redirect victims to fraud numbers for conversation. The criminals leverage people’’s interest in work from home opportunities during the ongoing pandemic, especially at the places where lockdown or curfew is enforced and people are sitting at home,” he said.“Messages with links is a complete hoax and clicking on the links could lead to revealing bank details and could also log people out from their Whatsapp account. Till now about 10 complaints have been received in this regard,” Rathore said, adding that one such gang is operating from Mewat in Haryana.Mobile users should avoid clicking on unknown links or instant message platforms, do not install unknown third party mobile app, clarify URLs before submitting information, install antivirus to block installing unknown softwares and follow CyberDost on Twitter or cybercrime.gov.in portal to know more about safety tips, he said.There is a surge in cyber crime cases which has increased by 640 per cent in five years in Himachal. The number of complaints received in the cyber police station of Shimla has increased from 519 in 2016 to 570 in 2017, 980 in 2018, 1,638 in 2019 and 3,843 in 2020.Over 700 cyber crime complaints have been received in the past three months.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/cyber-criminals-targeting-people-looking-for-work-amid-pandemic-261304
01-06-2021||Solan||Tramadol stock at Kala Amb unit freezed||The entire stock of  30 lakh tramadol tablets, an opioid-based drug — manufactured by  Orison Pharma International at Kala Amb in Sirmaur district —  was frozen by officials of the drug control administration, Nahan,  following a  raid by a team of Punjab Police on Sunday. The Ajnala police in Punjab had seized 10,000 tramadol capsules, manufactured by this pharma unit, a few days ago. Its subsequent investigation had led to this raid on Sunday. Though tradamol is a pain reliever, it is also  used as an intoxicant and  has a huge market among drug addicts owing to its opioid content.  Assistant Drugs Controller, Nahan, Sunny Kaushal, informed that the entire stock of the batch seized by the Punjab Police has been frozen and the unit has been directed to stop manufacturing. Its management has also been  directed to sprovide certain papers pertaining to its marketing agreement as well as its product permission,  which it had failed to produce yesterday. The company  had reportedly  violated  an amendment to the Drugs and Cosmetics Act, 2020. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/tramadol-stock-at-kala-amb-unit-freezed-261305
01-06-2021||---||Road construction damages water pipes in Karsog||Mandi, May 31Drinking water supply scheme under Nanj Panchayat area in Karsog assembly segment of Mandi district has been damaged because of the ongoing construction work of local link road.According to the local residents of Nanj panchayat and its nearby villages, the Public Works Department was constructing a Shog-Mamli link road in the area. The residents alleged that during construction, muck was dumped haphazardly. It fell on the water pipes damaging these badly. Now over 2,000 families of Nanj panchayat area and its nearby villages are facing acute shortage of drinking water for the past five days.Taajender Sharma, former vice pradhan of Nanj, said, “We have informed the Public Works Department (PWD) officials as well as Irrigation and Public Health department about the damage and sought its restoration but to no avail.”“During construction of this link road, the muck is being dumped illegally in the area. We urge the PWD authority to dump the muck at proper dumping site to avoid damage to the natural water resources in the region,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/road-construction-damages-water-pipes-in-karsog-261306
01-06-2021||---||Hailstorm, rain lash Shimla, adjoining areas||Shimla, May 31Severe thunderstorm accompanied by hails and rain lashed state capital Shimla and the adjoining areas throwing normal life out of order. The storm uprooted trees and snapped electricity lines at some places. Dark clouds overcast the sky and haze engulfed the area reducing visibility.The local Met office has issued yellow warning of thunderstorm and lightning in low and middle hills in the districts of Una, Bilaspur, Hamirpur, Chamba, Kangra, Kullu, Mandi, Shimla and Sirmaur on June 1 and the districts of Chamba, Kangra, Mandi, Shimla and Solan on June 2. It has also predicted a wet spell in the region till June 6.Shimla received 21 mm of rains within a short span, key tourist resorts of Kufri and Fagu had 10 mm each while Jubbarhatti in the suburbs received 15 mm of rains. Sundernagar with 29 mm of rains was the wettest in the region followed by Shahpur 28 mm, Bhoranj 17.5mm, Sarahan 16 mm, Sunni 1.5 mm, Kangra 14 mm, Palampur 9.5 mm, Wangtoo 9 mm, Bhuntar 8 mm, Paonta Sahib and Mandi 7 mm each, Bajura 6.5 mm, Solan 6 mm, Bharmaur and Nahan 5 mm each, Rajgarh and Pachhad 4 mm each, Renuka 3 mm, Bilaspur and Manali 2 mm each.The minimum temperature increased by one to two degrees. Keylong in tribal Lahaul and Spiti was coldest at night with 5.9 degree C. There was no appreciable change in the maximum temperatures which were two to three degree below normal. Una was hottest in the day, recording a high of 38.5 degree C.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/hailstorm-rain-lash-shimla-adjoining-areas-261308
01-06-2021||---||No ambulance, Kupvi residents move High Court||Shimla, May 31The residents of far-flung Kupvi block in district Shimla have been running from pillar to post for a functional ambulance for the last six months but to no avail. With their requests to the Health Department and political representatives yielding no result, the residents have knocked on the doors of the high court.“We are left with no option other than going to the court over the issue. We have approached Chief Minister, Health Secretary, the NRHM, CMO and local MLA but have received nothing but empty assurances,” said Sudarshan Dhirta, president of a local NGO spearheading the fight for the ambulance.“We fail to understand why our area is being deprived of as basic a facility as an ambulance,” he said.Devi Ram Sharma, chairman of the pradhan parishad of the Nerwa block, said the health infrastructure was in tatters in their area comprising 15 panchayats and over 20,000 residents.“Most patents need to be referred to either Shimla, Solan or Nahan from our area. In the absence of an ambulance, people face a lot of problems in shifting the patients. It’s strange that everyone is ignoring such a genuine demand of this remote area,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/no-ambulance-kupvi-residents-move-high-court-261309
01-06-2021||---||JP Nadda virtually lays stone of two O2 plants in Himachal||Shimla, May 31BJP president JP Nadda today laid the foundation stone of two oxygen plants and flagged off oxygen equipment that will cater to over 330 hospital beds as part of Covid relief.The foundation stone was laid by Nadda virtually. Besides, 108 oxygen concentrators and 160 oxygen cylinders were flagged off from Delhi.Union Minister for State for Finance and Corporate Affairs Anurag Thakur said Hamirpur was transforming into an oxygen bank as two oxygen banks would cater to the requirement of 700 beds.“I express my gratitude to Naddaji for laying the stone for the two oxygen plants for Hamirpur and Bilaspur and flagging off oxygen equipment,” said Anurag.Anurag said he was working to transform Hamirpur into an oxygen bank. “Earlier, we had dispatched 17 Asptal Mobile Medical Units carrying Covid relief materials for 12 districts. My endeavour has been to strengthen relief efforts in Himachal by providing timely resources to help save lives,” said Thakur.CM said Himachal was fighting Covid with determination and had received support from Anurag Thakur. Nadda also lauded the efforts being put in by Anurag in providing oxygen and other material need to fight covid.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/jp-nadda-virtually-lays-stone-of-two-o2-plants-in-himachal-261310
01-06-2021||Subhash Rajta||Peak over in Himachal, Covid cases fall steadily||Tribune News ServiceShimla, May 31It’s official now. The state has crossed the peak of the more virulent second wave that kicked off towards the end of February in the state.According to a government spokesperson, the second wave peaked in the May 10-16 week, wherein the state witnessed a record 28,817 new cases and a positivity rate of 28.9 per cent. The wave, however, has subsided pretty rapidly. On May 31, the active case load nosedived to 13,040 from a high of over 40,000, the positivity rate has slipped to 12.9 from a high of 28.9 and new cases per week have dropped to 10,431 from a high of 28,817.“Restrictions have been eased in the last few days but people will need to continue to follow the Covid- appropriate behaviour to ensure we don’t see any resurgence,” he said. He added that a few districts like Bilaspur, Kinnaur, Shimla, Sirmaur hit the peak a week before the state touched it.Another indicator that shows that the worst is over is the declining positivity rate across all districts. While the overall positivity rate has declined to 12.9 per cent from 28.9 per cent, districts like Kangra and Sirmaur, which were close to 40 per cent between May 3 to 16, have also seen a remarkable decline in cases. The positivity rate in various districts varies from 3.3 per cent (Lahaul & Spiti) to 17.1 per cent (Kangra).The decline in these numbers has started reflecting on the occupancy rate in hospitals, too. Currently, out of 3,933 beds available in Covid facilities across the state, only 1,428 are occupied. More significantly, the bed occupancy rate has gone down in packed-to-capacity facilities like the IGMC, Tanda and Nerchowk. While the occupancy rate at the IGMC is 55.5 per cent, at Tanda, it is 51 per cent and 47.2 at Nerwchowk.However, the matter of concern is the high occupancy of ICU beds (63.6 per cent) and high mortality rate. Even as the active case load and positivity rate has declined, there hasn’t been a corresponding decline in the number of deaths yet.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/peak-over-in-himachal-covid-cases-fall-steadily-261311
01-06-2021||Shimla||865 new cases, 19 deaths in Himachal Pradesh||A total of 865 new Covid cases and 19 deaths were reported in the state in the past 24 hours.The number of persons, who succumbed to the virus, comprised 11 in Kangra, five each in Mandi and Solan, four in Sirmaur, three in Shimla and two in Kullu. Kangra remained the worst hit with 213 new cases, followed by 113 in Mandi, 99 in Una, 87 in Sirmaur, 75 in Hamirpur, 72 in Una, 64 in Shimla, 52 in Bilaspur, 41 each in Kinnaur and Kullu, 20 in Solan and six in Lahaul and Spiti. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/865-new-cases-19-deaths-in-himachal-pradesh-261312
01-06-2021||Solan||Himachal CM opens hospital at Radha Soami centre||Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur virtually inaugurated a makeshift Covid hospital constructed at a cost of Rs 3.9 crore at the Radha Soami Satsang centre at Rabon, near here, from Shimla today.Thakur said that the hospital has 200 piped oxygenated beds, besides 100 doctors, staff nurses and other paramedical staff. A laboratory for rapid testing was also there. “CCTV cameras, and a centralised TV screen have also been installed for the entertainment of patients. The hospital has been completed in a record time of 14 days,” he added.He said Radha Soami Satsang, Beas, had helped the state by providing its properties for setting up such makeshift hospitals at Mandi, Parur and Solan. He added that pressure swing adsorption oxygen manufacturing plants had been set up in all medical colleges.Thakur said that the main focus of his government was to ensure timely detection of Covid patients. “The government will also ensure that patients in home isolation are regularly contacted so that their health parameters can be monitored,” he added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-cm-opens-hospital-at-radha-soami-centre-261313
01-06-2021||---||All in 18-44 age group vaccinated at Asia’s highest Komic village||Mandi, May 31The health authorities at Kaza in Lahaul and Spiti district today achieved the target of 100 per cent Covid vaccination for the 18 to 44 age group at Komic village, the Asia’s highest village situated in the Spiti valley.According to official sources, a total of 44 persons fell under this age category. On May 27, the health authority at Kaza had vaccinated 39 persons. Today, after vaccinated these remaining four persons, the Kaza health authorities achieved 100 per cent target of vaccination under this age category in Komic village.Earlier, the health authority had achieved 100 per cent target of Covid vaccination at Komic village for the above 44 age group recently. Additional District Magistrate, Kaza, Gyan Sagar Negi said that the efforts were on to lead effective vaccination process under Kaza block to cover all the citizens.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/all-in-18-44-age-group-vaccinated-at-asias-highest-komic-village-261314
01-06-2021||---||HPTU to waive 50% extra charges in fee||Our CorrespondentHamirpur, May 31Himachal Pradesh Technical University (HPTU) will waive 50 per cent of additional charges in the fee for the current session. The decision was taken at a virtual meeting of the Board of Governors here today.Dr SP Bansal, Vice-Chancellor, said that the decision to waive additional charges in the fee was taken to provide relief to the students in the current session. He claimed that the HPTU would be the first university of the country to conduct online examinations. He added that preparations for online examinations had been completed and soon the date sheet would be released.The board gave approval for starting BBA and BCA courses at its off campus institute at Nagrota Bagwan. It also decided to appoint project and estate officers for the university for better development works on the campus.Local MLA Narender Thakur said that the university had set many milestones in the past three years. It was all due to the sincere efforts of the Vice-Chancellor and employees of the university that the HPTU had bagged the first position in utilising TEQUIP funds, he added.The board was of the opinion that the state government be requested to release a matching grant to the university in time for its smooth functioning. Bansal said that Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur had sanctioned a Rs 10 crore annual matching grant for the HPTU.New CoursesThe board gave approval for starting BBA and BCA courses at its off campus institute at Nagrota Bagwan. It also decided to appoint project and estate officers for the university for better development works on the campus.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/hptu-to-waive-50-extra-charges-in-fee-261316
01-06-2021||Bhanu P Lohumi
||Oblivious of Covid, people throng Shimla shops||Tribune News Service  Shimla, May 31 Social-distancing norms were thrown to the winds as all shops and markets opened today for five hours after 24 days under the shadow of Covid curfew. The congested markets like Lower Bazaar were overcrowded. As the timings of opening of shops for five hours were from 9 am to 2 pm, a large number of people made a beeline for markets to purchase items other than grocery and medicines and garments shops, especially for women, witnessed a huge rush. However, some residents were unhappy with the decision of the government to open everything at once. Pointing out to the hustle and bustle in market areas and casual approach by people, Kanshi, a senior resident, said the virus still persists and opening everything without restrictions will lead to a surge in Covid cases. “We are happy with the decision to open shops but the timings are illogical. Shimla is a hill station and people come out to the markets around 12 noon and the timings are not suitable to the business community,” said shopkeeper Shivam Rana, adding that transportation is not resumed and people from far-off places cannot visit the main markets.  Even the BJP state business cell, which met the CM recently, had suggested the opening of shops till 5 pm following even and odd pattern like last year. Traders suggested that shops should be allowed to open on alternate days from 10 am to 5 or 6 pm. The crowd is more from 11:30 am to 2 pm and the extension in timings will reduce the congestion. Police personnel deployed in the town were sensitive and seen requesting people to follow norms. Over 50 challans were issued in Shimla under Sections 111 and 114 of the HP Police Act for violations of social-distancing norms at market place and not wearing face masks.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/oblivious-of-covid-people-throng-shimla-shops-261317
01-06-2021||---||Response lukewarm as markets open in Dharamsala||Dharamsala, May 31 The markets in Dharamsala opened today 20 days after the curfew was imposed but there were very few customers. The Covid fear is still prevalent and people are preferring keeping indoors.  Sources said that a sizeable population of the town comprised of the employees of government departments and those working in the private sector. After the curfew was imposed on May 10, most of the government and private sector employees living in the city left for their native homes.  Atul Chada, who runs a crockery shop in the Kotwali market here, said that only a few customers were visible today. “There has been very little business for the past two years. In the Dharamsala region, the markets are dependent on tourists. It is the floating population of tourists that drives demand in Dharamsala town and till they return our businesses are not likely to pick up,” he added. Besides, public transport was off the road, and so people from adjoining villages were not able to visit the town. The shopkeepers and traders of Dharamsala are hoping that locals and tourists would return to the markets once public transport was restored. However, for the health authorities and the district administration, it was good news that people preferred to keep indoors.  The Deputy Commissioner said that they feared that Covid cases that had dipped in the past few day would rise again when people come out of their houses once more relaxation in the curfew was granted. However, it was good that people were coming out only for important works and maintaining distance and wearing masks, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/response-lukewarm-as-markets-open-in-dharamsala-261318
01-06-2021||---||Vax for 18+ to resume after June 10||Shimla, May 31The vaccination session for 18+ age will resume after June 10.“We are expecting the next consignment of vaccine on June 10. The sessions will be planned thereafter,” said NHM Director Nipun Jindal.The last of the five sessions planned for this age group from the first consignment of the vaccine was held today. A total of 23,836 beneficiaries were vaccinated, taking the total number to 1,03,955.The state will receive 1,67,180 doses for the 18-44 age group.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/vax-for-18-to-resume-after-june-10-261319
01-06-2021||Dipender Manta
||Poaching of fish rampant in Beas in Mandi||Tribune News Service Mandi, May 31 Illicit poaching of fish is rampant in Beas in Mandi district. The menace has become so deep-rooted that offenders are using dynamite, fishing nets, powder and electric shock to kill the fish without any fear of law. Environmentalists are concerned about the preservation of aquatic life in water streams in Mandi district as well as across the state. They say that the malpractice of killing fish illegally is posing a serious threat to the aquatic life in several parts of state, particularly in Mandi, which will directly impact the ecology of the area. The reason cited is poor checking by the Fishery Department to curb this practice. It is maintained that the department lacks adequate field staff to ensure strict vigil. As a result, offenders were killing fish indiscriminately without any fear.  Narender Saini, chairman of Devbhumi Paryavaran Rakshak Manch, told The Tribune that “the illegal killing of fish in a cruel and barbaric way is rampant in the stretch of Beas river between Pandoh Dam and Bari village in Mandi district. The perpetrators were using dynamite, fishing nets, powder and electric shocks to kill the fish. The whole aquatic life around the catchment areas of Beas will be destroyed if necessary action is not taken in time to curb the illicit practice.” “Those involved are some Nepali labourers employed by the ppmmm contractors. They have easy access to the blasting material and dynamite. Others are migrant labourers mostly from Uttar Pradesh and Bihar,” Saini alleged. He said that “to save aquatic life, we urge the state government to fill the vacant posts of field staff in the Fishery Department on priority.” Satpal Mehta, Director of Fishery Department, HP, said, “due to shortage of field staff, the department is facing difficulty in keeping a check on offenders. However, the officials of the Fishery Department conduct surprise raids at suspected places to check this nefarious practice.”  He said that around 50 per cent of the posts of field staff were vacant in the Fishery Department. As soon as these vacant posts are filled, the department would intensify the vigil to save the aquatic life in water streams.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/poaching-of-fish-rampant-in-beas-in-mandi-261320
01-06-2021||The police were liberal and sensitive during the enforcement of corona curfew. It was a good move as the people are already stressed. However||No point in enforcing curfew||Shops to open but customers can’t access transportTHE government has decided to open shops from 9 am to 2 pm for five hours in the state. However, the government has not given access to general public as transport service will not be allowed during this relaxation. When public can't come to market, what is the use of opening shops? The government should have extended the ongoing corona curfew, instead of confusing people. — Ramesh Kumar, HamirpurIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: hpreadersfeedback@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/no-point-in-enforcing-curfew-261322
01-06-2021||Government Polytechnic||Talent hunt at polytechnic college||Students taught use of coir geotextilesDepartment of Civil Engineering, Government Polytechnic, Talwar, Kangra, organised a webinar on ‘Application potential of coir geotextiles in unpaved roads’ for the second and final year students of civil engineering. The lecture was delivered by Dr Vivek, Assistant Professor, department of civil engineering, Jawaharlal Nehru Government Engineering College, Sundernagar. As many as 80 students attended the webinar. The webinar was organised to provide students an in-depth knowledge of research and techniques being used in civil engineering. The students learnt the importance of coir geotextile and other things, in relation to various materials used in civil engineering.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/talent-hunt-at-polytechnic-college-261323
01-06-2021||Pratibha Chauhan||To spur growth, power tariff rebate for industry||Tribune News ServiceShimla, May 31To revive the sagging economy hit by Covid, the Himachal Pradesh Electricity Regulatory Commission (HPERC) has decided to offer major rebate in power tariff to the industry, besides no hike for the domestic and agriculture sectors.The HPERC today announced the power tariff for the financial year 2021-22. The commission has estimated an annual revenue requirement of Rs 6,080.88 crore for Himachal Pradesh State Electricity Board Ltd (HPSEBL). Since the government has made a provision of Rs 424.74 crore towards the subsidy for electricity consumption by domestic and agriculture consumers, the tariff for them will remain unchanged.“The commission has decided to decrease the night-time charges across all categories of industrial consumers by 30 paisa per unit over and above the existing night-time rates,” said Pankaj Singh Kishtwaria, Executive Director (Tariff), HPERC. Also, there would be reduction in peak hour charges by 50 paisa per unit for industrial consumers.Since 60 per cent of the total sale of power by the HPSEBL is consumed by the industry, it has been decided that the new industries, which will start production on or after June 1, 2021, the charges will be 15 per cent lower that the approved energy charges for that category for three years.Besides, the existing industries, which will go in for expansion on or after June 1, too will be entitled to the discount for three years for quantum of energy consumption corresponding to the proportionate increase in the contract demand. The rebate on energy charges will be applicable during normal and peak hours and in case of night hours, night-time concession will be applicable.“The commission believes that by not increasing the electricity rates for domestic consumers during Covid and by providing rebate to the industry, HP could attract the investment which will help generate employment avenues,” said Kishtwaria. He said the need to provide relief to the common man was also felt when the economy had been hit badly.Rebate for existing industrial consumersThe Commission has approved the proposal of the HPSEBL to allow a rebate of 15% discount on energy charges for additional power consumption beyond the level of FY 2018-19 for existing Industrial units||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/to-spur-growth-power-tariff-rebate-for-industry-261301
