02-06-2021||Shimla||29 Covid deaths in Himachal, 4 had black fungus too||Twenty-nine coronavirus patients, four of whom also had the black fungus infection, died on Wednesday, taking Himachal Pradesh’s overall Covid death figures to 3,194, an official said.He said the state also reported 891 fresh Covid cases, pushing the total number to 1,92,142.Of the four black fungus or Mucormycosis cases, two were reported from Kangra and one each from Solan and Hamirpur, the official said.The number of recoveries rose to 1,76,949, with 1,292 patients recuperating from the disease in a 24-hour period, the official said.According to the health department, the state currently has 11,975 active coronavirus cases. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/29-covid-deaths-in-himachal-4-had-black-fungus-too-262372
02-06-2021||bika Sharma||Tenders invited for widening of Pinjore-Nalagarh road||Tribune News ServiceSolan, June 1The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) on May 28 invited tenders for the widening of the 31-km Pinjore-Nalagarh stretch of the National Highway No.105 to four lanes. Only 17.37 km of the highway lies in Himachal while the remaining is in Haryana. The bids will be opened on July 13.The tender value has been pegged at Rs 731.67 crore and once allotted, the project is to be completed within 910 days. The process to acquire land is underway and compensation for structures acquired is also being disbursed, said NHAI Regional Officer GS Sangha.“Around 400 of 649 acquired structures have been evaluated till now and the process to evaluate the remaining ones is underway. A compensation of Rs 26.71 crore has been paid for the structures acquired at 13 villages of Saraj Majra Lanana, Kishanpura, Manpura, Belikhol, Dhana, Khera Chak, Juddy Khurd, Tahi Wala, Khera Nihla, Rakh Ram Singh, Dadi Bhola, Nalka and Kirpalpur on May 25. These structures will be dismantled for the road project. Besides, Rs 172 crore has been disbursed for the land acquired,” said Mahinder Pal, SDM, Nalagarh.As per the project design, 22 bridges and five flyovers will be constructed on the highway. Approved by the Union Ministry of Road Transport and Highways in 2014, the project has faced several stumbling blocks, including the high rate of compensation.The four-lane highway will be 39 metres wide and 2,190 trees will be axed for the purpose. Initially, a 45-metre wide highway was to be constructed but the width was reduced to 39 metres last year to bring down the cost of land acquisition.The project, which has been hanging fire for years, will be finally initiated now, as major impediments have been cleared. “Thousands of vehicles, including multi-axle trucks, carrying industrial goods, use this highway on a daily basis. Frequent accidents cause loss of human lives and the road widening will put an end to this,” said Sanjay Khurana, president, Baddi Barotiwala Nalagarh Industries Association.The high cost of land acquisition was a major stumbling block in the project. The NHAI had refused to fund the project, as the cost of land was much higher than the cost of the structures to be razed to widen the road.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/tenders-invited-for-widening-of-pinjore-nalagarh-road-262166
02-06-2021||ibune News Service 
||Wet spell in Himachal till June 5, says Met||Shimla, June 1  Widespread moderate to heavy rains lashed parts of Himachal as stormy conditions continued to prevail in the region. The local Met office has issued yellow warning of thunderstorm and lightning in low and middle hills in six districts of Kangra, Kullu, Mandi, Shimla, Solan and Sirmaur on June 2 and predicted a wet spell in the region till June 5. Kandaghat with 61 mm of rains was wettest in the state followed by Aghar 46 mm, Baldwara 42 mm, Shimla 36 mm, Sarkaghat and Nadaun 35 mm each, Dehra Gopipur 34 mm, Sundernagar 30 mm, Kufri 29 mm, Pachhad, Kasauli and Theog 27 mm each, Rajgarh 26 mm, Hamirpur 22 mm, Bharmaur, Solan and Amb 20 mm each, Sangrah and Gaggal 17 mm each, Chhatrari and Narkanda 15 mm each, Saloni, Palampur and Dharmpur 13 mm each, Jatton Barrage, Kheri and Dalhousie 12 mm each, Khadrala and Sujanpur Tira 11 mm each and Jhandutta, Bajura and Bhuntar 10 mm each. The minimum temperatures dipped by 3 to 4 degrees. Keylong in tribal Lahaul and Spiti district was coldest at night recording a low of 6.4 degree C. There was no significant change in the maximum temperatures which were 2 to 3 degrees below normal. Bilaspur was the hottest in day with a maximum temperature of 33.8 degree C. In this summer season from March 1 to May 31, Himachal received 105.m mm of rain which was deficit of 11 per cent. Last year the state had received 21 per cent excess rains during summers. There were 17 spells of rain in the season.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/wet-spell-in-himachal-till-june-5-says-met-262167
02-06-2021||---||Couple alleges baby swapped in Mandi hospital||Mandi, June 1 A couple has alleged that their newborn child has been exchanged in the zonal hospital, Mandi. Madhu Kumari delivered a child in hospital on May 28. The couple claimed that it was a male child but later, the hospital staff handed over a female child to them.  Later, the couple approached the police to investigate the matter and conduct the DNA test to confirm the parenthood of the child. Madhu said, “I and my husband were informed by the hospital staff that I gave birth to a baby boy. But when we received the child, it was a girl.” “We asked the health staff but they did not give a satisfactory reply. Later, we complained to the police to investigate the matter,” she added. On the other hand, Superintendent of Police Shalini Agnihotri said the police would conduct investigation and, if necessary, the DNA test would be done to confirm the parenthood of child.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/couple-alleges-baby-swapped-in-mandi-hospital-262168
02-06-2021||ibune News Service
||Manali man climbs Nepal’s Pumori peak||Mandi, June 1 Manali resident Hem Raj, aka Raja, has set a national record by climbing the Pumori peak in Nepal along with mountaineer Stanzin Norboo of Ladakh on May 10. He was given a warm welcome at his native Solang village in Manali subdivision of Kullu district recently. He said, “It was challenging to climb the Pumori peak. We were four climbers, including two women, and four Sherpas. We had to return to the base camp when we were just 300 metres away from the summit, as we had no more tools and ropes. Even the Sherpas were worried. We spent a week at the base camp.” “Fortunately, a team of climbers from Pune met us. Our expedition leader Brigadier Krishan Kumar had a meeting with them and one of their Sherpas agreed to join us. I and Stanzin Norboo left our camp at midnight, spent the full night and the next day fixing ropes on the 600-m-long challenging icy slopes and reached the summit on May 10,” said Hem Raj.  According to Hem Raj, the 23,494-feet high Pumori peak located close to Mount Everest, is technically much more difficult to climb than even the Everest. He said, “We are the first Indians to summit this mountain peak, which is infamous for a very high death rate of climbers.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/manali-man-climbs-nepals-pumori-peak-262169
02-06-2021||---||Tibet’s friends, who died of Covid, paid tributes||Dharamsala, June 1 The India Tibet Friendship Society (ITFS) paid tributes to Tibet Support Group members and friends, who lost their lives to Covid-19, at a virtual ‘shradhanjali’ sabha organised today. The ITFS in a press note issued here said that ardent friends and supporters, who died of Covid, include Sunderlal Bahuguna, Dr Dauji Gupta, Dr PG Jyotikar, Bhau Lokhande, Harish Adyalkar, Prof Vimalkriti,  Naresh Mathur,  JM Mukhi, Raghuvansh Prasad Singh and Swami Agnivesh. Anand Kumar, general secretary of the society, offered tributes to the deceased members and friends and shared their association and contributions towards the Tibetan freedom movement. Manoj Kumar, organising secretary of the society, spoke about the noble life of the late friends and offered his prayers and respect. Likewise, the members also offered their ‘shradhanjali’ to the departed souls, including Sachin Ramteke, Brijesh Kumar, Uma Ghosh,  Resham Bala and Sandeep Jyotikar. Jigmey Tsultrim, coordinator, India Tibet Coordination Office (ITCO), offered prayers and respect to the late Tibet supporters.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/tibets-friends-who-died-of-covid-paid-tributes-262170
02-06-2021||Our Correspondent
||Soldier from Bilaspur dies of ‘bullet injury’ at Jammu||Hamirpur, June 1 A soldier of the Army from Bilaspur district reportedly died, following a bullet injury at Jammu. It was learnt that the Army authorities informed the family of Havildar Sandeep Kumar of Khurari village, in Bakroa panchayat of Ghumarwin sub division of Bilaspur, that the victim had committed suicide with his service gun. Officials said it was not immediately clear whether he died of accidental fire from his own weapon at Sunal camp in Akhnoor sector or was it a case of suicide. It was reported that when his friends heard the sound of gunfire, they rushed to him and found him seriously injured. He was taken to the Army hospital and was declared brought dead. Minister Rajender Garg expressed grief on the death of the soldier. He said family members of the deceased soldier were not satisfied with the versions of the Army regarding the death of Sandeep Kumar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/soldier-from-bilaspur-dies-of-bullet-injury-at-jammu-262171
02-06-2021||---||Truck driver held for rape of 70-yr-old||Solan, June 1A 70-year-old woman, residing at a rented accommodation at Badripur area of Paonta Sahib in Sirmaur district, was raped by a truck driver (37) on Tuesday morning at her house.The accused had consumed alcohol with the victim’s son in her house on Monday and he raped the woman when her son went out out this morning. When the woman raised an alarm, the accused beat her up and tried to flee but was caught by neighbours.The woman hails from Saharanpur and has been residing at Badripur with her son from the last few years.“A case under Section 376 of the IPC has been registered and the driver has been arrested,” said Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP), Paonta Sahib, Bir Bahadur.He said the accused accused truck driver hailed from Haryana.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/truck-driver-held-for-rape-of-70-yr-old-262172
02-06-2021||Kullu||Free O2 bank started in Manali||The Rotary Club, Manali, will set up an oxygen generation plant at Rs 75 lakh in the Lady Willingdon Hospital at Manali. The club, in association with the Air Himalayas and MakeMyTrip Foundation, has also launched a free oxygen bank in Manali to help the people during Covid-19 crisis. Rotarian president Gajendra Chand Thakur said, “The amount was raised through our international Rotary partners, district funds and members, who helped to achieve this target by contacting their friends and families.”  He thanked the Rotarians, who offered their services to collect the donations. He said the technical aspects of the project would be looked after by the chairman, Rotary Club, Manali, and Dr Philip Alexander of the Lady Willingdon Hospital. The club president said the oxygen plant was launched under the project, ‘Breath of life’, and it would provide free oxygen concentrators and oxygen cylinders for two to seven days to the needy in the region. He said doctor’s prescription, Aadhaar card of the patient and referral of any Rotary Club member was required to avail the facilities. He said this would immensely benefit the patients under home isolation, and reduce the burden on the hospitals. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/free-o2-bank-started-in-manali-262173
02-06-2021||ibune News Service||Denotify Covid hospitals with no positive case: Himachal CM||Shimla, June 1Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur today said that gradual efforts should be made to denotify dedicated Covid hospitals that have no infected persons admitted, to facilitate the treatment of patients of other diseases. He said this while presiding over a virtual meeting with all Deputy Commissioners, SPs, Chief Medical Officers, principals and Medical Superintendents of all medical colleges of the state here.The Chief Minister said that efforts should be made to demobilise private hospitals requisitioned by the state government so that people suffering from other ailments could get proper treatment. He emphasised on strengthening the health infrastructure related to paediatrics to counter the third Covid wave that, it is apprehended, would affect children the most.Thakur said that plans should be made well in advance for the expected requirements of logistics to effectively tackle the third wave. He added that the strategy of testing, tracing and treatment along with effective surveillance should be a priority even now, as the crisis was not yet over.He said that all deputy commissioners should ensure increased testing for Covid. He added that the Health Department should ensure a minimum wastage of vaccine.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/denotify-covid-hospitals-with-no-positive-case-himachal-cm-262174
02-06-2021||---||921 cases, 38 deaths in Himachal||Shimla, June 1As many as 921 Covid cases were reported in the state today, taking the tally to 191,251. Besides, 38 persons died of the virus in the past 24 hours.Twelve deaths were reported in Kangra, six in Shimla, four in Mandi, three each in Bilaspur, Solan and Hamirpur, two each in Kullu and Una and one each in Sirmaur, Lahaul and Spiti and Chamba.The highest number of 298 cases was reported in Kangra, followed by 104 in Shimla, 95 in Mandi, 86 in Chamba, 80 in Solan, 66 in Hamirpur, 56 in Kullu, 44 in Una, 35 in Bilaspur, 31 in Sirmaur, 14 in Lahaul and Spiti and 12 in Kinnaur.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/921-cases-38-deaths-in-himachal-262175
02-06-2021||Vijay Arora||HC stays Sanwara toll, notice issued to NHAI||Shimla, June 1The High Court today issued notice to the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) on a PIL petition, challenging the decision of collecting tax at the Sanwara toll plaza (Solan).The court also stayed the collection of toll till the next date of hearing and listed the matter for June 2. Apart from the NHAI, the court also issued notice to the Central and state governments.A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice L Narayana Swamy and Justice Anoop Chitkara passed the orders on a PIL plea filed by Adit Singal, who has alleged that the toll plaza at Sanwara is illegal and contrary to the National Highway Fee (Determination of Rates and Collection) Rules, 2008.He has contended that as per rules, no toll plaza can be established in the same section within a distance of 60 km, whereas another toll plazas are situated at Chandimandir, Panchkula district, and Parwanoo in Solan. These are within 60 km from Sanwara.He has also alleged that the certificate of completion of 95 per cent work by GR Infraprojects (contractor of the Parwanoo-Solan road) has wrongly been issued to it by the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI).He has alleged that the toll is being levied before the completion of the construction work. The major part of the work on flyover and its underpass at Kumarhatti, Saproon and Timber Trail Resort at Parwanoo is not complete. It will take months or may be a year or more and as such, it cannot be said that 95 per cent work has been completed.He has contended that the public is compelled to pay toll for incomplete facilities that too at exorbitant rates.He has also alleged that the toll road has not been maintained properly and a part of the stretch is accident-prone. There is no proper barricading of the roads which join the toll road from towns and villages along the national highway. The petitioner has prayed to quash the contract, construction and the completion certificate issued to GR Infraprojects by the National Highways Authority of India and also quash the notification fixing the toll charges payable by vehicles crossing Sanwara.Points of contention||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/hc-stays-sanwara-toll-notice-issued-to-nhai-262176
02-06-2021||Lalit Mohan
||Cancer patients left in lurch at Tanda hospital||Tribune News Service  Dharamsala, June 1 Patients suffering from cancer in Kangra district are not getting treatment in Tanda medical college, the only facility for the patients in the lower Himachal region.  Many patients from Chachian, Mainjha and Kalund villages in the district had yesterday met Deputy Commissioner Rakesh Prajapati, along with their panchayat representatives, and demanded that the unit in the hospital should be restarted at the earliest. The super-specialty wing has been lying closed since last month. The wing caters to cancer, cardio and neuro patients. However, it was converted into a Covid hospital. The patients alleged that they were undergoing chemotherapy in the Tanda medical college. But they have not been able to complete their  treatment as the facility has been closed. Many patients feared that a break in their chemotherapy can be life-threatening. Principal of Tanda medical college Dr Bhanu Awasthi said that the treatment of cancer patients in the institute had been stopped temporarily due to Covid cases. Last year, they continued giving treatment to cancer patients even when the PGI had stopped its facilities.  He said that the cases in Kangra district were now coming down and if the situation improves, they will be able to open the super-specialty wing soon. If some patients require immediate chemotherapy, they can go to the Indira Gandhi Medical College (IGMC) and Hospital, Shimla, he added. Om Prakash, a patient at Tanda medical college, however, said that the decision of the district authorities to convert the hospital into a Covid hospital had deprived many patients suffering from various morbid diseases of treatment.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/cancer-patients-left-in-lurch-at-tanda-hospital-262177
02-06-2021||Palampur||Himachal Speaker Vipin Singh Parmar visits infected families, distributes kits||Vipin Singh Parmar, Speaker of the  state Assembly, yesterday visited Covid patients staying in home isolation in different villages of Sulaha like Arla, Boda,  Bhattu, Saloh, Mehanja, Garh, Bhawarna,  Sehol, Bachhwai and Rajhoon  areas of Palampur.  Parmar also distributed among them home isolation  kits that were recently launched by Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur.  Earlier, the Speaker spoke to patients on phone.   “I have lined up visits everyday to meet patients who are in home isolation in rural areas as they   need support from the government.  The purpose of visiting patients on their doorsteps is not only to restore their confidence that the government is standing with them but also to enquire about their welfare and if their livelihood has been affected by the pandemic,” said Parmar. Parmar requested residents of the area  to get vaccinated as and when they get a chance. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-speaker-vipin-singh-parmar-visits-infected-families-distributes-kits-262178
02-06-2021||Solan||Eight arrested in  Baddi-Nalagarh highway shootout case||The Nalagarh police are yet to find out the motive behind a daylight shootout which took place on the Baddi-Nalagarh highway at Khera village, in which one person was killed and four others were injured on May 24. Though an old rivalry is stated to be the reason as cross-FIRs have been registered by the two factions in the past, what caused the rivalry is yet to be known.The shootout took place in the afternoon during the curfew hours on the main highway, which indicates there was little fear of law among these miscreants. They not only fled the spot after the shooting but it has put a question mark over hundreds of CCTVs installed for surveillance by the Baddi police.Baddi SP Rohit Malpani said a special investigation team is probing the case, in which two country-made pistols, a Scorpio, two Swift cars and other weapons like swords, iron rods, etc. have been taken into possession.Those arrested are Vijay Kumar, Devinder Kumar, Pradeep, Gurdeep, Radheshyam, Mahinder Pal and Parwinder Singh. They hail from villages in Ropar, Una and Nalagarh and are in the 23 to 30 years age group. Some of them have criminal background and have been arrested in the NDPS cases earlier too, said the SP. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/eight-arrested-in-baddi-nalagarh-highway-shootout-case-262179
02-06-2021||Under the webinar series of APG Shimla University||Check encroachments||Programmes on tobacco hazardsSpring Dale Convent Senior Secondary School, Paloura, in Jawali, observed World Tobacco Day online. Students from class VI to IX made collages and pictures depicting the hazards posed by tobacco to health. Meanwhile, students of DAV School, Hampirpur, participated in a poster-making competition to illustrate ill effects of tobacco on our health. Students of Government Polytechnic College made posters displaying messages such as ‘Quit tobacco and be winner’.NSUI questions construction of statueThe NSUI has urged HPU to exempt entrance exam fee for students instead of erecting statues of leaders on the campus. A statue of Atal Bihari Vajpayee is being constructed on the HPU campus. The NSUI said while the university had not held practicals in many departments in the last semester and the result of SET had not been declared, the VC was busy building the statues to “please his bosses”. The NSUI questioned the need to spend lakhs in building the statue, when there was already one statue of the leader at the evening college.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/check-encroachments-262180
02-06-2021||Lalit Mohan||Dharamsala MC to impose property tax on merged areas from 2019||Tribune News ServiceDharamsala, June 1The merged areas of Dharamsala Municipal Corporation would have to pay property tax from 2019. The MC authorities have started conducting a survey to assess the property tax to be imposed on merged areas.Besides the merged areas, the authorities are also gearing up to collect tax from commercial properties in old city areas. The previous elected body of Dharamsala MC had passed a resolution last year and urged the government to waive property tax on hotels and other commercial buildings for a period of three months when there was complete lockdown. However, sources here said that the government has not accepted the decision of Dharamsala MC and had just deferred the collection of tax.After the Dharamsala municipal council was upgraded to municipal corporation in 2015 eight adjoining villages were included in the city. The previous Congress government had exempted the merged areas from paying up property tax for a period of two years till 2017. The present BJP government gave further exemption of two years from property tax to merged areas till 2019.Though the tax holiday to merged areas ended in 2019 the local body has not yet collected property tax from the merged areas. However, now deprived of its earning as people even in old city areas were not paying property and other essential taxes the authorities have decided to impose tax even on merged areas.The Dharamsala MC collects about Rs 4 crores annually as property tax. However, still about 75 per cent area of the MC that includes the newly merged areas are not paying any MC taxes. The MC authorities are of the opinion that the income of Dharamsala MC is likely to increase threefold after property and other taxes are imposed on merged areas.BJP Mayor of Dharamsala MC Onkar Nehria has supported the demand of hoteliers of the region to waive property tax for the period during which complete lockdown was imposed. Nehria, when contacted by The Tribune, said that in his opinion property tax of six months should be exempted for the owners of hotels and commercial buildings. The Dharamsala MC will pass a resolution in this regard and send it to government.The sources, however, said that pressed for finances the government was unlikely to waive the property tax.Commissioner of Dharamsala MC, Pradeep Thakur admitted that a survey was being conducted to collect property tax from the merged areas. When asked about three-month waiver that was announced for hoteliers by former Mayor of Dharamsala MC in 2020, the commissioner said that there was no notification in this regard from the government.The commissioner said that the Dharamsala MC has not been able to collect even essential charges from people due to corona lockdown. The collection of urban taxes was started by MC in the months of January and income has picked up a bit. However, after the second corona wave lockdown, the tax collection has once again been hampered. The MC authorities would start collecting their taxes once the things return to normal.75% area not paying any taxes||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/dharamsala-mc-to-impose-property-tax-on-merged-areas-from-2019-262181
02-06-2021||---||Indigenous anti-hail gun project gets nod of Himachal minister||Shimla, June 1Horticulture Minister Mahender Singh has given a go-ahead to the trial of indigenous anti-hail guns, prepared by IIT Bombay and Dr YS Parmar Horticulture and Forestry University, Nauni, in the hail-prone areas of the state.Following a presentation on the indigenous anti-hail gun today, the Horticulture Minister approved a pilot project under which at least 10 anti-hail guns will be installed to check their efficacy in preventing hailstone. “We have asked them go ahead and do the necessary research on these anti-hail guns,” said the minister.It may be mentioned here that apple growers have suffered massive losses due to untimely snowfall and persistent hailstorm. “We thought anti-hail net was enough to safeguard the crop. However, the untimely snowfall not only tore apart the anti-hail nets and the supporting structure but also the trees and young plants. Anti-hail guns could provide more protection,” the minister said.As many as six imported anti-hail guns are already installed in the apple growing belt in district Shimla. However, these guns are quite expensive compared to indigenous guns. “Not only the imported guns are expensive, but their operational cost is also very high. The indigenous anti-hail guns will run on LPG, which will cut down the operational cost,” said Harish Chauhan, convener of the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha.“If these guns are found effective, they should be installed at all hail-prone areas in the state,” he said.The minister further directed the officials to fix the rates of apple cartons in collaboration with the HPMC and the manufacturers so that these could be made available to the horticulturalists at reasonable rates, and in time.“The minister has also agreed to the marketing of apple in plastic crates in district Shimla on trial basis,” said Chauhan.Besides, said Chauhan, he has also stated that the government would do its best to provide relief to the orchardists who suffered heavy losses due to snowfall and hailstorm this year.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/indigenous-anti-hail-gun-project-gets-nod-of-himachal-minister-262182
02-06-2021||Our Correspondent
||Nurpur: Erratic piped water supply for 2 months, villagers irked||Nurpur, June 1 Residents of the Gurchal ward in the Mamooh-Gurchal gram panchayat in Nurpur, who have been facing an erratic piped water supply for the past two months, are forced to consume water of a village well, which is suspected to be contaminated. The Jal Shakti Department (JSD) has failed to address their problem despite several reminders.  Villagers, especially women, while expressing resentment against the field staff of the JSD, said if any waterborne disease breaks out after consuming water from the open well, the department would be responsible for it. The affected residents of this village have been running from pillar to post for proper supply of piped water for over one month.  Seema Devi, Sunita, Tripta, Jyoti, Poonam, Rani Devi, Shalini, Raj Kumar, Subhash, Kishori Lal and Pritam said amid the pandemic, the government had been asking people to wash hands frequently but there was no water to even drink. Besides, when villagers have to fetch water from a well far away from their houses, there is no scope for maintaining physical distance. We are wasting most of our day in arranging water, they said.  They threatened to launch a protest if the JSD failed to restore piped water supply in their village within one week.  The villagers have also submitted their complaint through the Chief Minister Helpline, but in vain. Some villagers who can afford to buy water tank are meeting their daily needs on their own but poor residents are suffering. Kushawant Singh, the pradhan of the Mamooh-Gurchal gram panchayat, said he had personally raised the ongoing problem of this village with the officials of the JSD several times who assured that the problem would be redressed but to no avail.  Amit Dogra, Executive Engineer, JSD, Nurpur division, said the piped water problem of Gurchal village was being solved shortly.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/nurpur-erratic-piped-water-supply-for-2-months-villagers-irked-262183
02-06-2021||Our Correspondent||Hamirpur: NIT researchers win design contest||Hamirpur, June 1Young researchers of the National Institute of Technology here won the “India Innovation Challenge Design Contest” (IICDC) 2019 edition conclave, said NIT Director here today.The IICDC was organised by Texas Instruments in collaboration with the Department of Science and Technology, AICTE mission, NSRCEL of IIM Bengaluru and MyGov.Team members, including Rishabh Dhenkawat (Team leader), Uttkarsh Chaurasia, Mohammad Nomaan, Navdeep Singh Rathore, Sitaram Rathi and Rishabh Verma achieved the success under the guidance of Dr Naveen Chauhan, associate professor. Dr Lalit Awasthi said the team won the title for developing artificially intelligent smart wearable product “Drishti” to help the visually impaired. He said “Drishti” enabled visually impaired people to navigate obstacles through the method of electrical muscle stimulation of sartorial muscle.The team had innovated a cutting-edge technical model and business strategies for continuous development of product.He said the team went through numerous judgement phases throughout the year and was among the top 60 final conclave winners while over 18,000 with over 75,000 participations competed in the event.The team was admitted to NSRCEL (IIM Bengaluru) for launchpad & TI mentoring sessions to provide business mentoring and incubation support, he added.Made product for visually impairedThe researchers won the “India Innovation Challenge Design Contest” 2019 edition conclave. The team won the title for developing artificially intelligent smart wearable product “Drishti” to help the visually impaired. He said "Drishti" enabled people to navigate obstacles through electrical muscle stimulation of sartorial muscle.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/hamirpur-nit-researchers-win-design-contest-262184
02-06-2021||---||Himachal Pradesh University to fill posts of asst prof||Shimla, June 1 Himachal Pradesh University (HPU) would conduct interviews to fill the posts of assistant professors, associate professors and professors for history and microbiology that were advertised in December, 2019 and 2020, said chairman, screening committee, Prof Arvind Kalia here today. He said the scrutiny committee had evaluated the marks obtained by the individual candidate and the marks would be displayed on the university web portal http://www.recruitment.hpushimla.in.  The candidate can see the names by using their user ID and password in two to three days. Kalia advised the applicants to visit the university recruitment branch on June 7, 8 and 9 (from 10:00 am to 5:00 pm) for any clarification. No telephonic call, WhatsApp messages and emails would be entertained and the applicant must visit the university recruitment branch for redressal of any query, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-pradesh-university-to-fill-posts-of-asst-prof-262185
02-06-2021||Rajesh Sharma||Cooperative society comes to villagers’ aid in Una||Una, June 1The Swan Women (Multipurpose) Cooperative Society, a subsidiary of the Swan Women Federation, a collective of about 800 rural women self-help groups (SHGs) in Una district, has been helping its members during the Covid-19 crisis.The society, which has a membership of over 10,000 rural women, has extended credits to the needy for livelihood, children’s education, healthcare and other domestic purposes at rates that are cheaper than the banks.Subhadra Rani, chairperson, Swan Women Federation, said 804 SHGs and more than 10,000 women were associated with the organisation. The activities being undertaken by the federation included micro credit at 9.4 per cent annual interest, which was much below the bank interest rates, as well as micro savings at 8 per cent, and 4 per cent annual interest on fixed deposits and savings, which were 2.5 per cent and 1 per cent higher, respectively, than the bank interest rates.Besides, the Swan Women Federation, implements programmes for livelihood promotion, charity and lifestyle improvement, and provides scholarships for meritorious girl students.Santosh Devi from Dathwara village said she and her husband Om Prakash worked as daily wagers and the family income was too meagre to support their three children. Their younger son Rohit had failed in two attempts for recruitment into the Army. He needed coaching, but the family did not have money for it.Santosh said since she was member of a SHG supported by the Swan Women Federation, she took a loan of Rs 10,000, for Rohit to provide him coaching. He got selected in his subsequent attempt, and was now undergoing training.Secretary, Swan Women Cooperative Society, Sunita Sharma said constituted in 2017, the society was worth Rs 17 crore and about 2,000 women members had been extended Rs 4 crore as loan.Society president Raj Kumari said, “Rural women never get loans from banks as they do not own property. Members of the SHGs get loans at affordable interest rates from the society, in the shortest possible time, without any complicated file work.” She said during the pandemic, many rural households had utilised the financial services of the society.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/cooperative-society-comes-to-villagers-aid-in-una-262186
02-06-2021||Several temporary shacks||Webinar on writing at APG, Shimla||Fix irrigation channelTHE Gajanand-Tikri irrigation channel (Kuhal) in Sahu area of Chamba district, which was damaged due to debris some time ago, needs to be restored, so that orchardists and farmers can irrigate their fruit and vegetable fields. We have also approached the officials concerned. We are waiting for the repair of this channel, water supply can be restored. — Residents, Sahu (Chamba)Is a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: hpreadersfeedback@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/webinar-on-writing-at-apg-shimla-262197
02-06-2021||Pratibha Chauhan||Pop prescribed pills, HP tells Covid suspects||Tribune News ServiceShimla, June 1The State Clinical Team in Himachal today issued a recommendatory presumptive treatment for suspected Covid patients in home isolation.The data compiled by the Health Department show that of the 3,143 Covid fatalities in the state, many individuals neglected initial symptoms and later succumbed to the virus and were confirmed positive after death. Though the number of daily deaths and new infections has started declining, the situation is far from normal. “All patients awaiting their Covid test reports should be put on presumptive therapy and the management protocol should be strictly adhered to,” advised Nipun Jindal, Director, National Health Mission.Besides recommending use of masks, hand sanitisation, physical distancing, monitoring oxygen saturation, temperature and pulse for suspect patients, experts have suggested medication, along with vitamin supplements.As a precautionary measure, it has now been decided that all those suspected to be suffering from Covid and exhibiting features of severe acute respiratory illness (fall in oxygen saturation, increased respiratory rate) with their RT-PCR report still awaited shall be admitted in the triage area of the hospital.“These patients shall be considered for chest scan and their Covid treatment started with the aim of maintaining oxygen saturation between 92% and 96% and CPOD at 88-92%,” said experts.The State Clinical Team cautioned that treatment with remdesivir should start only after medical consultation and steroids be given as per the prescribed protocol.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/pop-prescribed-pills-hp-tells-covid-suspects-261832
