04-06-2021||Anarrow||Crack on Shimla IGMC bypass risky||People complacentCOVID cases are coming down, so is caution on the part of the people. At IGMC, people not only sit huddled together on the premises, but also fail to wear masks. Having gone through the pandemic for over a year now, such behaviour is really surprising and shocking. — Vikas, Shimla.What our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: hpreadersfeedback@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/crack-on-shimla-igmc-bypass-risky-263257
04-06-2021||The Lawrence School||School gives sanitisers to panchayat||Webinar on effect of meditationSchool of Yoga at Shoolini University organised a webinar on the occasion of the 7th International Day of Yoga on ‘Health and Happiness’. Keynote speaker Dr Mrithunjay Rathore, associate professor, AIIMS, Raipur, Chattisgarh, spoke on the effect of meditation on prefrontal cortex and its relevance. He explained various styles of meditation such as focus attention meditation, open monitoring meditation and compassion meditation. Chancellor PK Khosla talked about his two two-decade experience in meditation.DAV Foundation Day celebratedDAV Public School, Gohju, celebrated the 135th Foundation Day of DAV Schools through virtual medium under the guidance of Assistant Regional officer GK Bhatnagar and manager Sanjeev Thakur. The school organised many activities such as essay writing, sketch making and role play for the students. Teachers and students delivered speeches regarding the journey of the DAV movement and its impact in education. Meanwhile, DAV Public School, Tiara, organised activities such as slogan writing, article writing, chart making and mantra recitation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/school-gives-sanitisers-to-panchayat-263256
04-06-2021||Dipender Manta||Online classes a challenging task for Lahaul-Spiti students||Tribune News ServiceMandi, June 3Even as the second consecutive academic year in the state has started with online classes, more than 500 students from the remote villages of Lahaul-Spiti are still facing difficulties due to poor Internet connectivity.Miyar valley, Tindi, Madgran, Thirot and Mooling in this tribal district are completely deprived of the Internet facility, which is a major cause of concern for the students in the district.Lahaul-Spiti residents alleged that the state government was responsible for this failure. It had failed to provide Internet connectivity in this remote region.Some parents lamented that they had to send their children away from their houses, where they could find Internet connectivity to attend online classes.Ramesh Kumar Rulba, chairperson of the Zila Parishad Lahaul-Spiti, said, “Poor Internet connectivity is a major challenge for the students of Lahaul-Spiti amid the Covid-19 outbreak. They are unable to avail online education. The state government must take action to ensure Internet access in the remote district.”Deputy Director, Higher Education, Lahaul-Spiti, Chiranji Lal said, “In the absence of Internet connectivity in the remote villages, teachers are finding it difficult to provide online education to students. At least 338 students of classes 1 to VIII and 168 students of classes IX to XII are deprived of online education.To bridge the gap, the teachers are visiting the houses of students once in a week and providing them study material,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/online-classes-a-challenging-task-for-lahaul-spiti-students-263043
04-06-2021||Abhinav Vashisht
||Bhootnath bridge at Kullu to be repaired by August||Kullu, June 3 The Public Works Department (PWD) has set a fresh target to complete the repair work of the Bhootnath bridge in the Sarwari area of Kullu town. The bridge, which has remained closed for traffic since January 6, 2019, will now be completed by the end of August as the work on the important bridge is expected to begin soon. The 96-m-long double-lane bridge costing Rs 10 crore connecting the left bank road with the right bank near the Kullu bus stand developed cracks within five years of its inauguration. It took over eight years to complete the bridge construction, foundation stone of which was laid on May 11, 2005. The tender for repair was awarded to a French company in December, 2019 and the repair work was targeted to be completed by May, 2020. A budget of Rs 2.68 crore was sanctioned for the repair works.  The repair work was started by the company in January, 2020 and officials of the company took samples of the damaged portion of the bridge. The design for repair provided by the company was approved by the consultants and the chief engineer. However, the engineers and skilled labourers of the company were unable to come and start work due to Covid outbreak and the repair work could not be started. The repair work was again slated to resume on August 28, 2020 and PWD authorities stated that the job would be completed within four months. Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur, during his visit to Kullu in January, directed the PWD to restore the bridge for traffic by March. However the work was again delayed due to the second wave of corona. KK Sharma, Superintending Engineer, PWD, Kullu, said that the engineers and labourers of the company had been recalled and e-passes were arranged for them but some of them tested Covid positive due to which the entire team postponed its visit.  Sharma said that the workforce was now expected to arrive soon. One of the engineers was already at the site and a team of the company was expected to arrive soon after which the work would resume.  Education Minister Govind Singh Thakur reviewed the progress of repair work of the bridge with the PWD officials yesterday. He also spoke to the executives of the company undertaking the restoration works. He directed the authorities to expedite the work and finish it as soon as possible.  .||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/bhootnath-bridge-at-kullu-to-be-repaired-by-august-263044
04-06-2021||Shimla||Shimla: Demands met, waste collectors agree to resume
work from today||The Municipal Council and Saheb Karamchari Union have struck a compromise, a day after the union threatened to stop garbage collection and offer mass resignation. As per the compromise worked out today, the garbage collectors will not recover the pending garbage fee but have agreed to distribute the bills to the households that have not been paying the fee. “The MC will generate the bills and the garbage collectors will distribute it to the households, where the pending amount is high,” said MC joint commissioner Ajit Bhardwaj. As per the MC, the pending amount is Rs 10 crore, and 50,000 out of the total 65,000 households in the MC limits have not been paying the fee for a while now. Saheb Karamchari Union president Jaswant Singh sounded happy with the outcome. “We have no problem in distributing the bills generated by the MC. Our men will collect bills from the elderly, who are unable to pay on their own,” he said. “We are satisfied and will return to work from tomorrow,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/shimla-demands-met-waste-collectors-agree-to-resumework-from-today-263045
04-06-2021||Shimla||NHAI told to file reply on Sanwara toll plaza||The High Court today directed the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) to file its reply on a Public Interest Litigation petition, challenging the decision of collecting tax at the Sanwara toll plaza (Solan). Apart from the NHAI, a Division Bench comprising Justice Ravi Malimath and Justice Jyotsna Rewal Dua also directed the Centre and state government to file their replies and listed the matter for further hearing on June 22. During the course of hearing, the petitioner urged the court that the authorities should be restrained from collecting toll at the Sanwara plaza. The court said the prayer for interim relief would be considered after the filing of the reply by the respondents.  The court, in its earlier order passed on June 1, had stayed the collection of toll at the plaza till June 2. The court passed this order on a PIL petition filed by Adit Singal, who has alleged the establishment of the plaza at Sanwara is illegal and contrary to the Rules of National Highway Fee (Determination of Rates and Collection)Rules, 2008. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/nhai-told-to-file-reply-on-sanwara-toll-plaza-263046
04-06-2021||---||Una admn allows farmers to raise contour bandhs||Dharamsala, June 3 In view of the rising unemployment due to the lockdown, the district administration of Una has decided to allow farmers to raise contour bandhs in their fields or private properties in rural areas under MNREGA.  Deputy Commissioner Una Raghav Sharma, while talking to The Tribune, said that MNREGA entitles a family to demand 100 days of manual wage employment every year in rural areas. However, due to rising unemployment it has been decided that the individuals in rural areas of Una district are to be allowed to raise individual assets by working under MNREGA.  Now, any unemployed in rural areas, who had done at least 20 days of manual labour last year, can construct earthen contour bandhs for the houses or farmers up to a cost of Rs 1 lakh under MNREGA. They can also raise stone contour bandh and urban graded bandhs up to a cost of Rs 1 lakh under MNREGA on their individual properties. The idea of the scheme was that unemployed youth can work on their own properties and earn Rs 1 lakh while raising assets to protect their land or houses. The scheme was pertinent in Una district that has over 100 rivulets that swell in monsoons and damage the land of people, the DC said. Sharma said farmers could also be given a grant of Rs 1 lakh under MNREGA to plant fruit trees, medicinal plants or animal fodder crop on their land. For construction of water harvesting tanks on private lands a grant of Rs 1. 5 lakh can be given to individuals. Besides, a grant of Rs 1 lakh can be given for construction of fish ponds, Rs 1 lakh for construction of cow sheds and Rs 12000 for constructing toilets in private houses. The DC said that the scheme had been floated for a period of 2020-21 to ensure that youth who have lost their jobs in private sector can be provided employment opportunities under MNREGA.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/una-admn-allows-farmers-to-raise-contour-bandhs-263047
04-06-2021||anu P Lohumi||Traditional art ‘behropiya’ gets Covid makeover||Tribune News ServiceShimla, June 3Amid the Covid-19 outbreak, traditional performing art “behropiya” (impressionist) has been revived with folk artistes choosing this medium to spread awareness among the masses in a comical way.Recently, a man in Kangra district, who was dressed like a ghost, was seen roaming on the streets to make the public aware about coronavirus. The initiative also gained appreciation from the district administration.District Public Relation Officer, Shimla, Sanjay Sood, who is also an artiste, said, “Folk artistes disguised as lambadar walked on the streets of busy Sabzi Mandi, Lower Bazaar, Lakkar Bazaar and other places in Shimla town, besides suburbs such as Shoghi and rural areas of Chopal and Nerva, talking about precautions, including hand hygiene, social distancing and wearing face masks, in a comical way. There was no written script and the artistes performed on the spot.”The characters are from folk dramas popular in the district. The initiative is being taken to all districts. The artistes use lines such as “Baat hamari hai khas, muh par lagao mask” and other catchy phrases to attract people.They are also distributing booklets with guidelines for Covid patients in home isolation among the masses.The initiative started in Shimla on May 28 and has become popular with residents, especially rural population, as the artistes speak in local dialect.Moreover, the performers do not stop to prevent crowding and are always on the move. Another unique feature is an interaction with the masses.The concept is serving the double purpose of creating awareness and lending a helping hand to folk artistes, who are facing financial crunch due to the lockdown.There are 67 groups of folk artistes with 15 in each group empanelled with the Public Relations Department. Each artiste is paid Rs 1,000 approx for one day.“It is an effective medium to spread awareness among people, especially in the rural areas,” said Kuldeep Mehta, pradhan, gram panchayat Chopal“The mode is very successful as the artistes convey the message in a positive mode and instill confidence among the masses not to be afraid and fight Covid by taking precautions,” said ASHA worker Satya Ranta.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/traditional-art-behropiya-gets-covid-makeover-263048
04-06-2021||Ambika Sharma||Sirmaur villages in Covid grip, task force formed||Tribune News ServiceSolan, June 3A task force has been constituted after 218 of the 259 panchayats in Sirmaur district reported Covid cases.The government has made two categories of panchayat — hypersensitive and sensitive. Hypersensitive panchayats are those where five or more cases have been reported while in sensitive panchayats, the number of cases is less than five.The pandemic has spread its tentacles in rural areas and it has become a cause for concern.“There are 138 hypersensitive (HS) and 80 sensitive panchayats while merely 41 have no case of infection. Panchayats in Paonta Sahib are the worst affected with 70 being rated as hypersensitive and sensitive. Merely eight panchayats have no infection case,” said Deputy Commissioner RK Pruthi.In Nahan, there is only one panchayat where no case has been registered while 34 are hypersensitive and sensitive while in Shillai, there are 16 infection-free panchayats and 19 hyper-sensitive and sensitive ones. In Rajgarh, only one panchayat is free from Covid while 32 are hyper-sensitive and sensitive.In Pachhad, which largely comprises rural areas, only three panchayats are infection-free as against 31. In Sangrah, 12 panchayats are infection-free while 32 are infected.The district continued to have a high positivity rate of 10.24 per cent while the recovery rate has improved to 93.55 per cent. The fatality rate, however, continued to be high at 1.27 per cent, though this too has shown an improvement.“The task force comprising ward members, panchayat secretary, patwari, teachers residing in the wards, anganwadi worker, local health officer, staffer from the Ayurveda Department, social health activist, yuvak and mahila mandals and self-help groups have been constituted to keep a watch on people suffering from influenza and those having breathing trouble,” said Pruthi.Information of positive patients will be given to health and revenue officials and serious patients would be referred to health institutes. The task force will also ensure home quarantine of returnees from high Covid-infected areas to the state.The Block Development Officer and the Sub-Divisional Magistrate will maintain a vigil over their working.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/sirmaur-villages-in-covid-grip-task-force-formed-263049
04-06-2021||Our Correspondent
||7 ambulance drivers honoured in Palampur||Palampur, June 3 Citizens of Palampur town yesterday honoured seven ambulance drivers of the Blood Bank Society, an NGO,  for their service during the Covid crisis, especially last month, when the second wave was at its peak. These Covid warriors ferried patients, as well victims for cremation, in Palampur, Baijnath and Jaisinghpur. In a function held here at the local civil hospital, MLA Ashish Butail, chief patron of the society, said all seven drivers remained on duty after the outbreak of Covid-19. They were given Rs 7,000 each, and mobile phones by Butail. “All our drivers are Covid warriors. Last year, we had four ambulances. Later, with the help of donors, we purchased three more ambulances. Two are fitted with ventilators. Drivers ferried Covid-19 patients and bodies, day and night. Our organisation has taken patients to different hospitals in Himahcal, Punjab and Chandigarh, from their native villages and provided them medical aid, when no one was ready to go near them,” said Butail. Gopal Sood, a member of the society, said the NGO also ran a blood bank, approved by the state government, at the local civil hospital.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/7-ambulance-drivers-honoured-in-palampur-263050
04-06-2021||---||CM inaugurates hospital in Mandi||Mandi, June 3Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur inaugurated a makeshift Covid hospital at Bhangrotu in Mandi district today. Constructed at a cost of about Rs 7 crore, the hospital has a facility of 104 oxygenated beds. Along with an 18-bed emergency care unit (ECU), this hospital also has a 10-bed labour-cum-recovery room and operation theatre.A defibrillator machine has been set up to stabilise heartbeat in the case of a heart attack. An anaesthesia work station has also been set up in the hospital. Every bed has the facility of direct supply from the oxygen plant.After inaugurating the hospital, the Chief Minister visited all blocks of the hospital and took stock of the health facilities and services available. He said that this hospital having ultra-modern facilities would be helpful in fighting corona pandemic. Once the pandemic is over, this facility would be useful as a super-specialty hospital to facilitate the people of the area.He said the pandemic was being tackled effectively in the state. The government had set up eight PSA oxygen plants and the efforts were being made to have 12 other such plants.He said the state government had succeeded in setting up 700 functional ventilators. Besides, 1,700 oxygen concentrators were available in the state. “To ensure better treatment to Covid patients, the bed capacity has been increased from 1,200 to 5,000,” he added.The Chief Minister also held a meeting with the district administration and senior officers of the Health Department in Nerchowk medical college auditorium. He gave necessary directions for preparedness and capacity building in order to tackle the expected third wave of Covid-19.The Chief Minister said the vaccination programme for 45 plus age group was going on smoothly. The vaccine would be available in the state for 18 plus age group after June 15.He asked the district administration to chalk out a strategy to tackle Covid.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/cm-inaugurates-hospital-in-mandi-263051
04-06-2021||---||995 new cases, 23 deaths in Himachal Pradesh||Shimla, June 3As many as 995 Covid cases were reported in the state today, taking the tally to 193,137. Besides, 23 persons died of the virus in the past 24 hours. Seven deaths were reported in Kangra, five in Shimla, four in Sirmaur, two each in Solan and Mandi and one each in Chamba, Una and Hamirpur.The highest number of 201 cases was reported in Kangra, followed by 137 in Mandi, 143 in Una, 111 in Chamba, 93 in Hamirpur, 79 in Shimla, 75 in Bilaspur, 51 in Sirmaur, 44 in Solan, 36 in Kullu, 15 in Kinnaur and 10 in Lahaul and Spiti. The number of active cases declined to 11,057.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/995-new-cases-23-deaths-in-himachal-pradesh-263052
04-06-2021||---||35 lakh tablets, 2 quintal tramadol powder seized||Solan, June 3 As many as 35 lakh tablets and two quintals of tramadol powder were seized by the police during a raid conducted on Orison Pharmaceutical, Kala Amb, today, said SP, Sirmaur, Khushal Sharma. The police registered a case of cheating, forgery, criminal conspiracy  and under the NDPS Act  against the firm last evening. The Punjab Police raided the company on May 30 and irregularities were found in its record pertaining to marketing of tramadol  tablets.  The assistant drugs controller, Nahan, had ordered it to stop production after a show-cause notice issued to the management. The stock was also freezed.  Since tramadol is used as  an intoxicant, its diversion  was a cause for concern for the authorities. The Ajnala police had seized 4,500 tablets in Punjab.    Police sources said the tablet Celcidal-100 SR seized from Punjab was marketed by  PP Pharma, A-1 Park Plaza, Bandra, Mumbai, while another tablet Calvidol-100 SR, which also contains tramadol, was found marketed by  New Care Healthcare, Ahmedabad.  Enquiries by the police  revealed that there was no such firm in Ahmedabad and Bandra in Mumbai. The Orison Pharma management, it seems, had been marketing their products through fake firms, said SP, Sirmaur, Khushal Sharma. “Since these intoxicants were   seized by the  Punjab Police, it appears that its owner Rakesh Goyal had been selling it through fake marketing firms.  This was a violation of the licence issued under the NDPS Act,” added Sharma.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/35-lakh-tablets-2-quintal-tramadol-powder-seized-263053
04-06-2021||---||Only health staff should deliver corona kits: Congress||Mandi, June 3 Congress leader from Seraj Vijay Pal Chauhan today said corona kits should be delivered to patients through health or ASHA workers within the stipulated time. He alleged that to gain political mileage, the state government had allowed BJP leaders to deliver corona kits to home-isolated patients.  He alleged that recently, a BJP-supported gram panchayat pradhan was found Covid positive in the Seraj Assembly segment and he was delivering corona kits.  Vijay Pal requested the government to ensure quick delivery of the same through health or ASHA workers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/only-health-staff-should-deliver-corona-kits-congress-263054
04-06-2021||Shimla||Himachal Pradesh second best in sustainable goals||Himachal Pradesh has been ranked as the second-best state for achieving the targets under Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) India Index and Dashboard.   NITI Aayog today launched the third edition of the SDG India Index and Dashboard 2020-21. The index is being comprehensively documented and the progress made by states and UTs towards achieving the Sustainable Development Goals is being ranked since its inaugural launch in 2018.  Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur congratulated people and said  Himachal Pradesh had been ranked the second best state after Kerala with an overall index of 74. He said Kerala had scored an index of 75.  “Although Kerala and Himachal have maintained their first and second positions, which they had secured in 2019 also, both states have recorded an improvement of 5 points each in their overall index in the 2020 ranking,” he added. He said Himachal was ahead of Kerala in the fields of health and well-being, economic growth and decent work, reduction in inequalities, sustainable cities and communities and production and consumption patterns. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-pradesh-second-best-in-sustainable-goals-263055
04-06-2021||---||Government not keen on Mandi, Fatehpur bypoll soon||Shimla, June 3 The possibility of the Mandi Lok Sabha and Fatehpur Assembly bypoll taking place in the immediate future seems bleak as the state government is of the opinion that the situation is not conducive. The Election Commission of India has sought the opinion of Himachal Government on the issue of holding bypolls. The Mandi Lok Sabha seat had fallen vacant following the demise of sitting BJP MP Ram Swaroop and Fatehpur constituency in Kangra had fallen vacant after the death of Congress MLA Sujan Singh Pathania. Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur has himself stated that the situation was not very conducive for holding of bypolls considering the Covid situation. “Even though there has been an appreciable decline in the number of positive cases in the last one week fatalities have yet to come under control,” admitted a health official. In case the bypolls are not held in the next two months they could well be held only in September after the monsoons are over.  Ram Swaroop, a two-time BJP MP, had passed away at his residence in Delhi on March 17 earlier this year. The BJP has been on the lookout for a contender but as of now, holding the bypolls are not on the priority list of the government.  The Fatehpur seat had fallen vacant on the demise of former minister and Congress MLA Sujan Singh Pathania on February 12, 2021. A seven-time MLA, Pathania (77) had been ailing for the past three years.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/government-not-keen-on-mandi-fatehpur-bypoll-soon-263056
04-06-2021||---||Sentence in Gudiya case deferred again||Shimla, June 3 The quantum of sentence in the Gudiya rape and murder case was deferred again to June 8 by the CBI special court as the lone convict Anil Kumar, alias Nilu, a chirani (wood cutter), could not be produced in the court today due to the curfew in the state. The court had held Nilu guilty of rape and murder on April 28 last. This is the fourth time that the sentence has been deferred. Earlier, the sentenced was to be announced on May 11. It was postponed to May 18, then to May 28 and then again to June 3 .||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/sentence-in-gudiya-case-deferred-again-263057
04-06-2021||Shimla||Congress submits memo to Himachal Governor Bandaru Dattatreya||The Congress today submitted a memorandum to Governor Bandaru Dattatreya, demanding one crore vaccines daily for the country to ensure free vaccination for every citizen. It accused the Centre of creating a digital divide and having multiple prices for Covid vaccines.HPCC president Kuldeep Rathore and Congress Legislature Party (CLP) leader Mukesh Agnihotri submitted a memorandum addressed to the President of India at Raj Bhawan.The Congress said as per data, till May 31, 21.31 crore people had been vaccinated but only 4.45 crore had received both doses. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/congress-submits-memo-to-himachal-governor-bandaru-dattatreya-263058
04-06-2021||Ambika Sharma
||Collections hit, lessees await waiver in toll||Tribune News Service Solan, June 3 Inter-state toll lessees are awaiting waiver in payment as movement of vehicles was down by 33 per cent during the lockdown last year. Of the 11 inter-state barriers in Solan, Sirmaur, Una, Bilaspur and Kangra districts four were auctioned in February last year for the stipulated Rs 29 crore. The remaining seven, which had failed to find takers, had been auctioned in May in the midst of the pandemic. As against the reserve price of Rs 77 crore, they had fetched merely Rs 44 crore, which was 42 per cent lower than the reserve price, as lockdown had already been imposed and business prospects were low, informed officials of the State Taxes and Excise Department (STED). Since tourism had been adversely hit from April to September last year owing to the lockdown, the lessees, who had secured auctions in February, failed to collect the due amount. They have been demanding a waiver in payment and had represented their case before the STED in September last year.  A few thousands of rupees were collected from the vehicles carrying essential goods from April to September as against the monthly collection of over a crore rupees. Though tourist inflow picked up in September, Covid restrictions further acted as a hurdle, said lessees.  “In a bid to assess how much loss had been suffered by various toll lessees, a month-wise assessment of vehicles entering the state from the inter-state barriers was undertaken. It was found that there was 33 per cent traffic reduction vis-à-vis the previous year though business had picked up from October,” informed, Commissioner, STED, Rohan Chand Thakur. “A proposal to provide 35 per cent waiver has been mooted for the barriers auctioned in February in the last financial year and it is under consideration of the Finance Department,” said Thakur. Grant of this waiver will further hit the total collections incurred from the inter-state barriers in the last financial year.  Though these barriers were auctioned from May 2020 to May 2021, the department has extended their tenure for another month as fresh annual auctions would be held later this month. Optimistic of the business picking up by the month end, the officials feel this could fetch better returns.  Despite being a money spinner, the pandemic has severally hit collections in various districts like Solan where out of the stipulated Rs 12.90 crore barely Rs 5.80 crore could be collected by the department from the inter-state barriers at Parwanoo.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/collections-hit-lessees-await-waiver-in-toll-263059
04-06-2021||---||Wet spell likely till June 6||Shimla, June 3  Widespread light to moderate rain lashed parts of Himachal today. The local Met office issued a yellow warning of a thunderstorm and lightning at isolated places in lower and middle hills of Kangra, Mandi, Shimla, Solan and Sirmaur and predicted a wet spell in the region till June 6. Ghumarwin with 67 mm of rainfall was the wettest in the state, followed by Jubbar Hatti 38 mm, Sarkaghat 34 mm, Baldwara and Paonta Sahib 32 mm each, Berthin 29 mm, Arki 27 mm, Dehra Gopipur 22 mm, Sangrah 19 mm. Dalhousie 18 mm, Bharari 16 mm, Janjehli 12 mm, Bilaspur 11 mm, Bhoranj 10 mm, Rampur 9 mm; Kandaghat, Shimla and Una 6 mm each; Kufri and Kothi 5 mm each, Hamirpur and Solan 4 mm each; and Bangana, Bijahi, Banjar, Ghamroor, Bhuntar, Sujanpur Tira, Manali and Gaggal 3 mm each. There was no appreciable change in the minimum temperatures that remained one or two degrees below normal. Keylong was the coldest at night with 7°C. The maximum temperatures decreased by two or three degrees and were five or six degrees below normal. Una was the hottest during the day at 34.3°C.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/wet-spell-likely-till-june-6-263060
04-06-2021||Ravinder Sood 
||Leopard, wild boar spotted in Palampur||Palampur, June 3 As people are forced  to stay indoors due to restrictions  imposed by the state government in view of    Covid-19, wild animals and rare  birds  have been spotted of late on empty streets  of Palampur, Baijnath and Bir.  In the past 10 days, residents have spotted leopards,  wild cats, wild boar, sambhars and wild foxes moving in the  populated areas  like  Lohana, Bundla,  Bindravan and Holta. Last year in lockdown, such animals were  also spotted in many parts of  Palampur.  A critically endangered white fox and monal, which have not been seen in many   years,  resurfaced for the  first time in  a tea garden during lockdown.  Recently,  a leopard was on a prowl in the thickly populated area of Kandi. There were reports that it killed domestic animals. Likewise, a wild boar also attacked  villagers in Bundla area 10 days ago.  On the Palampur-Dharamsala    highway near  the new Neugal bridge, a group of leopards was spotted sitting on the road with cubs  three  days ago.   These animals had  disappeared earlier because of large-scale human activities and the   movement of vehicles passing through forests along the highway.   “This is the habitat they once had, which we have taken away from them,” said  Dr Madhumeet Singh,    a Professor in  the Department of Veterinary and Animal Sciences of HP Agriculture  University in Palampur. “They change their behaviour very quickly when a place becomes quiet. Animals and birds that normally live in urban parks, like sparrows and pigeons, are also more likely to venture beyond their usual territories,” said Dr Madhumeet Singh.   Shepherds moving  to high hills with their animals  these days  told  The Tribune that wild boars  had also descended on upper areas of Palampur and Dharamsala.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/leopard-wild-boar-spotted-in-palampur-263061
04-06-2021||Palampur||Cleaning of drains begins in Palampur||Despite a decade-long ban on polythene bags in the state, their use continues, choking drains in several parts of the town and creating a problem during rain. Ahead of the monsoon, the Palampur Municipal Corporation has started cleaning drains across the city. It is a challenging task, as plastic waste has clogged the drains and water bodies. Several roads in and around Palampur usually get flooded with sewage. Pankaj Sharma, Commissioner, Municipal Corporation, Palampur, said he would try to clean all major drains before the arrival of monsoon. “There is a need to check use of plastic.” He said despite non-availability of labourers, the Municipal Corporation had started a massive campaign to clean the drains with the help of 20 teams, comprising 160 workers, under the supervision of sanitary inspectors deputed in different wards. He said truck loads of garbage, plastic bottles and gunny bags were being pulled out from drains and local water channels. He said these drains were being cleared for the first time in many areas, as most of the new areas of Palampur MC had been parts of different panchayats, where such an exercise was never taken up. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/cleaning-of-drains-begins-in-palampur-263062
04-06-2021||Our Correspondent||Eco-friendly garbage treatment plant at Holta cantonment||Palampur, June 3The Army authorities at Holta cantonment, adjoining Palampur, have set up a eco-friendly zero waste-generation garbage treatment plant. This plant has been designed with scientific composting technique and waste disposal methods. The plant requires segregation of waste at source.The waste collected in the plant is categorised under biodegradable waste and recyclable waste of different categories. After processing in the incineration unit, only non-recyclable and non-compostable waste is left.The main highlight of the plant is that a smokeless waste incinerator has been installed that uses a special air rotating technology, in which a large quantity of solid waste can be burnt to ash within minutes, by effectively regulating air supply without using any fuel or electricity.Brig AK Singh said a similar project had been successfully running at Khasa, Amritsar, from past two years.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/eco-friendly-garbage-treatment-plant-at-holta-cantonment-263063
04-06-2021||Our Correspondent||Expansion of parking lot in Chamba sought||Chamba, June 3A parking lot near the TB hospital has been lying in a state of neglect for years.The Chamba Welfare Association, a local NGO, has urged officials of the local Municipal Council  to develop the existing parking lot into a multi-storey structure. In a statement issued here on Sunday, association president AK Bhardwaj and general secretary SK Kashmiri said there was sufficient government land around this structure, which could be used for expanding the parking lot.Municipal Council vice-president Seema Kashyap, who represents this area, said the matter of developing the parking lot was already under consideration.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/expansion-of-parking-lot-in-chamba-sought-263064
04-06-2021||---||Hotel owner held for flesh trade in Mandi district||Mandi, June 3The police busted a sex racket and arrested two persons under the immoral trafficking Act at Balh in Mandi district today.According to the police, a hotel owner was running the flesh trade in his hotel at Balh. According to Superintendent of Police Shalini Agnihotri, on a tip-off, the police raided the hotel and recovered two girls from the site. The police rescued the victims and arrested the owner and an employee of the hotel.The SP stated that a case had been registered. She said the accused would be produced before the local court tomorrow.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/hotel-owner-held-for-flesh-trade-in-mandi-district-263065
04-06-2021||---||Coop banks gave Rs 450 cr to 30k people, says minister||Shimla, June 3To provide relief to people during the ongoing pandemic, cooperative banks have provided loans worth Rs 450 crore to more than 30,000 people, said Urban Development and Co-operation Minister Suresh Bhardwaj here yesteday.The Co-operative Department and co-operative banks should prepare schemes to provide relief to the public and focus on the basic objective of supporting and uplifting the people in rural areas.The minister directed the department and banks to give publicity to various schemes so that the information could be provided to the people. Farmers, horticulturists and small traders had been affected due to the pandemic. Banks should come forward to provide credit facilities to the maximum people.Bhardwaj said all banks should analyse and implement schemes. Various schemes were being run for street vendors. The Himachal Pradesh State Co-operative Bank had given loans of Rs 340 crore to about 10,000 people during the pandemic.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/coop-banks-gave-rs-450-cr-to-30k-people-says-minister-263068
04-06-2021||Strap||Accused in fake vehicle registration scam dies||-----------Tribune News Service  Dharamsala, June 3Chandigarh resident Pawan Kumar, who was lodged in the Dharamsala jail for the past three months in a fake vehicle registration scam, died at a local hospital last evening. The deceased's son Kamaljeet Verma, who came to Dharamsala today, alleged that his father was not given proper medical treatment in the jail. "I had talked to my father over the phone recently and he was alright. However, late Wednesday evening, I received a call from the jail authorities that my father has died and that he was Covid positive. He was diabetic and patient of hypertension. If he had contracted the infection, he should have been shifted to a hospital in time," he alleged.  Kamaljeet has demanded an inquiry into the death of his father.  Superintendent, Dharamsala jail, Vikas Bhatnagar said Pawan Kumar suffered a cardiac arrest and he was taken to the Dharamsala Zonal Hospital, where he died. Later, he also tested positive for Covid infection.   Bhatnagar said deceased Pawan was asymptomatic. When asked, the Jail Superintendent said 137 jail inmates had been tested for Covid, of which 13 were found infected. All of them had been being housed in separate barracks.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/accused-in-fake-vehicle-registration-scam-dies-263069
04-06-2021||New Delhi||Himachal Pradesh among top five states on NITI Aayog’s SDG India Index||Himachal Pradesh figures among the top five performing states in NITI Aayog’s Sustainable Development Goal (SDG) India Index 2020-21, according to a report released on Thursday. Kerala retained the top rank, while Bihar has been adjudged the worst performer. Bihar’s score is 52 and Jharkhand’s 56 (the worst performing states this year).Country’s Overall score up by 6 pointsCountry’s overall SDG score improved by 6 points—from 60 in 2019 to 66 in 2020-21. This positive stride towards achieving the targets is largely driven by exemplary country-wide performance in goal 6 (clean water and sanitation) and goal 7 (affordable and clean energy).Noting that the country’s overall SDG score has improved by six points—from 60 in 2019 to 66 in 2020-21, the index, which was released by NITI Aayog’s Vice-Chairman Rajiv Kumar in the presence of Member (Health) VK Paul, CEO Amitabh Kant and Adviser (SDG) Sanyukta Samaddar, has placed Kerala at the top of the list with 75 points on a scale of 100.“This positive stride towards achieving the targets is largely driven by exemplary countrywide performance in goal 6 (clean water and sanitation) and goal 7 (affordable and clean energy), where the composite goal scores are 83 and 92, respectively,” the SDG Index report said. Mizoram, Haryana, and Uttarakhand were the top gainers in 2020-21 in terms of improvement in score from 2019, with an increase of 12, 10 and eight points, respectively.Himachal Pradesh and Tamil Nadu bagged 74 points to share the second spot, while Andhra, Goa, Karnataka and Uttarakhand shared the third spot with 72 points. The fourth and fifth positions were bagged by Sikkim (71) and Maharashtra (70), respectively.As the index was prepared on the basis of 16 identified goals, including a host of social, environmental and economic parameters, different states did well on different counts. Tamil Nadu and Delhi have been adjudged best in dealing with issues relating to poverty. Similarly, Kerala and Chandigarh did well to ensure zero hunger.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-pradesh-among-top-five-states-on-niti-aayogs-sdg-india-index-263077
04-06-2021||Shimla||Rs 1,169 crore World Bank plan to boost Shimla water supply||Negotiations for the release of $160 million (Rs 1,169 crore) for the Shimla Water Supply and Sewerage Services Improvement Programme are going on between the state government and World Bank.3-fold objective“The World Bank has already given in-principle approval for the plan. The negotiations, through the Department of Economic Affairs relating to terms and conditions, are likely to conclude tomorrow,” said Dharmendra Gill, MD, Shimla Jal Prabandhan Nigam Limited, who is part of the negotiation team. The programme was initiated in 2018 following a severe water crisis in the city. Two years before that, the city had witnessed a massive jaundice outbreak when sewage was found in a water source in Solan.“The project was to be funded by the World Bank through development policy loan in three phases. We had received $40 million for the first phase. But with the outbreak of Covid, the bank stopped the funding last year,” said Gill. The Urban Development Department and SJPNL again pursued the matter. “We stared afresh and have asked for $160 million for the project. This is in addition to the $40 million we received in 2018,” said Gill.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/rs-1-169-crore-world-bank-plan-to-boost-shimla-water-supply-263040
