06-06-2021||Shimla||18 more Covid deaths, 357 new cases in Himachal||Eighteen more people died of Covid-19 in Himachal Pradesh, taking the death toll to 3,281, while 357 fresh cases pushed the infection count to 1,95,099, an official said on Sunday.According to the state health department, the active cases have now dipped to 8,361.The overall recoveries so far has reached 1,83,434 with 1,459 patients recuperating from the infection in the past 24 hours, the official said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/18-more-covid-deaths-357-new-cases-in-himachal-264419
06-06-2021||---||Fish found dead at Parwanoo||Tribune News ServiceSolan, June 5A large number of fish was found dead in a natural pond at Sector 1 in the industrial town of Parwanoo this morning. Local residents informed officials of the State Pollution Control Board (SPCB) about the incident. The officials found the dead fish floating on the shallow muddy water of the pond.Several industries are located in the vicinity of the pond and a drastic decline in the level of dissolved oxygen could also occur due to the dumping of industrial effluents into it.Pradeep Moudgil, Assistant Environment Engineer, SPCB, along with a team reached the pond. He said that as per a preliminary probe, the fish mortality had occurred due to the decline in the dissolved oxygen level. Fresh water was also pumped into the pond to enhance the level of oxygen. The officials of the veterinary and fisheries departments lifted samples of the fish to ascertain the cause of mortality.Local residents were aghast to see such a large number of fish dead. They said that no such incident had occurred in the past more than two decades. They added that in the past, fresh water was pumped into the pond regularly but owing to Covid, it was not done this year.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/fish-found-dead-at-parwanoo-264245
06-06-2021||Shimla||Congress misleading on vaccine: BJP||BJP chief spokesperson Randhir Sharma on Friday accused the Congress of misleading the public and trying to gain cheap popularity on the issue of vaccination.He said giving a memorandum to the Governor in this regard and repeatedly making press statements reflected “petty politics” of the Leader of Opposition Mukesh Agnihotri. He said over 22 crore people in the country, including 24 lakh in the state, had been vaccinated so far due to the efforts of the Union Government.He said the state and central governments were making efforts to vaccinate everyone in a phased manner. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/congress-misleading-on-vaccine-bjp-264244
06-06-2021||Kullu||Crisis-hit Kullu auto drivers seek relief||The Kullu Auto Union has appealed to the state government to allow its members to operate, as all markets are opening for a limited duration since May 31. It has also urged the government to provide them Rs 5,000 per month and ration, as they had suffered huge losses due to the Covid crisis. The union submitted a memorandum regarding their demands to the Kullu DC today.Kullu Taxi Union president Prabal Kumar said yesterday that various taxes on commercial vehicles should be waived for two years during which there had been no tourism activity due to Covid.He added that many taxi operators were unable to repay their bank loans and some relief should be provided to them or they would be forced to sell even their lone source of livelihood — auto-rickshaws.Sanjay Kapoor, general secretary, Himachal Pradesh Auto Union, said that last year, the auto-rickshaw drivers suffered financial losses due to the lockdown. He added that even this year they were suffering losses due to the curfew since May 6, making their survival difficult.He said that some operators had taken loans to purchase new vehicles and now they were unable to pay monthly instalments. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/crisis-hit-kullu-auto-drivers-seek-relief-264243
06-06-2021||Legal Correspondent||No coercive action against journalist, High Court tells police||Shimla, June 5The High Court has restrained the police from taking any coercive action against a journalist, who had exposed irregularities in the e-pass service that allowed visitors to enter the state during the pandemic.Justice Ajay Mohan Goel passed the interim order on a petition filed by journalist Aman Kumar Bhardwaj seeking the quashing of an FIR registered against him on May 7 in Shimla.As per the charge, the journalist had applied for e-passes in the names of Amitabh Bachchan and Donald Trump by furnishing his own Aadhaar card details and surprisingly e-passes were generated without verification. The petitioner broadcast the story, highlighting the manner in which e-passes were being generated without verification of the documents.The court also directed the government to file its reply by the next date of hearing and on June 28. It clarified in the order that till then, no coercive action would be taken against the petitioner.The petitioner contended that the FIR was an attempt to curb the freedom of press. The right to freedom of press includes the right to investigate, publish and circulate opinion by resorting to the available means of publication and broadcasting.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/no-coercive-action-against-journalist-high-court-tells-police-264242
06-06-2021||Mandi||Industry sends medical supply of Oxygen to Mandi administration||Industrial units are doing their bit in combating the Covid crisis in Mandi district. These are providing medical supplies to the administration for the purpose.Afcon Infrastructure Limited, Mandi, presented medical supplies for the oxygen bank to the district administration. Afcon representative Colonel BS Goraya handed over this material to Additional DC Jatin Lal.He presented two oxygen concentrators, 50 oxygen flowmeters and 100 digital thermometers.Besides, Power Lines, industrial area, Sauli Khad, also presented 28 oximeters, 10 infrared thermometer scanners and 120 digital thermometers. Chandra Traders, Sauli Khad, provided 50 blankets. RK Aromatic, Lunapani donated five oxygen flowmeters, 20-litre sanitiser, 600 triple layer masks and six oxygen cylinder keys, Nitin Enterprise, Sauli Khad, and MR Sons Furniture, Gutkar, presented 50 digital thermometers and 20-litre sanitiser each. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/industry-sends-medical-supply-of-oxygen-to-mandi-administration-264241
06-06-2021||---||Women club cooks food for Covid patients in Mandi district||Mandi, June 5The women’s club of the Art of Living is providing a helping hand during the second wave of Covid-19 by cooking nutritious food daily and delivering it at the patients’ homes, in Mandi district.Among these women are Maya Vardhaan, Mridula Kapoor, Anjli Sabharwal, Pushpa Thakur, Navkiran Kaur, Amrit Chawla, Sandeep Kaur, Meenu Sachdeva and Devindra sood, who are toiling hard to provide home-cooked food to the patients, who are under home-isolation.Their noble deed has won them admiration from the people of Mandi town. These women have shared their contact numbers on social media, so that people in need can reach out to them.Maya Vardhaan, president, women’s club, told The Tribune, “Since the Covid-19 outbreak in the district, women members are working relentlessly. We have engaged a vehicle to deliver food packets at the homes of infected patients in Mandi town, and nearby places. We will help the needy till the situation improves.”She said apart from Covid-positive patients, they received calls from a few destitute families asking for help during the pandemic. They provided dry ration to five such families, she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/women-club-cooks-food-for-covid-patients-in-mandi-district-264240
06-06-2021||Our Correspondent||Spreading awareness through ‘corona songs’ in Kullu district||Kullu, June 5The Rustom volunteers and the police have been carrying out campaigns across the district to apprise people of the Covid protocol. They have been visiting markets and marriage venues, and creating awareness through ‘corona songs’. The police have been taking out flag march and patrolling has been increased.People are being made aware through public announcement vans. The police are also carrying out surveillance through drones to check violations. Kullu SP Gaurav Singh said 1,604 vehicles that were roaming unnecessarily, had been sent back from 26 temporary posts across the district, in the past 15 days, during the curfew. He said 76 police personnel and 115 home guard jawans were serving at temporary posts.The SP said the police and the Rustom volunteers had gone to 33 weddings and spread awareness through songs. Norms were flouted at three marriages, and a fine of Rs 5,000 each was imposed, he said.Yashpal Sharma, a resident of Kullu town, said people were ignorant and negligent, so the police had to carry out awareness drives.Another resident Anshul said there had been a decline in the number of active cases, but the Covid threat was not over yet. People should avoid loitering in the markets without any purpose, he said.The SP said a fine of Rs 4,19,000 had been recovered from 421 challans, from May 7 to 31.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/spreading-awareness-through-corona-songs-in-kullu-district-264239
06-06-2021||Tribune Nesw Service||818 fresh Covid cases, 19 succumb to infection in Himachal||Shimla, June 5As many as 818 Covid cases were reported in the state today, taking the tally to 194,742.Besides, 19 persons died in the past 24 hours. Six deaths were recorded in Mandi, four in Kangra, three in Solan, two each in Sirmaur and Shimla and one each in Kullu and Chamba.The highest number of 154 cases was recorded in Kangra, followed by 133 in Mandi, 100 in Bilaspur, 97 in Chamba, 79 in Shimla, 66 in Hamirpur, 60 in Solan, 43 in Una, 38 in Sirmaur, 22 in Kullu, 21 in Kinnaur and five in Lahaul and Spiti. The number of active cases declined to 9,484.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/818-fresh-covid-cases-19-succumb-to-infection-in-himachal-264238
06-06-2021||Lalit Mohan||No nephrologist in Kangra, kidney patients suffer||Tribune News ServiceDharamsala, June 5Kidney patients in Kangra district are suffering as there is no nephrologist to treat them.Sources say that the lone nephrologist posted at the Tanda medical college was transferred to Shimla about two years ago but no replacement was provided despite the demand of local MLAs and ministers.Dialysis stoppedThey say patients on ventilator support at Tanda medical college are unable to get dialysis done in the absence of a nephrologist in the hospital.Ajay Mahajan, district Congress president, alleges that the up-pradhan of a village died on Wednesday, as he could not get dialysis done at the Tanda medical college. The patient was serious and required dialysis urgently. However, he died as no nephrologist was available in the entire region, he says.Mahajan says that the state government had not posted a nephrologist in Kangra, the biggest district of the state. Three ministers in the state Cabinet and seven MLAs of the BJP from the district are answerable to people for the unavailability of the services of a nephrologist in the region, he adds.Forests Minister Rakesh Pathania had also raised the issue when a BJP leader from Chamba admitted to Tanda medical college did not get the services of a nephrologist.Kangra CMO GD Gupta admits that dialysis facility is not available at Tanda medical college and there is no nephrologist in government hospitals in the district. He, however, says that 25 patients are undergoing dialysis at the Dharamsala Zonal Hospital every day. Private agencies are operating dialysis machines installed by the government at the Dharamsala Zonal Hospital and the Nurpur Civil Hospital on the outsourced basis. But performing the dialysis procedure on renal patients in the absence of a nephrologist is an unethical practice. Dialysis is being performed under the online surveillance of a nephrologist, whenever required, he adds.The CMO says that dialysis machines for Covid patients are available at Tanda medical college but there is no nephrologist to conduct the procedure.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/no-nephrologist-in-kangra-kidney-patients-suffer-264237
06-06-2021||Shimla||Film released||‘Mission Sankalp’, a short film produced by Miss Himachal 2020 Arushi Thakur was released by Principal Secretary, Environment, Science and Technology, KK Pant on World Environment Day here today.The film was released on Youtube channel named ‘Mahadev Studios’. The movie throws light on simple initiatives that individuals can take to save the environment. Rajesh Kumar has directed the movie. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/film-released-264236
06-06-2021||Our Correspondent||One-year extension for Himachal Pradesh Technical University Vice-Chancellor||Hamirpur, June 5Prof SP Bansal, Vice-Chancellor of Himachal Pradesh Technical University here, has got extension for one year. His tenure was to be completed on June 11.Prof Bansal had joined the university in June 2018. He had been VC of two universities in Haryana.He was the only Vice-Chancellor, who had converted the HPTU from the affiliating university to teaching university and started over 15 new courses on its campus.It was only during his tenure that the university could fetch TEQUIP grant of over Rs 20 crore for infrastructure development.Thanking Bandaru Dattatreya, Governor, Prof Bansal said he would continue to improve the quality of technical education and ranking of the university. He was also thankful to Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur for extending his tenure.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/one-year-extension-for-himachal-pradesh-technical-university-vice-chancellor-264235
06-06-2021||Shimla||Doctors for judicious use of remdesivir in Himachal||The state clinical team for Covid 19 has recommended that Remdesivir may be considered only for patients with moderate to severe disease, requiring supplemental oxygen and the drug has no medical history of kidney or liver dysfunction. The patients should receive this drug within 10 days of the onset of the Covid disease.A spokesperson for the Health Department said that the drug was not to be used for patients who are not on oxygen support or are in home settings.He further said that a Remdesivir audit committee should be established in every DCHC and DCH to take a collective decision on a case-to-case basis. He urged the public not to attempt to procure or administer Remdesivir at home.As far as the availability of Remdesivir is concerned, he said a total of 8,970 vials of Remdesivir were available currently in various facilities in the state. The Health Department issues advisory for judicious use of steroids during Covid-19 pandemicHe further warned people against the indiscriminate use of steroids without consulting competent medical personnel. “It may result into delayed clearance of the virus from the body and adverse outcomes like suppression of the body immunity and precipitation of diabetes mellitus and uncontrolled blood sugar level,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/doctors-for-judicious-use-of-remdesivir-in-himachal-264234
06-06-2021||---||Improper use  of resources caused damage, says expert||Solan, June 5The Department of Environmental Science at Dr YS Parmar University of Horticulture and Forestry, Nauni, celebrated World Environment Day on the theme ‘Ecosystem restoration’ through the virtual mode today.The slogan ‘Recreation, Re-imagination and Restoration of Ecosystem’ chosen this year would kick-start the UN Decade on Ecosystem Restoration Programme for the 2021-2030 period.Prof SK Bhardwaj, Head of Environment Science Department, said, “Nature gives us signals to mend our ways and work towards the protection and conservation of the environment. The pandemic has proved that an unbalanced use of natural resources by humans has caused irreversible changes in nature. The time is right to take action at the individual level to prevent, halt and reverse the degradation of the ecosystem so that this planet can be saved for future generations”.More than 65 undergraduate and postgraduate students and faculty members attended the event. Various competitions such as slogan writing, painting, photography, short video and a quiz were also organised virtually.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/improper-use-of-resources-caused-damage-says-expert-264227
06-06-2021||Our Correspondent||Farm University to teach environment science||Palampur, June 5World Environment Day was celebrated virtually at CSK HP Agriculture University here today.HK Chaudhary, Vice-Chancellor, said that from the forthcoming academic session, the university would introduce a course on environment science. It would be compulsory for every student to plant at least two saplings and take care of them during his or her stay on the campus. The students would be awarded grades at the end of their degree programme based on the performance of their plants.The Vice-Chancellor said that Mother Nature is worshiped in India since ages and plants had been an integral part of all religious and other important ceremonies. “God has given us a beautifully decorated earth but human greed has badly bruised it, resulting in catastrophes where man has been compelled to purchase oxygen for his survival,” said Chaudhary.He said students, right from nursery classes to the highest degree programme, should be sensitised about nature. They should be taken to forests so that they could connect to nature and care for it throughout their life. He discussed the issues related to carbon credits and its importance in reducing, removing and avoiding greenhouse gas emissions for a healthy environment. He also underlined the importance of judicious planning for plantations so that region-specific approved plantations are done by the industry, institution, community or individuals concerned. SS Samant, Director, Himalayan Forest Research Institute, Shimla, said that ecosystem restoration could provide enhanced biodiversity outcomes as well as improve human well-being in degraded landscapes.Hemant Gupta, Additional Principal Chief Conservator of Forests, underlined the stepwise importance of ecological restoration involving the stakeholders. He said that there was need to adopt a strategy of adaptive ecosystem research and adaptive ecosystem management. He also detailed the efforts of the Forest Department in ecosystem restoration.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/farm-university-to-teach-environment-science-264220
06-06-2021||Our Correspondent||Traffic restored through Rohtang Pass||KULLU, JUNE 5The traffic has been restored through the 13,058-foot high Rohtang Pass. Oil tankers, gas cylinders or explosives are not allowed to cross Atal Tunnel and these are being sent via the Rohtang Pass.The police and administration had visited the Pass to take stock of the road condition. However, tourist vehicles have not yet started. The tourist footfall is negligible due to the corona crisis. Manali DSP Sanjeev Kumar said traffic would be allowed for tourism purpose in the Rohtang Pass after guidelines are issued by the government.The police have set up barriers at Gulaba as per the orders of the National Green Tribunal (NGT) to restrict the number of vehicles to protect the fragile ecology of the region.During the peak tourist season, everyday only 1,200 vehicles (800 petrol and 400 diesel), are allowed to cross the Gulaba barrier. Manali SDM Raman Gharsangi said the permits would be provided manually until the number of visitors increases.Manali Hoteliers’ Association president Anup Ram Thakur said now the traffic towards Lahaul would cross through the tunnel and only tourist vehicles visit the Rohtang Pass. The government should approach the NGT again to review its decision of capping the number of vehicles. Now, the visitors could cross the tunnel and reach the Rohtang Pass from the Lahaul side without any permit or paying environment cess.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/traffic-restored-through-rohtang-pass-264209
06-06-2021||Mandi||NGOs plant saplings in Mandi||Volunteers of NGO Helping Hand planted 500 saplings in a forest at Kangnidhar in the district. They also collected waste plastic material from the Kangnidhar helipad area.Vaibhav Shukla and Kartik Sharma, NGO members, said, “We urge the administration to ensure police patrolling in the helipad area to check dumping of plastic material.” In Lahaul and Spiti, the Young Drukpa Association Garsha and the Lahaul Spiti Cycling Association planted 500 plants in the Kardang forest area. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/ngos-plant-saplings-in-mandi-264206
06-06-2021||---||World Environment Day: ‘60T plastic waste used to build roads every year’||Shimla, June 5The state government has taken several steps for environment protection, pollution control and climate change adaptation. As a result, Himachal has emerged as a leading state of the country in environment protection, said KK Pant, Principal Secretary, Environment, Science and Technology, today. He was presiding over a state-level World Environment Day function organised virtually here.He said that plastic cups, plates, and glasses were banned in the state way back in 2011.Items made of thermocol such as ‘thali’, cups, plates, spoons were also banned in 2018. Plastic waste was being collected through the Polythene Hatao, Paryavaran Bachao campaign and being used in road construction and in cement industries as fuel, he added.Pant said that every year about 60 tonnes of plastic waste was being collected and used to metal 190 km of roads. Moreover, the government had launched the buyback policy for procuring non-recyclable plastic waste at Rs 75 per kg to tackle the problem arising due to plastic packaging waste.Under the scheme, 135,600 kg of plastic had been procured at a cost of Rs 87 lakh so far.He said that the work on many research projects was in progress for strengthening environmental management in the state. A landslideearly warning system had been developed with the help of experts from the IIT, Mandi.The Environment, Science and Technology Department had also developed an air quality monitoring system.On the occasion, the Principal Secretary released the climate risk assessment report, a pilot study of Kullu district prepared by the department with technical support from GIZ.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/world-environment-day-60t-plastic-waste-used-to-build-roads-every-year-264205
06-06-2021||---||Political leaders express grief||Tribune ReportersHamirpur, June 5Leaders of all political parties mourned the death of Narinder Bragta, MLA from Jubbal Kotkhai, today.Former Chief Minister Prem Kumar Dhumal said Bragta was a visionary and was concerned about all-round growth of people. He wanted to connect every orchard with road link so that produce could easily be transported to the market.Former Forest Minister and MLA Ram Lal Thakur said Bragta was a humble and honest politician, who always raised voice for people. Although he was from different ideology, still he was cooperative to all.Shimla: The CPM has expressed grief over the death of Jubbal-Kotkhai MLA and former Horticulture Minister Narinder Bragta. The CPM said the state had lost a capable leader who always raised his voice for the welfare of the people. “It’s a loss not only for his family, but for everyone. The state will miss a leader like him,” said CPM state secretary Onkar Shad.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/political-leaders-express-grief-264204
06-06-2021||---||Jai Ram Thakur, ministers pay floral tributes||Shimla, June 5Floral tributes were paid to chief whip and former minister Narinder Bragta after his body was brought to the BJP state headquarters in Shimla for “antim darshan” today.Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur and his Cabinet colleagues and state BJP chief Suresh Kashyap laid wreaths on his body.Jai Ram Thakur, Chief MinisterHave lost a friend: CMBragta always took care of the interests of people of Jubbal-Kotkhai and horticulturists. I have lost a friend, who enriched the party by his experiences. He always stood by the people.Expressing grief over the death of Bragta, who died at the PGI, Chandigarh, in the wee hours today at the age of 69, Jai Ram Thakur said people, particularly of Shimla district, would always remember the contributions made by him in various fields such as horticulture, technical education.He said Bragta had always taken care of the interests of people of Jubbal-Kotkhai and horticulturists, besides giving new direction to the development of the area.He had lost a friend,who enriched the party by his experiences. Bragta always stood by the people, said the Chief Minister.Earlier, Thakur, Kashyap along with Himachal BJP in-charge Avinash Rai Khanna, co-in-charge Sanjay Tandon, organising secretary Pawan Rana, MLAs Dr Rajiv Bindal and Paramjit Singh Pammi, vice-chairman, Water Management Board, Darshan Singh Saini, former MP Kripal Parmar and other BJP leaders also paid tribute at Himachal Bhawan in Chandigarh.Bragta would be accorded state funeral at his native Tathali village in Kotkhai tomorrow. The programmes, scheduled for today, had been cancelled. Bragata was also paid floral tributes at Solan, Shoghi, Theog and Chhaila and Kotkhai.Governor Bandaru Dattatreya has expressed grief over his death.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/jai-ram-thakur-ministers-pay-floral-tributes-264202
06-06-2021||Shimla||Narinder Bragta dies a month after Covid recovery||Narinder Bragta (68), who was a sitting BJP legislator from the Jubbal-Kotkhai Assembly segment in Shimla, died at the PGI, Chandigarh, this morning after a brief illness.The three-time MLA, who was the Chief Whip of the BJP in the Vidhan Sabha, had recovered from Covid. He was admitted to the PGI, Chandigarh, about a month back due to heart and kidney ailments.The death of the former minister is a major setback for the ruling party as he was considered a tall leader from old Himachal, who vociferously raised the issues concerning people of the area, particularly apple growers.Bragta had been elected to the Vidhan Sabha for the first time in 1998 and remained horticulture minister in the BJP regime led by Dhumal from 1998 to 2003. He was again inducted into the Cabinet by the Dhumal government from 2007 to 2012. He was born on September 12, 1952, and his son Chetan Bragta, a BJP youth wing leader, is his political successor.Bragta had been peeved at not being inducted in the BJP regime headed by Jai Ram Thakur after the BJP assumed power in 2017. He was considered a staunch Dhumal loyalist, who never hesitated to speak his mind when it came to raising issues concerning people of his Assembly segment and the apple belt comprising Shimla, Kinnaur, Solan and Sirmaur. He believed in calling a spade a spade, irrespective of the consequences, a trait which resulted in his being labelled as a dissident.Attempts were made to placate him by appointing him as the Chief Whip. However, he continued to make utterances which clearly reflected his displeasure for not being accorded importance as per his political stature. He lost out in the race for a ministerial berth in 2017 as the party chose to give chance to Shimla MLA Suresh Bhardwaj, who made it to the Cabinet for the first time. — TNSThree-time MLA||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/narinder-bragta-dies-a-month-after-covid-recovery-264201
06-06-2021||---||Class XII Himachal board exams cancelled||Shimla, June 5The state government today decided to extend the curfew till June 14 and cancel the Class XII examinations to be conducted by the Himachal Board of School Education. The decisions were taken at a Cabinet meeting chaired by Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur here.The Cabinet meeting was scheduled to be held in the morning but was postponed due to the demise of BJP legislator Narinder Bragta as the Chief Minister rushed to Chandigarh on hearing the news.However, after he returned from Chandigarh, a brief meeting of the Cabinet was held and only two emergent issues of the Class XII exams and extending the curfew were taken up.Though there has been an appreciable decline in the number of Covid cases, based on the feedback from various quarters, the government decided to continue with the curfew till 6 am on June 14 with all existing restrictions.Public transport would continue to remain suspended and all educational institutions would also remain closed. The restriction of 20 persons at all social gartherings, including marriages and funerals, would also remain in force.“The Cabinet decided to cancel the Class XII examinations in line with the Central Government’s decision. It decided that the HP Board of School Education would devise a formula to calculate the awards of the students keeping in view the formula devised by the CBSE and declare the final results accordingly,” said Education Minister Govind Thakur.The Cabinet also decided that if students were not satisfied with the results, they would be allowed to appear in a special examination to be conducted when the situation is conducive for it.It was also decided that telephonic consultation be ensured for Covid patients discharged from hospitals for recovery at home. The Health Department should explore options for the procurement of vaccines directly from the producers.Earlier, the Cabinet passed a resolution mourning the demise of Jubbal-Kotkhai MLA Narinder Bragta. A two-minute silence was also observed as a mark of respect to the departed leader.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/class-xii-himachal-board-exams-cancelled-264113
06-06-2021||Subhash Rajta||In Himachal, 30-44 age group hit hard during second Covid wave||Tribune News ServiceShimla, June 5The second Covid-19 wave has been a lot harsher than the first one on people in the age group of 30-44 years, with the death percentage almost doubling during the second wave.“While this group accounted for 7.23 per cent of the total deaths during the first wave, the percentage in the second wave has risen to 12.82 per cent. As against 71 deaths in this group during the first wave, the number has gone up to 290 in the second wave,” said a government spokesperson.The death percentage has also gone up in the age group of 45-59 years. As against 24.33 per cent deaths in the first wave, the figure has reached 27.45 per cent in the second wave. “The fatality percentage for below-30 and 60-plus categories has decreased in the second wave,” he said.The average number of daily infections during the second wave (1,342) has been almost eight times that during the first wave (171).The number of deaths also saw a substantial increase. The toll in the second wave so far has reached 2,262, while it was 982 in the first wave.“Out of total Covid deaths in the state so far, 69.7 per cent have occurred in the second wave. The mean age of the deceased in the second wave is 61 years as against 64.2 years in the first wave,” said the spokesperson.There has not been much difference in the percentage of hospital deaths in the first and second wave. “This indicates that although the number of cases increased in the second wave, the hospitals were well prepared with resources like beds, oxygen and medicines to save lives,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/in-himachal-30-44-age-group-hit-hard-during-second-covid-wave-263975
06-06-2021||---||Himachal cancels Class 12 exams, extends corona curfew till June 14||Shimla, June 5The Himachal government on Saturday extended the corona curfew in the state till June 14 and decided to cancel the Class 12 Himachal Board of School Education examinations.The decision was taken by the Cabinet at its meeting chaired by Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur. The Cabinet meeting which was scheduled to be held today morning was postponed due to the demise of BJP legislator Narinder Bragta as the Chief Minister rushed to Chandigarh on hearing the news.It was only once he returned from Chandigarh and the party office here that the brief meeting of the Cabinet was held only to discuss the two emergent issues of holding of class 12 exams and extending corona curfew.READ ALSOCovid lockdown: Delhi markets to open on odd-even basis from June 7; Metro to run at 50 pc capacityMaharashtra to follow 5-level unlock plan from MondayEven though there has been an appreciable decline in the number of covid cases, based on the feedback from various quarters, the government decided to continue with the corona curfew till 6 am on June 14 with all the existing restrictions. As such public transport will remain suspended and all educational institutions will remain closed. A restriction of 20 persons at any social gartering, including marriages and funeral will also remain enforced.“The Cabinet decided to cancel Class 12 examinations 2020-21 in line with Government of India decision. It decided that the HP Board of School Education would devise a formula for calculating the awards of the students keeping in view the formula being devised by the CBSE and declared the final results accordingly,” Education Minister Govind Thakur said.It was also decided that in case some students are not satisfied with their results, they would be allowed to appear in a special examination to be conducted once the situation is conducive for conduct of the examination.The Cabinet also decided that telephonic consultation be ensured for Covid-19 patients released from hospitals for home recovery. It was also decided that the Health department should explore more options for procurement of vaccines directly from the vaccine producers. Earlier, the Cabinet passed a resolution mourning the sad demise of Chief Whip and MLA from Jubbal-Kotkhai Vidhan Sabha area of Shimla district Narinder Bragta. The Cabinet appreciated the contributions of Bragta, particularly in development of horticulture sector in the state. Two-minute silence was also observed by the Cabinet as a mark of respect to the departed leader.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-cancels-class-12-exams-extends-corona-curfew-till-june-14-263895
06-06-2021||Pratibha Chauhan||Himachal: Jubbal-Kotkhai MLA Narinder Bragta dies at PGI||Tribune News ServiceShimla, June 5Former Minister and sitting BJP legislator Narinder Bragta died of heart and kidney complications at the PGI, Chandigarh, on Saturday.Bragta who had recovered from Covid was under treatment for heart and kidney issues at the PGI for over a month. He was also the Chief Whip of the BJP in the Himachal Assembly.भारतीय जनता पार्टी हिमाचल के वरिष्ठ नेता, पूर्व मंत्री व प्रदेश सरकार में मुख्य सचेतक श्री @NarinderBragta जी के निधन का समाचार सुन कर स्तब्ध हूँ।आज हमने एक ईमानदार एवं कर्मठ नेता को खोया है।जुब्बल-कोटखाई एवं हिमाचल भाजपा सहित यह पूरे हिमाचल के लिए अपूरणीय क्षति है।1/2 https://t.co/oS3vgLlNm4  Bragta had been elected to the Vidhan Sabha for the first time in 1998 and remained Horticulture Minister in the BJP regime led by PK Dhumal from 1998 to 2003. He again remained a Cabinet Minister in the Dhumal-led BJP regime from 2007 to 2012. He was born on September 12, 1952.Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur while condoling the death of Bragta said the party had lost a sincere and dedicated leader whose loss is irreparable. Former Chief Minister PK Dhumal also expressed grief at the demise of Bragta and said he was a very sincere leader who always worked for the development of his area and people. Bragta’s son, Chetan Bragta, broke the news of his father’s demise early morning while stating that his father had lost the fight. His cremation will take place in his native village in Kotkhai on Sunday, where his body will reach in the afternoon from Chandigarh.Bragta had been peeved at not being inducted in the BJP regime headed by Thakur in 2017. He was considered a Dhumal loyalist. Attempts were made to placate him by appointing him as Chief Whip of the BJP in the Vidhan Sabha.The BJP had lost its Mandi MP Ram Swaroop in March earlier this year. Prior to that Congress MLA from Fatehpur in Kangra district had passed away in February. As such, there will be three bypolls to two Aassembly and one Vidhan Sabha seat in the state, this year.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-jubbal-kotkhai-mla-narinder-bragta-dies-at-pgi-263798
