07-06-2021||Shimla||Newborn boy among 18 fresh Covid deaths in Himachal||Eighteen more people, including an infant, died of Covid-19 in Himachal Pradesh on Monday, taking the death toll to 3,299, while 656 fresh cases pushed the infection count to 1,95,755, an official said.An 11-day-old boy from Shimla was among the fresh Covid deaths in the state, he said.According to the state health department, the active cases have now dipped to 7,555.The overall recoveries so far have reached 1,84,878 with 1,444 patients recuperating from the infection in a 24-hour period, the official said. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/newborn-boy-among-18-fresh-covid-deaths-in-himachal-264936
07-06-2021||Lalit Mohan||Decks cleared for Central University campus at Dehra in Kangra district||Tribune News ServiceDharamsala, June 6Decks have been cleared for the construction of Central University of Himachal Pradesh (CUHP) campus at Dehra in Kangra district.The Union Ministry of Environment and Forests has allowed the state government to transfer the proposed land in the name of CUHP. The land was earlier transferred in the name of Department of Higher Education. At present, the file in that regard is with the Revenue Department. Sources said over 200 hectares would be transferred in the name of CUHP at Dehra. The Centre has already cleared a budget of around Rs 400 crore for the purpose.The state government had proposed two CUHP campuses—one at Dehra and the other at Jagrangal in the Dharamsala area. The file for the transfer of about 500 kanal forest land in the Jadrangal area is still stuck.Though the central varsity was established in Kangra district in 2010, it doesn’t have any permanent campus so far, causing hardship to students and faculty members.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/decks-cleared-for-central-university-campus-at-dehra-in-kangra-district-264759
07-06-2021||Is a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many||Check stray cattle menace||The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: hpreadersfeedback@tribunemail.comCheck stray cattle menaceThere are many abandoned cattle on the Dhalli-ISBT bypass road. As there is less traffic on this road, people drive at a relatively faster speed. However, the presence of cattle, which appear suddenly on the curve could cause an accident. The authorities concerned should take steps to check the stray cattle menace. — Praveen Sharma, New ShimlaStinking pits on Theog HighwayPits for dumping wet garbage have been made along the National Highway in Theog. A nauseating foul smell emanates from the pit, causing inconvenience to the passers-by and those running their small businesses at the place. The MC should look for an alternative site for these pits. — Ramesh Verma, Theog||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/check-stray-cattle-menace-264709
07-06-2021||The Army as well Naval wing cadets of St Bede’s College came together and performed various activities on World Environment Day. The theme of the event was 'Khaki and prakriti'. The cadets||Environment Day celebrated||Students make drawings on natureDAV Senior Secondary Public School, Rehan, Nurpur, celebrated World Environment Day with enthusiasm. Students from pre-primary to senior secondary level participated virtually in the activities. The junior kids took part in poetry recitation and made beautiful drawings on nature. At the secondary and senior secondary level, students performed plays and delivered motivational speeches, highlighting the importance of environment. Meanwhile, Spring Dale Convent Senior Secondary School, Paloura, Jawali, also celebrated the day online. Students up to class XII took part in various activities.Webinar on sustainable developmentThe Centre for Environment and Disaster Management, Himachal Pradesh National Law University, Shimla, celebrated World Environment Day by organising a virtual lecture on 'sustainable development'. The chief guest was Prof Paramjit S Jaswal, Vice-Chancellor, SRM University, Delhi-NCR, Sonepat, Haryana. The virtual session was presided over by Prof Nishtha Jaswal, Vice-Chancellor, HPNLU. In her address, Prof Jaswal elucidated on the worldwide impact of Covid-19. Prof Jaswal highlighted the relation between development and principles of sustainability. The chief guest also reiterated the foundations of the sustainable development such as ‘doctrine of inter-generational equity' and 'environmental impact assessment’.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/environment-day-celebrated-264706
07-06-2021||UNA||Water harvesting structure to be ready before monsoon: Agriculture Minister Virender Kanwar||The water harvesting structure being constructed in Chaplah village of Bangana subdivision will be completed before the coming monsoon season, said Agriculture Minister Virender Kanwar here today. He said it would help irrigate 60 hectares of agricultural land in nine census villages.Kanwar said a sum of Rs 3 crore was being spent for the construction of the dam, which will have a height of eight metre and will have a capacity to store about one lakh cubic metres of water. Once complete, it will irrigate farm land in Buhana, Thathun, Matiana, Chaplah, Garla, Dhaneti, Kokra, Nalwari and Dumkhar villages.The minister said Dumkhar and Nalwari villages had been brought under the Himachal Pradesh Subtropical Horticultural Irrigation and Value Addition (SHIVA) scheme, adding that farmers would be provided with saplings of exotic fruit species and that the water from the dam would help in irrigation.Kanwar said under the SHIVA project, suitable varieties of pomegranate and guava would be planted at nine villages in Kutlehar Assembly in the first phase and gradually, the scope of the project would be enhanced. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/water-harvesting-structure-to-be-ready-before-monsoon-agriculture-minister-virender-kanwar-264705
07-06-2021||Una||Una PGI satellite hospital work tardy, rues Anurag Thakur||Union Minister of State for Finance and Corporate Affairs Anurag Thakur today expressed disappointment over the tardy pace of the construction of the PGI satellite hospital building at Malahat village here.He was presiding over a virtual review meeting of the project. The officials concerned from the PGI Chandigarh, the district administration and chairman of the State Finance Commission Satpal Satti were present.Anurag Thakur questioned the PGI officials regarding the slow progress of work. He said the hospital would cater to patients from Himachal and the bordering areas of Punjab, thereby reducing the burden on the PGI, Chandigarh. He directed Una Deputy Commissioner Raghav Sharma to hold two review meetings every month to expedite the work.The 300-bed PGI satellite hospital will have 125 doctors, besides 1,000 nursing and paramedic staff.Satpal Satti said work on the boundary wall had begun, but it had to be stalled due to some reasons. He said consultancy work for formulating drawings and estimates had recently been awarded to a Noida-based firm.The firm had been asked to appoint a nodal officer for the job and open its working office in Una. The firm had been given a nine-month deadline for drawings and estimates, after which tenders for the construction work would be floated. The firm would get two years to complete the civil works estimated at Rs 400 crore, he said. The state government had already allocated its share of Rs 12 crore for water, electricity and approach roads, besides allocating land. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/una-pgi-satellite-hospital-work-tardy-rues-anurag-thakur-264704
07-06-2021||---||Covid awareness drive begins in Nurpur today||Our CorrespondentNurpur, June 6Following the initiative by local MLA and Forest Minister Rakesh Pathania, an awareness drive to motivate people to voluntarily undergo Covid test and get themselves vaccinated, will start in Nurpur on Monday. To mobilise the elected representatives of panchayati raj institutions (PRIs), the minister will address them in phases, adhering to the Covid protocol.Talking to mediapersons here today, Pathania said in these meetings, officials of the local administration and the Health Department would be present to urge PRI representatives to motivate people at the grassroot level to undergo Covid tests and take vaccine shots.Pathania said it was observed that people were hesitant in undergoing testing even after experiencing Covid symptoms due to fear of social stigma and the long quarantine period. They preferred to take treatment at home, which deteriorated their health.He said in the awareness drive, the PRI representatives would keep a close vigil on such patients and motivate them to get themselves tested and take regular treatment.Pathania said the Forest Department would set up three IT control rooms at Shimla, Mandi and Dharamsala to review the ongoing schemes of the department. He said such control rooms would also be set up in other districts in phases.He said IT management training would be imparted to the Forest Department employees. He said the department would also develop its own forest app and connect with its field staff using global positioning system (GPS).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/covid-awareness-drive-begins-in-nurpur-today-264703
07-06-2021||---||Now, consumers in Himachal to get alert on power cuts via phone message||Shimla, June 6Himachal Pradesh State Electricity Board Limited (HPSEBL) is going in for a digital and customer-friendly makeover. Pushed by circumstances created by the pandemic and the long-term need for digitalisation, the board has launched services such as online approval of new connections, trust-based billing wherein consumers themselves generate their bills, mobile messaging service that will inform consumers about the scheduled power cuts, etc.Anurag Parashar, Joint Director, HPSEBL Cumbersome Task made easierTo get a new connection, people needed to make multiple visits to the officials concerned with several documents. Now, a person can apply online and get the connection in a time-bound manner.“The process to get a new connection was time consuming and cumbersome. People needed to make multiple visits to the officials concerned with several documents. Now, a person can apply online and will get the connection in a time-bound manner,” said Joint Director, HPSEBL, Anurag Parashar.“Many a time, a consumer doesn’t get service because of negligence or corrupt practices on the part of the dealing official. Not only the online facility will save the consumer from such harassment, but also it will ensure they get service on first-come first-serve basis. This will bring in transparency and accountability too,” the Joint Director said.Parashar said the dissemination of information such as power cuts through mobile messaging would provide a huge relief to consumers.“Such information is conveyed even now, but the reach of traditional medium is limited. Most people are still caught unawares when a power cut is imposed. So, knowing beforehand about it will help people plan their activities accordingly,” Prashar said.The service will take some time to actually benefit a large section of consumers as the board has limited contact number of its consumers.“We are asking our consumers to register their mail and mobile number at sub-division offices or on our official website. Once they register their numbers, they will start getting all relevant information on their mobiles,” the Joint Director said.Parashar said their recently launched trust-based billing initiative, wherein the consumers themselves generate their bill, had received good response.“We are getting around 1,000 to 1,500 payments per day for the bills generated by the consumers.In just about a week, we have received a revenue of over Rs 1 crore though this initiative,” said the Joint Director.Digital makeoverPushed by circumstances created by the pandemic and the long-term need for digitalisation, HPSEBL has launched services such as online approval of new connections, trust-based billing wherein consumers themselves generate their bills and mobile messaging service that will inform consumers about the scheduled power cuts, etc.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/now-consumers-in-himachal-to-get-alert-on-power-cuts-via-phone-message-264702
07-06-2021||Bhanu P Lohumi||Positive outlook can beat Covid stress, say experts||Tribune News ServiceShimla, June 6A positive outlook towards infection and recovery, besides communication of one’s feelings to family and friends, is important to beat stress, anxiety, depression and suicidal tendencies which are on the rise amid the Covid-19 pandemic, say experts.The situation is serious as 3,263 persons have died due to Covid-19 till June 5 in Himachal. However, the silver lining is that the active cases have gone down to 9,484 in the state. However, a large number of people are dying due to post-Covid complications.As many as 218 persons have committed suicide in the first quarter of the year till March 31 against 134 such cases in the same period last year, when there was no pandemic stress.The rate of spread of infection and the rapid progression of the symptoms leading to death is making people apprehensive, fearful and helpless. Besides, the loss of income or employment has resulted in sleeplessness, irritability, clinical depression and suicidal ideas in many people, says the CEO, HP State Mental Health Authority, and Senior Medical Superintendent, Himachal Hospital of Mental Health and Rehabilitation, Boileauganj, Dr Sanjay Pathak.Mental experts say most people jump to the conclusion that if they or their loved ones get infected with Covid-19, they would die. However, people do not realise that infection does not lead to fatality in all cases and recovery can be done in mild cases even under home isolation. Moreover, only a small percentage of the population needs hospital care and a still lesser percentage of population needs ICU intervention.Deep breathing exercises, meditation, yoga, reading spiritual books and praying help gain composure and make a person feel that he is in control of the situation, said Pathak, adding that speaking to friends and family also helps in venting out the pressure.Experts advise psychological/psychiatric help if one is experiencing sleeplessness, hopelessness, suicidal thoughts and irritability. One should avoid reading or listening to Covid-related news.Mental Health Authority survey results||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/positive-outlook-can-beat-covid-stress-say-experts-264700
07-06-2021||---||Anti-anaemia drive: Himachal bags 3rd spot||Shimla, June 6Himachal has secured the third rank in the Anaemia Mukt Bharat (AMB) Index, 2020-21. While Madhya Pradesh topped with a score of 64.1, Odisha and Himachal followed at the second and third positions, with the scores of 59.3 and 57.1, respectively.“In 2018-19, the state ranked 18 on this index. Now, it has bagged the third spot. This has happened due to the consistent efforts of our field staff and robust implementation policies,” said a government spokesperson.He said strategies like providing prophylactic iron and folic acid supplementation, regular de-worming of schoolchildren, intensified year-round behaviour change communication (BCC) campaign, testing of anaemia, mandatory provision of iron and folic acid fortified foods in government-funded health programmes and addressing non-nutritional causes of anaemia had helped the state do well in controlling the health condition.Given its high prevalence in India, anemia has become a serious public health concern today. Almost 50 per cent of the pregnant women, 59 per cent of the children under five years of age, 54 per cent of the adolescent girls and 53 per cent of the non-pregnant, non-lactating women of our country are anaemic.The spokesperson said anemia during pregnancy was associated with post-partum hemorrhage, neural tube defects, low birth weight, premature births, stillbirths and maternal deaths. In other populations, anemia is associated with lowered immunity, poor cognitive development and decreased work productivity.“The decline in anaemia prevalence will contribute to improved maternal and child survival rates and improved health outcomes for other population groups,” said the spokesperson.Strategies adoptedA government spokesperson said strategies such as prophylactic iron and folic acid supplementation, de-worming of children helped the state do well in controlling the health condition.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/anti-anaemia-drive-himachal-bags-3rd-spot-264699
07-06-2021||Bhanu P Lohumi||Let dogs roam freely in Shimla, face an FIR||Tribune News ServiceShimla, June 6Unleashing dogs on pedestrian paths and roads in Shimla town and letting them defecate in the open will now invite an FIR against the pet owner.It has come to the notice of the police that several dog owners/ handlers let their pets move freely on pedestrian paths and roads in the town, posing risk to the lives of passersby.Mohit Chawla, Shimla SPPASSERS-BY SCAREDPeople feel scared when dogs are unleashed at public places. Allowing the dogs to defecate in the open can cause diseases. We will book the owners of pets in such circumstances.Shimla SP Mohit Chawla said, “People feel frightened when dogs are unleashed at public places. Moreover, allowing the dogs to defecate in the open can lead to the spread of diseases. We have decided to book the owners of pets in such circumstances under Sections 269 and 289 of the IPC and Section 114 of the HP Police Act.He said although not everyone lodged a complaint when bitten by dogs at public places, keeping a check on the menace was the need of the hour. He said what was the meaning of a smart city if animal feces was lying here and there.On the stray animal menace, he said the police would write a letter to the Shimla Municipal Corporation (SMC), Forest Department, Animal Husbandry Department and the Deputy Commissioner recommending a policy under the Smart City project.There are over 2,000 stray dogs in the town.The SMC had launched a stray dog adoption scheme in October 2019 under which certain benefits were given to those who adopted dogs with a commitment to feed them, besides providing medical care.2k stray dogs in townThere are over 2,000 stray dogs in the town. The SMC had launched a stray dog adoption scheme in October 2019 under which certain benefits were given to those who adopted dogs with a commitment to feed them, besides providing medical care.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/let-dogs-roam-freely-in-shimla-face-an-fir-264698
07-06-2021||Chamba||1,000 chinar saplings to be planted in Chamba||As many as 1,000 chinar saplings would be planted in different areas of the district, in a series of plantation drives, said Deputy Commissioner DC Rana on World Environment Day here on Saturday.Rana said for protection of the environment, people and NGOs should join the campaign. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/1-000-chinar-saplings-to-be-planted-in-chamba-264696
07-06-2021||The BJP regime this time has had to face two Assembly bypoll and three are due later this year. No government would want to go in the bypoll||Himachal Diary: Tough task ahead for CM Jai Ram Thakur||When self-safety comes firstMany political leaders in Kangra are being accused of staying away from people of their respective constituencies during the second wave of corona pandemic. These political leaders neither visited their constituencies for more than two months nor did extend any helping hand to those suffering. Some said these leaders were heard saying, “Let us first save our lives and if we survive there will be enough time for politics”. However, it remains to be seen if people would excuse them for staying away during the hours of crises, particularly when the Assembly elections are not far away.Probe panels a mere formalityConstituting committees to probe irregularities in any department is a convenient ploy to put controversies to rest. When the drug control administration constituted such committees after slew of controversial drug cases surfaced in Solan and Sirmaur districts, it did not come as a surprise. While one such committee probing Remdesivir injections manufacturing has made little headway even after several weeks, others have been announced to keep track of narcotic and psychotropic drug manufacturing. Whether this exercise will yield any result remains to be seen but image of state’s pharma industry has been tarnished beyond repair, thanks to lax regulatory mechanism.Blessing in disguiseCancellation of Class X and XII CBSE and HP Board examinations has come as a big relief to weak students who have been saved from the effort of preparing for examinations. The quote doing rounds on the Internet says: “Today, these students also have faith in God as their teachers were of the opinion that only God can help them”. However the meritorious students who have worked hard throughout the year are not very happy.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-diary-tough-task-ahead-for-cm-jai-ram-thakur-264695
07-06-2021||Ravinder Sood||104-year-old Palampur man beats Covid||Palampur, June 6A 104-year-old man from Palampur has successfully defeated Covid-19 and has been discharged from hospital. Bishamber Dass has probably become one of the oldest patients of Himachal to have recovered from the disease.Bishamber Dass along with his wife Shibi Devi, residents of Nora Matrehar village of Dheera subdivision, had tested positive for the contagion last month. They were shifted to hospital due to low saturation levels. Although doctors attending them had no hope of their recovery, the couple responded well to the treatment and started showing recovery signs within three days of admission.The elderly couple is now hale and hearty and also tested negative for the virus. Doctors said the man had a miraculous recovery as he did not have any comorbidity.State Assembly Speaker Vipan Singh Parmar today visited the couple at their village and extended his good wishes.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/104-year-old-palampur-man-beats-covid-264675
07-06-2021||---||Covid-19: Himachal logs 357 new cases, 18 succumb||Shimla, June 6Eighteen more persons died of Covid-19 in Himachal Pradesh, taking the death toll to 3,281, while 357 fresh cases pushed the infection count to 1,95,099 in the past 24 hours.As many as 1,459 recoveries were seen in a single day. The number of active cases stands at 8,361. Four persons each succumbed to the virus in Mandi, Solan and Kangra; two each in Sirmaur and Shimla and one each in Kullu and Chamba.Kangra reported 68 cases, followed Chamba (58), Mandi (46), Shimla (38), Una (36), Hamirpur and Sirmaur (30 each), Solan (24), Bilaspur and Kullu (9 each); Lahaul-Spiti (7) and Kinnaur (2).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/covid-19-himachal-logs-357-new-cases-18-succumb-264674
07-06-2021||Bhanu P Lohumi||Demise of Narinder Bragta: Major setback for ruling BJP in Congress bastion||Tribune News ServiceShimla, June 6The untimely demise of senior BJP leader Narinder Bragta, a two-time minister and sitting MLA from Jubbal Kotkhai constituency, has come as a major setback for the party trying to strengthen its roots in upper Shimla region, a traditional Congress bastion.BJP leader Narinder Bragta laid to rest at native village near ShimlaAnother senior BJP leader and three-time MLA from Theog, Rakesh Verma passed away in May 2020 and at present Urban local development minister Suresh Bhardwaj (MLA from Shimla Urban constituency) is the only senior BJP leader from upper Shimla region. The BJP had won Shimla (Urban) and Jubbal Kotkhai and Chopal in 2017. The Congress won the Rampur, Rohroo, Shimla (Rural) and Kusumpti seats while the CPM made inroads by winning the Theog seat.Former minister Bragta, who won from Shimla in 1998, was elected twice from Jubbal-Kotkhai in 2007 and 2017. Former Congress Chief Minister Ram Lal won nine times from Jubbal-Kotkhai, while Congress stalwart and six- time Chief Minister Virbhadra Singh was elected twice from this seat. After the exit of Bragta, there is no senior BJP leader to fill the void and it would be hard task for the BJP to win the seat as Rohit Thakur, grandson of Ram Lal, who won twice from this seat in 2003 and 2012, is well entrenched in the constituency and carries the legacy of his grandfather.However, Bragta’s eldest son, Chetan Bragta is already in active politics and state in-charge of IT cell of the BJP and considered a front-runner for ticket. With the death of Bragta, the effective strength of 68-member house has been reduced to 66 as Fatehpur seat in Kangra district seat is already lying vacant following death of Congress leader Sujan Singh Pathania.After the demise of BJP stalwart Daulat Ram Chauhan, a four-time MLA, who also hailed from Kotkhai in upper Shimla, there was virtual vacuum in BJP leadership and Bragta had filled the void.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/demise-of-narinder-bragta-major-setback-for-ruling-bjp-in-congress-bastion-264673
07-06-2021||---||BJP leader Narinder Bragta laid to rest at native village near Shimla||Shimla, June 6Former BJP minister and Chief Whip of the party Narinder Bragta, who died at PGI, Chandigarh yesterday, was cremated with full state honours at his native Tehtoli village in Jubbal Kotkhai today.Hundreds of people bid tearful adieu to the departed soul and slogans like “Jab tak suraj chand rahega, Bragta tera naam rahega” rent the air. His sons Chetan Bragta and Dhruv Bragta lit the pyre. His body was taken to his native village yesterday and a large number of people paid floral tributes to the departed soul.Urban Development Minister Suresh Bhardwaj, Health Minister Rajiv Sehjal, Forest Minister Rakesh Pathania, MP Indu Goswami, Leader of Opposition Mukesh Agnihotri and MLA Theog Rakesh Singha, Himachal BJP chief, Suresh Kashyap, organising secretary, Pawan Rana, General secretary, Trilok Jamwal and several other leaders and well-wishers reached Kotkhai for Bragta’s ‘last darshan’.Paying tributes to Bragta, state party chief Suresh Kashyap that his contribution to the party was immense and his departure was a big blow the party. He served the party and the people as a worker, a leader and a minister. His performance as minister was laudable and “his demise is big loss for Jubbal Kotkhai and personal to me”, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/bjp-leader-narinder-bragta-laid-to-rest-at-native-village-near-shimla-264671
07-06-2021||---||81-kg marijuana seized in Paonta Sahib forest area||Solan, June 6The Paonta Sahib police today seized 81.635 kg marijuana and arrested a person identified as Najir Khan, alias Ali, a resident of Amarkot village. The marijuana was buried in a forest area, near Gondpur village in Sirmaur district today.The 25-year-old man was arrested while an investigation was going on in theMay 31 case of Purruwala police station, wherein 303 kg of marijuana had been seized. A case under the NDPS Act was registered for this seizure by the police.Paonta Sahib DSP Bir Bahadur said Ali had been remanded to four days in police custody by a local court.Eight bags containing contraband were found near the forest area, near Gondpur village. The total contraband seized in the case was 425.635 kg and four accused had been arrested so far.This is the biggest seizure of marijuana in northern India by the police, as per the available records, claimed Superintendent of Police, Sirmaur, Khushal Chand Sharma. He said the district police were working hard to nab the main culprits involved in this nefarious trade.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/81-kg-marijuana-seized-in-paonta-sahib-forest-area-264669
07-06-2021||Shimla||Minister: Ensure helpline for livestock owners||Rural Development and Animal Husbandry Minister Virender Kanwar directed the officials to work with dedication to ensure benefits of various schemes reached the eligible people, during a meeting with the officers of the department held here today.The minister directed the officials to take time-bound steps to provide shelter to stray cows. He said a dedicated helpline number must be started soon for the livestock owners of the state, so they could get the necessary information. He also directed the officers to complete the work on animal health cards at the earliest.Kanwar told the officials to chalk out a plan for providing training to progressive dairy farmers. He said these trainings would be helpful in bringing improvement in animal husbandry methods, and the cattle farmers of the state would benefit from it. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/minister-ensure-helpline-for-livestock-owners-264668
07-06-2021||---||Monsoon likely to hit Himachal on June 24||Shimla, June 6Intermittent light to moderate rain lashed parts of the state on Sunday.As per information, the monsoon is expected to hit Himachal on June 24-25.The local Met office has predicted a dry spell in the state till June 10 and rain and thundershowers at isolated places in low and middle hills on June 11 and 12.Dehra Gopipur with 34 mm of rainfall was the wettest in the region, followed by Baghi (19.5 mm); Ghumarwin (11 mm); Kotkhai (7.5 mm); Mehre and Dalhousie (6 mm each); Kheri (5 mm); Bhattiyat and Fagu (3 mm each); Shimla and Jubbarhatti (2 mm each) and Narkanada 1 mm.There was no significant change in the minimum temperatures and Keylong in tribal Lahaul and Spiti district was the coldest at night, recording a low of 8.2°C. The maximum temperatures rose by 1 to 2°C, and Una was the hottest in day at 37.8°C.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/monsoon-likely-to-hit-himachal-on-june-24-264667
07-06-2021||Rajiv Mahajan||Medical office in Nagrota runs from dilapidated house||NURPUR, JUNE 6The office of the Block Medical Officer (BMO) at Nagrota Surian in Jawali is in a pathetic state.The makeshift premises of the BMO office is running from a dilapidated residential complex of the local CHC.A wall of the ground floor of the complex had collapsed. The Health Department has failed to construct its office building for the past over three and half decades.Dr Ranjan Mehta, Officiating BMO, Nagrota SurianRecords damagedThe residential quarters are in a bad shape and even some office records have been damaged due to the poor condition of the office store room. The office has no conference hall to convene meetings of the field staff.Officiating BMO of Nagrota Surian Dr Ranjan Mehta said the residential quarter was in bad shape and even some office records had been damaged due to the poor condition of the office store room. He admitted that the office had no conference hall to convene meetings of the field staff and the meetings were being held in the conference hall of the Civil Hospital at Jawali, 25 km away from Nagrota Surian.Even the posts of BMO and office superintendent have been lying vacant for the past three years.Only one clerk has been posted here. The BMO of Fatehpur has been given the additional charge of the office.The distance between Nagrota Surian and Fatehpur is around 60 km.As a result, the administrative management of the grassroot rural health infrastructure has become a challenge in the absence of proper office and vacant posts.PC Vishvakarma, president of the Navbharat Ekta Dal, and Balbir Pathania, former vice-chairman of Nagrota Surian block development committee, alleged that the region of lower Kangra district was a victim of government’s apathy. They have appealed to Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur to provide a safe office building so that it could function smoothly.They have also demanded to fill all vacant posts in this office.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/medical-office-in-nagrota-runs-from-dilapidated-house-264666
07-06-2021||Lalit Mohan||Snow at Thumbsar Pass stalls movement of shepherds||Tribune News ServiceDharamsala, June 6Annual migration of Gaddi shepherds of Kangra district to higher reaches of Dhauladhar mountains in summers has been delayed. The inclement weather and recent snow in higher reaches of Dhauladhar mountains has stalled the annual migration of shepherds.Thumbsar Pass is located at a height of about 16,000 feet in Dhauladhar mountain ranges which shepherds pass to reach the Bara Bhangal valley during their annual migration route.Pawana, a shepherd from Bara Bhangal area, said that about 300 groups of shepherds have been camping in Bir Billing area to cross over to Bara Bhangal valley on their annual migration route. She said that Thumbsar Pass was still closed due to heavy snow in the region in the last few days.Things were getting difficult for shepherds as the grazing grounds for their animals are shrinking. The people have started growing vegetable crops in their lands in Bir Billing area and they don’t allow shepherds to camp fearing that their animal might damage their vegetable crops, she said.Pawana said that the shepherds have to carry ration on horses into the Bara Bhangal valley as they have to spend a couple of months there till the onset of winter.The shepherds of Kangra used to cross over into Bara Bhangal valley with their flock of sheep, goats and horses in the first week of June as the snow melted in Thumbsar Pass. They used to stay in Bara Bhangal valley that comprises uninhabited area ranging from Kangra to Kullu district till the month of August and used to start their journey back to lower hill in the month of September.However, the climatic change in terms of delayed summers or unusual climate was hitting the annual migration of shepherds. This year it has been snowing in the higher reaches of Dhauladhar mountain ranges even in the month of June which was unusual. Last year also the shepherds faced problems coming out of Bara Bhangal valley at it snowed early on Thumbsar Pass.The district administration had to send teams of mountaineers to create a path to bring shepherds out of Bara Bhangal valley.Sources said that shepherds were thinking of sending teams to create path on the snow-bound Thumbsar Pass. They have to cross the mountain pass in the month of June even if the snow does not melt in the region naturally as there would be no fodder left for animal flocks in Bir Billing areas if they stay here for a longer period.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/snow-at-thumbsar-pass-stalls-movement-of-shepherds-264665
07-06-2021||---||Union minister Dharmendra Pradhan assures ethanol plant for Himachal||Shimla, June 6Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur called on Union Petroleum and Natural Gas Minister Dharmendra Pradhan in New Delhi today and discussed the prevailing Covid-19 situation in the state.The Chief Minister said that the Union minister assured that an ethanol plant of 200 kl capacity with an investment of Rs 200 crore would be set up in Himachal. The ethanol plant will help reduce pollution due to vehicular emissions and thus contribute towards protecting the environment.Thakur thanked the Union Minister and the Central Government headed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi for extending all possible help to the state to fight the pandemic.He disclosed that thanks to the Union minister 500 D-type oxygen cylinders are on the way to the state whereas 500 have been received. He said that 10 half ton capacity each cryogenic oxygen tanks would be installed in hospitals and 300 oxygen concentrators under the Corporate Social Responsibility funds have also been assured which will further boost the oxygen capacity of the state. Efforts were also being made to procure B-type oxygen cylinders, he added.The Chief Minister said that the Union minister also assured that a state-of-the-art hospital would be sanctioned for the state at an estimated cost of Rs 60 crore.State-of-the-art hospital to be sanctionedThe Chief Minister said the Union minister also assured that a state-of-the-art hospital would be sanctioned for the state at an estimated cost of Rs60 crore.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/union-minister-dharmendra-pradhan-assures-ethanol-plant-for-himachal-264664
07-06-2021||Ravinder Sood||Despite orders, names of fake BPL beneficiaries in Kangra district not deleted||Palampur, June 6Despite orders of Food and Civil Supply Minister Rajinder Garg many panchayats in Kangra district have so far failed to the delete the names of bogus BPL, IRDP and Antodaya beneficiaries from its records in the past one year. These persons still continue to avail all benefits under these schemes.The Tribune had highlighted the issue in these columns regarding irregularities in the selection of BPL, IRDP beneficiaries. Thereafter, the state government swung into action and directed the authorities to initiate action against fake BPL/ IRDP card holders and complete the re-identification process of the beneficiaries at the earliest.Later 300 bogus beneficiaries, most of them government employees, voluntarily surrendered their BPL cards and also deposited money in the state exchequer in view of the illegal benefits availed by them.“As per rules a person having two hectares of non-irrigated and one hectare of irrigated land, a two-wheeler/four-wheeler, bank deposits and with an annual income above Rs 30,000 cannot be included in the BPL and IRDP categories,” said Block Development Officer, Baijnath. However, if this is the criterion, most of the people claiming benefits do not qualify as beneficiaries.Mahohar Lal, a resident, has been moving from pillar to post for the last 15 years for inclusion of his name in BPL list but in vain. He has no house to live. When his plight was highlighted last year in these columns, an NGO United Youth of Modern India came to his rescue and provided him food, clothes and shelter. However, the government help is yet to pour in.A senior officer of the state government, when contacted by The Tribune, said that because of Covid-19, gram sabha could not hold its meetings. Therefore, the panchayat failed to delete the bogus names. However, it is learnt that the panchayats are executing all official works and holding meetings regularly.As per a baseline survey conducted in various panchayats to re-identify and re-verify fake card holders in 2018, it emerged that 30 to 40 per cent undeserving families had managed their entry into the lists.What the rules say||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/despite-orders-names-of-fake-bpl-beneficiaries-in-kangra-district-not-deleted-264546
