08-06-2021||Shimla||Will remain Himachal Chief Minister till 2022: Jai Ram Thakur||Himachal Pradesh Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur said on Tuesday he would remain the chief minister till 2022.Talking to media here after returning from his two-day Delhi visit, Thakur stated that the talks of change of leadership in the state were baseless.Thakur further stated that he would remain the chief minister till the end of the tenure of this government in 2022.The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) will come to power again in the next Assembly elections scheduled to be held in December 2022, he added.Terming his Delhi visit as successful, he said he met several union ministers in connection with various issues concerned with the state.Thakur said he also met with BJP chief Jagat Prakash Nadda to discuss various issues concerned with the organisation and the state government.During his meeting with Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman, he raised the issue regarding GST compensation due from the Centre for the financial years 2017-18, 2018-19 and 2019-2020 to be provided to the state.The finance minister assured that the due Rs 280 crore GST amount would soon be provided to Himachal Pradesh, he added. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/will-remain-himachal-chief-minister-till-2022-jai-ram-thakur-265488
08-06-2021||New Delhi||NGT pulls up Punjab, Himachal, Haryana over pollution in Ghaggar river||The National Green Tribunal has come down heavily on Punjab, Himachal Pradesh and Haryana for failing to stop the discharge of untreated effluents in the Ghaggar river and said  that "if the State itself fails in implementing the law, it is nothing but breakdown of the system itself".A Bench headed by NGT Chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel said the three states and Chandigarh continue to contribute water pollution, which is a criminal offence."It is breach of public trust under public trust doctrine. We are left with a feeling that there is no commitment to the rule of law and no concern for the environment and health of the citizens on the part of the concerned authorities in the states of HP, Haryana, Punjab and UT Chandigarh," said the bench, also comprising Justice Sudhir Agarwal.The tribunal directed the Chief Secretary, Punjab and the Advisor to the Administrator, Union Territory of Chandigarh in coordination with other concerned officers to take appropriate remedial measures to comply with the mandate of law, including the directions of the Supreme Court.It also directed a joint committee of Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), Punjab PCB and pollution control committee of Chandigarh to inspect the drain and furnish a status report within two months by e-mail.The tribunal said that in spite of enactment of Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1974 making discharge of untreated effluents into a water body a criminal offence, the states are still struggling to prevent untreated sewage from being discharged into the water body at a huge cost to the environment and health and lives of citizens who have fundamental right to clean environment under the Constitution."Water pollution is a serious threat to the health of the citizens as well as other living beings who consume the water and also to the food safety for growth of which the water is used for irrigation...there can be no justification whatsoever for the State to have failed in complying with the law."If the State finds that they are unable to manage the sewage directly, there is no bar to other options being explored but there cannot be any justification not to comply with the mandate of law and protecting the health of the citizens in accordance with the Constitutional mandate," the bench said.The green panel said that no action is being taken against the erring officers and it gives an impression that there is collapse of Environmental rule of law."Who is to pay the cost of damage to the environment and public health of large number of unidentified citizens and other living creatures? Is such cost being calculated. How officers responsible for damage by their inaction or otherwise are being dealt with. Should the State be held liable vicariously for such failure and failure to punish the guilty," the bench said.The bench that the NGT has been passing repeated orders and as many as six reports have been submitted by a Monitoring Committee headed by a former High Court Judge and a former Chief Secretary, clearly recording failure of the State authorities but the higher authorities are also conveniently ignoring their responsibility."Advocates for the authorities only maintain silence before this Tribunal. If the State itself fails in implementing the law, it is nothing but breakdown of the system itself.“Is this Tribunal to just remain silent spectator for such gross failure or hold highest authorities accountable by directing their prosecution for their criminal failure and indirectly being party to the crime against the law of the land? How the law of the land is to be meaningfully enforced. We expect answers to these questions from the States," the bench said.NGT said the states should realise their responsibility to function according to the Constitution and take immediate remedial measures in punishing the guilty involved in failing to comply with the law and also take prompt measures instead of repeatedly taking the same plea of being engaged in tender process."It should not be difficult at this length of time to overcome such procedural requirements and to effectively prevent discharge of the untreated effluents after 46 years of enactment of Water Act and repeated orders of the Supreme Court and other Courts."For delay and continued violation, realistic compensation has to be recovered from the erring officers, apart from other action or in default, the compensation has to be quantified and recovered. The Executing Committee may make its recommendation in this regard,” the bench said.The tribunal was hearing a plea against failure of statutory authorities in Punjab and Chandigarh to install necessary Sewage Treatment Plant, resulting in discharge of pollution in the drain originating from Chandigarh and passing through various sectors and villages of Mohali, before merging into Ghaggar River."The pollution is affecting the eco-system, including the aquatic life and also public health. Discharge of untreated sewage into the drain is violation of Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1974 and also citizens right to clean environment."Further, since the waste water of the drain is used for cultivation of crops and washing of the vegetables which are consumed by the residents, it is affecting the food chain and public health," the plea said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/ngt-pulls-up-punjab-himachal-haryana-over-pollution-in-ghaggar-river-265392
08-06-2021||Choked drains between the new airport gate and Sainik Chowk in Bhuntar have become a nuisance for public. Garbage is scattered along the drains and foul smell emanates from the stalled water. Rainwater also overflows and enters various houses adjacent to the road. The area is the main entrance to Kullu and the visitors are welcomed with an appalling view and stench. The civic authorities and the PWD are paying no heed to the repeated requests of residents. The garbage and choked drains pose a health hazard so these should be cleared at the earliest or the condition will worsen during the rainy season. — Sunil Kumar||Drains choked in Bhuntar||Shortage of drinking waterThe drinking water supply is becoming scarce in many areas of Nurpur. Many villages in Nurpur have not been getting drinking water for days. To add to it, water is not being supplied to villages through tankers this year. The IPH Department authorities are not restoring water supply to many areas of Nurpur despite repeated complaints.— Ramesh Kumar, NurpurIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: hpreadersfeedback@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/drains-choked-in-bhuntar-265338
08-06-2021||A webinar on 'Viruses||Webinar on viruses organised||Webinar on digital screens heldThe local government millennium polytechnic recently organised a webinar on "Digital screens and eyes: Side-effects of IT" for its faculty and final-year students. The resource person, Dr Sandeep Mahajan of SM Eye Hospital, Kangra, apprised the students of the ill-effects of long screen time on eyes. He suggested several exercises for strengthening and soothing eyes while working on digital screens. He emphasised on the precautions that students should take while working on mobiles and computers for longer durations.Hold final-year exams, demands SFIThe SFI on Monday submitted a memorandum to the Controller of Examination demanding that the final year exams of undergraduate classes be held at the earliest. The SFI said the HPU had already invited applications for PG courses but the final-year exams had not been held in colleges yet. It is creating confusion among students and they are not in the right frame of mind to prepare for entrance exams, it stated.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/webinar-on-viruses-organised-265337
08-06-2021||Palampur||5 held for murder||The local police arrested five persons today in connection with the murder of a 33-year-old woman. She was found murdered in a house in ward number 12 near Palampur town last week.Initially, it was assumed that it was a natural death but in the post-mortem report, blood stains were found on the body. The report indicated that it was not a normal death, after which the police arrested five persons who were seen with the woman before her death.Palampur DSP Amit Sharma confirmed that five persons had been arrested and their blood samples had also be collected for a DNA test, which is to be matched with the blood stains found on the body of the deceased.He said the woman belonged to Sahapur and was staying alone in a rented room. These youths were regular visitors to her, therefore the possibility of murder could not be ruled out. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/5-held-for-murder-265336
08-06-2021||Chamba||Nagpal Chamba BJP president||Jasbir Singh Nagpal was appointed as the new president of Chamba district of the BJP today. In a letter, BJP state president Suresh Kashyap confirmed the appointment of Nagpal. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/nagpal-chamba-bjp-president-265335
08-06-2021||Nurpur||Withdraw vax nod to private hospitals: Cong||Chander Kumar, former Lok Sabha MP and HPCC vice-president, has lambasted the government for allowing 39 paid vaccination centres at private hospitals and registering them at the CoWin portal. He urged Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur to follow Punjab and revoke the permission granted to private hospitals for administering paid vaccines, as people were being fleeced.He told mediapersons at Jawali, near here, last evening that the government was already facing a shortage of doses but it allowed paid vaccination at private hospitals, aggravating the situation.Chander Kumar said that the government decision would lead to fleecing of people, as was witnessed last month when some private hospitals in Kangra district overcharged Covid patients for treament. “The Health Department has the requisite infrastructure and trained staff to administer vaccines. If Covid testing can be undertaken in government health institutions, why doses are not being given to people there,” he added.— OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/withdraw-vax-nod-to-private-hospitals-cong-265334
08-06-2021||Dipender Manta||Low-hanging power cables pose threat  to villagers, livestock||Tribune News ServiceMandi, June 7Low-hanging power cables passing through trees at Ropa panchayat in the remote Chauhar valley of Mandi district are posing a serious threat to the lives of people and livestock.According to residents of Ropa, they frequently take their cattle to the area to graze. The power cables passing through trees at some places are hanging too low and pose a serious risk to human lives and livestock.Sohan Thakur, a resident of Ropa, said, “Power cables pass through trees between Ropa and Nog Mahol and at a few places in Ropa panchayat. At some places, the power cables are hanging quite low, and can lead to fatal accidents. In the past, incidents of electrocution have been reported in the district”.Labh Singh Thakur, another resident of Ropa Panchayat, urged the Himachal State Electricity Board at Mandi to relocate the power cables. He said, “The area residents are suffering because of low power voltage for the past few years. Students are the most affected, as they are unable to study properly due to low voltage”.“Villagers are unable to use thrashers in their agricultural fields, as these require adequate voltage for smooth functioning. We urge the authorities concerned to upgrade the electric transformer at Ropa panchayat to provide better power supply to the people,” he said.Ashwani Kumar, Chief Engineer of HP State Electricity Board, Mandi, said that the field staff had been directed to remove power cables from trees in a stipulated time to avoid any untoward incident.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/low-hanging-power-cables-pose-threat-to-villagers-livestock-265333
08-06-2021||Ravinder Sood||Palampur MC begins drive to clean water channel||Palampur, June 7The Palampur Municipal Corporation has started cleaning the 300-year-old ‘Kirpal Chand Kuhl’, one of the oldest water channels of this region.The 29-km-long water channel between Bundla and Garh Jamula, which was once considered a lifeline for over one lakh residents of 50 villages in lower areas of Palampur, has turned into a garbage dumping area. Besides, sewage is also being discharged into the channel.The Municipal Corporation has taken up the cleaning operation of only a four-km stretch which falls in its jurisdiction. Pankaj Sharma, Commissioner, Palampur MC, said after the formation of the Municipal Corporation four months ago, he had planned to keep this water channel free of garbage because in lower areas of Palampur, its water is used for drinking and also tapped by the IPH department for its water supply schemes. He said the civic body had already taken up a project to keep Palampur clean and green.“Unfortunately, the historical water channel has turned into a garbage dumping area. The situation is worst between Bundla and Maranda town, where residents openly dump garbage in the water channel. Garbage, comprising polythene bags, animal carcasses, empty gunny bags and other waste material, is thrown into the water channel daily. People have been requested time and again not to throw garbage into the water channel and hand it over to MC workers who collect garbage door to door daily,” Sharma added.He said he had deployed MC workers and also hired private labourers to clean the water channel. He said the Municipal Corporation would clean only a four-km area as the remaining 23-km part falls in the jurisdiction of the IPH department.Sanjay Thakur, Executive Engineer, IPH, said there were problems only in upper areas of Palampur, between Bundla and Maranda, which are thickly populated areas of the town. In lower areas, there was less dumping of garbage.He said the IPH department had also deployed over 30 persons regularly to take out garbage from the Kuhal. In the absence of any law to penalise defaulters, the channel had become a garbage dumping site. He said panchayat pradhans had been requested to stop people from dumping garbage into the water channel.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/palampur-mc-begins-drive-to-clean-water-channel-265332
08-06-2021||---||Woman dies of black fungus||Tribune News ServiceShimla, June 7A black fungus patient succumbed to the disease here today. The woman had been referred to the IGMC from Nerchowk, Mandi.With this, the number of black fungus deaths at the IGMC Hospital has risen to three. The first two victims of the disease at the IGMC Hospital were men — a 38-year-old from Nadaun in Hamirpur district and a 49-year-old from Kasauli.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/woman-dies-of-black-fungus-265331
08-06-2021||---||Himachal CM seeks early highway notification||Tribune News ServiceShimla, June 7Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur called on Nitin Gadkari Union Minister for Road, Transport and Highways at New Delhi today and thanked him for sanctioning various projects under the Central Road and Infrastructure Fund (CRIF) worth Rs 193 crore to the state. He said that roads are the lifeline of the hill state and these would go a long way in strengthening the connectivity in the state.Thakur requested him for the speedy notification of 25 national highways approved in principle.A discussion regarding four-laning of the Shimla-Matour and Mandi-Pathankot national highways was also held. He thanked Gadkari for the improvement in roads under the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) and requested for proper maintenance of existing alignments of the national highways where the work has been started by the executing agency.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-cm-seeks-early-highway-notification-265330
08-06-2021||---||AICC secretary to arrive today, hold talks with senior leaders||Tribune News ServiceShimla, June 7Himachal co-incharge and AICC secretary Sanjay Dutt will be holding consultations with senior leaders and party functionaries during his three-day visit to the state beginning tomorrow.The visit of Dutt, who has been appointed co-incharge of Himachal, comes at a time when there is hectic lobbying among the Congress leaders over supremacy in the party. Dutt, who hails from Maharashtra, will be meeting HPCC president Kuldeep Rathore and Congress Legislature Party (CLP) leader Mukesh Agnihotri, besides party legislators and party office-bearers in his madien visit.Chauhan appointed media in-chargeKeeping in mind the curfew restrictions, the party will not be holding any big worker meeting but Dutt will take feedback from all the senior state leaders. It is learnt that Dutt, after holding consultation with all party leaders and functionaries, will give his feedback to the high command.There has been a lot of news in social media on regrouping within the Congress in the recent past with a little over one year left for the Assembly polls in the state. With six-time Chief Minister Virbhadra Singh not in the best of health, an attempt is being made to get his followers together under the leadership of Agnihotri.Agnihotri has started meeting party leaders, including MLAs from various districts. His endeavour is to emerge as the consensus choice of all Virbhadra loyalists.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/aicc-secretary-to-arrive-today-hold-talks-with-senior-leaders-265329
08-06-2021||---||Leopard skins seized, two  in police net||Shimla, June 7The Shimla police today recovered three leopard skins and arrested two persons for smuggling animal skin under relevant sections of the Wildlife Protection Act.Following a tip off, the teams of police and forest raided the house of an accused, who runs a tailor shop in New Shimla area and recovered three skins besides teeth and nails of the leopards from the spot. The cost of these smuggled animal parts runs in lakhs.“Reeling under the financial crunch during the ongoing corona pandemic, the tailor and another person from Uttrakhand living in his PG decided to smuggle leopard skins to sell them here and make profits”, said SP Shimla Mohit Chawla.The skins have been sent for examination to Dehradhun to know the specie and origin. Investigation in the case is on to get to the main supplier.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/leopard-skins-seized-two-in-police-net-265328
08-06-2021||---||BJP wants Dalhousie renamed as Netaji Nagar, Congress opposes move||Tribune News ServiceDharamsala, June 7A controversy has erupted in Himachal Pradesh over a proposal to rename Dalhousie, a famous hill station in Chamba district, as Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose Nagar, a demand made by BJP leader Subramanian Swamy and being opposed by the Congress.Swamy is learnt to have written to state Governor Bandaru Dattatreya in this regard. The town is named after Lord Dalhousie, who was the Governor General of India during the British rule.In 1992, the BJP government under CM Shanta Kumar had even issued a notification renaming the town, but the subsequent Congress regime withdrew it, said Swamy. BJP leaders claim Netaji had visited the town in 1937. Opposing the suggestion, senior Congress leader and Dalhousie MLA Asha Kumari has written to Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur, claiming even the locals were against the proposal. “The sentiments of the Dalhousie residents should be given top priority while considering any such suggestion,” she said.Manoj Chadha, Dalhousie municipal council president who is a BJP leader, too, is against renaming the town. He said Lord Dalhousie hadn’t even visited the town and had nothing to do with its name.Those associated with the tourism industry claim the name Dalhousie gave the town an international identity and drew tourists from far and wide.Chamba ruler Maharaja Shri Singh had in 1853 permitted the British to make a settlement, which came to be known as Dalhousie. British officer Lt Col Napier, who later became Lord Napier, created Dalhousie town and later named it after Lord Dalhousie.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/bjp-wants-dalhousie-renamed-as-netaji-nagar-congress-opposes-move-265250
08-06-2021||---||Vet tele-medicine facility launched at Nahan||Tribune News ServiceSolan, June 7A veterinary tele-medicine facility was launched at Nahan to facilitate the speedy diagnose of animal diseases.Deputy Commissioner, Sirmaur, Dr RK Pruthi, said under the facility, telephonic consultation could be taken about animal disease. Veterinary officials could be approached telephonically from 9:30 am to 4 pm on working days.Deputy Director, Animal Husbandry Department, Dr Neeru Shabnam, said it was an endeavour to help persons during the pandemic and provide timely cure. This would also save the hassle of travelling to hospitals. The district administration also made available telephone numbers of doctors for this purpose.“A case of rabies in a remote Shillai village has been successfully diagnosed and a team was sent to the village with the medicines to contain the disease after a villager approached me on Whatsapp,” said Dr Shabnam.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/vet-tele-medicine-facility-launched-at-nahan-265327
08-06-2021||---||Call to fill posts of vet in Lahaul-Spiti||Tribune News ServiceMandi, June 7Residents of the Lahaul valley have requested the state government to fill all vacant posts of the Animal Husbandry Department in the tribal Lahaul & Spiti district so that better and hassle-free medical care could be provided to livestock at their doorstep.They alleged that several posts of the Animal Husbandry Department were lying vacant in the district, due to which people were facing difficulties in getting their livestock treated.A delegation of residents submitted a memorandum of demands to the state government through the Lahaul & Spiti DC.Sudarshan Jaspa, member, Zila Parishad, Lahaul & Spiti, said there were a total of 37 posts of veterinary pharmacist in Lahaul. However, the posts of veterinary pharmacist are lying vacant at Tindi, Karpat, Udaipur, Muring, Chokhang, Thiort, Naingahar, Gohrama, Nalda, Kirting, Tholang, Goshal, Gaimur, Kolong, Darcha and Teling, he said.“Five posts of veterinary doctor are vacant in Lahaul. Livestock breeding is the main source of livelihood for residents of Lahaul & Spiti. So, the authorities must ensure better health facilities for livestock in the region,” he said. “It is not easy for residents to take their ailing livestock to distant veterinary,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/call-to-fill-posts-of-vet-in-lahaul-spiti-265326
08-06-2021||Lalit Mohan||Agro units of Himachal in the red due to curbs||Tribune News ServiceDharamsala, June 7The small-scale agro product units in the state have been hit hard due to the Covid lockdown. The major share of sales of agro product units in the state comes from tourists. Since very few tourists have come to the state, the sales of many units have shrunk up to 95 per cent.Pankaj Chowfla — owner of Vales Agro Foods in Chamba that produces pickles made of green and red chillies and fruit beverages — said his sales were down by about 95 per cent due to Covid restrictions. He said a majority of his products were bought as souvenirs by tourists coming to the state. “As hardly any tourist is coming, the market has shrunk. To add to our woes, we are not getting payments from retailers who take products on credit and pay after their sale,” he said.Chowfla said the government should provide financial support to the units that are hit due to restrictions. “The government should look for alternatives to allow tourists into the state, while following safety guidelines, as they are the lifeline for small-scale cottage industries in the state,” he said.Rakesh Kumar, owner of another agro-based products unit in Kangra, said, “Labourers are finding it difficult to reach the unit as the public transport has been stopped by the state government. Most of my workers used to come in public transport from rural areas. Since no buses are plying, the labourers are finding it very difficult to reach the unit.”Owners of such units alleged that small farmers from far-flung areas of Himachal, who used to supply them raw material in public transport, too have been hit.Minister for Industries Bikram Thakur was not available for comments despite repeated attempts to contact him on his phones.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/agro-units-of-himachal-in-the-red-due-to-curbs-265325
08-06-2021||Ambika Sharma||Solan girl scales Nepal’s peak, gets rousing welcome at home||Tribune News ServiceSolan, June 7Baljeet Kaur, a resident of the non-descript Panjrol village in Solan, who has become the first Indian woman mountaineer to successfully summit 7,161-m Pumori peak in Nepal, received a rousing welcome on her arrival here last evening.She was part of a 12-member delegation which achieved this feat on May 12 in the Government of India-sponsored “Mt Everest Masiff Expedition-2021”. Having failed to scale Mt Everest by a mere 300 m six years ago due to technical reasons in 2016, Kaur’s resolve to scale the world’s highest peak was bolstered by this first achievement. She now plans to summit Mt Everest next year.Talking to mediapersons, Baljeet said, “A small news clipping on mountaineering inspired me to delve into this profession while I was in school. Financial constraints, however, deterred me from pursuing this profession as it entails an expenditure of lakhs of rupees.” Being the eldest of three siblings, she had the onus of supporting her family and did odd jobs to make both ends meet.On joining the Degree College, Solan, she joined the NCC, where an opportunity came her way and she secured a berth in an NCC girls’ expedition to summit the Mt Everest in 2016. Though she missed the target by a mere 300 m, it provided the much-needed confidence.“Pumori is known as the ‘mountain daughter’ or ‘Everest’s daughter’ by climbers and despite having missed Mt Everest, the Sherpa who accompanied me inspired me to nurture my passion,” she said.In a bid to hone her skills, she continued to scale various mountains like Deotibba in Manali, Trishu peak in Uttarakhand, besides an Army post at Siachen, before being finally selected for this Mount Everest Masiff-2021. “I decided to equip myself better by attending an advance course in mountaineering besides a course of skiing to enhance my adaptability to inclement weather and other challenges.”Elated at her achievement, Baljeet said, “Developmental initiatives continue to be based on the idea that men are breadwinners and women are dependent. Women should overcome this age-old belief and stand on their feet.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/solan-girl-scales-nepals-peak-gets-rousing-welcome-at-home-265324
08-06-2021||---||Include NCC as elective course in colleges, says Himachal Governor||Shimla, June 7Governor Bandaru Dattatreya emphasised on the inclusion of NCC as an elective course in universities and colleges and emphasized on nation building through NCC.Addressing Vice Chancellors of state universities through video conference from Raj Bhavan today, he said the role of NCC in instilling the values of character, discipline and hard work and in shaping the youth into dynamic and responsible citizens of the country had been well recognised.Secretary to Governor Rakesh Kanwar conducted the proceedings of the meeting. Introduction of NCC as an elective course in universities and colleges, status of online teaching, examination, admission and post unlock preparation and review of involvement of students and teachers in Covid care activities were discussed in the meeting.The Governor said that most of the colleges were conducting NCC activities in a big way and some of them did excellent work and added that during the corona pandemic, NCC cadets could play an important role in the supply chain.He said that the educational institutions were working on online education since last year but still a lot was needed to be done in this direction.He said that those who were working through this system should also understand whether this facility was being available to the students belonging to the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes. He directed them to report the progress and efforts being made for removing shortcomings in online education.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/include-ncc-as-elective-course-in-colleges-says-himachal-governor-265285
08-06-2021||Lalit Mohan||Chamba metal artisans struggle for livelihood||Tribune News ServiceDharamsala, June 7Metal artisans of Chamba, who are famous for making bronze idols and artefacts, have been hit badly due to the pandemic. They have been without work since March 2020 when the first Covid lockdown was imposed.The family of Rajesh Anand has been in business of making and selling bronze artefacts of Chamba for many generations. While talking to The Tribune, Rajesh said he had been supporting families of 10 bronze artisans for the past one year.However, it has become difficult to do so now, he said. “There has been no business for the past one year. I have been depending on my savings to keep the business alive since 2020. Now, we are not getting even the raw material for making idols. So, it will be difficult for me to even sustain my artisans,” he said.Rajesh Anand said bronze artisans of Chamba had been making bronze artefacts for centuries. Some of the artefacts like ‘Chamba thal’ are world famous. “Before the lockdown, we were getting orders for ‘Chamba thal’ from even foreign countries. Chamba artisans also make idols and musical instruments of bronze. The government should make some efforts to save these artisans,” he said.Bittu, an artisan from Chamba, said, “Our younger generation is already not interested in taking this art forward as the returns in the profession are not that rewarding. Just a few families have been left in Chamba that are carrying forward the art. The pandemic has sounded a death knell for the art, unless the government comes forward to protect it,” he said.Artisans demanded that at a time when no one was purchasing their products, the government could purchase these to give these as gifts to VIPs coming to the state. The government can also help by asking corporate houses to buy some bronze artefacts so that artisans can sustain themselves, they said. They also urged the state government to help them sell their products online.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/chamba-metal-artisans-struggle-for-livelihood-265281
08-06-2021||---||Wheat procurement at record high in Himachal||Shimla, June 7The government has procured a record 10,065.70 MT wheat during the ongoing rabi marketing season (RMS), which is 221 per cent (6,936.2 MT) more as compared to the corresponding period last year.The procurement through the Food Corporation India (FCI) started on April 15. The highest-ever purchase of 10,065.70 MT wheat was achieved till May 31 against 3,129.50 MT last year. The procurement is still continuing, said state Agriculture Minister Virender Kanwar.“The government had set a procurement target of 12,500 MT through the FCI and we are hopeful of achieving the target,” he added.Eight procurement centers have been opened in five wheat-growing districts, including Paonta Sahib and Kala Amb in Sirmaur district, Haroli and Takrala in Una district, Fatehpur and Thakurdwara in Kangra district, Ghumarwin in Bilaspur district and Nalagarh in Solan district. The highest procurement of 3,052 MT was done in Kangra district, followed by 2,983.90 MT in Sirmaur district, 2,727 MT in Una district and 42.70 MT in Bilaspur district. In addition, local traders also purchased wheat from farmers, the minister said.The season continued till June-end and 2,447 farmers had benefited from government procurement and the basic facilities were provided by the HP Food and Civil Supplies Corporation, said the minister.Himachal is not a wheat-producing state and farmers grow wheat and maize to meet their requirement and the surplus wheat is sent to the procurement centres and markets.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/wheat-procurement-at-record-high-in-himachal-265280
08-06-2021||---||Three months on, no child specialist in Kullu hospital||Our CorrespondentKullu, June 7Both posts of paediatrician in the Kullu regional hospital here have been lying vacant from the past three months. The people are compelled to visit private hospitals, where the treatment is expensive. High-risk caesarian cases are also being referred to other hospitals, in the absence of paediatricians.Apart from the people of Kullu district, the hospital caters to the masses of Lahaul-Spiti, Pangi region in Chamba district, and parts of Balh and Seraj regions of Mandi district. There is resentment among people about the government’s inability to fill the vacant posts. The residents said people from remote areas had to dole out hefty amounts in private hospitals. They demanded that the posts of paediatrician should be filled on priority.Moroever, there is not a single paediatrician in the tribal district of Lahaul-Spiti. The people, who were dependent on the Kullu hospital for their children’’s treatment, are facing problem as the paediatrics OPD here is locked. It is feared that children will be more vulnerable in the third wave of Covid. The children below 18 years have not been vaccinated, and this has raised concern among the people. The masses rued the government was not taking care of the health facilities at Kullu. They said there was no surgeon in the hospital and the government should fill all vacant posts at the earliest.Dr Neena Lal, Medical Superintendent, Regional Hospital, Kullu, said both the posts of paediatrician were lying vacant from past three months. She said orders of posting a surgeon had been issued, but he did not join. She said there were no other posts of paediatrician in other government medical facilities of Kullu. The higher authorities and the government had been informed about the vacant posts in the Kullu hospital, she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/three-months-on-no-child-specialist-in-kullu-hospital-265277
08-06-2021||---||Parents no more, grandmom only support for kids||Our CorrespondentPalampur, June 7The second wave of the Covid pandemic has left children orphaned and women widows. Many families are struggling for their survival. There are instances where children have lost parents and are left in the lurch. Unfortunately, the government’s help to such families is yet to pour in.Died last monthAfter travelling for one-and-a-half hour from Palampur, the reporter reached Dakbagra village near Jogindernagar on the Pathankot-Mandi national highway where Covid had snatched the parents of 16-year-old Vishal and 9-year-old Pari. Now, only their grandmother has been left behind to look after the schoolchildren.They are not ready to accept the truth that their parents are no more. The hapless children, sitting in the veranda of a small house, said first their mother was infected and later their father. He was looking after their mother while she was in home isolation.SDM, Jogindernagar, Amit Mehara had visited the family a few days ago and assured them all possible support from the government. He also promised that the benefits under the scheme recently launched for the orphaned children would also be extended to Pari and Vishal.So far, seven children have become orphans in Himachal. The government will provide a financial assistance of Rs 2,500 per month to the children till 18 years.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/parents-no-more-grandmom-only-support-for-kids-265275
08-06-2021||---||656 new Covid cases, 18 deaths in Himachal||Shimla, June 7As many as 656 Covid cases were reported in the state today, taking the tally to 195,755. Besides, 18 persons died of the virus in the past 24 hours. Five deaths were reported in Shimla, four each in Kangra and Solan, two in Mandi and one each in Solan, Una and Hamirpur.The highest number of 129 cases was reported in Mandi, followed by 124 in Kangra, 82 in Chamba, 66 in Shimla, 48 in Solan, 41 in Una, 39 in Sirmaur, 35 in Kullu, 34 in Hamirpur, 31 in Bilaspur, 21 in Kinnaur and six in Lahaul and Spiti. The number of active cases declined to 7,555.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/656-new-covid-cases-18-deaths-in-himachal-265263
08-06-2021||Pratibha Chauhan||Positivity rate in Himachal drops to 5.3 per cent in one week||Tribune News ServiceShimla, June 7The Covid positivity rate has dropped to 5.3 per cent from 29 per cent in the state in the past one week with eight districts reporting a percentage of below 5.According to the data compiled by the Health Department, 170 persons died of the virus, including highest 54 in Kangra, in Himachal between May 31 and June 7. The second highest number of 22 deaths took place in Mandi district, followed by 21 in Shimla during the week.The highest positivity rate of 8.3 per cent was reported in Kangra, followed by 7.7 per cent in Shimla, 6.2 per cent in Chamba, five per cent in Sirmaur district, 4.3 per cent each in Una, Hamirpur and Bilaspur districts, 4.2 per cent in Mandi and 2.2 per cent in Lahaul and Spiti. The situation in Lahaul and Spiti seems to be satisfactory.The government has extended the curfew till June 14 in view of a high 29 per cent positivity rate reported last month. A total of 5,634 Covid cases were recorded in the state in the past one week.Besides, the government has also decided to keep public transport, both inter-state and intra-state, suspended till the positivity rate declines further.On May 17, the positivity rate in the state rose to 28.9 per cent and the fatality rate to 1.52 per cent. Between May 10 and 16, an all-time high 439 deaths in a week were recorded in the state. Of the total 99,807 tests done, 28,817 people tested positive for Covid within a week, indicating very high transmission, especially in rural areas.In May, Kangra, Solan, Sirmaur, Shimla, Mandi and Hamirpur districts had registered high transmission of over 30 per cent. The fatality rate in Shimla district was at an all-time high of 2.61, followed by 2.10 per cent in Una.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/positivity-rate-in-himachal-drops-to-5-3-per-cent-in-one-week-265254
08-06-2021||---||Thakur meets Sitharaman, seeks help for Rs1,892-cr ADB project||Tribune News ServiceShimla, June 7Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur today called on Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman in New Delhi and requested her to provide financial assistance to the state as recommended by the 15th Finance Commission.“Himachal Pradesh lacks resources for investment in infrastructure projects like expansion of Kangra airport and construction of Mandi airports. Hence, the financial assistance is of great significance for the development of the state,” he said.He apprised the minister that a tourism project of Rs 1,892 crore proposed to Asian Development Bank (ADB) for funding was also awaiting approval. He requested her for the speedy approval to the project.Thakur also urged for GST compensation due for the financial years 2017-18, 2018-19 and 2019-2020 to be provided to the state. He sought her intervention in expediting negotiations with the World Bank for funding of Himachal hydro power and renewable power sector development programme.He also raised the issue of allowing ropeway connectivity as an alternate mode of connectivity under Pradhan Mantri Gram Sadak Yojana. While discussing about the Bhanupali-Bilaspur rail line, Thakur requested her to consider all rail projects of national importance and funded entirely by the Central Government keeping in view the weak resource base of Himachal Pradesh. Sitharaman assured him of all possible help to the state.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/thakur-meets-sitharaman-seeks-help-for-rs1-892-cr-adb-project-265247
08-06-2021||Ambika Sharma||Paonta-based pharma firm’s licence cancelled||Tribune News ServiceSolan, June 7The Assistant Drug Licensing Authority (ADLA), Nahan, has cancelled the licence of Paonta Sahib-based Unique Formulations from where the Punjab Police had seized 30.2 lakh pharma opioids tablets.Sunny Kaushal, ADLA, Nahan, said that the management of Unique Formulations, Paonta Sahib, failed to produce any record pertaining to the seized drugs and its licence had been cancelled as it did not reply to the show-cause notice.The Paonta Sahib police had also seized 745 kg of tramadol worth Rs 1.5 crore from the unit on May 30 after registering a case under the NDPS Act and the IPC for cheating, forgery and criminal conspiracy.Kaushal said that they had received the reply of Kala Amb-based Orison International Pharmaceutical to the show-cause notice and examining it. The company had manufactured tramadol under licence and after obtaining product permission but it failed to abide by the new amendment to the Drugs and Cosmetics Act that requires a manufacturer to enter into an agreement with a marketer. This new norm became applicable on March 1.A team of the Narcotic Control Bureau (NCB), Delhi, had seized 10 lakh tablets of tradamol manufactured by Orison Pharma from Swiftline Transport, Noida, on June 3, said Additional SP Babita Rana, who is investigating the case.She said that the record of the seizure made by the NCB had been secured from Orison Pharma. It was being verified that how many tramadol tablets the company had manufactured in the past and sold where.It has also been learnt that another consignment of about 5 lakh tablets manufactured by Orison Pharma was seized yesterday from another transport company. Doctors prescribe tramadol for pain relief.  745 kg tramadol worth Rs1.5 crore impounded||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/paonta-based-pharma-firms-licence-cancelled-265245
08-06-2021||Mandi||Doctors seek regular jobs in Himachal||Around 220 contractual Ayush doctors, recruited under the National Health Mission, have urged the state government to regularise their jobs. They alleged that they were getting meagre salaries and were facing job insecurity.Dr Umesh Sharma, president, Himachal Pradesh Contractual Medical Officers (Ayush) and Paramedics Welfare Association, said “Ayush doctors play a crucial role in fighting the pandemic but the state government has failed to regularise our jobs and end the bias in salaries.”“The state government had announced incentives for health employees who were on Covid duty but Ayush doctors were not considered for the same. Ayush doctors were deployed on Covid duty to collect samples of patients in villages. It was demoralising for them,” he remarked. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/doctors-seek-regular-jobs-in-himachal-265243
08-06-2021||---||Ayush Department to open four post-Covid care centres in Himachal||Tribune News ServiceShimla, June 7The Ayush Department will open four post Covid rehabilitation centres in the second phase of the Ayush Ghar Dwar programme, a wellness programme aimed at the overall wellbeing of covid patients.Enthused by the response the first phase of the programme received from people, Health Minister Rajiv Saizal launched the second phase of the programme here today. In the second phase, the wellness programme will go beyond Covid patients to target sections individuals who have recovered from the disease, vulnerable sections like elderly and immune-compromised people and healthy segment too.Expressing satisfaction over the success of the first phase, Saizal said over 10,000 Whatsapp groups were made and over 30,000 people were reached. Also, he said, as many as 37,000 virtual sessions were held to take care of their mental, physical, social and spiritual wellbeing.In the second phase, the programme will look to address post-Covid stress disorder through Ayush rehabilitation centres that will be opened in Shimla, Mandi, Solan and Kangra. “The centres will provide a wide range of services such as lessons on diet, daily routine, meditation, yoga, pranayam, etc,” said Rakhee Singh, joint director, Ayush Department.Also, the department intends to procure and distribute Ayush-64 medicine among a large number of people. “It has been recommended by Ayush for patients with mild to moderate symptoms. Over two lakh packs of medicine will be procured by the department for distribution,” said the joint director.Congratulating Ayush and its collaborators, Art of Living and Yog Bharti Foundation for the successful first phase, the Health Minister said the programme was one of its kind in the country and directed the officials to make the second phase equally successful so that others states could also follow and benefit their residents.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/ayush-department-to-open-four-post-covid-care-centres-in-himachal-265238
08-06-2021||---||PWD set to begin work on Shimla Ridge restoration||Shimla, June 7Finally, the Public Works Department appears all set to float a tender to restore the sinking portion of the historic Ridge.“IIT-Roorkee has designed it and the estimate is also ready. We will float a tender by June 15 and award the work in July,” said PWD Superintending Engineer Suresh Kapoor.An IIT-Roorkee team did the geotechnical study of the sinking portion and submit its report to the PWD. “It took time to get the project going because of Covid. The IIT was closed and professors also contracted the virus. But now everything is in place and the work will start at the earliest,” said Kapoor.Cost goes up by Rs10 croreThe department was ready to float the tender in December with the structure design and construction plan. “They had sent us the tentative drawings, but the goods for construction drawings had not come. The final drawings have come this month. Based on these drawings, we will invite the tender,” said Kapoor.The project is being executed under the Shimla Smart City Mission with the budget of Rs 15 crore already approved. However, the budget estimate has also seen a major hike – the PWD has pegged the estimate at Rs 25 crore now. “The revised estimate will soon be conveyed to the officials,” said Kapoor.According to PWD officials, the recommendation by the IIT to use micropile technology for laying the foundation of the RCC structure that will stabilise the sinking portion has pushed up the budget estimate.With the final drawings and final estimate in hand, the PWD says it will take around 15 months to complete the project.“We will not be able to work the whole day. We will need night permission and have restricted hours to work. So, we can hope to complete the work in about 15 months,” said Kapoor.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/pwd-set-to-begin-work-on-shimla-ridge-restoration-265234
