09-06-2021||Shimla||HP: 15 Covid deaths, 554 new cases||Fifteen more people died from Covid-19 in Himachal Pradesh on Wednesday as 554 fresh cases pushed the state’s infection count to 1,96,905, an official said.So far, the infection has killed 3,327 people in the state. According to the state Health Department, the number of active cases has now dropped to 6,682.The number of total recoveries has reached 1,86,872 with 839 patients recuperating from the infection in the past 24 hours, the official said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/hp-15-covid-deaths-554-new-cases-265943
09-06-2021||The road from the BCS to News Shimla||Vehicles Wrongly parked, traffic flow affected||— Manoj, ShimlaMandi villagers getting Muddy water supplyResidents of Kot, Kauhan and Karnohal villages under the Tihra region in Mandi district are receiving muddy water supply from the past few days, causing a lot of inconvenience to them. They are requesting the Irrigation and Public Health Department to check the water source and do the needful to provide them a clean water supply. The residents said the muddy water supply could cause waterborne diseases so necessary action should be taken immediately.— Pankaj Sharma, Kot village, MandiWhat our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: hpreadersfeedback@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/vehicles-wrongly-parked-traffic-flow-affected-265821
09-06-2021||A webinar on "Emergence of India among top-ranked nations in pharmaceuticals" was organised by the Government Polytechnic College for Women||Webinar on pharma sector||Environment week celebratedStudents of Government Girls School, Lakkar Bazaar, celebrated an 'environment week' by participating in activities such as quiz, declamation, poster presentation, painting and at home plantation. Principal Bhupinder Singh said the winner in each category would be honoured when the school reopens. He said about a 100 students participated through online and offline mode during the week and added that it was a welcome break from digital devices that the students are hooked to these days.School offers its ambulanceLawrence School, Sanawar, Headmaster Himmat Singh Dhillon has offered the school ambulance to the district administration. Solan Deputy Commissioner KC Chaman welcomed this goodwill gesture and accepted the offer which will strengthen the ongoing efforts of the administration to provide better healthcare services to people. The school ambulance will continue to serve Covid patients of the state until the crisis is over. Ever since the pandemic broke out, the school has been helping the district administration and the neighboring communities fight the perils of the pandemic. Since March 2020, the school has distributed dry ration and relief material in five phases to over 1,500 families, especially migrant workers, who were rendered jobless.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/webinar-on-pharma-sector-265820
09-06-2021||---||Smart City BoD approves Rs48 cr for parallel tunnel at Dhalli||Shimla, June 8A parallel tunnel to the 100-year-old tunnel on the Sanjauli-Dhalli road is likely to come up by next year. An expert agency has found the project to be feasible and the Smart City Board of Directors (BoD), during its meeting here today, has approved a Rs 48-crore budget for the project.Major projects in the offing in ShimlaThe BoD gave its final approval to projects worth Rs221 crore — the major one being the construction of the tunnel and an integrated command and control centre (Rs41 crore), installation of smart electricity meters in Shimla (Rs10 crore) and the setting up of a Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition (SCADA) system for Shimla Jal Prabandhan Nigam Limited (Rs9 crore).The BoD gave its final approval to projects worth Rs 221 crore, the major one being the construction of the tunnel and the Integrated Command and Control Centre (Rs 41 crore), installation of smart electricity meters in Shimla (Rs 10 crore) and the setting up of a Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition (SCADA) system for Shimla Jal Prabandhan Nigam Limited (Rs 9 crore).The tendering process for the construction of the tunnel is expected to start soon. In the meantime, Himachal Pradesh Road Infrastructure Development Corporation (HPRIDC), the implementing agency of the project, will have to put in public domain the challenges/issues that people residing close to the site may face during the construction of the tunnel. “The HPRIDC gave a presentation in the BoD meeting. The agency has been asked to give a presentation in the MC House, too, to apprise public representatives of the challenges,” said Nitin Garg, GM (Technical), Smart City Mission.As and when the tunnel comes up, it will ease the traffic on this narrow and busy road. As the existing tunnel is one-way, a lot of vehicles line up on either side of the tunnel throughout the day, leading to traffic jams. Interestingly, the plan to build a parallel tunnel was mooted way back in 2008-09. Even the DPR for the project was prepared, but the project did not take off. “All processes will work simultaneously, and the tunnel should be ready next year,” said Garg.He said tenders had been floated for the Integrated Command and Control Centre and the work was expected to be allotted before September. “The command and control centre is being built in both Shimla and Dharamsala. The effort will be to have maximum possible common software for both centres to bring down the cost of the project,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/smart-city-bod-approves-rs48-cr-for-parallel-tunnel-at-dhalli-265542
09-06-2021||---||Shimla police to keep vigil with hi-tech drone||Shimla, June 8The Shimla police will acquire drones with 10X zoom camera for aerial inspection, surveillance, search and rescue mission and set up a network of CCTV cameras to act as third eye.Checking crimeA drone, provided by the state CID, was successfully tested on The Ridge here in presence of Superintendent of Police Mohit Chawla and these would be purchased for all sub-divisions in a phased manner.It is a major step towards modernisation of the police and go a long way in regulating traffic, keeping an eye on major rallies and demonstrations. The calibrated aerial drone with 2 km front radius can remain in air for nearly 45 minutes on one battery and take clear pictures from long distance.It will help the police to identify the spots and take immediate steps for prevention of crime and other unlawful activities. Law enforcement agencies are using the drones which will come in handy in identifying forest fires, illegal mining, illegal cultivation of drugs, traffic surveillance, maintaining law and order and rescue during snow and other natural calamities, said Chawla.The drone, purchased at a cost of Rs 8-9 lakh, is self-sustainable and can guide itself back to the original place in case of heavy winds and technical snags. In addition, a vast network of CCTV matrix would be established for the city to keep a watch on anti-social elements, criminals, eve-teasers and vehicular traffic.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/shimla-police-to-keep-vigil-with-hi-tech-drone-265543
09-06-2021||Our Correspondent
||Water pump installed, farmers of Palampur villages relieved||Palampur, June 8 The residents of 10 villages of Palampur subdivision including Holta, Tanda, Banuri, Saralu, Pantehar, Rajpur, Badher, Patti, etc, will no longer have to struggle for irrigation water as the IPH Department has installed a pump in the Awa river to lift the water for this channel.  The irrigation channel known as Partual Kuhal feeding these villages was damaged during the construction of a bridge over the Awa river near Sparu by the Public Works Department three years ago and not repaired since then.  With the onset of season for paddy transplantation, farmers from these areas were a harried lot but they are now elated after the restoration of water in the irrigation channel. Three days ago, hundreds of farmers met Trilok Kapoor, chairman of HP State Wool Federation, to lodge their protest over the non-availability of water for irrigation and demand immediate repair of water channel.  In fact, a 500-metre part of the channel was completely damaged during the construction of a bridge over the Awa river.  Kapoor directed the IPH Department to install water pump in the riverbed to lift the water to feed the channel as immediate repair of the channel was not possible. The IPH Department within two days installed electric water pump in the riverbed and resorted the water.  Sources told The Tribune that the IPH Department had spent over Rs 2 crores on the construction of this water channel in the year 2018 but since then it was abandoned because of non-cooperative attitude of the PWD which was not ready to repair the water channel. With the intervention of Trilok Kapoor, the PWD has now agreed to repair the water channel after rainy season also bear the maintenance cost of water pump and electricity bills.  Sanjay Thakur, Executive Engineer, IPH, told The Tribune that now water was regularly flowing into the channel. Half a dozen labourers have been deployed to look after the functioning the water pump.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/water-pump-installed-farmers-of-palampur-villages-relieved-265544
09-06-2021||Shimla||Quantum of sentence in Gudiya case now on June 15||The quantum of sentence in the Gudiya rape and murder case was again deferred to June 15 by the CBI special court as the lone convict Anil Kumar, alias Nilu, a wood cutter, could not be produced in the court today due to corona curfew imposed in the state. The court had held Nilu guilty of rape and murder on April 28 last. This is the fifth time the sentence has been deferred. Earlier, the sentenced was to be announced on May 11. It was postponed to May 18, then to May 28 and then again to June 3. Now the verdict has been deferred to June 15, again due to corona curfew in the state. Nilu was held guilty under sections 376 (2)(i), 376 (A), and 302 of the IPC and section 4 of the POCSO Act. The case dates back to July 4, 2017, when a minor girl went missing on her way back from school in Kotkhai (Shimla) and her body was found two days later. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/quantum-of-sentence-in-gudiya-case-now-on-june-15-265545
09-06-2021||---||500 got jobs during lockdown: Minister Suresh Bhardwaj||Shimla, June 8Employment has been provided to people in urban areas, especially during the lockdown, under the Mukhya Mantri Shahri Ajeevika Guarantee Yojana, said Urban Development Minister Suresh Bhardwaj here today.He said that the scheme was akin to urban MGNREGA and over 1,300 people had registered under it since April 1, including 650 during the current lockdown. After May 7, more than 500 people had been provided work under the scheme during the lockdown while more than 800 had been issued job cards.Bhardwaj said that the scheme was envisaged during the lockdown last year to help urban people with guaranteed job assurance. He added that more than 5,000 people had registered under the scheme till March this year, and 4,800 of them had been issued job cards.The minister said that around 4,500 people had been assigned work till March this year. He added that Rs 3 crore was spent under the scheme in the previous financial year and a provision of Rs 4 crore in the state budget had been made for it for the current financial year.He said that the scheme was launched on the lines of MGNREGA for urban areas. It guarantees 120 days of employment to residents of urban local bodies within 15 days of the issuance of job cards, and if not provided a job, Rs 75 per day is paid as unemployment allowance.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/500-got-jobs-during-lockdown-minister-suresh-bhardwaj-265546
09-06-2021||Shimla||Govt advisory on black fungus sent to all Himachal Pradesh districts||An advisory on the treatment and management of Covid-19 associated mucormycosis (CAM) and other important considerations issued by the Central Government has been circulated to all districts in the state, a spokesperson for the Health Department said here today.Himachal Pradesh to receive Covishield supplyShimla: As many as 24,65,448 vaccine doses have been given to the people of the state till date, out of which a total of 1,04,865 beneficiaries are in the 18-44 age group, a spokesperson of the Health Department said here on Tuesday. Earlier, stock of 1,07,620 Covishield doses was made available to the state. He said that 49,350 vaccine doses were being received on Tuesday. As per schedule communicated by the manufacturer, 40,980 vaccines would be received on June 16, 49,350 vaccines on June 26 and 27,500 vaccine doses would be received by July 2. TNSThe National Task Force has reviewed the treatment of Covid-19 associated mucormycosis and given recommendations on various treatment options. As per the recommendations, Amphotericin B, both in the Amphotericin lipid complex/liposomal and Amphotericin B Deoxycholate forms, is equally efficacious for the treatment of CAM cases. However, the latter was more toxic to kidneys and therefore should be administered along with the monitoring of kidney function and electrolyte imbalance, he added.He said that at present, there are 17 CAM cases in the state — 7 in Kangra, 2 each in Solan and Shimla, 1 in Mandi and 5 in Hamirpur. Four persons had died of CAM-related complications in the state. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/govt-advisory-on-black-fungus-sent-to-all-himachal-pradesh-districts-265547
09-06-2021||Dinesh Kanwar||Students travel 10 km to study medical subjects||Hamiprur, June 8Students in the remote Gandheer area of the Jhandutta Assembly constituency in Bilaspur district have to travel more than 10 km to study medical subjects that are not taught in Class XI and XII at local Government Senior Secondary School. The school was upgraded to the senior secondary level with arts subjects in 2013. The government again gave it permission to teach non-medical subjects in 2017 but ignored the medical stream.Many girls forced to opt for artsGirl students, who want to take up the medical stream, have to either go to Government Senior Secondary School at Barthin or are forced to opt for the arts stream as their parents are reluctant to send them to far off places. Besides the bus service in the area is also poor, alleged a resident.Girl students, who want to study medical subjects, have either to go to Government Senior Secondary School at Barthin or have to satisfy themselves by taking arts subjects, as their parents are reluctant to send them to far off places. Ramesh Kumar, a resident of a nearby village, says many girls want to become a doctor or a nurse but this year, too, they had to opt for the arts stream and did not take admission at the school at Barthin due to poor bus service in the area, he added.Suresh Thakur, principal of GSSS at Ghandeer, says that all paperwork to start medical classes have been completed and the proposal submitted to the Director Higher Education is under consideration. He adds that the school caters to over 10,000 people of the area. This year, 48 students passed Class X and some of them took admission at the GSSS, Barthin, to study medical subjects while some girls interested in studying medical subjects instead took arts subjects.Jhandutta MLA JR Katwal says that he has requested the government to start medical classes at the GSSS, Ghandeer. He adds that he will get the process expedited at the office of Director Higher Education so that medical classes could be started at the Ghandeer school at the earliest.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/students-travel-10-km-to-study-medical-subjects-265548
09-06-2021||---||77 pc ICU beds in Kangra unoccupied||Dharamsala, June 8The burden on hospitals in Kangra, the worst-affected district, has eased as the number of Covid cases has come down drastically.46 beds available in Tanda collegeJust a week ago, corona patients were scrambling for oxygen-equipped beds. Now 77 per cent ICU beds and 67 per cent oxygen beds are unoccupied. As per the data collected by The Tribune, of the 60 ICU beds in Tanda medical college, 14 were occupied today.For the past two months, the super-specialty wing of the college had been converted into a Covid hospital. As the number of Covid patients has decreased, the opening of the super-specialty wing for other patients is being demanded.Principal of Tanda medical college Dr Bhanu Awasthi said the super-specialty wing would be made operational at the earliest.There are 412 oxygen beds in district hospitals of which 136 were occupied. As the demand for oxygen beds had risen suddenly in April and May, the district administration had taken over the 50 per cent bed capacity of eight hospitals. A 250-bed centre was also created at Paraur by the Radha Soami sect.Deputy Commissioner Rakesh Prajapati said in the last two month, a huge infrastructure had been created in the district. It could tackle any surge in future.He said that the death rate in Kangra from March 2020 to March 2021 had remained at 2.34 per cent. In the last one year, 2,98,884 samples were collected of which 9,578 turned out to be positive, 8,753 recovered and 225 lost their life.Though the number of infections has dropped significantly, the district administration and the state government are not offering much relaxation. Shops and business establishments have been allowed to open for just five days in a week till 2 pm. Since there are restrictions on the entry of tourists, hotels in the region are yet to open.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/77-pc-icu-beds-in-kangra-unoccupied-265549
09-06-2021||Shimla||Cong leader Sanjay Dutt meets Kuldeep Rathore, Mukesh Agnihotri||All India Congress Committee (AICC) secretary and newly appointed co-incharge for party affairs in Himachal, Sanjay Dutt today held talks with state Congress president Kuldeep Rathore and Congress Legislature Party (CLP) leader Mukesh Agnihotri.Dutt arrived here today and will hold consultations with party MLAs, state office bearers and District Congress Committee (DCC) presidents during his stay here till June 13. Dutt took detailed information about the activities of the Congress party, especially regarding extending help to people affected by Covid.Sanjay Dutt also went to the private residence of former Chief Minister Virbhadra Singh, who is admitted to a hospital, to inquire after his health from his wife. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/cong-leader-sanjay-dutt-meets-kuldeep-rathore-mukesh-agnihotri-265550
09-06-2021||---||Going abroad for education, get 2nd dose in 28 to 84 days||Shimla, June 8The second dose of Covishield can now be administered between 28 and 84 days of the first dose in special cases. In line with the directives of the Central Government, the state government, too, has decided to make this special relaxation to facilitate foreign travel for genuine reasons such as education, employment and sports events.Indian Olympics team eligible for relaxationThis special dispensation will be available for students travelling abroad for education, those going for jobs in foreign countries and athletes, sportspersons and the accompanying staff of the Indian contingent attending the Olympics Games to be held in Tokyo.However, the Chief Medical Officers will give the necessary permission after checking whether 28 days have elapsed after the first dose, genuineness of the purpose of travel based on documents such as admission to a foreign university, interview calls for a job or offer letters from abroad and nomination to participate in the Tokyo Olympics Games. Those wanting to travel abroad can take vaccination through the passport up to August 31.As per the recommendation of the national expert group on vaccine administration for Covid-19, the schedule of Covishield vaccine is to administer the second dose in an interval of 12 to 16 weeks, i.e 84 days after the administration of the first dose.The decision to give relaxation was taken after several representations from various quarters for people, who are to undertake foreign travel for employment, education or as part of Indian contingent for the Tokyo Olympics Games, were received. If the travel dates fall before the currently mandated minimum interval of 84 days from the date of the first dose, they can take the second jab.This special dispensation will be available for students travelling abroad for education, those going for jobs and athletes, and the accompanying staff of the Indian contingent attending the Olympics Games to be held in Tokyo.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/going-abroad-for-education-get-2nd-dose-in-28-to-84-days-265551
09-06-2021||---||Delhi visit fruitful, discussed Himachal's development issues: Jai Ram Thakur||Shimla, June 8The two-day Delhi tour was successful as several issues related to development of Himachal Pradesh were discussed with various Union ministers, said Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur while interacting with media persons on his arrival here.Thakur said he had a detailed meeting with Union Home Minister Amit Shah and requested him to enhance the state’s allocation of vaccine doses. He urged for early approval of Bulk Drug Park to be established in Una besides sanctioning medical devices park and electric device manufacturing hub in the state.The Chief Minister said that he also apprised Union Defence Minister Rajnath Singh of his visit to the Tibet border in Lahaul-Spiti district and urged him to provide additional funds to the BRO for the repair and maintenance of border roads. He also urged the Defence Minister to hand over the Walker Hospital, Shimla, to the state government, if possible, as this would strengthen medical facilities for the people of the state as the hospital is at a walking distance from the IGMC Hospital.He thanked the Prime Minister for extending Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana till November which would benefit over 80 crore people of the country by providing free ration every month during the time of pandemic.He requested Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman to provide financial assistance to the state as recommended by the 15th Finance Commission and released GST compensation due for the financial years 2017-18, 2018-19 and 2019-2020.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/delhi-visit-fruitful-discussed-himachals-development-issues-jai-ram-thakur-265552
09-06-2021||Shimla||596 new cases, 13 deaths in Himachal Pradesh||As many as 596 Covid cases were registered in the state today, taking the tally to 196,351. Besides, 13 persons died of the virus — three each in Shimla, Hamirpur and Kangra and two each in Solan and Chamba.The highest number of 144 cases was reported in Kangra, followed by 105 in Mandi, 60 in Shimla, 53 in Chamba, 52 in Una, 51 in Kullu, 42 in Solan, 38 in Hamirpur, 18 in Bilaspur, 16 in Sirmaur, 11 in Lahaul and Spiti and six in Kinnaur. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/596-new-cases-13-deaths-in-himachal-pradesh-265553
09-06-2021||---||Provide early jabs to all residents: Himacahl Congress||Dharamsala, June 8A delegation of Congress leaders comprising district party president Ajay Mahajan, Palampur MLA Ashish Butail, Kangra MLA Pawan Kajal and HPCC general secretary Kewal Singh Pathania today met Deputy Commissioner Rakesh Prajapati and submitted a memorandum addressed to the President of India.The Congress urged the Central Government to make arrangements to vaccinate all residents of Himachal at the earliest. It said that the government had to make arrangements to vaccinate one crore people each day to prevent the third wave of Covid. The President should intervene and direct the Central Government to provide vaccine on priority to all citizens.Later, while talking to newsmen, the Congress leaders said that the Kangra district had been the worst affected. However, the government instead of filling vacancies in the Health Department in Kangra had decided to fill 400 posts in Shimla district.Mahajan alleged that the state government was not serious about improving the health infrastructure and filling vacant posts of doctors and paramedical staff.Seven out of 15 posts of Block Medical Officer in Kangra were vacant.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/provide-early-jabs-to-all-residents-himacahl-congress-265554
09-06-2021||Chamba||Assess flood damage in Janghi, officials told||After taking stock of damages caused by a cloudburst in a remote Janghi panchayat of Mehla development block in the district, Deputy Commissioner DC Rana directed revenue officials to assess the damage caused by flood water in the area.  The flood caused by torrential rain wreaked havoc in Janghi on Sunday night. Water from overflowing drains entered houses and residents had to come out. The rooms and courtyards of the houses in the lower part of the area were inundated with soil and water.  Accompanied by officials concerned, the DC visited the affected villages and interacted with people, assuring them of all possible help, besides channeling the drains. He instructed officials to remove debris that came with water in people’s houses. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/assess-flood-damage-in-janghi-officials-told-265555
09-06-2021||Ambika Sharma||Nahan Post-Covid Care Centre boon to patients||Tribune News ServiceSolan, June 8The first Post-Covid Care Centre, set up to facilitate patients suffering from various ailments post recovery at Nahan in Sirmaur district, is proving to be a boon for Covid-recovered patients. About 20 patients are coming here daily.More centres to be established in SirmaurAshok Joshi, a Nahan resident, who was admitted to the centre, said it was beneficial as various therapies provided here were helping the patients to overcome post Covid health issues.Deputy Commissioner, Sirmaur, Dr RK Pruthi, said it was observed that after recovery, patients suffered from severe fatigue, weakness, difficulty in breathing, cough, joint pain, body ache, chest pain, high pulse rate, forgetfulness, painful swelling of limbs, depression, etc. The centre targeted to cure such patients through yoga, pranayam, meditation, counselling, ayurveda, medication and a balanced diet.“Only patients who are referred by the clinical committee of a medical college and Covid negative are admitted here,” said Dr Pruthi. A separate area has been marked as a patient care-giver meeting point on the premises where an attendant can meet the patient. A distance of minimum two feet is maintained.“A patient’s pulse rate, blood pressure, temperature, oxygen level and body weight are monitored daily. In case of any emergency, the patients can be shifted to the medical college,” added the DC.He said the Ayush Department would publish research papers on the treatment and recovery of patients. Similar centres would also be set up in other areas of the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/nahan-post-covid-care-centre-boon-to-patients-265556
09-06-2021||Solan||Himachal pharma units using fake companies to market narcotic drugs||Fake marketing firms appear to have become a convenient ploy to facilitate nefarious sale of narcotic and psychotropic drugs by the pharmaceutical units located in Sirmaur district of Himachal Pradesh.60 lakh pills seizedTwo pharmaceutical firms located at Kala Amb and Paonta Sahib were booked under the NDPS Act for forgery, cheating and criminal conspiracy during the last fortnight. The move came after “tramadol” tablets worth crores manufactured by these firms were seized by the Punjab Police. Investigations reveal that the tablets seized from Kala Amb-based Orison Pharma recently were marketed by two firms that did not exist at the addresses mentioned on the drug wrappers. These firms were New Healthcare, Sahibabad (Ahmedabad), and PP Pharma, Mumbai.In case of the Paonta Sahib-based Unique Formulations, marketing firm PB Pharmaceuticals, New Delhi, did not exist at the given address.The Drug Licensing Authority has cancelled the licence of Unique Formulation after it failed to respond to a show-cause notice while the case of Orison Pharma is being examined based on its reply. Manufacturing of drugs has been put on hold at both units. As per an amendment made to the Drugs and Cosmetics Act, which became applicable from March 1, no marketer shall undertake sale or distribution of any drug manufactured by a manufacturer by labelling his name on that without an agreement. A marketer would also be held responsible for the quality of that drug and other regulatory compliances. State Drugs Controller Navneet Marwaha said a team of officials was probing all such firms to ensure that the new amendment was adhered to in letter and spirit.SP, Sirmaur, KC Sharma said a scrutiny of the firms’ records was underway.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-pharma-units-using-fake-companies-to-market-narcotic-drugs-265500
