10-06-2021||Shimla||15 more Covid-19 deaths, 533 new cases in Himachal||Fifteen more people died of Covid-19 in Himachal Pradesh, taking the death toll to 3,342, while 533 fresh cases pushed the infection tally to 1,97,438, an official said on Thursday.According to the state health department, the active cases have now dipped to 6,338 in the hill state.The overall recoveries so far has reached 1,87,734 with 862 patients recuperating from the infection in the past 24 hours, the official said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/15-more-covid-19-deaths-533-new-cases-in-himachal-266426
10-06-2021||Lalit Mohan||Curbs in force, most eating joints closed in Dharamsala||Tribune News ServiceDharamsala, June 9Despite the government allowing restaurants and eating joints to function till 2 pm from June 7, more than 90 per cent units have still not started their operations. Most of eating joints and restaurants in tourist city of Dharamsala are still lying closed.The owners are alleging that under the present set of guidelines issued by the government it was not possible to operate. They are also alleging that many eating joints might find it difficult to restart even after the lockdown restrictions.The closed eating joints and restaurants are posing problems for tourists and traders coming here for business or other purposes. Rishab, who came to Dharamsala for supplying material to a under construction company, said that everything, including shops, close at 2 pm. Even hotels are not offering food. “I have been buying milk and fruit to sustain myself during my stay at Dharamsala”, he said.The director of a mall at the most happening place in Dharamsala, Guddu Pathania, while talking to The Tribune, said that all the eating joints in their mall were lying closed. Some of tenants, who were running eating joints, have vacated these. Only the Pizza Hut was providing home delivery in the mall, Pathania said.Pathania said the government has allowed the eating joints to open till 2 pm and that too with the condition that just takeaway service was allowed. It was not possible for any eating joint to open for such a short time. The people running eating joints were finding it difficult to pay rents, electricity bill and salary of employees due to which some of them have decided to close down, he said.Sanjeev Gandhi, general secretary of Hotel and Restaurant Association of Smart City, Dharamsala, while talking to The Tribune, said that despite government allowing them to operate till 2 pm all eating joints in McLeodganj were lying closed. Even the hotels and guest house owners, which have long stay guests, are not offering food services as it was difficult to bear expenses of maintaining staff for restaurant section.Gandhi said that many people, who had opened eating joints in McLeodganj by taking building on lease have left as they were finding it difficult to pay rents which were very heavy in Upper Dharamsala.Some of the famous eating joints in McLeodganj as the Mcleo Restaurant have also been lying closed. Pankaj Chadha, owner of Mcleo restaurant, said that restaurants in McLeodganj are unlikely to open up till the end of June.“Even if the government allows the restaurants to open till late in the evening now, we would have to again arrange staff that has been sent home. There are no tourists also in Dharamsala that are lifeline of food industry and Tibetan community that has significant population in McLeodganj was staying indoors for the fear of coronavirus”, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/curbs-in-force-most-eating-joints-closed-in-dharamsala-266211
10-06-2021||Our Correspondent||Palampur: No power supply for three days, villagers protest||Palampur, June 9Residents of the Sidhpur area of Palampur subdivision today lodged a protest over the power failure in their villages for the past three days. Villagers said it was difficult to stay without power supply in the scorching heat.Shukantla Devi, pradhan, Sidhpur Sarkari panchyat, said despite repeated requests to the HPSEB authorities, the power supply had not been restored and residents were forced to spend their nights in the open due to high temperatures at this time of the season.She said power failure in the area had become a routine affair and HPSEB officers were not redressing their problem. She said students were forced to discontinue their online studies in the absence of power supply.She said junior engineer of the HPSEB had assured three days ago that power supply would be restored by evening, saying there was some fault in the transformer. However, even after 72 hours, the power supply was not restored, she said.A number of villagers said they had also been without water for the last two days as they could not lift the water to their water tanks installed on the roofs.Subdivisional Officer, HPSEB, Bindravan said a snag had developed in the transmission lines and repair work was underway.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/palampur-no-power-supply-for-three-days-villagers-protest-266212
10-06-2021||Dharamsala||Bharmour farmers sent to native villages||Farmers of Bharmour, a tribal area in Chamba district — who were stuck in Dharamsala since the Covid lockdown was imposed in Himachal in the month of April — were sent to their native villages in HRTC buses by the Kangra district administration. Local BJP MLA Vishal Nehria, while talking to The Tribune, said many farmers of the Bharmour region migrated to lower areas in Kangra district during winter. They return to the Bharmour region for farming in summer. However, due to lockdown in the state and the suspension of public transport, they could not go back to their native villages this year, he said. Nehria said many farmers, who were stuck here, requested him to facilitate their return to their native villages for farming. They said they had to sow their fields in Bharmour before the onset of monsoon, failing which their cropping season would have been destroyed, he said. The MLA said HRTC buses were arranged to send back the farmers. “Today, the first batch of 20 farmers were sent and in the coming days, others would be sent through special HRTC buses,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/bharmour-farmers-sent-to-native-villages-266213
10-06-2021||---||June 19 last date for first dose for 45+, priority groups in Himachal||Shimla, June 9The state government has set June 19 as the cut-off date for the first dose of the Covid vaccine for the over 45 years’ age category, healthcare workers, front line workers and other prioritised groups. “Persons falling in these categories may get the first dose of the vaccine before June 19,” said a spokesperson for the Health Department.He said that vaccination sessions for the above 45 years and priority groups would be held on Tuesday, Wednesday, Friday and Saturday while Monday and Thursday (June 14 and 17) will be reserved for the 18-44 years age group,” he added.The spokesperson said that vaccines shall be administered as per the state-approved strategy for tribal, hard and other areas. “Vaccination sessions can be published on the onsite registration mode, and the facilitated cohort mobilisation mode in tribal or hard areas with active cooperation of the local administration. In other areas, the slots can be booked online,” he added.He said that the sessions would be published as per the prevailing guidelines between 2.30 pm and 3 pm, two days prior to the actual date. The manufacturers would announce the vaccine prices fixed for the private hospitals, as per the revised guidelines for the implementation of the National Covid Vaccination Programme.“Private hospitals may take a maximum of Rs 150 per dose as service charges,” the spokesperson added.He said that the the private hospitals could charge maximum of Rs 780 for a Covishield dose, Rs 1,410 for Covaxin and Rs 1,145 for Sputnik V.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/june-19-last-date-for-first-dose-for-45-priority-groups-in-himachal-266214
10-06-2021||---||1,700 get jab in drive by SJVNL||Shimla, June 9About 1,700 persons were vaccinated during a three-day Covid vaccination drive organised by Satluj Jal Vidyut Nigam Ltd (SJVN) here.The free campaign was held at Shakti Sadan, headquarters of the SJVNL, here today. The benefitted individuals included SJVN employees, contractual workers deployed by various contractors, security personnel, staff, eligible members of their families and people from the vicinity.Nand Lal Sharma, Chairman and Managing Director, SJVN, said the objective was to contribute towards combating the second wave of the pandemic and facilitating easy access to vaccine to people.The drive was initially planned for two days but it witnessed an overwhelming response from the local populace so it was extended for one more day.Sharma said two more such drives had been planned for June 13-14 at the 1500-MW Nathpa Jhakri and 412-MW Rampur hydro power stations. Besides, a vaccination camp for Dhaulasidh Hydro Electric Project in Hamirpur is also being scheduled.This vaccine drive has been organised in collaboration with Fortis Healthcare, Mohali.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/1-700-get-jab-in-drive-by-sjvnl-266215
10-06-2021||Rajiv Mahajan||Private bus operators under debt due to Covid restrictions, demand tax relief||NURPUR, JUNE 9The Covid pandemic forcing transport services off the road during corona curfew and lockdown since March last has sounded death knell for private bus operators.Amid the curfew, a fleet of around 3,500 buses across the state and 900 in Kangra district alone is off the road.Ravi Dutt Sharma, Kangra District Private Bus Operators Welfare Society, said most of the private bus operators were in the midst of a drastic financial crisis and some of them had taken to selling vegetables and doing labour work to sustain their families.Sharma said the state government had betrayed private bus operators by giving hollow assurances to them for the past one year. He lamented that the government had not even included crew members of the private buses in the recently announced vaccination priority list, though it had declared HRTC staff as corona warriors. He urged the Chief Minister to include employees and operators of the private bus transport industry in the priority list and rescue this industry, which was generating direct and indirect employment for over 50,000 persons across the state.“The transport operators, who had raised huge bank loans for purchasing buses, are unable to pay bank EMIs. The government should come out with a policy to bail them out,” he demanded.Pleading for moratorium on loan payment for at least six months, Sharma demanded that the state government should exempt Special Road Tax and Token Tax since August 2020 till the end of the pandemic as operators were not in position to deposit these taxes as they were already stuck in debt trap.He said the government should announce relief package for the operators, bus drivers and conductors so that they could sustain their families.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/private-bus-operators-under-debt-due-to-covid-restrictions-demand-tax-relief-266216
10-06-2021||Shimla||Nod to Rs 194-crore road infrastructure projects for Himachal||The Union government today approved 12 projects amounting to Rs 194.58 crore under Central Road and Infrastructure Fund (CRIF) scheme for the state.Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur, during his visit to Delhi two days back, had raised the issue before Union Minister for Road, Transport and Highways Nitin Gadkari. Thakur thanked the Centre for granting approval for these ambitious projects.“Roads are lifeline of hilly areas and are vital for development and make crucial contribution towards the economic development and growth of the state,” he remarked.The approved projects include Rs 16.62-crore bridge over Markanda river in Sirmaur district, Rs 22.82 crore bridge over Beas at Kothipattan on Dharampur Sandhole road in Mandi district, Rs 10.07 crore bridge over Markanda river on Moginand to Suketi road in Sirmaur district, Rs 8.39 crore project for widening of Ara Chowk to Jourbar road in Kangra district, Rs 14.60 crore for double lane pre-bridge with footpath over Beas at Thalout in Mandi district and Rs 21.03 crore for widening of Parour Dheera Naura road in Kangra district.He said approval of Rs 15.56 crore was for widening of Karchham-Sangla-Chhitkul road in Kinnaur, Rs 31.63 crore for improvement of Alampur-Harsipattan road in Kangra, Rs 32.66 crore for improvement of Sujanpur to Hamirpur road in Hamirpur , Rs 8.03 crore bridge over Bekhli Khud at Lambathach in Mandi, Rs 8.37 crore for construction of a steel bridge in Shimla district and Rs 4.80 crore for construction of bridge over Sarotha Nallah on Chamba Sahoo Kiri road in Chamba district. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/nod-to-rs-194-crore-road-infrastructure-projects-for-himachal-266217
10-06-2021||---||Apple packaging material cost rises by 25 per cent||Shimla, June 9In a setback to apple growers, the cost of packaging material of apple has shot up by around 25 per cent this year. For a premium carton that was available for Rs 52-53 last year, the growers will have to shell out Rs 67-68, an increase of Rs 15. Generally, the price rise is around Rs 1 to 2 per carton per year. The significant hike has happened despite the assurance from Horticulture Minister Mahender Singh, a few days back, that the packaging material would be made available at the same cost as last year.“The cost has gone by up Rs 10 to Rs 20 across the variety of cartons available in the market. The rate of trays used inside the cartons has also increased by around Rs 50 to Rs 70. It’s a massive hike, it’s going to hurt the growers a lot,” said Progressive Growers’ Association president Lokender Bisht.While agreeing that cartons will cost at least 20 to 25 per cent more than last year, the manufacturers blame the hike on shortage of raw material. “There is a shortage of raw material this time, hence the prices have gone up. The imported waste from abroad has become expensive and because of the lockdown there’s a shortage of locally recycled paper. So, the manufactures have no choice but to increase the prices,” said Prinkal of Bhagwati Packers.Sanjay Chauhan, a Kisan Sabha member, said the price hike in packaging material of stone fruits was even higher, around 50 per cent. “Until last year, the cost of stone fruit box was around Rs 5-6. This time, the growers got it for around Rs 8-10,” he said. “The government, however, hasn’t intervened, even though more than half of the season of stone fruits is over. Earlier, the government would fix the price, which was adhered to by its agencies like the HPMC and manufacturers. But now the government has left the growers to fend for themselves,” he alleged.Harish Chauhan, president of the Fruit, Vegetables and Glowers Growers’ Association of Himachal Pradesh, has sought immediate intervention of the government to check the hike. “As assured by the Horticulture Minister, there should not be any hike in the packaging material this year. Also, the use of plastic trays should be encouraged by the government for transporting apple. It will save growers money as well as other hassles,” said Chauhan.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/apple-packaging-material-cost-rises-by-25-per-cent-266218
10-06-2021||Ambika Sharma||ED to take over probe into opioid trafficking in Himachal||Tribune News ServiceSolan, June 9The Himachal Pradesh Police will hand over the financial investigation in the cases of pharmaceutical opioid trafficking to the Enforcement Directorate (ED).DGP Sanjay Kundu today said, “To curb such activities, the police are taking strict action, including financial investigation under the NDPS Act for the attachment of illegally acquired properties. The necessary information is being shared with the Enforcement Directorate for investigation under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act with a request to attach all properties acquired from the proceeds of pharma opioid trafficking”. The Tribune highlighted the issue in its columns today.Kundu said that 139 factories in the state have licences to produce pharma opioids and psychotropic substances listed in the schedule of the NDPS Act. A few factories had been found misusing their licences and selling pharma products illegally.“Following information from Interpol from Benin, a nation in Africa, the state police registered an FIR against Laborate Pharmaceuticals, Paonta Sahib, for illegally exporting 1.75 crore tramadol tablets worth around Rs 5 crore (priced around Rs 100 crore for illegal sale) to Chad, another African nation. The investigation in the case is underway,” he added.He said that on May 29 and 30, the state police in a joint operation with the Punjab Police seized over 30 lakh intoxicant tablets (12.45 lakh tramadol capsules, 7.72 lakh tramadol tablets, 9.99 lakh alprax (alprazolam) tablets) worth Rs 15 crore from Unique Formulations at Paonta Sahib. Its marketing company PB Pharmaceuticals in New Delhi was also found to be fictitious and non-existent. “By printing the name of a non-existent marketing company on labels, pharma opioids were diverted to the illegal market.The Sirmaur police had registered another case against Unique Formulations and recovered 745 kg of tramadol raw material worth Rs 3 crore. The main conspirator in the case has already been arrested,” the DGP said.In 2019, Apple Field Pharma Company, Paonta Sahib, was sealed by the HP Police State Narcotics Cell for keeping an unaccounted stock of 47,000 tramadol tablets and 10,000 codeine-based cough syrup. “The company stands chargesheeted and is now facing a trial. During investigation, it was learnt that the proprietors/shareholders of Unique Formulations and Apple Field Pharma are the same”.He said that Orison Pharma International, Kala Amb, sold tramadol tablets to a marketing company in Ahmedabad without any agreement, contrary to the rules.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/ed-to-take-over-probe-into-opioid-trafficking-in-himachal-266219
10-06-2021||UNA||Stone laid of rainwater harvesting structure||Agriculture Minister Virender Kanwar today laid the foundation stone of a check dam to store rainwater in Kothi village of Bangana. A sum of Rs 60.32 lakh will be spent on the structure, which will irrigate 10 hectares of land.Kanwar said the second phase of Himachal Pradesh Crop Diversification Promotion Project, funded by Japan International Cooperation Agency, would be implemented soon and a sum of Rs 1,004 crore would be spent on boosting crop diversification, sprucing up infrastructure and bringing new technology. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/stone-laid-of-rainwater-harvesting-structure-266220
10-06-2021||---||AICC secretary Sanjay Dutt  takes feedback from Himachal MLAs||Shimla, June 9All India Congress Committee (AICC) secretary and newly appointed co-incharge for party affairs in Himachal Sanjay Dutt today tried to gauge the organisational issues and shortcomings plaguing the party as he held personal interaction with sitting MLAs and former party legislators.He tried to gauge the issues which could be resolved to strengthen the party. As the Assembly elections are due at the end of 2022, the Congress wants its cadre to gear up to take on the BJP.Besides the next Assembly polls, the Congress is faced with the challenge of putting up formidable candidates for the Mandi Lok Sabha and the two Assembly segments of Fatehpur in Kangra and Jubbal Kotkhai in Shimla district. The Congress presently has 20 legislators after the demise of Fatehpur MLA Sujan Singh Pathania in February 2021.Dutt urged the leaders to take to the masses the shortcomings of the BJP regime. “You need to reach out to the masses to highlight the failure of the Union Government like rising unemployment, price rise and failure to effectively tackle Covid pandemic,” Dutt emphasised.“The issue of party going into the next Assembly polls without the active involvement of former Chief Minister Virbhadra Singh was discussed at length,” said a senior leader. The issue of going to the polls under collective leadership was deliberated upon amidst speculation about a possible change in the state leadership.Those who met Dutt today included MLAs Ram Lal Thakur, Harshwardhan Chauhan, Dhani Ram Shandil, Mohan Lal Brakta, Inder Dutt Lakhanpal, Vinay Kumar, Lakhwinder Rana, Anirudh Singh and Vikramaditya Singh. He also met former Minister and senior leader Kaul Singh Thakur to get his feedback.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/aicc-secretary-sanjay-dutt-takes-feedback-from-himachal-mlas-266221
10-06-2021||Our Correspondent||Sacking of nurses from Dr Rajendra Prasad Medical College and Hospital insult to Covid warriors: Cong||Hamirpur, June 9The termination of services of nurses from Dr Rajendra Prasad Medical College and Hospital at Tanda was a disrespect to Covid warriors, said Prem Kaushal, spokesperson of the Himachal Pradesh Congress Committee, here today.He said the nurses were outsourced and serving the institution in hope of regularisation of services. The nurses had served when the pandemic was at its peak, and now when the situation had improved, the college authorities terminated their services.Kaushal said the college administration had turned insensitive towards the women staff that helped the government in tough time. Instead of encouraging and rewarding them for their service, the employees had been fired.Kaushal urged the government to intervene into the matter and utilise the services of these trained nurses on rotation at makeshift Covid care centres established in Kangra district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/sacking-of-nurses-from-dr-rajendra-prasad-medical-college-and-hospital-insult-to-covid-warriors-cong-266222
10-06-2021||---||Jal Shakti Minister Mahender Singh Thakur violating Covid curfew norms, alleges Kaul Singh||Mandi, June 9Senior Congress leader Kaul Singh Thakur alleged that Jal Shakti Minister Mahender Singh Thakur is violating the Covid curfew norm in Mandi district these days.Kaul Singh said that today Jal Shakti Minister visited in the remote Chauhar valley of Darang assembly segment in Mandi. Yesterday he visited different panchayats under Jogindernagar assembly segment of Mandi district on the pretext of hearing grievances of the public and conducted public meetings in the area. It was a complete violation of the curfew norm in the district, when the state government had extended the curfew till June 14.“The minister was projecting himself as a BJP MP candidate from Mandi parliamentary constituency and he was visiting rural areas of Mandi district in different assembly segments from the past few days,” he added.Kaul Singh said that “Congress party is following the guidelines of the state government regarding Covid -19 strictly to check the spread of infection in the state. But Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur-led state government was responsible for the spread of infection in the state because the ministers in the government are violating of Covid norm.”“I urge the Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur to take action against Jal Shakti Minister for violating the Covid curfew,” he remarked.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/jal-shakti-minister-mahender-singh-thakur-violating-covid-curfew-norms-alleges-kaul-singh-266223
10-06-2021||Ambika Sharma||O2 demand witnesses sharp fall in Himachal Pradesh||Tribune News ServiceSolan, June 9Oxygen demand has reduced by one-third in the state with barely 23 metric tonnes (MT) being used in the last few days as against the 70 MT utilized about three weeks ago.This is attributed to a sharp decline in the hospitalized patients using oxygen and ventilator beds in the state. As against the availability of 4,124 beds in 58 facilities across the state, as many as 3,262 were vacant. Out of the 2,888 oxygen supported beds, 2,335 were vacant and as against 294 ICU beds 153 were vacant till last evening in the state, as per the statistics of the Department of Health and Family Welfare.“The state is now surplus in liquid medical oxygen (LMO) as the demand has exponentially declined from 70 MT to 23 MT in the last few days. The demand had peaked to 70 MT about three weeks ago,” informed Arindam Chaudhary, who heads the Logistic Committee to monitor the availability of oxygen in all facilities.In a bid to meet the burgeoning demand, new oxygen manufacturing plants were set up in the state. There were seven pressure swing adsorption plants and 13 private manufacturers now who produced about 82 MT oxygen per day.“The Indian Oil Corporation has made available 10 cryogenic cylinders of 500 litres each as aid and they would be sent to Hamirpur, Una and Kangra districts. Another 20,000 kilo litre capacity liquid oxygen plant has also been set up at the IGMC, Shimla, to deal with future exigencies,” informed Chaudhary.The state was also hopeful of getting approval of more than 20 oxygen plants under the Centre government’s ‘one district one plant’ initiative. This will further help enhance the availability of oxygen as a preparedness for a possible third wave.Given the steady rise in its utility when the Covid peaked, the state had sought an additional quota of 15 MT from the Central government. This request was acceded to and its allotted quota was enhanced to 30 MT in mid-May.Notably, the second wave had peaked from May 10-16 when an exceptionally high positivity rate of 28.9 per cent was registered. With the wave subsiding now, the positivity rate dropped to 5.3 per cent in the last week and number of patients cured far surpassed those testing positive on a daily basis.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/o2-demand-witnesses-sharp-fall-in-himachal-pradesh-266224
10-06-2021||Shimla||554 new cases, 15 Covid fatalities in Himachal||As many as 554 new Covid cases and 15 deaths were reported in the state today. Four deaths each were recorded in Shimla and Mandi, three in Chamba, two in Solan and one each in Hamirpur and Sirmaur. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/554-new-cases-15-covid-fatalities-in-himachal-266225
10-06-2021||Business School of Shoolini Institute of Life Sciences and Business Management (SILB) organised a three-day virtual workshop ‘Elevate’||Workshop held at Shoolini institute||EDU Trust provides O2 concentratorsThe Sunil Upadhyay Educational Trust will provide oxygen concentrators to people, free of cost, in Shimla. Trust secretary Surender Sharma said people, who need oxygen concentrators, could contact at 94184-73578. The Trust had been providing services to Covid patients, including free food to home-quarantined people.Anti-ragging committee formedThe administration of the Government Polytechnic College constituted the anti-ragging committee. Satish Dhingra, principal of the college, said a 35-member committee was constituted to monitor activities of students as and when classes resumed. He said apart from senior faculty members of college, the committee included Sub-Divisional Officer, Station House Officer, student representatives and members from media.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/workshop-held-at-shoolini-institute-266247
10-06-2021||Special buses running to ferry the IGMC staff are packed to capacity. Many a time||Buses ferrying Shimla IGMC staff  overcrowded||— Mohinder Verma, ShimlaCheck use of pressure horns The use of pressure horns by trucks carrying industrial goods has become a nuisance for the residents of Doon area. These trucks honk repeatedly, much to the annoyance of the residents, and disturb the sick and the elderly. No authority has cared to check them, despite a ban on the use of these horns. —Vinod Kumar, DoonIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at:hpreadersfeedback@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/buses-ferrying-shimla-igmc-staff-overcrowded-266248
10-06-2021||Bhanu P Lohumi||Una university withholds papers of 100 SC students||Tribune News ServiceShimla, June 9A list of 100 Scheduled Caste students whose original documents were withheld by Indus International University (Una) was submitted to the Himachal Pradesh Private Educational Institutions Regulatory Commission (HPPEIRC) today, days after the regulator cracked the whip on erring institutions for indulging in the illegal practice following delay in release of scholarships by the government.Maj Gen Atul Kaushik (retd), HPPEIRC ChairmanReturn documentsThe universities must return the original documents to students after verification or face legal action. Bharat Bhushan, a lawyer representing a few of the students, submitted the list to the HPPEIRC. He claimed the 100 students were pursuing various courses at the university and their parents were told at the time of admission in 2018 that no tuition fee would be charged as it was to be paid by the government under the SC/ST scholarship scheme.Bhushan alleged the university had withheld original caste, income and bonafide certificates, Class X and XII marksheets, Aadhaar cards and even bank passbooks in some cases. The students were facing hardships while applying for jobs and admissions in other institutions, he added.The father of Sunil Kumar, an affected student, alleged that their pleas to at least release the bank passbook had gone unheard.The defendant university maintained that original documents were withheld only in cases of “zero fee paying” students (both current and pass-outs) whose scholarships were awaited from the government.HPPEIRC Chairman Maj Gen Atul Kaushik (retd) said keeping original certificates in custody under any circumstances was prohibited under law. “The universities must return the original documents to students after verification or prepare to face legal action,” he said.Maj Gen Kaushik said the educational institutions would have to consider self-attested documents valid for administrative or any other purpose.Regulator cracks whip||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/una-university-withholds-papers-of-100-sc-students-266199
10-06-2021||Rajiv Mahajan||Ventilator out of use at Nurpur, patients suffer||Nurpur, June 9Even as critical patients from lower Kangra region are being referred to hospitals in other districts, a ventilator at Nurpur’s Civil Hospital has been gathering dust at its storeroom for the past over four years.The equipment could have saved the lives of several Covid patients who died due to lack of ICU beds in the district.A 50-bed Covid care centre was set up at the Civil Hospital where only oxygen beds were arranged. Not a single ICU bed with ventilator facility was provided by the district authorities.Gurdarshan Gupta, Chief Medical Officer, Kangra, said, “There is some power backup issue with the ventilator. A complaint has been made to the service provider. I have also talked to the official concerned. He has assured to rectify the snag soon.”Former MLA Ajay Mahajan said there were many instances where local residents, who needed critical Covid care, had to rush to private hospitals in neighbouring districts in Punjab. Their families ended up spending huge amounts of money.He alleged local MLA and Forest Minister Rakesh Pathania had promised to provide zonal-level healthcare facilities at the Civil Hospital here, but nothing was done.50-bed Covid centre, but no ICU at hospital||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/ventilator-out-of-use-at-nurpur-patients-suffer-266192
10-06-2021||Solan||King cobra sighted in Himachal's Paonta Sahib||Forest Department officials have reported the sighting of a king cobra near the Girinagar area of Paonta Sahib in Himachal's Sirmaur district.Kunal Angrish, Divisional Forest Officer (DFO), Paonta Sahib, today said, “A local resident had taken pictures and made a video of a snake near Girinagar during morning hours a few days ago. He was unaware that the snake is a king cobra. As the pictures reached experts, the identity of the snake was determined”.“This is perhaps the first authentic record of king cobra in Himachal Pradesh, whose previous range seems to end in Uttarakhand in north India,” added Angrish.A team of forest officials led by Angrish had visited the area where the reptile was sighted and observed its immediate habitat. The officials also verified the pictures and the video as that of king cobra, which is considered the most potent among venomous snakes.“This opens a new possibility in expanding the notified habitats of the king of snakes, which is placed under Part II of Schedule II of the Wildlife Protection Act and has the highest protection,” said the DFO. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/king-cobra-sighted-in-himachals-paonta-sahib-264233
