11-06-2021||Shimla||Nine more die from Covid as 505 new cases surface in Himachal||Nine more people died from Covid-19 in Himachal Pradesh on Friday, taking the death toll to 3,351, while 505 fresh cases pushed the state's infection count to 1,97,943, an official said.According to the Health Department, the state currently has 5,879 active cases.The overall recoveries have reached 1,88,691 with 957 patients recovering from the infection in the past 24 hours, the official said. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/nine-more-die-from-covid-as-505-new-cases-surface-in-himachal-266884
11-06-2021||Chandigarh||National Cadet Corps as elective subject to benefit 4.9 lakh students in Punjab, Himachal, Chandigarh colleges||Following the University Grants Commission (UGC) allowing students to take up National Cadet Corps (NCC) as an elective subject in colleges, the regional NCC Directorate has started the process for implementing the new policy from the forthcoming academic session.The introduction of the subject is expected to benefit nearly 4.9 lakh students in 483 institutions located in Punjab, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh and Chandigarh, including those from border areas, where additional cadet strength has been authorised as part of the overall Border Areas Expansion Plan.“The underlying idea behind the move is to motivate students of educational institutions to join NCC and instil in them discipline, camaraderie and patriotism,” Major General JS Sandhu, Additional Director-General, Punjab, Haryana Himachal Pradesh and Chandigarh NCC Directorate said here on Friday.Guidelines issued by UGC to Vice-Chancellors of all universities in April 2021 state that NCC is to be considered a General Elective Credit Course (GECC) in response to the proposal that had been mooted by the Directorate General NCC.The syllabus for NCC ‘B’ and ‘C’ certificates is designed as per the Choice Based Credit System (CBCS) of the National Education Policy – 2020, which grants 24 credit points covering six semesters.The move agrees with this policy where students can select their choice of subjects, rather than being confined to only those being offered by the institutions.Core teams have been created by the directorate with a dedicated officer at Chandigarh to ensure that the policy is implemented within a realistic time frame.Most universities in the region have already expressed their willingness to implement the UGC guidelines.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/national-cadet-corps-as-elective-subject-to-benefit-4-9-lakh-students-in-punjab-himachal-chandigarh-colleges-266872
11-06-2021||---||Video: Lightning strikes Bijli Mahadev temple in Himachal’s Kullu, breaks Shivlinga, priest brings it back to original form||Kullu, June 11A video of lightning striking the hilltop of Bijli Mahadev temple area in Himachal's Kullu valley has been getting viral on social media.Located at an altitude of about 2,460 metres, Bijli Mahadev is an ancient temple dedicated to Lord Shiva.Lightning incidents occur here like once in over a decade and this time it broke the Shivlinga inside the temple premises.After the incident, the Shivlinga was coated with butter by the temple priest to bring it to original form.Located 14 km from Kullu across the Beas river, it can be approached after a trek of 3 km.A panoramic view of Kullu and Parvati valleys can be seen from the temple. The 60 feet high staff of Bijli Mahadev temple glistens like a silver needle in the sun.It is said that the tall staff attracts divine blessings in the form of lightning, thus the name Bijli Mahadev.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/video-lightning-strikes-bijli-mahadev-temple-in-himachals-kullu-breaks-shivlinga-priest-brings-it-back-to-original-form-266805
11-06-2021||Shimla||Release documents of SC students: Panel||The National Commission for Scheduled Castes (NCSC) has taken note of malpractice by Indus International University, Una, and issued notice to the state government asking it to ensure the immediate release of the original documents of SC students, studying in various courses under the SC/ST scholarship scheme.Takes stern viewThe issue came to the notice of the NCSC that the university has withheld caste, income and bona fide certificates, Class X and XII mark-sheets, Aadhaar cards, bank passbooks of the students.Terming the university’s decision unacceptable, the chairman of the commission Vijay Sampla said whatever may be the circumstances or reasons, the private university could not demolish the career of the SC/ST students.The NCSC has issued notice to the Chief Secretary, the Principal Secretary, Department of Empowerment — SCs, OBCs, Minorities and specially abled, the Principal Secretary, Department of Education, Secretary, Himachal Pradesh Private University Regulatory Commission, and Vice-Chancellor, Indus International University, Una, asking them to submit an action taken report to the commission within 15 days.The Tribune published the story regarding it today.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/release-documents-of-sc-students-panel-266606
11-06-2021||Shimla||Amid curfew, trees axed in Khalini area||Taking advantage of the curfew in view of the continuing pandemic, some people with vested interests are indulging in illegal felling of trees. The operations are mostly carried out at night when there is no public movement.A startling case has come to light in the main town where about 15- 20 trees and bushes have been chopped in Khalini main market on private land. The trees were axed on a patch of land between the Khalini bazaar road and Shimla bypass road, opposite Keonthal Banquet Hall.No permission sought from Shimla Municipal Corporation The locals complained that the land was recently purchased by a private party following which the felling of trees took place mainly at night after curfew was imposed on May 7 last due to which the movement was restricted.Permission of cutting trees on private land within the municipal limits is mandatory from the Tree Authority Committee (TAC) of the Shimla Municipal Corporation (SMC) but no such permission was taken from the concerned authorities or the forest department.When contacted, District Forest Officer (DFO) Shimla (Urban) Pawan Chauhan said that the damage report has been prepared and a challan would be put up in the court.As per the damage report prepared by the Forest Department five trees of paja, roberia and ailanthus varieties have been cut while the others small trees fall in the category of bushes.Earlier, the Electricity Department had pruned the branches of deodar trees that were obstructing the power transmission lines in this area.The owner of this land allegedly took advantage of the ongoing pruning and got trees chopped off. The owner later admitted the lapse but maintained that he only asked for removal of the bushes and trees were also felled, forest officials said.It may be recalled that on May 4 last, the Himachal High Court had stayed all permissions of felling or chopping of trees in the Shimla Municipal area, except by the state electricity board.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/amid-curfew-trees-axed-in-khalini-area-266608
11-06-2021||Solan||Students urge YS Parmar University VC for PhD admission on MSc merit||Students seeking admission to PhD in Dr YS Parmar University of Horticulture and Forestry, Nauni, have requested Vice-Chancellor Parwinder Kaushal to consider the merit of MSc for the purpose, as was done last year during the pandemic. The university authorities, however, have decided to give PhD admissions on the basis of the Indian Council for Agriculture Research (ICAR) Senior Research Fellowship (SRF) examination.The aspiring students, who have represented their case before the VC, say that if they opt for the ICAR-SRF exam, they will be left with little time to prepare for the national-level exam.They say CSK HP Agriculture University, Palampur, is admitting PhD students on the basis of the merit this year. Students Puja, Monika, Shivani and others contend that they have already proved their merit by qualifying the BSc and MSc entrance exams of the university and their past performances should be considered for admission to PhD, now. The VC says that both options of admitting PhD students on merit as well as on the basis of the ICAR-SRF exam are open. The scores obtained in the ICAR-SRF exam can be taken into account while the university’s own merit criteria can be considered to admit students. “The university has to seek accreditation with the ICAR, which also ranks universities nationally, hence its directions have to be followed. This is also mandated in the National Education Policy,” he adds. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/students-urge-ys-parmar-university-vc-for-phd-admission-on-msc-merit-266609
11-06-2021||Shimla||Shimla: Nod to plastic crates for marketing apple||The Himachal Pradesh State Agricultural Marketing Board has given approval for using plastic crates for transporting and marketing apple in select market yards in district Shimla.“We want to give growers an alternative to cartons. So, we will allow the use of plastic crates on trial basis this year. Hopefully, the experiment will be successful,” said marketing board MD Naresh Thakur.Amidst the soaring prices of packaging material, the move is likely to provide relief to the apple growers who already reeling under the ever-increasing production cost of the fruit.“The use of plastic crates will help bring down the input cost of the growers. A farmer spends around Rs 200 per box on grading and packing. With the prices of the packaging material rising by about 25 per cent this year, the cost would go much beyond Rs 200. The use of plastic trays would slash this cost to around one-fourth,” said Harish Chauhan, president of the Fruits, Vegetables and Flowers Growers Association of Himachal Pradesh. Thakur said the state already has a successful model of using plastic trays for marketing and transporting apple in Kullu and Manali, where the apple is sold on the basis of weight.“Even more perishable commodities like tomatoes, mangoes, grapes and oranges are transported in plastic crates. So, I don’t see any problems on that count. It will save growers both time and money,” said Thakur.Another advantage of using the plastic crates is that the apple would be sold per kg. At the moment, apple is sold per box, in which the weight varies from 25 to 35kg. “We have been fighting for selling apple per kg basis. The growers will get the real price when apple on the basis of weight,” he said.“Also, it will settle the unending debate on the use of telescopic and universal cartons,” said Chauhan.Stating that it’s a good decision that’s going to benefit growers as well as buyers, Chauhan said the government should ensure the availability of crates for the growers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/shimla-nod-to-plastic-crates-for-marketing-apple-266610
11-06-2021||Mandi||Protest over proposed airport in Balh valley||The residents of Balh valley today under the banner of Balh Bachao Sangharsh Samiti opposed the decision of the government to construct an airport at Balh in Mandi.To express their resentment over this issue, the farmers took out a protest march holding banners and slogans, urging the government to construct an airport somewhere else in Mandi district, where less people would be affected.Joginder Walia, president of Balh Bachao Sangharsh Samiti, said that “for this ambitious project around 2,000 families of eight villages in Balh valley will lose their agricultural land and commercial properties. Farming is the sole source of livelihood to the majority of families in Balh valley and they do not want to lose their source of livelihood for this project.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/protest-over-proposed-airport-in-balh-valley-266611
11-06-2021||Palampur||Provide foodgrain to poor, officials told||The government has advised the subordinate authorities to provide foodgrain under the National Food Security Act 2013 to vulnerable people, especially those who are not covered under the BPL/IRDP and Antodaya schemes.The government had told officers to launch a special drive to help such people in view of the pandemic when hundreds of poor had lost their jobs. They should get access to subsidised and free foodgrain under various Since last year, gram sabhas could not hold its session for adding new BPL/IRDP and Antodaya beneficiaries because of Covid. Hundreds of eligible poor have been waiting for their inclusion into the schemes.The government has specifically told Block Development Officers, panchayat representatives and other authorities not to wait for the sessions of Gram Sabha and cover the poor. The Tribune has highlighted the plight of the poor, who have been moving from pillar to post for their entry into the schemes like the BPL and Antodaya for the past many years. Now the government has decided to give them relief. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/provide-foodgrain-to-poor-officials-told-266612
11-06-2021||Shimla||Now, get imported liquor at departmental stores||Quality liquor, including wine, whiskey and beer of imported brands, will now be available in big departmental stores having a minimum 500 sq ft area and an annual turnover of over Rs 2 crore.These stores can dedicate 10 per cent of their area to liquor. The annual licence fee will be Rs 5 lakh and the departmental store owners will lift the quota from L2 (wholesalers) at the normal rate. Family tourists and women, who are shy of going to liquor shops, will get wine at these stores.The decision is expected to give a boost to tourism and fetch a revenue of about Rs 4 crore to Rs 5 crore, says Excise and Taxation Commissioner Rohan Chand Thakur. He adds that the policy was in vogue earlier also from 2001 but was discontinued in 2018. As many as 14 departmental stores in the state sold liquor till 2018.Boozers will have to pay more as the target of Rs 1,829 crore, an increase of 14 per cent (Rs 228 crore), has been fixed for 2020-21, as per the new excise policy. A provision of wine testing facility at wineries and during the wine festival has been created due to the new policy for promoting indigenous wines.The minimum quota for bars in hotels has been halved from 900 proof litres (around 20,000 pegs) to 450 proof litres (around 10,000 pegs) per year. The policy also provides for the transfer of inter district and intra district quota on the payment of Rs 5 per proof litre to the government, to check smuggling.The Excise Department could not achieve the target of Rs 1,778 crore last year and the actual recovery was Rs 1,601 crore, a short fall of Rs 177 crore. Due to the lockdown, the department suffered a revenue loss of Rs 200 crore (collected Rs 100 crore against expected Rs 300 crore) in April and May last year.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/now-get-imported-liquor-at-departmental-stores-266614
11-06-2021||Shimla||Give Rs 4L to Covid victims’ kin: CITU||The Centre for Indian Trade Unions (CITU) today demanded that the families of the people who died of coronavirus be given an ex-gratia amount of Rs 4 lakh from Disaster Relief Fund.While staging a protest outside the Labour Commissioner Office here today, CITU state president Vijender Mehra said every non income tax paying family should be given a financial assistance and free ration so that they could survive during the pandemic.He further alleged that the government has failed to protect the interests of labourers and farmers during the pandemic. “The income of 97 per cent people has reduced, but the income of capitalists have increased manifold,” he said.Meanwhile, the CPM slammed the government for not presenting the real picture of vaccination in the country and the state. “Just one third of the population in the state has received the first dose and just six per cent has received both the doses. In the 18-44 age group, only 3 per cent has received the first dose,” said CPM leader Kuldeep Tanwar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/give-rs-4l-to-covid-victims-kin-citu-266615
11-06-2021||In the weekly seminars at the Indian Institute of Advance Studies||Research paper by tribal writer||Dr Brahmi OSD to Nauni varsity VCDr MK Brahmi, faculty from the department of environmental science, has joined as the Officer on Special Duty (OSD) to Dr Parvinder Kaushal, Vice Chancellor, Dr YS Parmar University of Horticulture and Forestry, Nauni. He will also serve as the in-charge of the Planning and Implementation Cell of the VC’s Secretariat. He had joined the university in 2003 as a research associate in the regional centre of the NAEB, MOEF, and had joined the department as assistant professor in 2010.Lecture on electrical engineeringRajiv Gandhi Government Polytechnic, Banikhet, organised an expert lecture for electrical engineering students (second and final years). The topic was “Hydropower plant, earthing and various electrical safety aspects”. Er Dheeraj Verma, assistant manager (electrical) from Greenko Technology House India Pvt Ltd, working with 9.6 MW hydel project, Jeori, HP, was specially invited as a resource person. The expert explained various accidents, their reasons and how these could be avoided if SOPs are followed. He advised the students not to make any compromise on SOPs to ensure the safety of humans, animals and property.HPU-MAT application formsThe last date for filling HPU-MAT application forms for admission to MBA ( 2021-22) has been extended up to June 21. For any query, the aspirants can WhatsApp on 94599-82002 or email on hpubsdirector@gmail.com.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/research-paper-by-tribal-writer-266616
11-06-2021||Many stretches at Sabji Mandi in Shimla are full of filth. It becomes difficult for people to cross by due to the constant stench emanating from the rotten vegetables and other stuff. The authorities concerned should ensure that the place is cleaned up on a regular basis. — Vandana Thakur||Filth at Sabji Mandi in Shimla||Repair water pipes Water pipes at Tatrog village in the Churah area of Chamba district should be repaired at the earliest to ensure clean drinking water to the residents. We have been facing water problem for the past few months as the pipes from the storage tank are broken. As a result, people have to fetch water from far away natural sources in the nullah — Residents, Tatrog village, Chamba districtIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at:hpreadersfeedback@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/filth-at-sabji-mandi-in-shimla-266618
11-06-2021||Solan||Baddi firm booked for not providing opioid salt record||The Baddi police have booked a pharmaceutical company Magnatek Enterprises for cheating and criminal conspiracy under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act last evening for failing to provide the record of opioid etizolam salt.This is the third pharmaceutical firm embroiled in such a case in the last fortnight with two others at Kala Amb and Paonta Sahib having been booked earlier. Etizolam is misused as an intoxicant for its sedative properties.SP Rohit Malpani said a team of the drug control administration (DCA) headed by Deputy Drug Controller Manish Kapoor comprising four drug inspectors while examining the records of the said firm found 300 grams of etizolam salt registered in the stock register.“The examination of the stock, however, led to the recovery of merely 113 grams of the said salt. No record of the sale, purchase and marketing of the remaining 187 grams was made available by the company management consequent to which a show-cause notice was issued on June 5 by the DCA. The said salt falls under the NDPS Act and the company has been booked under the said Act,” said the SP.“The company management also failed to produce records of agreements with two marketing firms — Try Bird Healthcare Pvt Ltd, Green Park Colony, Zirakpur and JS Camical Mumbai, 162 CST Road, Mumbai, which were marketing their products using these salts to Punjab as per the preliminary investigations. This is mandatory as per the Drugs and Cosmetics Act. Teams would be sent to both the places to further verify whether such firms exist or not. Discrepancies detected in the records pertaining to the salt would also be probed in depth,” added Malpani.Relevant records and the salt would be taken into possession from the DCA, which is examining it at present. The DCA officials were examining the reply submitted by the company management. It would also be probed where the said salt had found use.The DCA is examining the records of more than 50 such firms in various districts which was manufacturing narcotic and psychotropic drugs in the state after two such firms in Sirmaur were found violating the norms.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/baddi-firm-booked-for-not-providing-opioid-salt-record-266619
11-06-2021||Our CorrespondentPalampur||2 road projects for Kangra approved||The Central Government has approved two major road projects for the Kangra region. The roads will be constructed or upgraded under the Central Road Infrastructure Fund (CRIF).Addressing mediapersons here today, Vipan Parmar, Assembly Speaker, said that Rs 21.03 crore had been released for the widening of the Paror-Dheera Nora road. He said the government had accepted his demand. There was a manifold increase in traffic on the highway, which also links Jwalamukhi, Sujanpur, Hamirpur and Shimla.Ravinder Dhiman, MLA from Jaisinghpur, said the government had also released Rs 31.63 crore for the construction and realignment of the 32-km-long Alampur-Harsipatan road in Jaisinghpur. He said the road project had been hanging fire for the past 10 years.He said previous governments had extended a step-motherly treatment to the areas where development activities remained suspended.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/2-road-projects-for-kangra-approved-266621
11-06-2021||Rajiv MahajanNURPUR||Posts of male health worker vacant in lower Kangra areas||The posts of multi-purpose health worker (MPHW) are lying vacant in Gangath, Indora, Nagrota Surian and Fatehpur in lower Kangra.In Gangath block, 23 of the 26 posts of male health worker are vacant whereas in Indora 17 of the 20, Fatehpur 28 of the 31 and in Nagrota Surian 27 of the 39 posts are vacant.Sources say that there are 13 health blocks and 449 health sub-centres in the district. Only 89 male and 269 female workers are rendering their services whereas 140 sub-centres are without any worker. The Health Department had MPHW training centres in Una, Kullu and Shimla districts in the past.Sanjay Sharma, vice-president of the state Multi-Purpose Health Workers Association, said a large number of posts of male health worker had been lying vacant in the state. He said the department had made no appointments since 2002.Sharma said that health workers played a key role in the Universal Immunisation Programme in which children from the age of 42 days to 5 years got vaccination.“The MPHWs are playing an important role in testing, vaccination and also monitoring the health of Covid patients in home isolation on a daily basis. But the state government is delaying filling of posts, which has disrupted health service at the grassroot level,” he said.Gurdarshan Gupta, Chief Medical Officer, Kangra, said the issue was already in the knowledge of the government and the report had also been submitted to the higher authorities.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/posts-of-male-health-worker-vacant-in-lower-kangra-areas-266622
11-06-2021||Shimla||533 new Covid cases, 15 deaths in Himachal Pradesh||As many as 533 Covid cases were registered in the state today, taking the tally to 197,438. Besides, 15 persons died of the virus in the past 24 hours. Five deaths were reported in Kangra, four in Mandi and one each in Chamba, Shimla, Una, Sirmaur, Kullu and Solan.The highest number of 100 cases was reported in Mandi, followed by 86 in Chamba, 66 in Kangra, 46 in Shimla, 43 in Sirmaur, 41 in Hamirpur, 40 in Una, 29 in Bilaspur, 28 in Kullu, 25 each in Solan and Kinnaur and four in Lahaul and Spiti. The number of active cases declined to 6,338.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/533-new-covid-cases-15-deaths-in-himachal-pradesh-266623
11-06-2021||Mandi||Illegal homestays thrive in Manali||The hotel industry in Kullu-Manali is facing a serious challenge from the unregistered homestay units in villages.Hoteliers allege that the owners of such units are providing accommodation to tourists, which affects the industry in Kullu-Manali. They say the government should check it because it also causes revenue loss to the state.Budhi Prakash Thakur, state convener, Forum of Hotel and Restaurant Association, said, “A large number of tourism units in villages are unregistered. But their owners are renting these out illegally.”“We are not against the tourism units in villages but it should be run in a legal way. The government should direct the Tourism Department to conduct a survey to identify such units. The owners of the tourism units should get their tourism units registered or get ready to face legal action,” he said.Anup Thakur, president of the Hoteliers Association Manali, told The Tribune, “It has become a cause for concern for the hoteliers of Kullu-Manali. The tourists are coming to Manali but the room occupancy is negligible. The reason is that they are going to villages and stay in illegal units.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/illegal-homestays-thrive-in-manali-266625
11-06-2021||Our CorrespondentChamba||Flower, heeng cultivation to be promoted in Chamba||The aspirational Chamba district signed an MoU with the Institute of Himalayan Bioresource Technology (IHBT), Palampur, of the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) in February this year to increase the income of farmers and orchardists.Through a video conference, Deputy Commissioner DC Rana recently held discussions with IHBT Director Dr Sanjay Kumar.“Initially, 300 kg of wild marigold flower seeds have been made available in the identified clusters of Bhattiyat subdivision in the district, which is being grown on 45 to 50 hectares,” he said.He said for the production of lavender and German chamomile flowers, farmers of Bharmour, Tissa and Salooni regions had been identified under the ‘Mahek’ scheme and online training to officials was being imparted by the Agriculture Department to increase their yield.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/flower-heeng-cultivation-to-be-promoted-in-chamba-266633
11-06-2021||Our CorrespondentKullu||Kullu: Covid cases decline, traders urge govt to relax curfew curbs||Residents and traders here have urged the government to earmark micro-containment zones in Covid hotspots and provide relaxation in the curfew in other areas. They said as the cases were decreasing and the second wave of the pandemic was subsiding, the curfew relaxation hours should be increased.There were 995 active cases in the district on May 19 during the peak of the second wave here, while the number reduced to 360 on June 8. The average number of daily cases has also reduced considerably.The traders said increasing the curfew relaxation hours would also avoid crowding, which was witnessed at certain shops due to the small window of five hours. They said the marketing yards were functioning normally and general markets should also be open for longer duration.Residents said auto-rickshaws and taxis should also be allowed to ply. The people were facing inconvenience due to the lack of transport facilities. Patients and elderly people without any conveyance are the worst sufferers.Tourists have also started making their way to Kullu-Manali. Some stakeholders of the tourism industry said tourists should be allowed to enter on the basis of the Covid report only and the system of e-pass should be done away with. They said tourists should also be allowed to go to the Rohtang Pass and other destinations.Kullu DC Richa Verma said the tourists were being allowed to enter the district with the Covid test report along with the e-pass. She said tourists who had taken the second shot of vaccination at least 12 days earlier were also being provided with e-passes. She added that cases had started declining but the administration was on alert.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/kullu-covid-cases-decline-traders-urge-govt-to-relax-curfew-curbs-266648
11-06-2021||Shimla/Dharamsala||Rain lashes Himachal; storm alert||Moderate to heavy rain lashed the state on Thursday. Una recorded a minimum temperature of 31°C, which was the highest-ever. The previous highest minimum temperature in Una (30.2°C) was recorded on June 11, 2013.The local Met office has issued yellow warning of thundershowers and lightning and orange warning of heavy rainfall, thunderstorm and lightning at isolated places in low and middle hills in seven to 10 districts namely Una, Bilaspur, Hamirpur, Chamba, Kangra, Kullu, Mandi, Shimla, Solan and Sirmaur for the next three days and predicted a wet spell in the region till June 16.Kangra was the wettest in the state with 103 mm of rainfall, followed by Palampur (92 mm); Paonta Sahib (75.5 mm); Jogindernagar (55.5 mm); Dharamsala (55 mm); Arki and Malan (44 mm each); Shahpur (38 mm); Sundernagar, Kandaghat and Baldwara (17 mm each); Sarkaghat (16 mm); Dharampur (15 mm); Wangtoo (13 mm); Jubbar Hatti and Shimla (11 mm each) and Solan (10 mm).There was no significant change in the minimum temperatures and Keylong was the coldest at night at 11.6°C. The maximum temperatures fell by 2°C to 3°C and Una was the hottest at 39°C.Meanwhile, heavy rain and thunderstorm lashed Dharamsala on Thursday, bringing down temperature in the region. In the past two days, the day temperature had soared to 34°C.Power cuts were witnessed in several areas of Dharamsala. Showers have brought cheer to the farmers of the region, who had been preparing to grow paddy just before the onset of monsoon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/rain-lashes-himachal-storm-alert-266659
11-06-2021||Abhinav VashishtKullu||Three monals bred at Manali centre||The Monal Breeding Centre of the Wildlife Department, Manali, has been successful in breeding three monal birds (Lophophorus impejanus). The 20-day old hatchlings could be seen playing with their mother in the cage in Nehru Pheasantry.The Nehru Pheasantry was established in 1984 to conserve the monal species, which were on the verge of extinction. The breeding centre was developed separately in the pheasantry in 2015. A monal chick had hatched on May 27, 2017, but it died on June 14, 2017, due to stress, leading to cardio respiratory failure. The monal successfully bred in 2018 for the first time and two of the three hatchlings survived.Rakesh Kumar, DFO, Wildlife, Kullu, said the breeding of monal had been not successful in the past two years due to some reasons. Some improvements were carried out, after which a pair gave three eggs this year, and all three monal hatchlings were bred naturally, he said.The DFO said it was a great achievement in terms of conservation of monal species found on the high snowy peaks of the Himalayas. He said this was possible due to planned conservation. Poaching for its crest, human interference with nature and increasing pressure on jungles were some of the causes for dwindling monal numbers. Locally, the male lophophorus impejanus is called monal, while the female is known as kardi.There are 14 male monal birds and two female monal birds in the pheasantry at present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/three-monals-bred-at-manali-centre-266660
11-06-2021||New Delhi||Speed up work on Rohtang ropeway project: NGT to govt||The National Green Tribunal (NGT) today directed the Himachal Government to expedite the process for the Palchan-Rohtang ropeway and asked the Chief Secretary to monitor compliance.A Bench headed by NGT Chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel noted there was also a delay in the grant of electric connection to the Sewage Treatment Plant (STP) at Marhi and the status of the upgrade of the Manali STP was not known.“It is seen that the ropeway project has not been completed for want of the environmental clearance. Steps are in progress for the setting up of the STP at Marhi and the upgrade of the Manali STP for parking facilities, solid waste management facility, nature park and electric buses. The steps need to be expedited,” the Bench observed.“Steps for the solid waste management facility at Manali and other pending jobs need to be expedited. Let all the same be monitored at the level of the Chief Secretary and compliance ensured in a time-bound manner. The final compliance report may be filed before the next date by email,” the Bench said.The matter is listed for the next hearing on October 26.The direction came after the Deputy Commissioner, Kullu, told the tribunal that the project head of Manali Ropeway Pvt Ltd has informed that the stage-II / final approval has been given by the Environment Ministry and the final order of the diversion of forestland shall be passed by the state government after obtaining permission of the Supreme Court.The state government told the NGT that it has filed an application in the apex court seeking permission for this project as it had imposed an interim stay/ban on the processing of forestland diversion cases.“Further, for obtaining the principal approval of environment clearance, the matter was already taken up with the MoEF, but it was lying pending for want of the finalisation of notification for declaring the eco-sensitive zone of the Manali Wildlife Sanctuary. In this regard, the Principal Chief Conservator of Forests, Wildlife, has informed that the final notification of the eco-sensitive zone around the sanctuary has now been issued vide the Ministry of Environment Forest & Climate Change,” the DC said in his status report.The NGT had earlier directed the government to take steps to initiate the stage-II forest and wildlife clearance for the Palchan-Rohtang Pass ropeway and submit a fresh proposal for an eco-zone draft notification. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/speed-up-work-on-rohtang-ropeway-project-ngt-to-govt-266661
11-06-2021||Solan||Boy sodomised, strangled to death; one held||The Barotiwala police arrested Uttar Pradesh (UP) resident Hukum Singh (22) last evening for strangulating a four-year old boy after sodomising him.SP, Baddi, Rohit Malpani, said the boy, belonging to a migrant family from UP, had been reported missing since June 8. His body was found bundled up in a rucksack from in a house near his hutment during a search carried out by the police yesterday.“Hukum Singh was arrested and search was on to trace his two accomplices. The body has been sent to the IGMC, Shimla, for post-mortem and a team of forensic experts visited the spot,” said the SP.The police has registered a case under Section 363 of the IPC on June 8 and Sections 302 of the IPC for murder and the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act have been added to the FIR. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/boy-sodomised-strangled-to-death-one-held-266662
11-06-2021||Our CorrespondentHamirpur||Newly married woman ‘abducted’ by parents, kin||A high drama was witnessed at ward 5 in the town when a newly wed woman was allegedly abducted by her parents and some relatives early this morning. They allegedly thrashed her husband Sumit and other members of her in-laws’ family.According to information, Sumit had married a Ludhiana woman at the SDM court here yesterday against the wishes of her parents.However, the woman’s parents along with some of their relatives allegedly entered Sumit’s house this morning and forcibly took their daughter away.Sumit alleged that he was thrashed by 15-20 persons, including the parents of his wife.Superintendent of Police Gokulchandran Karthikeyan said a case had been registered. However, no arrest had been made when the report was last filed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/newly-married-woman-abducted-by-parents-kin-266665
11-06-2021||Hamirpur||Amid water crisis, NGO to villagers’ aid||Despite unexpected rains in summer, a water crisis hit many villages in the district and people were forced to travel long distances to get sufficient water for daily use.The situation aggravated due to water requirement for livestock. Many farmers rear five animals on an average in villages. It was reported that most affected villages were in Bamsan, Jahu and Dhaned area of the district. Significantly, the shortage of water is a routine feature in these areas and the administration usually supplies water through tankers but this year, this practice is yet to be started.Meanwhile, an NGO, Dr Pushpinder Verma Fans Club, which was sanitising villages, started water supply through tractor tankers. Sunil Sharma, coordinator of the club, said over 20 tankers of water were sent to different villages.Debashweta Banik, DC, said some reports had surfaced regarding the water crisis and the Department of Irrigation and Public Health was directed to provide water to affected villages. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/amid-water-crisis-ngo-to-villagers-aid-266667
11-06-2021||Mandi||Medical supply for oxygen bank donated||The Crusher Welfare Council, Mandi, presented medical supplies to the administration for oxygen bank in the district, here yesterday.Jatin Lal, Additional DC, Mandi, said in the decisive battle against Covid-19 in Mandi, various organisations and institutions had stepped up to give a helping hand to the administration.He said this medical material included PPE kits, oxygen flowmeters, pulse oximeters, masks and gloves, which would be useful for the infected patients as well as the health workers engaged in their treatment. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/medical-supply-for-oxygen-bank-donated-266668
11-06-2021||Shimla||Himachal CM hails hike in kharif MSP||Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur and state BJP chief Suresh Kashyap today thanked Prime Minister Narendra Modi for increasing the MSP of kharif crops for 2021-22. The decision was taken by the Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs chaired by the Prime Minister yesterday at New Delhi.The Chief Minister said the MSP for paddy had been increased from last year’s Rs 1,868 per quintal to Rs 1,940 whereas for A grade paddy, it had been increased from Rs 1,888 to Rs 1,960. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-cm-hails-hike-in-kharif-msp-266670
11-06-2021||Ravinder SoodPalampur||Palampur Civil Hospital without general surgeon||No general surgical operation has been performed in the Palampur Civil Hospital for the past three months in the absence of surgeons. As a result, patients have to go to private hospitals or the Tanda medical college for surgeries.Official sources say that three surgeons were posted in the Civil Hospital. While two of them proceeded for higher studies last year, the third surgeon resigned three months ago. However, the state government has neither filled the vacant post nor deputed a surgeon or surgeons from adjoining hospitals to run the surgical ward here, causing inconvenience to people. Accident victims brought to the hospital during late hours are the worst sufferers.The local Civil Hospital caters to the medical needs of over seven lakh residents of Palampur, Jaisinghpur, Baijnath and Dheera subdivisions in Kangra district. It has an indoor capacity to admit 100 patients. Before the Covid-19 outbreak, over 500 to 700 patients visited the hospital every day. A paediatrician had died but the post thus falling vacant had not been filled.The state government has upgraded the hospital, doubled its bed capacity from 100 to 200, and increased the posts of doctor to 34. At present, six posts of surgeon, paediatrician and anaesthetist are lying vacant, affecting the smooth functioning of the hospital. There is no arrangements to attend to emergency cases that are invariably referred to Tanda medical college, IGMC, Shimla; PGI, Chandigarh; or the CMC, Ludhiana.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/palampur-civil-hospital-without-general-surgeon-266672
11-06-2021||Mandi||College building work opposed||The Sarv Devta Samiti, Mandi, has opposed the ongoing construction of a building on the Government Vallabh College premises near Paddal ground here. Deities used to sit here during the week-long Shivaratri fair.Shivpal Sharma, president of the samiti, said: “We urge Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur to give directions to the district administration to identify a sitting place for the deities.”— TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/college-building-work-opposed-266674
11-06-2021||Pratibha Chauhan||Vaccine available only at 2 private hospitals in Himachal Pradesh, locals fret||Tribune News ServiceShimla, June 10Even as 19 private health institutions in Himachal Pradesh are registered on the CoWIN portal for offering vaccine, but so far only two have started the facility. These are Fortis Hospital, Kangra, and Jindal Sanjeevani Hospital, Sholtu, Kinnaur.With the shortage of doses at government centres, which are these days offering jabs only to 45-plus category, those in the 18-44 age group are finding it difficult to get themselves vaccinated.Dearth of doses at govt centresOwing to shortage, government centres are offering jabs only to 45-plus categoryThose in the 18-44 age group are finding it difficult to get themselves vaccinatedOf the 19 private hospitals registered on CoWIN, one each in Kangra and Kinnaur have started the facilityVaccine for the latter category will be available at government centres on June 14 and 17, but only those who have booked the slots will be entertained. While people from Shimla are travelling to Kinnaur private facility to get themselves vaccinated, residents from Hamirpur and Una are driving to Kangra.Aman Solomon, Facility Director, Fortis, said, “We can cater to only 200 persons per day. These slots get booked within minutes of opening of the portal.”Agitated at the poor state of affairs, residents have demanded that more private centres should start the facility. Sources say procuring vaccine directly from manufacturers is proving to be a challenge for private players.Nipun Jindal, Mission Director, National Health Mission, said, “Any private hospital having the required infrastructure can offer vaccination provided they procure the doses on their own. Of 19 private centres registered on the CoWIN portal, only two have so far started the facility.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/vaccine-available-only-at-2-private-hospitals-in-himachal-pradesh-locals-fret-266617
