12-06-2021||Shimla||Himachal's IEC University to provide free education to students who lost earning parent to Covid-19||The India Education Centre (IEC) University in Himachal Pradesh's Baddi on Saturday said it will provide free education to students who have lost earning parents to Covid-19 and also help them find employment opportunities.The university issued a statement saying it will provide the opportunity to a select group of students to study for free on its campus after screening their current family, financial status and academic suitability.Once a student is found eligible and suitable, they will be given 100 per cent financial support by the university to complete their education and rebuild their lives, it said.The university is also committed to help them find suitable career opportunities upon course completion, the statement added.This decision is the latest in a series of social and community initiatives undertaken by IEC University in recent months, it said. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachals-iec-university-to-provide-free-education-to-students-who-lost-earning-parent-to-covid-19-267417
12-06-2021||Shimla||Himachal Police warns against spreading rumours on Virbhadra's health||The Himachal Pradesh Police on Saturday warned people against spreading rumours regarding former CM Virbhadra Singh's health on social media.The move came a day after former minister and Solan BJP leader Mohinder Nath Sofat and some other people posted on Facebook regarding Virbhadra's "death", just hours after the ex-CM tested positive for coronavirus and was admitted to Indira Gandhi Medical College Hospital here for treatment. Hospital Senior Medical Superintendent Dr Janak Raj told PTI that his condition is stable. The former CM on his Facebook account said he is healthy and being looked after by doctors.After realising his mistake, Sofat deleted his post and expressed regret for it.Though the Himachal Pradesh Police in its statement did not mention anyone's name for circulating the fake information, it, however, said strict legal action will be taken against those spreading such rumours. "These acts are in blatant violation of the Disaster Management and Information Technology Acts. Therefore, the state police advise such elements to stop it immediately," police said in the statement. Police said such rumours result in unnecessary sensation all over the state and well-wishers of the ex-CM started making frequent calls to police and other government offices for information. Such rumours disturb peaceful atmosphere in the state, it added.Virbhadra Singh tested positive for Covid for the second time in two months on Friday. The nine-time MLA and five-time MP, the veteran Congress leader had earlier tested positive for the disease on April 12.The 86-year-old Congress leader is currently an MLA from Arki in Solan district. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-police-warns-against-spreading-rumours-on-virbhadras-health-267360
12-06-2021||There’s no check on crowding at the IGMC. People are seen jostling against each other||Check crowding at IGMC, Shimla||Open Jal Shakti Division in Chowari subdivisionThe Bhattiyat area of Chowari sub-division comprises one revenue subdivision, two tehsils and one sub-tehsil, but till date, no government has opened a Jal Shakti Division here. It is causing difficulty to people. In order to speed up the work on irrigation and water supply schemes and to ensure a balanced development, the Chief Minister should immediately open a Jal Shakti Division in Chowari. At present, the Dalhousie division of the Jal Shakti Department caters to Bhattiyat area. —Abhishek Chambiyal, Chowari (Chamba)Is a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at:hpreadersfeedback@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/check-crowding-at-igmc-shimla-267280
12-06-2021||Rayat Bahra group chairman Gurvinder Bahra has announced 100 per cent scholarship amounting up to Rs 50 lakh||Rayat Bahra varsity to give scholarship||Students learn skills to help patientsGovernment College Jukhala, Bilaspur, organised a one-day workshop on 'Psychosocial support for Covid conditions', through a virtual platform, in collaboration with the Mahatma Gandhi National Council of Rural Education, Department of Higher Education, Ministry of Education. Around 200 students participated in the workshop. Teachers from other parts of India, around 15 states, also attended the workshop. Samarth Sharma, the key speaker, shared information on various skills that one could use to help the Covid patients.NSUI protests hike in fuel priceTo lodge protest against the rising price of petrol and diesel, the NSUI staged protests at various fuel stations across the state. NSUI state president Chhatar Singh said the Centre was burdening people during the pandemic by hiking the prices.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/rayat-bahra-varsity-to-give-scholarship-267279
12-06-2021||Solan||Himachal Pradesh drug haul: DCA to review nod to firms||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-pradesh-drug-haul-dca-to-review-nod-to-firms-267239
12-06-2021||Ambika Sharma||Covid cases dip, four dedicated Covid hospitals  in Solan and Sirmaur denotified||Tribune News ServiceSolan, June 11Four Dedicated Covid Health Centres (DCHC) have been denotified in Solan and Sirmaur districts after decline in the number of hospitalised Covid patients from the past one week.The DCHC, Bakhalag, in Arki, a 35-bed hospital, set up when the pandemic was its peak, was among three private hospitals that had been denotified in Solan district by the Deputy Commissioner, Solan.Three private hospitals in Baddi-Barotiwala-Nalagarh, including the Aakash Hospital, the Gagan Hospital and the Malhotra Super Speciality Hospital, which had 160 beds, were notified on June 3. These hospitals have more than 170 oxygen cylinders with 61 beds for Covid patients. While there was no occupany at the hospital in Bakhalag and the Aakash Hospital, four ICU beds were occupied at the Gagan Hospital and 20 at the Malhotra Super Speciality Hospital, till last week, said SDM, Nalagarh, Mahinder Pal.In Sirmaur district, Shri Sai Hospital, Nahan, had been denotified on June 8. A 90-bed oxygen facility was created at the hospital for critical Covid patients. Barely two patients were admitted there, said Sirmaur DC RK Pruthi.“The facilities created in various hospitals in the district will help to cater to the future exigencies. The state is bearing the cost of patient admissions at these centres. Their denotification can allow the hospital authorities to use the centres for other patients,” added Pruthi.Meanwhile, there was a decline in the total number of active cases and daily positive cases in the state in the past week.There were 354 active cases and 43 new cases till yesterday evening in Sirmaur. In Solan, 467 active cases and 25 fresh cases were reported. Majority of the patients were under home-isolation.A drastic decline in the number of patients was registered at Covid hospitals. The MM Medical College and Hospital at Kumarhatti, Solan, where securing a bed was an ardous task when the pandemic was at its peak, now had 86 vacant beds, as against 110 total beds. Even 79 of the total 95 oxygen-supported beds were vacant till last evening. The demand for ICU beds had also dipped and seven beds were vacant.At Nahan medical college, 147 of 207 normal beds were vacant and 50 of 60 oxygen beds were not in use. Fourteen of 20 ICU beds were vacant till last evening.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/covid-cases-dip-four-dedicated-covid-hospitals-in-solan-and-sirmaur-denotified-267176
12-06-2021||Palampur||Lightning kills 100 sheep, goats in the Dhauladhars||As many as 100 sheep and goats were killed when lightning struck a camp of shepherds, near Dhundu Jot, 20 km from Baijnath, in the Dhauladhars, yesterday evening. However, no loss of human life has been reported so far. Reports said due to heavy snow and hailstorm, shepherds had taken shelter under a tree, near Manai area, in the dense forest, along with their animals. The four shepherds, who were also resting under the trees, jumped down the hill and had a miraculous escape. The Kangra administration has sent a rescue team to the mishap site. DC Rakesh Prajapati directed the SDM, Baijnath, to monitor the relief and rescue operation and also provide immediate ex-gratia to the victims. He said he was waiting for the report from the rescue team.  Trilok Kapoor, chairman, HP State Wool Federation, said he had asked the officers of the Animal Husbandry Department to prepare an estimate of loss caused to the shepherds, so that the compensation could be granted as per the HP Natural Calamities Relief Manual. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/lightning-kills-100-sheep-goats-in-the-dhauladhars-267177
12-06-2021||---||Advisory for locals as Beas in spate||Mandi, June 11 Water level has been rising in the Beas considerably for the past few days as glaciers are melting rapidly due to rise in temperature at high-altitude areas in Kullu district. The water has also turned muddy in the river due to sudden increase in its water level. Beas river rises 4,361 m above the sea level on the southern face of Rohtang Pass in Kullu. It traverses the Mandi district and enters the Kangra district at Sandhol, 590 m above sea level.  Due to rising water level in Beas, the Pandoh dam authority has urged the district administration Mandi to ask tourists and the common people to avoid going close to the river in the coming days. Due to the increase in water level, the Pandoh dam authority has to release water from Pandoh dam at regular intervals. In view of the danger, the district administrations of Mandi and Kullu districts have urged the tourists as well as locals to avoid venturing close to the banks of Beas between Mandi and Kullu to avoid any untoward incident. In the past, several incidents have been reported in Mandi and Kullu districts, when tourists lost their lives while clicking selfies close to the Beas in spate.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/advisory-for-locals-as-beas-in-spate-267178
12-06-2021||---||1,750 cyber crime cases in Shimla till May end||Shimla, June 11The cyber crime branch of the state police has got Rs 15 lakh refunded to victims or complainants of cyber frauds while Rs 14 lakh is under process at the payment gateways and the money will be refunded soon.With a phenomenal increase in the number of Internet users, cyber crime cases have also increased manifold. Cyber police station, Shimla, registered 1,750 cases till May end and 750 of the total complaints pertain to financial frauds committed by offering SIM card validation, jobs, easy loans, updating KYC, blackmailing through video calls, debit or credit card frauds and Facebook frauds.There has been a spurt in cyber crime cases as people now rely on digital banking due to the pandemic, said Narvir Singh Thakur, Additional SP, Cyber Crime.He said that 815 complaints related to false social media profiles and fraudsters blackmailing through video calls and 150 complaints regarding lost mobile phones. Fraudsters send fake messages asking consumers to get their KYC authenticated, failing which their phone number would become non-functional.Banks and mobile phone service providers repeatedly advise their customers that they do not ask for KYC or account details, but still people are getting cheated. The cyber cell has asked Internet users to exercise caution and ignore all such fake messages and verify the authenticity of SMSes received on their cellphones to avoid loss of vital data and other cyber crimes.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/1-750-cyber-crime-cases-in-shimla-till-may-end-267179
12-06-2021||Bhanu P Lohumi||Baddi varsity fined Rs 11L for violating admission norms||Tribune News ServiceShimla, June 11The Himachal Pradesh Private Educational Institutions Regulatory Commission (HPPIERC) today imposed a penalty of Rs 11 lakh on IEC University, Baddi, for the violation of admission norms. The university is running 30 external and self-paced learning courses that are not recognised by the distance education mode of the University Grants Commission (UGC) and without the fee approval from the state government.Collected Rs 30 lakh on conditional approvalThe commission observed that before seeking a formal approval from the HPPIERC, the university enrolled over 3,039 students by taking cover under the letter of conditional approval and collected fees to the tune of Rs30 lakh, said Maj Gen (retd) Atul Kaushik, chairman, HPPIERC.The courses were started last year (academic session 2020-21) after getting prior approval of the HPPIERC, which allowed the courses after “conditional” approval in principal, keeping in view the Covid-19 situation and future learning technologies/methodologies with specific condition to provide entire details with number of teaching hours and days, examination and admission procedures but the sanctioned intake of the seats was not granted for these courses.The commission observed that before seeking a formal approval from the HPPIERC, the university enrolled over 3,039 students by taking cover under the letter of conditional approval and collected fees to the tune of Rs 30 lakh, said chairman, HPPIERC, Maj Gen (retd) Atul Kaushik.In the interim order passed today, the Education Regulator held that it was a clear-cut violation of the admission norms as well as the provisions contained in the IEC University Act as neither the student intake for courses was granted nor mandatory fee approval was sought from the state government. Moreover, the details regarding faculty, teaching hours, examination and admission procedures was also not submitted.As the future of over 3,039 students enrolled in these unapproved courses is at stake due to negligence of the university, an expert panel would be constituted to analyse the infrastructure, faculty for conversion of external and self-paced learning courses to regular courses.However, the academicians were of the opinion that converting distance mode courses into regular courses would send a wrong signal and encourage malpractices by other private educational institutions in future.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/baddi-varsity-fined-rs-11l-for-violating-admission-norms-267180
12-06-2021||Ravinder Sood 
||After 40 years of struggle, widow gets power supply||Palampur, June 11 Sandhya Devi,   a resident of  Bag Uprala village in ward number 10 of the  Palampur Municipal Corporation, is a happy woman today as she finally got an electricity connection  in her house after about 40 years of struggle.  In all these years, Sandhya Devi moved from pillar to post to get this basic facility at her house  but  to no avail. She visited various offices of the state government and the Himachal Pradesh Electricity Board. She even approached the local MLA, councillor, and ministers  time and again but was always disappointed, she alleged. Even during the municipal elections in April  this year, she  made many requests to leaders of both the Congress and the BJP,  but no one bothered to help her, she rued.  When a group of mediapersons today visited the Bag Uprala village for a reality check, Sandhya Devi said  that her late husband Birta Ram had served in the Army for 32 years and had constructed a house in his native village in 1983.  Birta, during his lifetime, made all efforts  to get electricity  supply in his house. After he passed away, Sandhya Devi picked up the baton to realise his dream but her applications were turned down by the HPSEBL authorities time and again on “flimsy” grounds.  However, when a video of mediapersons went viral in the social media this morning, the  HPSEBL  authorities swung into action and installed a temporary electricity connection at her house.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/after-40-years-of-struggle-widow-gets-power-supply-267181
12-06-2021||---||Met predicts rain for 2 days in Himachal||Shimla, June 11  Moderate to heavy rain lashed parts of Himachal for the second consecutive day today. The local Met office has issued a yellow warning of thundershowers and lightning and an orange warning of heavy rainfall, thunderstorm and lightning at isolated places in low and middle hills in seven to 10 districts namely Una, Bilaspur, Hamirpur, Chamba, Kangra, Kullu, Mandi, Shimla, Solan and Sirmaur for next two days and predicted wet spell in the region till June 17. Gaggal at 107 mm was the wettest in the state, followed by Dharamsala at 67 mm, Amb 40 mm, Jogindernagar 31 mm, Sujanpur Tira 25 mm, Nurpur 21 mm , Palampur 16 mm, Dehra Gopipur 15 mm, Pandoh and Sarkaghat at 14 mm each, Baldwara 12 mm, Bharmaur, Paonta Sahib and Bijahi at 10 mm each. The minimum temperatures fell by 2-3 °C and Keylong was the coldest at night with a low of 10.5°C. There was no appreciable change in the maximum temperatures, which were 1 to 2 °C below normal. Una was the hottest in the day with a maximum of 37.4 °C||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/met-predicts-rain-for-2-days-in-himachal-267182
12-06-2021||---||Intrastate bus service to resume in Himachal, RT-PCR report not mandatory||Shimla, June 11The government today extended the curfew after June 14 with several more relaxations such as intrastate transport to resume, shops to open from 9 am to 5 pm and the RT-PCR test report no more mandatory for entering the state. Though Section 144 would be lifted, the curfew would continue from 5 pm to 5 am. The decisions were taken at a Cabinet meeting.The government extended the time to open shops up to 5 pm from June 14. However, the shops would remain closed on Saturday and Sunday.The Cabinet decided that offices with a staff strength of 75 and above would function with 50 per cent employees. All medical, Ayurvedic and dental colleges would open from June 23 while pharmacy and nursing schools would open from June 28. Meanwhile, the intrastate public transport would be allowed with 50 per cent occupancy.The Cabinet provided a relief of about Rs 40 crore to the transport sector. The relief would include an interest subvention scheme on working capital for stage carriage operators, under which a loan of Rs 2 lakh per bus and a maximum of up to Rs 20 lakh would be provided to bus operators as working capital. The duration of the loan would be five years — one year moratorium period, and 75 per cent interest subvention to be paid by the state government. Around Rs 11 crore as relief had been provided under the scheme.The Cabinet gave relief to the tune of 50 per cent on the payment of special road tax and token tax from August 1, 2020, to March 31, 2021, to the owners of stage carriages, taxis, maxis, auto-rickshaws and institution buses.It decided to provide 50 per cent relief (around Rs 8 crore) on special road tax and token tax for three months from April 1 to June 30, 2021, to owners of stage carriages, taxis, maxis, autorickshaws, contract carriage buses and institution buses.Curfew stays, Section 144 lifted||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/intrastate-bus-service-to-resume-in-himachal-rt-pcr-report-not-mandatory-267183
12-06-2021||---||Himachal Cabinet gives nod to fill 2,322 posts to bolster water schemes||Shimla, June 11The Cabinet today gave nod to the Jal Shakti Department to fill 2,322 posts of different categories under Departmental Para Workers Policy to effectively manage 486 drinking water and 31 irrigation schemes in the State.The Cabinet, chaired by Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur here today, also decided to create and fill 401 posts of different categories in trauma/tertiary care centre in Indira Gandhi Medical College (IGMC) and Super Specialty Bloc, Chamiana of IGMC Shimla for its smooth functioning and to provide specialized health care facilities to the people of the state. Besides, 328 posts of different categories on outsource basis would also be filed.Graduate final year exams in JulyThe Cabinet has decided to conduct examinations of graduate and Shastri final year in July as per SoPs issued by the UGC. It also decided to hold the examinations of first and second year of graduation after the final examinations are over.Keeping in view the Covid-19 pandemic situation in the state, the Cabinet decided to conduct examinations of graduate and Shastri final year during the month of July 2021 as per SoPs issued by the UGC. It also decided to hold the examinations of graduate 1st and 2nd year after the final examinations are over. It also decided to start the academic session for the year 2021-22 for graduation classes from first week of August this year.The Cabinet decided to enhance the honorarium of all the categories of teachers appointed under SMC by Rs 500 per month from April 1, 2021. It was also decided to increase the honorarium of cook-cum-Helper under the Mid-Day Meal Yojna of Elementary Education Department by Rs 300 per month from April 1, 2021.The Cabinet gave its nod to revised scheme for interest subvention on working capital loan for hospitality industry with a view to ensure that tourism unit operators could get easier access to working capital at interest rates lower than the prevailing market rates.The revised scheme provides for interest subversion of 75 per cent in the first year and payment period has also been increased to five years. Some other categories like ropeway and travel agents have also been included in the new scheme.The Cabinet decided to include the families under National Food Security Act (Priority Households Category) where death occurred due to Covid pandemic. The guidelines for identification of Priority Households under National Food Security Act, 2013 issued on August 1, 2013 would be relaxed to give them immediate relief and such families would immediately be included by Gram Panchayats and Urban Local Bodies under National Food Security Act (PHH category) by simply getting Covid death certificates of such persons who died due to coronavirus.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-cabinet-gives-nod-to-fill-2-322-posts-to-bolster-water-schemes-267184
12-06-2021||Shimla||Himachal CM failed to secure special package from Centre: Dutt||AICC secretary and co-incharge for Himachal Sunil Dutt today said despite huge job loss and the tourism sector being hit miserably due to Covid, the BJP regime in Himachal had failed to seek a special financial package from the Centre.  Talking to media persons here today, Dutt lamented that the BJP regime in Himachal had not come out with a bailout package for Covid-hit economy, especially for the tourism and transport sector.  He said the Congress like any other responsible political party wants to play the role of a constructive opposition. “We should not politicise any disaster or a situation like Covid but when we see people suffering, we are duty bound to raise issues of complete mismanagement in hospitals as people died for want of oxygen and beds,” he remarked. Dutt said the double engine regime of Modi and Jai Ram had completely failed to tackle the Covid pandemic and had taken all anti-people decisions. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-cm-failed-to-secure-special-package-from-centre-dutt-267185
12-06-2021||---||Former Himachal CM Virbhadra tests Covid +ve again||Shimla, June 11Former Chief Minister Virbhadra Singh (86) has been again found to be infected with Covid within two months of testing positive for the first time on April 12. “He was running fever, following which he was tested for Covid yesterday. The test report received today showed infection,” said Dr Rajnish Pathania, Principal of IGMC Hospital, Shimla.Virbhadra Singh has been admitted to the IGMC for over a month, recuperating from heart and kidney-related ailments and diabetes. “We are constantly monitoring his health condition,” said Dr Pathania. The former Chief Minister has now been shifted to the makeshift Covid hospital on the premises of the hospital. Also, it is being suspected that he caught the infection from his attendants or the attending hospital staff.“He is on a bi-weekly dialysis. The process of dialysis leaves one vulnerable to infection,” said Dr Rahul Gupta, Deputy Medical Superintendent. “Also, he is highly immune-compromised. Besides renal issues, he is battling diabetes and heart-related problems,” he added.A doctor said that there was a possibility of a new Covid variant bypassing vaccine-induced or infection-induced antibodies in some cases.Virbhadra was treated for Covid at Max Hospital in Mohali (Punjab) and was brought back to Shimla on April 30. However, he was admitted to the IGMC the same day after he complained of uneasiness and is recuperating at the hospital since then. He had received his first dose of the vaccine on March 3.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/former-himachal-cm-virbhadra-tests-covid-ve-again-267186
12-06-2021||Dharamsala||Cong protests price rise||The Congress workers today organized protests in various parts of the district against the price rise. The Youth Congress workers carrying placards and LPG cylinders protested in Dharamsala and raised slogans against the BJP. In a press release issued here, former minister and senior Congress leader GS Bali alleged that even as the people were suffering financial constraints due to lockdown, unprecedented price rise was making survival of poor difficult. He said that the petrol and diesel prices were going through the roof. The Union and state government were resorting to easy way out for increasing the income by levying more taxes on petrol and diesel. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/cong-protests-price-rise-267187
12-06-2021||Shimla||MSP hike a joke on farmers: CPM||The CPM has termed the rise in the minimum support price by the Centre a joke on the farmers.  Stating that it wasn’t adequate, the CPM said the cost of production had increased manifold and inflation was skyrocketing. CPM leader Kuldeep Tanwar said although the announced MSP for maize was Rs 1,850 per quintal last year, farmers had to sell their produce for Rs 800-Rs 1,100 per quintal. He further said that the need of the hour was to ensure that it bought maize from farmers at the announced MSP. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/msp-hike-a-joke-on-farmers-cpm-267188
12-06-2021||Shimla||505 new Covid cases, 9 deaths in Himachal||As many as 505 Covid cases were reported in the state today. Besides, nine persons died of the virus in the past 24 hours. Two deaths each were reported in Kullu, Una and Kangra and one each in Kinnaur, Chamba and Solan.The highest number of 128 cases was registered in Kangra, followed by 81 in Mandi, 56 in Sirmaur, 49 in Shimla, 44 in Chamba, 37 in Hamirpur, 28 each in Solan and Una, 17 in Bilaspur, 15 in Mandi, 12 in Kinnaur and 10 in Lahaul and Spiti. The total number of active cases declined to 5,879. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/505-new-covid-cases-9-deaths-in-himachal-267189
12-06-2021||---||Himachal: No more mandatory RT-PCR test for entering state||Tribune News ServiceShimla, June 11Himachal Cabinet has decided to continue imposing curfew even after June 14, although with several relaxations—a development that comes as the state continues to report declining infections.A cabinet meeting that Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur chaired decided to allow shops to keep open from 9 am to 5 pm and intrastate transport to resume. The state will also do away with the requirement of a mandatory RT-PCR report for entering the state.   Shops however must close down on weekends.Offices with over 75 people could function at 50 per cent strength.All the medical, ayurvedic, and dental colleges will open on June 23, and pharmacy and nursing schools will open on June 28.Intrastate public transport must have no more 50 per cent of its seating capacity.Curfew restrictions will continue to be imposed from 5 pm to 5 am.In a significant decision, the Cabinet provided relief of about Rs 40 crore to the transport sector, one of the worst-hit sectors by the pandemic. The relief would include an Interest Subvention Scheme on working capital for stage carriage operators, under which a loan amount of Rs 2 lakh per bus with an upper limit of Rs 20 lakh would be provided to the bus operators as working capital. The duration of the loan would be five years, in which one year would be of moratorium period, there would be 75 percent interest subvention, which would be paid by the state government.  About Rs 11 crore relief has been provided by the government on this scheme.  The Cabinet also provided much-needed relief to owners of stage carriages, taxis, maxi, autorickshaw and institution buses by giving the relief of 50 per cent on payment of Special Road Tax and Token from August 1, 2020, to March 31, 2021.  The Transport sector would get relief of about Rs 20 crore due to this decision.  The cabinet decided to provide 50 percent relief on Special Road Tax and Token Tax during the period of three months from April 1, 2021, to June 30, 2021.  This decision would provide relief of Rs eight crore to stage carriages, taxis, maxi, autorickshaws, contract carriage buses, and institution buses.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-no-more-mandatory-rt-pcr-test-for-entering-state-266871
12-06-2021||Subhash Rajta||Virbhadra Singh tests Covid positive second time in 2 months||Tribune News ServiceShimla, June 11Congress stalwart and former Himachal Chief Minister Virbhadra Singh has again tested positive for Covid at the IGMC in Shimla.Virbhadra Singh had first tested positive on April 12, following which he was admitted to Max Hospital in Mohali and then shifted back to Shimla.The six-time Chief Minister has been recuperating at the hospital for over a month for diabetes and kidney-related ailments. Doctors are learnt to be planning a new course of treatment for him.“He has tested positive again. He was running a fever following which he was tested. The report has come positive today,” said IGMC Principal Rajnish Pathania.Singh had taken his first dose of vaccine on March 3.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/virbhadra-singh-tests-covid-positive-second-time-in-2-months-266829
