13-06-2021||Shimla||Monsoon arrival in Himachal earliest in 21 years: Met Office||The southwest monsoon on arrived in Himachal Pradesh on Sunday, in its earliest onset in the past 21 years, the weather bureau said. Its normal arrival in the state is June 26.“The southwest monsoon has reached all parts of Himachal Pradesh. Last year it had reached the state on June 24,” Manmohan Singh, Director of the meteorological office, told IANS.He said the previous earliest arrival of the monsoon in the state was on June 9, 2000.Between June 1 and June 13, the state received 41.6 mm rain, which was 39 per cent below the average.Agriculture, the main occupation of the people in Himachal Pradesh, provides direct employment to 69 per cent people. IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/monsoon-arrival-in-himachal-earliest-in-21-years-met-office-267894
13-06-2021||Tribune Reporters||Storm wreaks havoc on apple, stone fruit crops||Shimla/Mandi, June 12A severe storm damaged apple and stone fruit crops in upper Shimla on Friday night. The storm starting after midnight uprooted several apple trees, and blew away anti-hail nets.“The damage in the Jubbal-Kotkhai area is huge. We have been assessing the losses since morning. In my panchayat alone, 500 to 700 trees have been uprooted,” said Kaushal Mongta, a Zila Parishad member from Saraswati Nagar, Jubbal. “We have never suffered such a damage in the past. Small-time orchardists particularly have been finished,” he said.The Baghi-Ratnari area, too, was hit by the storm. “We were yet to come to terms with the losses suffered because of snowfall and a hailstorm in April. And now, Friday’s storm caused extensive damage,” said Satpal, a resident of Ratnari village. “High-altitude areas above 7,000 feet have been affected the most. Trees have been uprooted, anti-hail nets blown away and most of the fruit has dropped to the ground,” he said.According to an estimate prepared by the Horticulture Department, the apple growers had suffered losses to the tune of more than Rs 250 crore due to the snowfall and a hailstorm in April. “The losses suffered because of Friday storm are also massive. The government should give relief to the growers at the earliest,” said Mongta.In Mandi district too, considerable damage was caused to agricultural and horticultural produce. Besides, 36 houses and 33 cowsheds were damaged partially. The major damage was witnessed in apple orchards of Karsog and Sundernagar area. Field staff of the Horticulture and Agriculture Department are assessing the losses. Mandi DC Rugved Thakur, said the final report of losses would be sent to the government for further action.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/storm-wreaks-havoc-on-apple-stone-fruit-crops-267612
13-06-2021||Palampur||Transformers, poles damaged; power supply hit||Heavy rain, accompanied by a thunderstorm, high-velocity winds and lightning, have wreaked havoc in Palampur, Baijnath and Jaisinghpur subdivisions of Palampur in the past two days. There was widespread damage to property, particularly to transmission lines of the state electricity board.Lower areas of Palampur are the worst hit, where many transformers of the Himachal Pradesh State Electricity Board (HPSEB) have suffered heavy damages. Electricity poles, too, were damaged as trees fell on supply lines.The power supply remained suspended in many parts of the region. The technical staff of the HPSEB was working round the clock to restore the supply. Official sources said several transformers and electric installations were totally destroyed by lightning. These are either being replaced or repaired.Meanwhile, a Meteorological Department spokesperson has said inclement weather could persist for some more days. He said thunderstorms were likely to be witnessed all over the district over the next few days, along with heavy to very heavy rainfall, high velocity winds and hailstorms. Heavy rain in the Dhauladhar hills could cause flash floods in the region, he said. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/transformers-poles-damaged-power-supply-hit-267613
13-06-2021||Our Correspondent||Over 500 houses destroyed in Pragpur||Palampur, June 12High-velocity winds, accompanied by a hailstorm and heavy rain, lashed Pragpur town in Dehra subdivision and its adjoining areas on Friday night. Reports stated over 500 houses were damaged in different parts of the region.Roofs of several houses were blown away during the inclement weather conditions that continued for about two hours. Traffic on the Neharanpukhar-Chandigarh-Una National Highway remained suspended for hours as trees were uprooted at various points. Over 20 villages in Pragpur tehsil have been without power for the last 20 hours.Official sources said it could take three or four days to restore the power supply in the area. Employees of the HPSEB and the PWD are working round the clock to remove the trees that have fallen on roads, buildings and power supply lines.Many residents of the area had a narrow escape when their houses were buried under huge trees in Pragpur town and its adjoining villages. Twenty villages are worst hit in the areas where transmission lines suffered heavy damage.Government officials visited these areas this morning. They said heavy losses had been reported to property in the region and the revenue officer had been directed to submit a detailed report on losses.Industries Minister Bikram Singh Thakur, who represents the area, directed officials to start the relief and restoration operation on a war footing. He said compensation would be paid as per relief manual of the state government.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/over-500-houses-destroyed-in-pragpur-267614
13-06-2021||Our Correspondent||Gujjars from Punjab, J&K ousted from birds sanctuary||Nurpur, June 12The Wildlife Department today ousted a large number of Gujjars from Punjab and Jammu and Kashmir along with around 1,000 buffaloes from the prohibited Pong Wildlife Birds Sanctuary following protests by locals.According to information, the Gujjars had come to the sanctuary for the past over 10 days and staying there to graze their milch animals. The green pastures have developed after the water level of the Pong Dam reservoir in the Nagrota Surian wildlife beat receded.Villagers living around the sanctuary have been objecting to the Gujjars staying in the prohibited area in view of the pandemic. Several people were injured in a group clash between nomadic Gujjars and locals a few days ago. The incident was also reported to the Jawali police.Rahul Rahane, Divisional Forest Officer (DFO), Wildlife, Hamirpur, said that on getting information about the presence of a large number of Gujjars in the sanctuary, the department took action and ousted them along with around 1,000 buffaloes from the prohibited area.He added that the Gujjars did not have the permission to stay in the area and graze their animals there.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/gujjars-from-punjab-jk-ousted-from-birds-sanctuary-267615
13-06-2021||Dipender Manta||Capturing Tololing turning point in Kargil war, says ex-Brigadier||Tribune News ServiceMandi, June 12The battle of Tololing on June 13, 1999, the first major victory for the Army in the Kargil war, played a crucial role in defeating the enemy, said Brigadier Khushal Thakur (retd) here today.“An exercise to force Mujahideens out of Drass and Kargil sectors turned into a limited war in which the Army faced not only intruders, but also Pakistani army soldiers,” he said.“Fighting in an inhospitable terrain with the enemy well-placed at all vantage points on the Tololing peak, the Kargil war was won at the cost of 527 brave lives; 52 of them belonged to Himachal Pradesh. Capt Vikram Batra and Rifleman Sanjay Kumar, two of the four recipients of Param Vir Chakra, were both from Himachal,” he added.“The Army lacking adequate information, artillery fire support and winter clothing placed itself in the plains. They were sitting ducks for the Pakistan forces. Yet the brave soldiers fought fiercely to re-establish their control on the mountain,” he said.Brig Thakur (retd) remembers how difficult it was to carry ammunition under the heavy enemy artillery fire. In the battle of Tololing, 18 Grenadiers lost Lt-Col R Vishwanathan and Major Rajesh Adhikari, besides two JCOs and 21 other ranks while 2 Rajputana Rifle lost Major Vivek Gupta, two JCOs and seven other ranks.He said that 8 Grenadiers along with 2 Rajputana Rifle launched a massive assault on the night of June 13 and succeeded in getting the control of the strategically-important peak.“After the first victory, 18 Grenadiers moved on to capture the most important feature of the area, Tiger Hill. 18 Grenadiers was honoured with 52 gallantry awards, including a Param Vir Chakra, two Maha Vir Chakras, six Vir Chakras and 16 Sena Medals (gallantry), besides COAS Unit Citation, Kargil Theatre Honour and Tiger Hill and Tololing Battle Honour,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/capturing-tololing-turning-point-in-kargil-war-says-ex-brigadier-267616
13-06-2021||---||4 held with protected lizard species in Paonta||Solan, June 12The Forest Department nabbed four youths with three monitor lizards, a protected species under Schedule I of the Wildlife Protection Act, in Paonta Sahib subdivision of Sirmaur district today.Kunal Angrish, Divisional Forest Officer (DFO), Paonta Sahib, said a team from Kansar forest block in the Girinagar range received information that four youths with hunting equipment had been sighted in the Baila area. The team cornered the youths and on frisking their belongings, three monitor lizards, two spears, and an axe were recovered. While two lizards were found dead, the third one was alive; it was later released into the forest.The team submitted a complaint to the Renukaji police. The accused are residents of Majra village and belong to a tribal community.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/4-held-with-protected-lizard-species-in-paonta-267617
13-06-2021||---||Govt gives nod to amended vehicle accident claim rules||Shimla, June 12  The government has accorded an in-principle approval to the amended draft of rules mentioned in the Road Accident Claims Tribunal under the Himachal Pradesh Motor Vehicles (Amendment) Rules, 2021, said Transport Minister Bikram Singh here today. He said after the implementation of the rules, if there is no valid insurance of the vehicle at the time of accident, the affected party will be compensated as per the directions of the tribunal. The claim process will be expedited and the settlement be ensured in a time-bound manner. Bikram Singh said there will be a provision to protect the interests of the applicant after the amendment to the rules. A vehicle will not be released in case of accidental death, bodily injury or damage to property. He said if there is no third party risk cover in the insurance policy, a provision has been made to sell the vehicle by the police to compensate the affected person. The minister said a provision has been made in the rules to simplify the process from application to time-bound payment under accident insurance. The amount will be directly transferred to the beneficiary’s account through RTGS or NEFT.  In case more than one vehicle is involved in the accident, the claim amount will be paid to all vehicle owners on the basis of police report. If the claimant is unable to bear the cost of summoning the witnesses, the cost will be borne by the government. A provision has also been made to constitute a medical board by the Tribunal on Disability Claims and submit the report within 15 days, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/govt-gives-nod-to-amended-vehicle-accident-claim-rules-267618
13-06-2021||---||Derecognise Una varsity, says ABVP||Shimla, June 12 The ABVP today demanded the derecognition of Indus International University, Una, for withholding caste certificates, income certificates, bona fide certificates, Class X and XII mark-sheets, Aadhaar cards and passbooks of SC/ST students, studying under the scholarship scheme. The university authorities should be arrested and the certificates of the students should be returned immediately, said ABVP state co-secretary Vikrant Chauhan. He said the students were facing problem in getting admissions and jobs in the absence of original documents and even the National Commission for Scheduled Castes had taken serious note of it and issued notice to the state government to submit an action taken report within 15 days. The education regulator should take stern action against the erring university and impose a heavy penalty on it, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/derecognise-una-varsity-says-abvp-267619
13-06-2021||Solan||Baddi woman duped online of Rs 7.26 lakh||An online fraudster has duped Baddi resident Archana Sharma of Rs 7.26 lakh that she had deposited for receiving a parcel sent by a Facebook friend from England. The police registered a case of cheating under Section 420 of the IPC on the complaint of Archana, a resident of Suraj Majra in  Baddi, last evening. Archana had received a Facebook request from Ammu Ammu  that she accepted on May 10. Thereafter, she received a call from  Delhi Parcel Agency on May 17 and caller Rani Mishra informed her about a parcel sent for her from England. She was asked to pay  Rs 3.76 lakh as custom delivery charges, which she paid through Google Pay app.  She then received a fund transfer document of a New Delhi-based bank from Mark, a Facebook friend.  She was asked to pay another Rs 5 lakh to receive the parcel.  She transferred Rs 3.50 lakh to  an account through Google Pay. However, she later realised that she had been befooled. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/baddi-woman-duped-online-of-rs-7-26-lakh-267621
13-06-2021||Dharamsala||Allow gyms to operate, assn requests govt||The Himachal Pradesh Gym Association has urged the state government to allow its members to open premises and start operations. In a letter to Minister for Forest and Youth Affairs Rakesh Pathania, president of the association Kewal Singh Pathania said that the gym owners in the state were on the verge of losing their livelihood totally, as they had not been allowed to operate for the past two years. Kewal said that a large number of gym owners had rented buildings to run their businesses. “The state government has forced the gyms to close operations for the past two years and their owners are finding in difficult to make a living. The investment of lakhs of rupees made by the gym owners will go waste if they are not allowed to start operations, he added. He said just as the government had allowed public transport and hoteliers to operate during the curfew, it should also allow the gym owners to do business by following the standard operating procedures. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/allow-gyms-to-operate-assn-requests-govt-267622
13-06-2021||Lalit Mohan||Limited rural reach, CM skill scheme benefits 428 artisans||Tribune News ServiceDharamsala, June 12Traditional artisans, who have lost their livelihood due to the lockdown, can now seek help under the Mukhya Mantri Gram Kaushal Yojana. Besides providing financial aid, the scheme will also help them in passing on traditional crafts to the next generation. However, the scheme launched last year has benefited only 428 beneficiaries due to a limited reach in remote rural areas.Lalit Jain, Director Rural Development and Panchayats, while talking to The Tribune, said the scheme was formulated last year.A budget of Rs 75 lakh was spent and 428 artisans and trainees attached with them were provided employment under the scheme. It was decided that any artisan, who wants to teach his skills to youths, would get Rs 7,500 per month under the scheme and all trainees under him would also get a monthly stipend of Rs 3,000 each, he added.Jain said that the government decided to expand the ambit of the scheme to help artisans considering a majority of them had lost their livelihood. During 2021-22, the government had provided Rs 10 crore and set a target of training 4,000 youths under the scheme.Jain said, “As many as 72 crafts such as basket kilta making, bamboo product activity, Kashmiri embroidery on fabrics, pine needle products, traditional pottery art, tandoor, trunk, ‘hamaam’ making, local shoes (pulen) making, traditional carry bag, paper bag and file cover making, Baishali paintings, Guler Shaili, Cheed Patti craft, fish cusine, Phulkari embroidery, wooden toy making, Chamba ‘chapal’ and ‘rumal’, traditional band making, traditional jacket-basket, woollen knitting, wood carving, metal idol making and painting Mandi Kalam that have been covered under the Mukhya Mantri Gram Kaushal Yojana”.Trainees to get Rs3,000It has been decided that any artisan, who wants to teach his skills to youths, will get Rs7,500 per month under the scheme and all trainees under him will also get a monthly stipend of Rs3,000 each||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/limited-rural-reach-cm-skill-scheme-benefits-428-artisans-267623
13-06-2021||Shimla||Rs 40 cr relief eyewash, say pvt bus owners||Private bus operators are not happy with the Rs 40 crore package announced by the state government for the transport sector. As such, they may not end their strike anytime soon. “We are not pleased with the government’s offer. The Rs 40 crore package is a mere eyewash,” said Rajesh Parashar, president of the state Private Bus Operators’ Union.“We held a meeting of the union today and passed a resolution expressing our dissatisfaction with the government’s announcement. We will hold a meeting with our district units on Sunday, and then decide our future course of action,” said Parashar.“The announcement to provide a working capital of Rs 2 lakh as bank loan is of no use. The government is providing relief on interest in the first two years. If we do calculation, the bus operators will get a monthly relief of just Rs 1,000 for two years,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/rs-40-cr-relief-eyewash-say-pvt-bus-owners-267625
13-06-2021||---||Virbhadra’s condition stable: Doctor||Shimla, June 12 The IGMC Hospital administration has said  the condition of former Chief Minister Virbhadra Singh is stable and he is recovering.  The Congress leader tested positive for coronavirus again on Friday at the IGMC where he had been recuperating from diabetes and heart and kidney-related ailments for over a month.  “Doctors are constantly monitoring his condition. He is being given oxygen through an NRM mask and his oxygen level is 99 per cent,” said IGMC Medical Superintendent Dr Janak Raj. “His blood pressure and sugar levels are also under control,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/virbhadras-condition-stable-doctor-267626
13-06-2021||Shimla||370 new cases, 17 deaths in Himachal||As many as 370 Covid cases were reported in the state today, taking the tally to 1,98,313. Besides, 17 persons died of the virus in the past 24 hours. Four deaths were recorded in Shimla, two each in Kangra, Mandi, Solan, Chamba and Sirmaur and one each in Una, Hamirpur and Kullu.  The highest 116 cases were reported in Kangra, followed by 60 in Mandi and 24 in Shimla. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/370-new-cases-17-deaths-in-himachal-267627
13-06-2021||Shimla||1.17 lakh Covishield doses received, vaccination from June 14||The state government today received 1.17 lakh vaccines from Serum Institute of India (SII). It would now organise more sessions from June 14 to 18 to utilise the entire consignment. A government spokesperson said that the entire consignment of 117,830 vaccines was received today instead of the earlier phased delivery schedule of June 16, 26 and July 2. “Now, the Health Department will hold daily vaccine sessions from June 14 to 18 to utilise the entire consignment,” he added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/1-17-lakh-covishield-doses-received-vaccination-from-june-14-267628
13-06-2021||Dharamsala||Himachal government package fails to cheer traders||The financial package, cleared by the Cabinet yesterday, has failed to cheer hoteliers and transporters in Kangra. Most of them have cast doubt that the traders, hit by the pandemic, will benefit.Prem Kumar, a transporter, said the government had announced the interest subvention scheme. Under the scheme, the government would subsidise the interest on fresh loans. Most transporters would not be able to take its benefit because their accounts had turned into non-performing assets (NPAs).As per RBI guidelines, no bank can give loans to persons whose accounts have turned NPAs. They would not be able to raise fresh loans, Prem Kumar said.Hoteliers said last year also, the government had announced an interest subvention scheme for the hoteliers but in the Kangra region, just less than 10 hoteliers could draw its benefit.Ashwani Bamba, president of the hotel and restaurant association of Dharamsala, said most banks were not giving additional loans without a guarantee and collateral. Cooperative banks last year were offering additional loans to hoteliers at 11 per cent interest rate, which was high.If the government was willing to give subsidy on interest to entrepreneurs, it should ensure that the banks should give additional loans to businessmen without any collateral or guarantee, Bamba said.Hoteliers said had the government waived their annual renewal fees to be paid to pollution control, tourism and other departments, it would have been a better financial help.They said most hotels in Dharamsala owed property tax worth lakhs to the municipal corporation. The hotels had remained closed for one year and were in no position to pay property tax. The government should have waived the tax.Taxi operators are alleging that the government is charging annual registration charges and licence fee despite the fact that they hardly had any business for the past two years. The government should waive taxes that the Transport Department levies annually.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-government-package-fails-to-cheer-traders-267506
