14-06-2021||Shimla||Himachal records 2.4 per cent Covid positivity rate from June 7-13||Himachal Pradesh recorded a Covid-19 positivity rate of 2.4 per cent from June 7 to 13, a health official said on Monday.The hill state so far registered a positivity rate of 9.2 per cent cumulatively since the start of the pandemic, Special Health Secretary Nipun Jindal said.He said a total of 3,451 Covid-19 cases were detected out of 1,42,357 tests during the same period.Chamba and Kinnaur districts registered a high positivity rate of 4.2 and 4 per cent, respectively, which was higher than the state’s average of 2.4 per cent last week, he added.           In addition to this, Shimla, Sirmaur and Kangra districts had the positivity rate of 3.1, 2.7 and 2.6 per cent respectively, also more than the state’s average.However, Bilaspur, Hamirpur, Kullu, Lahaul-Spiti, Mandi and Una had lower positivity rate than the state’s average, he added.Lahaul-Spiti registered the minimum positivity rate of 1.9 per cent with 165 cases, Jindal added. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-records-2-4-per-cent-covid-positivity-rate-from-june-7-13-268406
14-06-2021||---||Early monsoon comes in with an excess of downpour over the region||Vijay MohanTribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 14The early monsoon has hit the region on a hugely positive note, with the agrarian states of Punjab and Haryana receiving higher than normal rain fall in the month of June so far.From June 1 to June 14, Punjab received 38 mm rain against the normal of 14.7 mm for this period, accounting for a surplus of 158 per cent, according to data compiled by the India Meteorological Department (IMD).In Haryana, rain was for surplus by 146 per cent. The state received 33.7 mm rain against the normal of 13.7 mm for the aforementioned period. In of Himachal Pradesh, the surplus was relatively lower at 26 per cent. The hill state received 42.2 mm rain against the normal of 33.5 mm for that period.The monsoon arrived over north India about 15 days ahead of its normal date of onset, which is a significant deviation in terms of climatic conditions as well as agro-economic practices. Rains impact sowing and cropping timing as well as the demand of water from dams and electricity or diesel for running bore wells.Information released by IMD states that as on June 14 the Northern Limit of Monsoon (NLM) is passing through Diu, Surat, Nandurbar, Bhopal, Nowgong, Hamirpur, Barabanki, Bareilly, Saharanpur, Ambala and Amritsar, covering the entire peninsular, central, east and northeastern India and some parts of north-western India. However due to approaching of mid-latitude westerlies winds further progress  of  monsoon  over  remaining  parts  of  northwest  India  is  likely  to  be slow, according to the IMD.Earlier, the IMD had predicted normal to above normal rainfall over most parts of South Asia during the 2021 southwest monsoon season from June to September. Geographically, above-normal rainfall is most likely over north-western India and some regions along the foothills of the Himalayas.Even in May, the precipitation in the region had been good. Rain was 138 percent above normal in Haryana and 39 per cent above normal in Punjab, but deficient by four per cent in Himachal Pradesh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/early-monsoon-comes-in-with-an-excess-of-downpour-over-the-region-268359
14-06-2021||Bhanu  Lohumi||5,000 vehicles enter Shimla in 2 days, many tourists challaned for not wearing mask||Tribune News Service Shimla, June 14With tourists from neighbouring states heading in hordes to Himachal Pradesh, particularly Shimla, Kullu-Manali and Dharamsala, on the first day of the state opening its borders to outsiders without the mandatory RT-PCR negative report, the police have warned the visitors against flouting the Covid safety protocol.Also read: Dejected, tourists in Himachal return homeHundreds of vehicles enter Himachal as govt allows tourists without negative Covid report, video goes viralRohtang Pass in Himachal opens to touristsWithin a few hours of the opening of the borders, long serpentine queues of vehicles could be witnessed at the entry points. This weekend, prior to opening of the border, over 5,000 vehicles are learnt to have entered Shimla within hours from Shogi barrier.A heavy rush of tourists was witnessed on the Ridge and The Mall Road in Shimla. The police also slapped challans on a few violators.Urging the tourists to strictly follow the Covid SOPs, Shimla Superintendent of Police Mohit Chawla said they had challaned some people on The Mall Road. He warned of eight-day jail in case of repeated violations.The occupancy on this weekend touched 30 per cent which is further expected to go upto 60 per cent in the coming week. About 25 per cent bookings have been done in while 25 per cent of tourists are walk in, says President of Shimla Hotel and Restaurant Association Sanjay Sood.He said people in the plains were rushing to the hills of Himachal to get relief from sultry heat.“We have appealed to the hotel owners to abide by the standard operating procedures (SOPs) like wearing of masks, proper sanitization and avoid overcrowding so that tourists feel safe and comfortable,” said President, Tourism Industry Stakeholders Association MK Seth.The tourism industry, which suffered heavy losses in peak summer season in 2020 and 2021 are hopeful that with relaxation on restrictions, industry would be able to cover up the losses to some extent.Prior to June 14, the state government had allowed the entry of only those tourists who had prior booking at a hotel or homestay and carried a Covid negative report from an ICMR-accredited laboratory.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/5-000-vehicles-enter-shimla-in-2-days-many-tourists-challaned-for-not-wearing-mask-268333
14-06-2021||Mandi||Tenders for wall along river at Jispa soon, says minister||Technical Education Minister Ram Lal Markanda said the flood protection wall would be constructed at Jispa village in Lahaul Spiti at a cost of Rs 1.26 crore to protect the area from flood. He said soon tenders would be invited for the purpose.Residents of Jispa village had been urging the state government to construct a protection wall along the banks of the Bhaga to check the soil erosion in the area since long. Kishan, a resident of the village, said during the rainy season, flood threat looms large every year because the water level increases drastically in the Bhaga, causing considerable damage to agricultural field.He had assured residents that the flood protection wall would be constructed. He directed the Jal Shakti Department at Lahaul Spiti to accomplish the formalities to execute this project earlier. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/tenders-for-wall-along-river-at-jispa-soon-says-minister-268233
14-06-2021||---||Spiti residents urge Himachal govt to strengthen Internet service||Mandi, June 13Residents of the Spiti valley have urged the state government to strengthen internet connectivity in this remote region of Lahaul & Spiti on priority. They said due to poor Internet connectivity in the region, students of the area were suffering a lot as they were unable to get access to online education in villages.Tenzin Takpa, president of Spiti Civil Society, said, “The schools are providing online education to students across the state on the direction of the state government. Unfortunately, in the Spiti valley, many villages lack internet connectivity. Due to that, students’’ education is getting affected.”He said, “Students from Lari village in the Spiti valley have to walk 4 km to reach Tabo to find an internet signal for online study, where mobile towers of the BSNL and Jio are installed to provide internet connectivity. Like Lari village, there are several villages in the Spiti valley, which lack internet connectivity.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/spiti-residents-urge-himachal-govt-to-strengthen-internet-service-268231
14-06-2021||Our Correspondent||Probe ordered into Palampur custodial death||Palampur, June 13A local court today ordered a judicial inquiry into the custodial death of Nagender Kumar, a resident of Champaran, Bihar. He was working as a labourer in Palampur.Nagender was arrested by the police on Friday in connection with the death of his wife Rinki. She was found dead in a rented house on the outskirts of Palampur.Died in hospitalDSP Amit Sharma said during investigation, it was revealed that there was some quarrel between Nagender and his wife. He had thrashed her. She had received serious injuries and was also taken to a private hospital. However, after two days, she was found dead.The police had registered a case under Section 304A of the Indian Penal Code against the husband and arrested him. The police are yet to get her post-mortem report. However, at the police station, Nagender was not found in proper mental health and was referred to the Civil Hospital, Palampur, where he died.The DSP said since he was in the police custody, he informed the local court regarding his death.The couple has left behind two children. In the absence of any one to take care of children, they have been sent to the Children Protective Home at Shimla.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/probe-ordered-into-palampur-custodial-death-268230
14-06-2021||Nurpur||3 held with illegal medicinal herbs||The Jawali police seized a truckload of illegal medicinal herbs that were being transported out of the state at a naka near the Kotla police chowki on the Pathankot-Mandi national highway on Thursday evening. The police, after conducting preliminary investigations, arrested three persons, including the truck driver. As per police information, the accused have been identified as Halku Ram (truck driver) of Shanang village, Surjeet Singh of Chening village and Nanak Chand of Gurahatu village in Mandi district.The accused were coming from Loharadi near Barot and going to Punjab to sell medicinal herbs in local markets. Jawali DSP Sidharth Sharma said a theft case under Section 379 of the IPC and Sections 41 and 42 of the Indian Forest Act had been registered against the trio. He said the accused had no valid permit for procuring and transporting the herbs.The police impounded the truck and handed over the seized medicinal herbs to the Forest Department. They produced the accused in the Jawali court this afternoon, where the accused were sent in four days’ police remand. Meanwhile, Nurpur Divisional Forest Officer Viklap said the seized herbs included kuth (saussurea costus), shingli mingli (dioscorea deltoidea), koud (picrorihiza kurroa) and brimi (taxus wallichiana). — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/3-held-with-illegal-medicinal-herbs-268228
14-06-2021||Rajiv Mahajan||Gym owners under debt, seek relief||Nurpur, June 13The lockdown and the curfew imposed in the view of Covid-19, in the past 15 months, has put financial burden on gym entrepreneurs in the lower Kangra area. These entrepreneurs, who had raised bank loans for establishing infrastructure, are in debt and upset over the prolonged closure of gyms during the pandemic.Most of the young entrepreneurs in the region, who had pursued bodybuilding as an avocation by purchasing expensive equipment for their gyms, are facing financial crisis.Vinay Bali, vice-president, Himachal Pradesh Gym Association, said as many as 250 gyms were in operation in the state. “The owners are under debt. They are not able to pay the bank EMIs and the rent for their establishments. This is making it difficult for them to sustain their families, as they have no other source of income,” he said.He urged the Chief Minister to sanction a relief package for the gym owners and grant moratorium on the bank loan repayment during the pandemic.Meanwhile, Shabaz Khan, president, state Body Building Federation, questioned if the public transport could be allowed with 50 per cent occupancy from June 14, then why gyms were not allowed to operate.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/gym-owners-under-debt-seek-relief-268227
14-06-2021||Ravinder Sood||Speaker adopts 8-year-old who lost mother to Covid||Palampur, June 13Vipan Singh Parmar, Speaker of the state Assembly and senior BJP leader, came to the rescue of eight-year-old Kasish Rana, who lost her mother, Sunita, due to Covid-19.Kasish had already lost her father, Rinku, last year, and there was no body to take care of the child. The mother and daughter were staying alone in their house. Kasish is a school-goer and belongs to Dagger village of Dheera subdivision in Kangra district.“As soon as the matter came into my notice, I reached the native village of Kasish at Dagger, where she was staying with her relatives. I was hurt to see the condition of the child. In view of the prevailing circumstances, I decided to adopt her,” said Parmar.Parmar said the girl was too young to admit to the truth that her mother was no more, and still believed that she was at the Covid care centre.He would meet all her expenses, including food, clothing and education till she got settled in life, Parmar said. Parmar said the state would also come out with a policy to help such children.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/speaker-adopts-8-year-old-who-lost-mother-to-covid-268226
14-06-2021||Our Correspondent||Plan in place to promote Chamba products||Chamba, June 13The district administration has drafted an action plan for the preservation and promotion of rich arts and crafts of Chamba.Under the plan, 10,000 packing boxes of ‘Chamba chappal’ have been prepared and made available to Chamba Arts and Crafts Promotion Society free of cost.“Historical and artistic details of Chamba chappal have also been printed on the boxes”, said Deputy Commissioner DC Rana.Rana instructed the district rural development agency to provide equipment for leather crafts to the Navsrijan Leather Handicraft Association of Chamba in a time-bound manner.“Since many families of craftspersons and artists earn their livelihood from Chamba chappal, handkerchief, miniature paintings, sculpture, wood art and Chamba ‘thal’, etc, steps are being taken to provide assistance to strengthen their economy,” the DC said.To make easy access to high quality local products and exquisite artifacts to tourists and art lovers, the DC asked officials to expedite the process of executing MoU between under-construction exhibition and sales centre, Dalhousie, with the Chamba Art and Craft Promotion Society.A place would also be made available on the premises of the Bhalei Mata temple for the sale such products.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/plan-in-place-to-promote-chamba-products-268225
14-06-2021||Bhanu P Lohumi||Southwest monsoon arrives in Himachal fortnight ahead of schedule||Tribune News ServiceShimla, June 13Southwest monsoon arrived in the state today, a fortnight ahead of the scheduled dates. Light to moderate rains occurred at most places. Normally, the monsoon arrives around June 29.“Southwest monsoon has arrived in all parts of Himachal and moderate rains occurred in most parts of the state,” the director of the local MeT station, Manmohan Singh, said.The earliest arrivals of monsoon in Himachal were recorded on June 9 in 1999, June 13 in 1998, June 15 in 2013. The latest arrivals were witnessed on June 17 in 1998, July 2 in 2019 and June 24 in 2020.On Sunday, Kandaghat was the wettest with 51.6 mm of rains, followed by Shahpur with 36.5 mm of rains, Dalhousie with 28 mm, Nahan 23 mm, Una and Bijahi 22 mm each, Gaggal 21 mm, Jhandutta and Nadaun 20 mm each, Saloni 18 mm, Baldwara 17 mm, Dharmpur 16 mm, Nagrota Suriyan, Shillaro and Kheri 15 mm each, Sarahan and Wangtoo 14 mm each, Solan 12 mm, Dharamshala, Banjar, Sarkaghat, Kasauli and Kahu 11 mm each, Palampur and Jubbarhatti with 10 mm of rains each.Himachal recorded 41.6 mm of rains from June 1 to June 13, which is 39 per cent more than normal and monsoon is expected to be good this year. The local Met office has issued yellow (thunderstorm and lightning) and orange (heavy rainfall, thunderstorm and lightning) warnings in low and middle hills in four to 10 districts for the next four days and predicted a wet spell in the region till June 19.The Una district received 153 per cent excess rains, followed by Sirmaur with 93 per cent, Solan 92 per cent, Mandi 65 per cent, Kangra 81 per cent, Chamba 47 per cent, Shimla and Hamirpur 46 per cent each and Bilaspur 35 per cent. However, Lahaul & Spiti received 79 per cent deficit rains while Kinnaur and Kullu districts received one per cent deficit rain from June 1 to 13.Sky remained overcast across the state and maximum temperatures decreased by 2 or 3 degrees C to remain 4 to 5 degrees C below normal and Una was the hottest in day with the maximum of 34.6 degrees C. Kalpa at 10.5 degrees C was the coldest at night.Data on arrivals||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/southwest-monsoon-arrives-in-himachal-fortnight-ahead-of-schedule-268224
14-06-2021||Dipender Manta||Taxi operators, hoteliers oppose ropeway to Rohtang||Tribune News ServiceMandi, June 13The hoteliers and taxi operators of Manali have opposed the setting up of the ropeway to Rohtang Pass. The National Green Tribunal (NGT) had on Friday asked the state government to speed up work on the Rohtang ropeway project, which has left the hoteliers as well taxi operators of Manali worried.Gupt Ram, Taxi operatorWill hit livelihoodA majority of the taxi operators run their taxis to Rohtang Pass from Manali during tourist season. After the ropeway is set up, taxi operators will lose their livelihood.Reacting about the ropeway project, Gupt Ram, a taxi operator in Manali, said, “The ropeway to Rohtang Pass from Palchan near Manali will affect the livelihood of taxi operators. A majority of taxi operators run their taxis to Rohtang Pass from Manali during tourist season to make some earning. After the ropeway is set up, taxi operators will lose their livelihood.”“A meeting of taxi operators will be held soon to discuss the issue and chalk out a future strategy. The issue will be raised with the state government,” Puran Chand, president of Taxi Operators Union at Manali, said.Right from the beginning, the taxi operators of Manali have been against the ropeway project and have urged the state government to give up the project.Similarly, the Hoteliers of Manali are also against this ropeway. They have urged the state government to set up ropeways at those tourist destinations in Kullu district which are not accessible because of poor road connectivity or any other mode of transportation.Anup Thakur, president of Hoteliers Association, Manali, said “Rohtang Pass is connected with road facility from both sides — from via Atal tunnel and from the Gulaba side. A majority of people as well as tourists are traveling to Lahaul Spiti and Leh from Manali via Atal tunnel. So, the influx of tourist vehicles toward Rohtang Pass has been reduced considerably since the inauguration of the Atal tunnel.”“The setting up of the ropeway to Rohtang will benefit only one person, the entrepreneur of the project, while it will deprive the taxi operators and other local people of their livelihood. Instead of setting up ropeway to Rohtang pass, the state government should focus on setting up ropeways to Chanderkhani Pass, Bhrigu lake area and other scenic places in Kullu district, which lack road connectivity,” he remarked.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/taxi-operators-hoteliers-oppose-ropeway-to-rohtang-268223
14-06-2021||Our Correspondent||Rohtang Pass in Himachal opens to tourists||Kullu, June 14Tourists will be allowed to visit the Rohtang Pass only through local taxis from today.Manali SDM Raman Gharsangi said permits to cross the Gulaba barrier would be provided manually by the administration. The online permit system would be resumed once tourist traffic increased. He said the road condition of the pass would be reviewed after some time and tourist vehicles also be allowed after the conditions become suitable.Hundreds of vehicles enter Himachal as govt allows tourists without negative Covid report, video goes viralDejected, tourists in Himachal return homeTaxi operators, hoteliers oppose ropeway to RohtangThe SDM said tourists would be allowed to cross the Gulaba barrier after 9 am and they would have to reach back by 6 pm. The permitted time for visitors would depend on weather conditions. Since there were a few visitors at present, the vehicles would be allowed to return from Rohtang-Manali road.When the number of vehicles increased, they would be sent ahead on the Rohtang-Koksar road to return from the north portal of Atal Tunnel from Lahaul side to avoid traffic jams.Gharsangi said the commercial activities as per the guidelines of the NGT would be allowed. The eco-friendly market in Marhi would also be opened for the convenience of tourists. They would have to follow the corona guidelines.Rohtang is a world-famous tourist destination. The tourists enjoy various adventure activities in the snow, besides the scenic view. The livelihood of a large number of people is depend on the tourist influx.As per sources of the tourism department, around 400 tourist vehicles were daily crossing the green tax barriers set up before Manali. The tourist arrival started gaining pace from June 2 and is expected to increase as the government has relaxed the requirement of the RTPCR report for tourists to enter Himachal.Some hoteliers said online permits to visit Rohtang Pass should be provided to avoid crowding.Conditions||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/rohtang-pass-in-himachal-opens-to-tourists-268221
14-06-2021||Is a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many||Filth and garbage near temple||The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at:hpreadersfeedback@tribunemail.comFilth and garbage near templeThe walking trail made by the Forest Department in Khalini, near the Hanuman temple is littered with filth and garbage. The government spent money on creating a beautiful trail in the midst of the deodar forest, but the authorities have failed to maintain it. The Forest Department should take steps to maintain the stretch. Vishnuwardhan Singh, KhaliniWater crisis in totu persistsAs many as 3,000 residents of Pahal panchayat of Totu block of the rural Shimla are facing water crisis from the past one year. They are unable to get sufficient drinking water for themselves and their livestock. All machinery installed is obsolete now, and no pump operator has been deputed. The pump is run by an outsourced employee. The residents have submitted several complaints to Jal Shakti Department concerned and officials of the IPH division, Sunni, but nothing has been done so far. Even a complaint registered on the CM helpline recently was lying pending. — Girish Sharma, Pahal panchayat (TOTU)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/filth-and-garbage-near-temple-268218
14-06-2021||A webinar on ‘The scope of digital marketing for diploma students’ was organised by the computer engineering department of the Government Millennium Polytechnic College||Webinar on digital marketing||Free education to bright studentsResponding to the widespread personal and financial crisis caused by the pandemic, IEC University has decided to provide free education to talented students, who have lost their earning parent due to Covid-19. The management of IEC University will provide free education to such students after screening their current family and financial status and their academic suitability. Once a student is found eligible and suitable, he or she will be given 100 per cent financial support by the university to ensure they complete their education and rebuild their lives.Shailza second in nursing examIn the ANM examinations conducted by the Punjab Nurses Registration Council (PNRC), Sahibjaan (Punjab), Shailza of Himachal Pradesh bagged the second position by scoring 910 marks. The first position was scored by a student of the Aryans Institute of Nursing, Rajpura, near Chandigarh, by scoring 918 marks. Rajinderjit Kaur Bajwa, principal, Aryans Institute of Nursing, congratulated the students and the faculty on their efforts.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/webinar-on-digital-marketing-268215
14-06-2021||Mandi||10,000 covered under pension scheme in Mandi||District Welfare Officer, Mandi, RC Bansal said over 10,000 needy people had been covered under the social security pension scheme in the district during the pandemic.The district welfare department has sanctioned 10,027 new cases. Now a total of 1,09,877 people are covered under the scheme. An amount of about Rs 160 crore is being spent annually.He said the government had reduced the age limit for getting social security pension from 80 years to 70 years. Now, the government had also arranged pension for eligible women in the age group of 65 to 69 years.DC Rugved Thakur said as per the directions of the CM, it was being ensured the poor did face any problem due to financial constraints. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/10-000-covered-under-pension-scheme-in-mandi-268209
14-06-2021||---||Baddi gets police station||Solan, June 13The Himachal Pradesh Government has notified the creation of a new police station at Manpura and a police post at Vardhman in Baddi police district. However, no new staff has been provided.“There were seven police stations and a post in Baddi police district before this notification was issued. The presence of twomore posts will help the police in effectively tackling crime,” said Superintendents of Police (SP), Baddi, Rohit Malpani.Manpura police station, which is strategically located on the Baddi-Nalagarh National Highway, would help the police to deal with crime along this key road. It is also a convenient place for the police to deal with law and order situations, as it is located midway between Baddi and Nalagarh, said police officials.The police post at Vardhman would cater to the key industrial areas such as the Vardhman group of industries, DCM Textiles, Bilanwali Labana, Dhakdu Majra, Amrawati Apartments, besides the Housing Board’s phase 1, 2 and 3 areas as well as other housing colonies at Basanti Bagh and Omaxe. It is among the most crime-prone areas of the Baddi industrial area.The police station at Manpura would also cater to nearby areas such as Nandpur comprising 17 panchayats. The presence of a police post would enable the force to keep tabs on the area more closely.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/baddi-gets-police-station-268207
14-06-2021||---||Webinar on restoring urban ecosystem||Shimla, June 13Green New Shimla in association with Indian Oil Corporation organised a webinar on urban ecosystem restoration.Participants dwelled on the fact that urban areas do not have adequate open spaces and vertical expansion of green spaces is the need of the hour and container gardening offers a sustainable alternative in extending the green cover in urban areas. Around 60 people attended the webinar.Dr J S Wazir, Principal Extension Specialist, Doctor Y S Parmar University of Horticulture and Forestry, Nauni along with Sushil Rana, DFO Shimla (Rural), were the keynote speakers. They pointed out that given the vast and rapid urbanisation and the consequent concretisation of the landscape of the hills, urban ecosystem restoration is the most pertinent issue which needs to be addressed immediately.Rana dwelled upon the rejuvenation of traditional water sources such as ‘bouris’, ‘khar’, ‘kuhl’, ‘panihar’, ‘talai’ and ‘tallabas’ and elaborated on the efforts being made in this direction by the state government.As a part of the World Environment Week, Green New Shimla organised multiple activities like holding of an online garden and flower competition for the residents, besides a tree plantation campaign.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/webinar-on-restoring-urban-ecosystem-268205
14-06-2021||---||Stir on, private buses to remain off road in Himachal||Shimla, June 13Private bus operators have decided to continue their strike even as the HRTC will resume services from tomorrow.Private bus operators said until the government accepted their demands, they would not call off the protest. “At a meeting held today, we decided to continue the strike as relief measures announced by the government in response to our demands are not acceptable to us,” said Rajesh Parashar, president of the state private bus operators’ union.The government had announced a relief package for the private operators a few days ago, in which it was claimed that the operators have been given a relief of Rs 40 crore.“Nearly 70 per cent buses remained off road and did no business at all. Only 30 per cent were running. Why should the government demand 50 per cent tax on buses that did no business at all?” asked Parashar. “We want 100 per cent waiver on tax,” he said.He said the working capital scheme announced by the government made little sense. “The government should offer Rs 2 lakh interest-free working capital for three years. The interest repayment can be started after three years,” he said.He alleged that the government was going out of the way to help out the HRTC, but was unwilling to help the private operators.The HRTC buses, which had been off road due to the curfew for over a month now, will resume services tomorrow.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/stir-on-private-buses-to-remain-off-road-in-himachal-268202
14-06-2021||Bhanu P Lohumi||Under special drive, Himachal Education Department may give smartphones to needy students||Tribune News ServiceShimla, June 13The Education Department is contemplating providing cell phones to poor students, who cannot afford smartphones. It plans to launch “donate a mobile campaign” under which NGOs and individuals would be roped in and companies would be urged to fund mobiles under the Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) programme.Education Minister Govind Thakur, who had a virtual interaction with over 48,383 teachers of 87 per cent schools and parents of 6.8 lakh students, said a small segment of students did not have smartphones while Internet connectivity was also a problem in some remote areas. “We are planning to start a campaign to provide smart phones to poor students,” he said.Parents are not in favour of opening schools till Covid cases become negligible, he added. As many as 2,93,863 parents submitted their feedback on online learning. About 75 per cent were content with the quality of education imparted through the “Har Ghar Patshala” drive. About 58 per cent parents said online teaching had helped in improving the quality of education during Covid times and should be continued.As per a rough estimate, about 10 per cent of students of government schools do not have smart phones. There are about 14,000-15,000 Below Poverty Line (BPL) students presently studying in Classes X and XII, who would be provided smartphones on priority in the first phase, sources in the Education Department said, maintaining that the final draft proposal was yet to be drawn.“The Education Department will hold meetings with the BSNL and other telecom service providers to set up towers in places where the Internet facility is not available or the connection is weak, said Director, Higher Education, Amarjeet Sharma.There are network issues in some parts of Pangi and Bharmour in Chamba, and some areas of tribal Lahaul and Spiti and Kinnaur districts, besides a few pockets of Mandi, Kullu and Dodra Kwar areas of Shimla district. We have asked Deputy Directors, Education and principals and headmasters of schools to submit a report in this regard, he added.Meanwhile, the teachers of government schools have been directed to interact with students through Google meets and other platforms, mark their attendance and evaluate the learning levels by conducting mock tests. ‘Donate a mobile’ campaign||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/under-special-drive-himachal-education-department-may-give-smartphones-to-needy-students-268200
14-06-2021||---||Dejected, tourists in Himachal return home||Dharamsala, June 13After the Himachal Cabinet decided to do away with RT-PCR negative report mandatory for entry into Himachal, many tourists from Punjab lined up at state borders.The tourists came in with an impression that the entry for the state has been thrown open by the state government.However, most of them had to return dejected as the new rules would come into force after from June 14 after the district magistrates of border districts amended their orders.A hotelier from Dharamsala said that there was sudden surge in inquiries from tourists from Punjab after the Cabinet decision regarding doing away with the RT-PCR negative test report. However, most of the tourists had to return back from the state borders.Ashwani Bamba, president of the hotel and restaurant association of Dharamsala, said that most hoteliers, who had closed down their establishments, were looking to open up after Monday. They are calling back their staff that had been sent home. However, confusion still prevails over entry into state.Though the Cabinet had decided to do away with the RT-PCR negative report the tourists coming in the state would still have to register at e-portal of the state government. “Till date the e-portal was seeking same formalities as RT-PCR negative report for entry into the state. We hope that easier entry protocol was adopted by the state government so that the tourists can come into the state”, he said.Many hoteliers have also questioned the justification of mandatory registration at state borders that would still be required for entry into the state. The registration would not serve any purpose as it would in no way prevent any Covid positive patients from entering the state.They argue that had the state government set up facilities for conducting RT-PCR tests for people coming inside the state at state borders or at tourist places it would have helped in checking spread of coronavirus and also sustained tourist inflow. The hoteliers said they were ready to bear the expenses of conducting RT-PCR tests on incoming tourists.Almost all the hotels in Dharamsala have been lying closed since May 10 when lockdown was imposed in the state.Registration at border questioned||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/dejected-tourists-in-himachal-return-home-268199
14-06-2021||Ambika Sharma||Hundreds of vehicles enter Himachal as govt allows tourists without negative Covid report, video goes viral||Tribune News ServiceSolan, June 13A huge influx of tourist vehicles was witnessed at the inter-state barriers in Parwanoo today, following easing of restrictions in the neighbouring states.With mercury rising in the plains, tourists are heading for the hills to beat the summer heat. Residents of the neighbouring Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh, particularly, are arriving in large numbers.Yogesh Rolta, DSP, Parwanoo5,000 vehicles enter parwanooA rush of tourist vehicles has been witnessed since Friday evening with nearly 5,000 vehicles having entered through Parwanoo as against about 3,000-3,500 vehicles registered last week.Most of the vehicles going uphills were lined up at the barrier on the national highway near Timber Trail Resorts. The other one located near Kalka on the state highway saw fewer vehicles comparatively.Tourists entering the state are required to register themselves on the Covid e-pass software and these passes are scanned by police officials deputed at the barriers.“An overwhelming rush of tourist vehicles has been witnessed since last evening with nearly 5,000 vehicles having entered through Parwanoo as against about 3,000-3,500 vehicles that were registered last week,” said Parwanoo DSP Yogesh Rolta. He added that additional staff had to be deputed at the barrier to scan the e-passes in view of the huge influx.Since e-passes are scanned by the police at the barriers, a long queue of vehicles created a traffic chaos. Vehicles bound for the hills had lined up in multiple queues spread across kilometers.The rush left traffic staff, who were scanning all passes, exhausted. Those entering the state without passes had to be manually registered, which further added to the work.Staff at the Sanwara-based toll plaza also confirmed that about 1,500 to 2,000 more vehicles had entered the state this weekend in comparison with last week. “The vehicle influx has increased tremendously this weekend in comparison with last week as tourists are heading for the hills to beat the summer heat,” said Balwinder Singh, project in-charge, GR Infra Projects, which is four-laning this highway.Hoteliers received a big boost with their occupancy reaching 50 to 70 per cent in the last fortnight at Kasauli. Rocky Chimni, vice-president, Kasauli Residents and Hoteliers Association, said, “Tourist influx, especially during the weekends, has gone up to 70 per cent and it will improve further as the condition of getting an RT-PCR test report for tourists has been done away with. Rates have been lowered by 20-30 per cent to lure tourists.”Toll worth Rs 2,08,220 has been collected at Parwanoo inter-state barriers in the last 24 hours, which was much higher than last weeks’ collection, said the excise and taxation staff.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/hundreds-of-vehicles-enter-himachal-as-govt-allows-tourists-without-negative-covid-report-video-goes-viral-268198
14-06-2021||The week-long visit of AICC secretary and Congress co-incharge for Himachal||Beeline for Congress ticket||Rules manipulated for postingThe PWD has set another example of how politics can manipulate rules for postings of officials. In Nurpur area the government issued a notification giving an Assistant Engineer additional charge for the post of post of Executive Engineer of Public Works Division in Nurpur in Kangra. Sources here said that it was for the first time that rules have been manipulated in PWD department to post a junior officer to the post of executive engineer. Officials are terming it as new low in department administration.Open invitation to CovidThe manner in which thousands of tourists made a beeline to enter the state at the Parwanoo barrier after the condition for a RT-PCR negative report was done away with has left Himacahlis worried. “The manner in which people from Delhi, Haryana, Punjab. Haryana and Chandigarh are flocking to the hill state to escape the heat, could spell doom for us,” remarked a Shimla resident. They say it is all right to protect the interests of hoteliers but it should not be at the cost of locals. The locals are demanding that there must be some restrictions as Covid is far from over and a third wave is expected.Mired in controversiesControversies involving health ministers in the BJP regimes have almost become a routine affair. While two former health ministers were dropped mid- way in their tenure, the incumbent has been mired in a controversy with a letter alleging corruption going viral. People have been left wondering whether it was aimed at settling political score or is it the result of an official rivalry as an official’s name has also been dragged in. Though a probe was underway to trace its origin, it has left the rumour mills working overtime to draw various conclusions with ‘expert opinion’ being expressed by all and sundry. Whatever be the outcome, health department has lived up to its reputation of being mired in controversies.Contributed by Pratibha Chauhan, Lalit Mohan and Ambika Sharma||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/beeline-for-congress-ticket-268181
14-06-2021||Shimla||Fine on IEC University irrational: Registrar||Terming the fine of Rs 11 lakh imposed on IEC University by the Himachal Pradesh Private Educational Institutions Regulatory Commission (HPPEIRC) “irrational”, registrar of the university Vinod Kumar today said the commission had approved the introduction of external mode courses for the academic session 2020-21.In a release issued here, he said IEC University had started sending proposals of 30 courses to the commission from 2018, which were approved in 2020. After this, the university sent the basic procedures of teaching and learning methodology to the commission and also shared the information of students enrolled in the courses.The university had proposed to start the courses, which were different from the system of the Distance Education Bureau, he said and added that the university also explored the possibility of converting these courses into regular courses on the instructions of the commission, but it was not appropriate to change the course of the students after one year. However, the commission maintained that the 30 courses were not recognised by the UGC, only conditional approval in-principal was given with specific conditions. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/fine-on-iec-university-irrational-registrar-268180
14-06-2021||---||Covid-19: 237 test +ve, 7 succumb in Himchal||Shimla, June 13The state reported 237 new Covid cases and seven deaths in the past 24 hours.Five fatalities were reported from Kangra and one each from Mandi and Hamirpur. Kangra district reported 70 cases, followed by Shimla (30), Una and Mandi (27 each), Chamba (23), Solan (16), Bilaspur (15), Sirmaur (14), Hamirpur (7), Lahaul-Spiti (5) and Kullu (3).The total number of active cases stands at 4,777 and the total positive cases till date are 1,98,550.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/covid-19-237-test-ve-7-succumb-in-himchal-268179
14-06-2021||Subhash Rajta||45 deaths in Shimla alone in May||Tribune News ServiceShimla, June 13The Shimla Municipal Corporation (SMC) witnessed an increase of 136 per cent in the registration of deaths in May this year as compared to the same period last year.In May last year, 19 deaths were registered while the figure rose to 45 (increase of 26 deaths) this year. The figure is likely to go up in the coming days as not everyone, who lost a family member in May, would have applied for the death certificate yet. “As per the Hindu traditions, the family is busy in rituals for at least 15 days. So, there’s every possibility that the family of the individual who died after May 15-20 has not applied for the death certificate yet,” said an MC official.Out of the 26 deaths, 10 (38.5 per cent) have been attributed to Covid, while 16 (61.5 per cent) have been registered as non-Covid deaths.Admitting that there has been a significant increase in the number of deaths in May, MC Commissioner Ashish Kohli said it was unlikely that Covid deaths had not been reported. “The MC has been cremating those dying of Covid at home and hospitals. In the event of a Covid death at home, people have been calling the MC for cremation. So, it’s unlikely that Covid deaths may have gone unreported,” said Kohli.The urban local bodies issue death certificates only for those fatalities reported at home or in private hospitals. For the deaths in government hospitals, where most Covid fatalities have occurred, the death certificate is issued by the hospital concerned.At the Indira Gandhi Medical College and Hospital (IGMC), the overall death count in April and May last year was 398. The number rose to 570 during the two months this year.The number of Covid deaths at the hospital for these two months was 296, while that of the entire district was 287. “The number of casualties at the IGMC includes victims from other districts too,” said a government spokesperson.The death count at the IGMC is higher than that of the entire district for these two months as several critically ill patients came to the facility from other districts or were referred here from other Covid hospitals.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/45-deaths-in-shimla-alone-in-may-268178
14-06-2021||Lalit Mohan||Himachal Govt told to minimise forestland use for CUHP campus in Dharamsala||Tribune News ServiceDharamsala, June 13The Union Ministry for Environment and Forests (MoEF) has directed the state government to minimise its requirement for forestland at Jadrangal in the Dharamsala Assembly constituency for the construction of the north campus of Central University Himachal Pradesh (CUHP). It has suggested to the government to look for non-forestland in Dharamsala for setting up the CUHP campus.In a letter to the state government, the MoEF said it should explore the possibility of accommodating most of the proposed schools at Dehra so that the area required at Dharamsala may be minimised.Interestingly, the MoEF had recently given permission for diverting 80 hectares of forestland in Dehra in name of the Registrar, CUHP.It also suggested to the state government that the construction should be started on 80 hectares of forestland and 34 hectares of non-forest land already allotted for the project in Dehra and land requirement at Dharamsala should be minimised. The direction has indicated that most of the campus of the CUHP might come up in Dehra, whereas the Dharamsala might only get the headquarters of the university and few schools that require minimum land.Sensing that the issue could lead to a political controversy, Minister for Forest and Youth Affairs Rakesh Pathania has called a meeting of forest, CUHP and PWD officials at Dharamsala tomorrow. Pathania said he would convene a meeting of all officials and ensure that all documents for the diversion of forestland at Jadrangal were submitted to the Union Ministry at the earliest.The state government had proposed 500 kanal of forestland at Jadrangal in the Dharamsala assembly constituency. As per the documents available with The Tribune, the MoEF has raised various other objections to land offered for the north campus of the CUHP at Jadrangal in Dharamsala. It has asked the state government to conduct a geological survey of the land proposed at Jadrangal, which was essential before any decision regarding the diversion of forestland could be taken. It has asked the state government to reduce patches of various lands offered at Jadrangal and minimise damage to forestland.The Union Ministry has asked the state government to acquire private land so that dependence on forestland is reduced.It has also stated that additional land should be acquired for the construction of roads in the areas proposed in Dharamsala. It has also asked the government to state requirements for all other utilities such as water supply line, electric line, sewerage line and sewerage treatment plant. It has also asked government for exploring the possibility of giving non-forest land in Dharamsala for the CUHP campus.The CUHP campus has been delayed by 10 years over controversy to set majority campus in Dharamsala or Dehra.However, now from the suggestions of the Union Ministry, it seem majority campus would come up at Dehra and Dharamsala might have to wait further for even land allotment for the north campus.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-govt-told-to-minimise-forestland-use-for-cuhp-campus-in-dharamsala-268144
14-06-2021||Ambika Sharma||Rush at Parwanoo barrier as tourists head for Himachal||Tribune News ServiceSolan, June 13Huge rush of tourist vehicles was visible at the inter-state barriers at Parwanoo on Sunday following the easing of restrictions in the neighbouring states.With mercury rising in the plains tourists were heading to the hills to beat the summer heat. Residents from neighbouring states of Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh were among those who were arriving in large numbers.Maximum vehicles bound for Himachal had lined up at the barrier along the national highway near Timber Trail Resorts, while the other one located near Kalka on the state highway saw fewer vehicles comparatively.Tourists entering the state are required to register themselves on the Covid e-pass software and these passes are scanned by the police staff deputed at the barriers. “An overwhelming rush of tourist vehicles has been witnessed since last evening with nearly 5,000 vehicles having entered through Parwanoo as against about 3,000-3,500 vehicles registered last week,” said Parwnaoo DSP Yogesh Rolta.He added that additional staff was deputed at the barrier to scan the e-passes in view of the huge influx. Since e-passes are scanned by the police staff at the barriers, a long queue of vehicles created a traffic chaos. Vehicles bound for the hills had lined up in multiple queues spread for kilometres.Traffic staff had an arduous task in scanning all passes as a sudden rush of vehicles left them exhausted. Those entering the state without passes were also manually registered which further added to the chaos.Staff at the Sanwara-based toll plaza also confirmed that about 1,500 to 2,000 more vehicles have entered the state this weekend vis-à-vis last week. “The vehicle influx has increased tremendously this weekend vis-à-vis last week as tourists are heading for the hills to beat the summer heat,” said Balwinder Singh, Project In-charge, GR Infra Projects, which was four-laning this highway.Meanwhile, hoteliers received a big boost with their occupancy reaching 50 to 70 per cent in the last fortnight at Kasauli. Rocky Chimni, vice president, Kasauli Residents and Hoteliers Association, said, “Tourist influx, especially during the weekends, has gone up to 70 per cent and it will improve further with stipulation of RT-PCR having been done away with from tomorrow. Rates had been lowered from 20 to 30 per cent to lure tourists and usual business would resume soon.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/rush-at-parwanoo-barrier-as-tourists-head-for-himachal-267902
