15-06-2021||Bhanu P Lohumi||8K vehicles in 60 hours, tourists throng Shimla||Tribune News ServiceShimla, June 14With Himachal Pradesh scrapping the requirement of an RT-PCR report for entering the state, tourists are making a beeline to the Queen of Hills. Nearly 8,100 vehicles entered Shimla through Shoghi border in 60 hours from 8 am on Saturday till 8 pm on Monday.Violators warnedFrom almost negligible bookings, the hotel occupancy touched 30 per cent, which is expected to go up to 60 per cent in the coming days, said Sanjay Sood, president, Shimla Hotel and Restaurant Association. MK Seth, president, Tourism Industry Stakeholders Association, said, “We have appealed to the hotel owners to strictly abide by the standard operating procedures (SOPs) and avoid overcrowding on their premises.”The tourism industry, which suffered heavy losses in the peak season last year and this year as well, is hoping for a revival with the easing of curbs.The state police today issued an advisory asking the tourists to wear masks, maintain social distance and follow Covid guidelines or face action. “We welcome the tourists, but want them to abide by the norms. The violators will be fined Rs 500 at the first instance. Repeat offenders will be sentenced to eight days in prison or imposed a fine of Rs 5,000 or both,” the advisory cautioned.Mohit Chawla, SP, Shimla, said, “We have deployed 10 reserves in the district (seven for enforcing curbs and three for internal mobilisation). Besides, 200 personnel are on traffic duty in addition to patrolling teams, which will guide the tourists.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/8k-vehicles-in-60-hours-tourists-throng-shimla-268657
15-06-2021||Shimla||FIR lodged in derogatory letter case||The cyber crime cell of the state police has registered an FIR against an unknown person on the basis of an anonymous letter containing derogatory and defamatory insinuation against a Cabinet minister that has gone viral on social media.The letter has caused commotion in the political circles, as besides allegations of corruption, it contains insinuations about the character of the minister.Meanwhile, Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur has also taken serious note of the letter. He said that stringent action would be taken against the accused. He added that such anonymous letters were meant to tarnish the image of political leaders. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/fir-lodged-in-derogatory-letter-case-268483
15-06-2021||Shimla||Covid-19: Panel formed to tackle ‘3rd wave’||The government has constituted a committee under the chairmanship of Director Medical Education to handle the anticipated third wave of Covid. It will analyze the data trends, experiences of other states/UTs and advise on the onset of the next wave and the changing/mutating character of the virus.“The committee will assess the present status and projected requirements of hospitals, equipment, oxygen, drugs to ensure timely arrangements,” said a spokesperson. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/covid-19-panel-formed-to-tackle-3rd-wave-268484
15-06-2021||Shimla||Provide relief to those hit by storm in Himachal: CPM||The CPM has demanded immediate relief for all those affected by the severe storm a few days ago.In the midnight storm, the apple and stone fruit growers were affected the most, with many trees uprooted and fruits dropping to the ground. Also, many houses and cowsheds were damaged.“The government should provide immediate relief to the affected persons. Also, those who have opted for insurance should be given the claim immediately,” said CPM leader Sanjay Chauhan.“If the government doesn’t take any concrete steps, the CPM will launch an agitation,” he said. Shimla, Mandi, Kullu, Kangra and Sirmaur districts were affected by the storm.Chauhan said the government had estimated Rs 250 crore of losses suffered by orchardists due to snowfall and hailstorm in April and May. “The actual loss is close to Rs 1,500 crore. Besides, the government has not done anything to provide relief to the growers,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/provide-relief-to-those-hit-by-storm-in-himachal-cpm-268485
15-06-2021||---||Wet spell forecast in Himachal till June 20||Shimla, June 14The local Met office has issued a yellow warning of thunderstorm and lightning in low and middle hills in districts of Chamba, Kangra, Kullu, Mandi, Shimla, Solan and Sirmaur for the next three days and predicted wet spell in the region till June 20.Light to moderate rain lashed parts of Himachal. Dharamsala was the wettest with 59 mm of rain, followed by Kangra (24 mm), Dalhousie (15 mm), Tinder (14 mm), Manali (12 mm), Karsog (11 mm), Shahpur (7.5 mm), Chamba (6 mm), Mandi (4 mm) and Kalpa (3 mm) and Nahan (2 mm), while Shimla also received intermittent rain.The maximum temperature was 3-4°C below normal, and Una was the hottest in day with a high of 35.4°C. Keylong in tribal Lahaul and Spiti was the coldest at night, recording a low of 9.6°C.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/wet-spell-forecast-in-himachal-till-june-20-268488
15-06-2021||Lalit Mohan||708 Covid deaths in Kangra in 2 months||Tribune News ServiceDharamsala, June 14As many as 708 Covid deaths took place in Kangra district in April and May 2021 while no infected patient died in the corresponding period last year. The number is likely to rise in the coming days as the death registration record is updated in 21 days.Sources said the record was likely to be updated till June 21. As per the Health Department records, not even one death due to Covid occurred during the period last year.In April 2021, however, 978 deaths were registered of which 149 were due to the infection. In May 2021, 1,336 deaths were registered of which 559 were caused by Covid. The maximum number of casualties occurred in May 2021 since the outbreak of the disease.Deputy Commissioner Rakesh Prajapati said the update of the record of deaths was done on 21st of every month. So the latest number of deaths would be available by May 21. All Covid deaths had been registered, he said.Kangra district is the worst affected by the second wave. The sources said many deaths in the far-flung rural areas had not been registered. The real figure of deaths was likely to come out after a few months when the people would seek death certificates. The CMO, Kangra, Dr GS Gupta, said all Covid deaths had been registered.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/708-covid-deaths-in-kangra-in-2-months-268489
15-06-2021||Shimla||Covid-19: Positivity rate down to 2.4% in Himachal||With a sharp decline in the number of Covid cases, the positivity rate has come down to 2.4 per cent in the past one week. A spokesperson for the Health Department said here today that 3,451 Covid cases were detected from June 7 to June 13. As many as 1,42,357 tests were done last week in the state, the highest till now.The spokesperson said that during this period, Bilaspur district registered 170 cases with positivity rate of 1.7%, Chamba 410 cases with positivity rate of 4.2%, Hamirpur 223 cases with positivity rate of 2.1%, Kangra 723 cases with positivity rate of 2.6%, Kinnaur 87 cases with positivity rate of 4%, Kullu 165 cases with positivity rate of 1.9, Lahaul-Spiti 47 cases with positivity rate of 1.3%, Mandi 602 cases with positivity rate of 2.1%, Shimla 336 cases with positivity rate of 3.1%, Sirmour 218 cases with positivity rate of 2.7%, Solan 220 cases with positivity rate of 2.4%, Una 250 cases with positivity rate of 1.9%.He also said that since April 2020, since the outbreak of the pandemic, 21 JSSK-102 ambulances were designated to collect the Covid samples across the districts in Himachal Pradesh. A total of 2,15,074 samples have been collected till date through these mobile vans.Besides, Jeevan Dhara Mobile Medical Units are also being used to collect Covid samples on the doorsteps of the people residing in remote areas. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/covid-19-positivity-rate-down-to-2-4-in-himachal-268490
15-06-2021||Lalit Mohan||Land for Dharamsala campus not yet cleared, Congress alleges bias against Kangra Lok Sabha seat||Tribune News ServiceDharamsala, June 14The Forest Department today handed over the possession of 82 hectares of forestland at Dehra in Kangra district to the Registrar of the Central University of Himachal Pradesh (CUHP).RK Dogra, Divisional Forest Officer, Dehra division, in an order stated that the Director of Higher Education Department had deposited the required fee of Rs 1 lakh, hence the possession of 82 hectares at Dehra was handed over to the Registrar of the CUHP for the construction of a campus.It is for the first time that land has been provided to the CUHP since its inception in 2010. Now, the university authorities can on its own start the construction of the south campus at Dehra. The future of the north campus to be set up in Dharamsala is still uncertain, as the Union Ministry of Environment and Forests has not yet approved the proposed land.Sources said that the land at Dehra was transferred to the CUHP due to the tireless efforts of Union Minister of State for Finance and Corporate Affairs Anurag Thakur. Dehra comes under the Hamirpur parliamentary constituency represented by Anurag. It is one of the most backward areas of Kangra district and Anurag had been trying to bring the CUHP campus to Dehra since 2010 when the university was established. However, it has stirred up a political controversy, as Congress leaders termed it as discrimination against the Kangra parliamentary constituency.Sudhir Sharma, AICC secretary, said that while the land at Dehra, which is in the Hamirpur Lok Sabha constituency, had been transferred in the name of the CUHP, the land at Dharamsala was still awaiting clearance. This shows that the government was biased against the Kangra parliamentary constituency. The Congress would start an agitation over the shifting of the CUHP campus from Dharamsala to Dehra.“As per the original proposal, the main campus of the CUHP was to be set up at Dharamsala. However, now we are being told that it will be set up at Dehra. I suspect that the whole CUHP campus has been shifted to Dehra,” he said.Another Congress leader GS Bali said that if the whole campus was to be located at Dehra, why the prestigious project was delayed for 10 years. It was the BJP government that had proposed two campuses of the university at Dharamsala and Dehra. However, due to infighting in the BJP over the location of the main campus, the project was delayed, he alleged. The issue is likely to generate political heat in the coming days.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/land-for-dharamsala-campus-not-yet-cleared-congress-alleges-bias-against-kangra-lok-sabha-seat-268491
15-06-2021||Ambika Sharma||No drugs consignment sent from Himachal after June 4||Tribune News ServiceSolan, June 14The manufacturing of narcotics and psychotropic drugs in the state appears to has halted, albeit temporarily, as no consignment has been sent to any state by 139 manufacturers since June 4.The Drugs Control Administration (DCA) has made it mandatory for manufacturers to follow standard operating procedures (SoPs) from June 4 after large-scale irregularities were found in two Sirmaur firms. As per the SoPs, during sale to any state, a manufacturer will have to inform the local drugs inspector, the SP as well as the State Drugs Controller through an e-mail. This will enable the officials to keep tabs on drug manufacturing in the state.Sources in the pharmaceutical industry said out of the 139 licensees of such drugs, a sizeable number could surrender their licenses in the coming days.“No information has been furnished by any of the manufacturers about the sale of narcotics and psychotropic drugs to the DCA since the SoPs became applicable from June 4,” informed the State Drugs Controller (SDC) Navneet Marwaha.The image of the state’s pharmaceutical industry has taken a hit since it has been found that large-scale opioid drug tramadol, worth crores of rupees, manufactured by two units in Kala Amb and Paonta Sahib, was being diverted for use as intoxicants in Punjab. They have been raided by the local and Punjab Police, both of whom have booked these manufacturers. Though tramadol is banned in Punjab, it was found marketed through fake marketing firms in Delhi, Mumbai, etc., and diverted to Punjab by these units.In a bid to tighten the noose around all such manufacturers, the DCA is now examining all such units. “Out of the 139 units which manufacture these drugs in Solan, Una, Kangra and Sirmaur district, 53 have been inspected. The process to examine the others is underway,” said Marwaha.The DCA has also initiated action against the erring units. Two firms in Baddi have been directed to stop manufacturing by the inspecting team. An FIR has been registered against one of them by the Baddi police under the NDPS Act and for cheating and forgery. “In another unit at Lodhi Majra in Baddi, which has been manufacturing codeine formulations, relevant record has not been produced. Its purchase order for exports is being examined. Gross violations of the good manufacturing practices have been noticed and a further probe is underway,” said Marwaha.Notices have been served to six other manufacturers where the upkeep of records pertaining to such drugs was found improper. Further action as per their reply would be initiated soon, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/no-drugs-consignment-sent-from-himachal-after-june-4-268486
15-06-2021||---||Covid-19: 326 new cases, 7 deaths in Himachal||Shimla, June 14As many as 326 Covid cases were reported in the state today, taking the tally to 198,876. Besides, seven persons died of the virus in the past 24 hours. Three deaths were reported in Mandi and two each in Kangra and Shimla.The highest number of 79 cases was recorded in Kangra, followed by 54 in Mandi, 38 in Chamba, 37 in Hamirpur, 28 in Shimla, 22 in Bilaspur, 21 in Sirmaur, 13 in Kinnaur, 11 in Solan, 10 in Una, nine in Mandi and four in Lahaul and Spiti. The total number of active cases declined to 4,432 while the total number of deaths rose to 3,382.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/covid-19-326-new-cases-7-deaths-in-himachal-268487
15-06-2021||Palampur||Drug menace at new high in Palampur||The drug menace is scaling new heights in Palampur and its adjoining areas. The lack of political will and awareness in people and poor surveillance by state agencies have made the situation worse. Youths in rural areas, particularly, are falling prey to drug abuse steadily and are facing its harmful consequences.Despite various raids conducted by the police and a number of arrests of drug peddlers in Palampur, Baijnath, Bhawarna, Paprola, Jaisinghpur and its adjoining areas in the past one year, the drug trade goes on unabated. Rather, drug peddlers are doing brisk business. Most of the drugs in the Kangra valley are flowing from Punjab and J&K, said sources.They said ‘chitta’ had become a craze among youths. A Tribune team yesterday visited villages around Palampur, where dozens of youth have become drug addicts and are suffering from various diseases or are confined to beds.A senior police officer said the addiction had emerged as a major challenge before the police. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/drug-menace-at-new-high-in-palampur-268492
15-06-2021||Shimla||Top BJP leaders to attend review meet in Shimla||Review meetings of work undertaken by the BJP under ‘Seva hi sanghthan’ programme will be held from June 15 to 17 in which top party leaders of the state will participate. The discussions will also be held on the upcoming initiatives of the party.BJP president Suresh Kashyap said Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur, Minister of State for Finance Anurag Thakur, former Chief Minister PK Dhumal, BJP national vice-president Saudan Singh, BJP state incharge Avinash Rai Khanna and co-incharge Sanjay Tondon would be present at the meeting to be held in Shimla on June 15.A meeting with candidates of 68 Assembly constituencies would be held on June 16 while meeting with conveners of various cells of the party would be conducted during the evening. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/top-bjp-leaders-to-attend-review-meet-in-shimla-268493
15-06-2021||Mandi||Bypoll: Call to field Pratibha Singh from Mandi||Loyalists of former Chief Minister Virbhadra Singh are demanding the Congress ticket for his wife Pratibha Singh to contest the byelection from the Mandi Lok Sabha constituency. The seat has fallen vacant after the death of BJP parliamentarian Ramswaroop Sharma.It is expected that if Covid-19 cases in the state reduce considerably in the coming days, the Election Commission may announce the date for the byelection.Aakash Sharma, an HPCC media panel member, secretary Devender Sharma, Mandi Municipal Corporation councillor Rajender Mohan and vice-president of the District Congress Committee Labh Singh Thakur have urged the central party leadership to give the ticket to Pratibha Singh to contest the byelection.They said, “Pratibha would be a strong candidate to defeat the BJP candidate in the byelection.”— TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/bypoll-call-to-field-pratibha-singh-from-mandi-268497
15-06-2021||Our Correspondent||‘Power bill scam’: Staff threaten stir in Himachal||NURPUR, JUNE 14The Himachal Pradesh State Electricity Board Ltd (HPSEBL) Employees’ Association has criticised the board management for allegedly shielding the officials, who had been found guilty of causing a huge financial loss to the board exchequer by extending undue benefits to a Kullu-based company during 2014-15.Kuldeep Kharwara, state president of the association, in a statement here today threatened to launch an agitation.“In spite of taking action against the officials allegedly involved in the power bill scam, the board management has promoted them and made junior employees as scapegoats,” he said. Demanding a CBI inquiry into the alleged scam, Kharwara said the management’s action had emboldened the corrupt elements and discouraged the honest and dedicated employees in the HPSEBL.He said the association would soon file a petition in the high court against the decision of the management for promoting the ‘guilty’ officials and demoting junior employees, who had no role in the ‘power scam’.“A statewide campaign to expose the board management will be launched by the association and an emergency meeting of the state executive is being convened to chalk out the future strategy,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/power-bill-scam-staff-threaten-stir-in-himachal-268494
15-06-2021||---||Baddi pharma unit gutted, four injured||Solan, June 14Four factory workers sustained serious injuries due to a sudden blast, which led to a huge fire in the basement of the packaging section of Baddi-based Harsoria Healthcare Pvt Ltd, today afternoon. The unit manufacturers medical devices.“As per the preliminary probe, isopropyl alcohol used in manufacturing sanitisers, which was stored in drums leaked, and a sudden spark led to the fire. It soon spread to the five-storey building, where about 300 workers were engaged in manufacturing,” said DSP Navdeep Singh, who visited the spot after receiving the information.Though fire hydrants were found functional, power disconnection due to the fire made them defunct. It is being probed if there were an emergency exit in the building to deal with such exigencies, said the DSP.The workers ran helter-skelter when the building caught fire and managed to flee, before the fire assumed alarming proportions, said the onlookers.Six fire tenders from Baddi, Nalagarh and nearby industries were pressed into service to control the blaze.Rohit Malpani, Superintendent of Police (SP), Baddi, said four workers, who sustained burn injuries, were referred to the PGI, Chandigarh, after receiving preliminary treatment at a local hospital here.Those injured include three Uttar Pradesh residents — Shivanshu (21), Radheshyam (21) and Des Raj (44). Ajay Kumar (28), a Kangra resident, was also injured in the blast. Two of them sustained 90 per cent burn injuries, while the other two persons were burnt up to 45 per cent.A case was being registered against the management, said the DSP.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/baddi-pharma-unit-gutted-four-injured-268495
15-06-2021||Abhinav Vashisht||Kullu gears up for fruit, veggies season, SOP framed for mandis||Kullu, June 14Kullu district is known in the country for fruit and vegetable production. The climate of the district is quite favourable for horticulture.Due to ample snowfall on the higher mountain ranges, there is adequate availability of water for irrigation in the lower parts of the district. Apple, plum, pear, cherry, pomegranate and Japanese fruits are produced in large quantities here. At the same time, exotic vegetables are also produced.Richa Verma, Kullu DC250 labourers, traders arriveTill June 8, 250 labourers and traders have come to the district and 40,000 quintal of fruits and vegetables have been sent to other states. Besides, a Covid awareness campaign is also being run by the administration. Kullu DC Richa Verma said farmers required a large number of labourers from outside the state every year to perform various tasks. At the same time, traders are also expected for fruit and vegetable marketing. Keeping all these aspects in mind, the district administration held meetings with all stakeholders. A standard operating procedure (SOP) had been framed for smooth running of mandis, movement of labourers and goods vehicles.Verma said till June 8, 250 labourers and traders had come to Kullu district and about 40,000 quintal of fruits and vegetables had been sent from various mandis of the district to other states. Besides, a Covid awareness and investigation campaign is also being run by the district administration in mandis. An appeal has been made to farmers, labourers, traders and other stakeholders coming to the mandis to wear mask and maintain social distancing.Nine fruit and vegetable marketing yards are being operated by the APMC at Bandrol, Bhuntar, Patlikul, Kullu, Cheri Bihal, Nirmand, Khegsu, Banjar and Shaat.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/kullu-gears-up-for-fruit-veggies-season-sop-framed-for-mandis-268496
15-06-2021||Dipender Manta||Festival celebrations in Mandi  to be symbolic||Tribune News ServiceMandi, June 14Due to Covid-19, famous festivals of Mandi district at Prashar and Kamrunag will be celebrated in a symbolic way for the second consecutive year in the district. There is a blanket ban on the celebration of festivals in the district to check the spread of pandemic.Saranahuli festivals at Prashar Lake and Kamrunag Lake areas attract a large number of devotees across the district as well as from outside the district every year. These deities have significant influence over the public in Mandi district.The temple authorities of Prashar deity and Kamrunag deity have asked devotees to refrain from rushing to the area and avoid mass gathering.Balbir Thakur, president of temple committee at Prashar and Bhisham Thakur, Kardar of Kamrunag deity, said the doors of temples were not yet opened by the state government for the devotees. So, people are advised to avoid coming to these religious places on June 15 and 16.The devotees are depressed because of the current situation as they were waiting desperately for the opening of temples for religious activity. Rajesh Kumar, Sunita Devi and a few other devotees said that generally every year, they used to visit either Prashar Lake area or Kamrunag Lake area to witness the Saranhuli fair to pay obeisance to these deities. But after Covid-19 outbreak, it was the second consecutive year that they would miss this event.On the other hand, the district administration, Mandi, was taking a close vigil over the movement of people to discourage mass gathering at single place to check the spread of Covid-19 infection.The district administration has urged the people to behave responsibly while out of their houses in the market.Deputy Commissioner Mandi Rugved Thakur said that people have been advised to follow the Covid protocol in the coming days so that the threat of Covid-19 infection was reduced considerably.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/festival-celebrations-in-mandi-to-be-symbolic-268498
15-06-2021||Is a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many||No need to rename Dalhousie||The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: hpreadersfeedback@tribunemail.com  There is no reason for triggering a futile controversy over the change of Dalhousie's name, at a time when the pandemic has blighted the tourism industry. Moreover, the name has an international recognition, which is known to people and tourists in the country as well as abroad. So, the importance of the name of the high-altitude town cannot be overlooked. — Arun Sharma, DalhousieTourists throw caution to windTourists have started rushing to Shimla, and many are showing scant regard for Covid-appropriate behaviour. Many were seen without masks on The Ridge. It is fine to enjoy and have a good time, but the required caution should not be thrown to the wind. — Aman Thakur, Shimla||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/no-need-to-rename-dalhousie-268499
15-06-2021||While welcoming the decision to hold exams in colleges||Vaccinate students on priority: ABVP||Workshop on Covid & mental strengthAn online workshop on ‘Covid and mental strength’ was conducted at Government College, Sanjauli. Principal CB Mehta was the chief guest on the occasion, and Samarth Sharma was the subject specialist. Prof Mehta said the educated ones are those, who don't give up on values and cooperation during challenges. The subject specialist emphasised on the need to disseminate scientific information and mental support to Covid patients.Faculty development programme at UITA five-day faculty development programme has started at the University Institute of Technology (UIT), HPU. The programme will dwell on renewable energy production, control and application. Experts and representatives from reputed institutes from within and outside the country are participating in this online programme. While inaugurating the event, UIT director PL Sharma stressed on generation of renewable energy and reiterated the department's commitment towards achieving it.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/vaccinate-students-on-priority-abvp-268500
15-06-2021||Ambika Sharma||One-third posts of ayurveda doctors vacant in Himachal||Tribune News ServiceSolan, June 14At a time when the shortage of doctors is plaguing the health department at the time of Covid pandemic, nearly one-third posts of ayurveda doctors are lying vacant for the last several years in Himachal Pradesh.With as many as 49 serving doctors superannuating this year, the situation would further worsen. The vacancies of ayurveda doctors had risen to about 422 as against the sanctioned strength of 1,148. However, overall vacancies in the department were as high as 935 in different categories as per a Vidhan Sabha reply furnished by the government in March this year.The last batch of 100 doctors was recruited in July 2019 on direct basis while in July 2018 as many as 100 doctors had been recruited batch wise, informed sources in the department. With the state’s ayurveda minister himself being a BAMS doctor, unemployed doctors were disappointed at the lack of employment avenues.Appalled by the lack of recruitment avenues, Rajiv Kumar, an unemployed doctor, said, “Sixteen years after completing Bachelor of Ayurvedic Medicine and Surgery (BAMS) doctors are still awaiting appointment. With miniscule appointments having been made a few years ago, pass-outs of successive batches have been left in the lurch.”“Many of us have been forced to partially practice allopathy in the rural private clinics or private hospitals. A handful of ayurveda graduates have been engaged in the National Health Mission where they are expected to screen children as per allopathic system,” informed another unemployed ayurveda graduate.“Students often avail loans to study BAMS and they have meager resources to set up private clinics equipped with all modern facilities. Even the few who join private hospitals have to practice allopathic medicine, thus leaving little scope for practising the rich ayurveda system. The existing scenario will push this much-valued ancient system into the backburner,” remarked another unemployed youth Rakesh Kumar.Ayurveda doctors have been engaged in various Covid duties like sampling, monitoring mobile teams, vaccination, etc, in Covid hospitals and centres. “Availability of ayurveda doctors can help strengthen the vaccination coverage as paucity of staff was often hampering speedier vaccination,” said an allopathic medical officer with the possibility of a third wave looming large.Director Ayurveda Dr DK Rattan said, “A proposal to recruit ayurveda doctors was under the consideration of the state government in the view of the Covid pandemic and relevant information pertaining to consolidated vacancies was sent to the government recently.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/one-third-posts-of-ayurveda-doctors-vacant-in-himachal-268501
15-06-2021||---||Manali hoteliers demand protection wall at bus stand||Mandi, June 14Hoteliers of Manali have urged the state government to construct a protection wall at the Volvo bus stand along the Beas near the town. In September 2018, a flooded Beas had damaged a huge portion of the bus stand and washed away a Volvo bus.Hem Raj Sharma, Hotelier No parking spaceIf the bus stand is further damaged due to floods in the Beas, Volvo buses will have to be parked near Patlikuhal, away from Manali town. The hoteliers have been requesting the government since then for a protection wall along with the Beas to check soil erosion on the premises of the bus stand, but to no avail. There is no other suitable place near Manali town to park Volvo buses.Hem Raj Sharma, a hotelier in Manali, says, “There is need to construct a wall at the bus stand along the Beas before the onset of the rainy season, as this is the only place where tourists arrive and depart”.He says, “There is a major threat to the bus stand from the Beas during the rainy season. If it is further damaged due to floods in the river, Volvo buses will have to be parked near Patlikuhal, away from Manali town. It will only encourage fleecing of tourists by taxi operators or auto-rickshaw drivers during odd hours because a majority of tourist buses arrive here at night”.Anup Thakur, president of the Hoteliers Association Manali, says, “The state government should provide funds for the construction of the wall immediately and direct the officials concerned to finish the work in a time frame. We urge Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur to look into the matter and approve a budget for the purpose”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/manali-hoteliers-demand-protection-wall-at-bus-stand-268502
15-06-2021||---||Manali-Keylong Volvo run a success||Shimla, June 14In a boost to tourism in Lahaul and Spiti, the Himachal Road Transport Corporation (HRTC) conducted a successful trial of a Volvo bus from Manali to Keylong in Lahaul Spiti today.“It’s a big day for the people of Lahaul and Spiti as well as the HRTC. We took a Volvo bus for the first time from Manali to Keylong,” said HRTC MD Sandeep Kumar. The HRTC is now mulling to start a Volvo from Keylong to Delhi. “Once the corona restrictions ease and the inter-state bus service is allowed, we will start a direct Volvo between Keylong and Delhi,” said the MD.Sandeep Kumar believes the Delhi-Keylong Volvo service will offer a major thrust to tourism in the valley. In another first, the HRTC also plied two electric buses from Manali to Keylong.“These two buses will ply between Keylong to Manali via Atal Tunnel. One will go in morning and return in afternoon, the other will go in evening and return the next morning,” he said.“The availability of a Volvo and two electric buses will facilitate the travel of both locals and tourists. It’s going to boost tourism in a big way in the valley,” said Sandeep Kumar.Besides, the HRTC will shortly conduct a trial run of a Tempo Traveller from Manali to Chandertal. “This service, too, will play a major role in promoting tourism. We intend to conduct the trial run within a week,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/manali-keylong-volvo-run-a-success-268503
15-06-2021||---||HRTC resumes service on 1,226 routes after 1 month||Shimla, June 14The Himachal Road Transport Corporation (HTRC) resumed operations on 1,226 routes, around 30 per cent of the total routes it operates on in the state, today, after over a month. Public transport was suspended last month, when the government imposed a curfew to check the spread of Covid-19.Of the total routes resumed, 1007 were local routes and 219 were long intra-district routes, said Regional Manager DS Negi.The bus services have been resumed with 50 per cent occupancy. The driver, conductors and passengers have been asked to adhere to the Covid protocol.The resumption of bus services has brought a huge relief to a vast section of the society that does not own private vehicles.“I was stuck at home, ever since the buses were suspended. I work in a courier company in Shimla, but had no means of reaching the city, in the absence of bus services. With the resumption of bus services, I could resume my job,” said Krishan Kumar from Jubbarhatti.Meanwhile, some private operators also plied their buses, despite the state Private Bus Operators’ Union’s decision to continue their strike and keep their fleet off the road.“We have to pay salaries to our drivers and conductors. They cannot sustain their families without getting paid,” said Vivek Sharma, a private bus operator from Shimla.“Everyone is suffering at the moment, and we should help each other. We agree to the demands of our union, but this is not the time for an indefinite strike,” he said.Some pvt buses also plySome private operators also plied their buses, despite the state Private Bus Operators’ Union's decision to continue their strike and keep their fleet off the road.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/hrtc-resumes-service-on-1-226-routes-after-1-month-268504
15-06-2021||Pratibha Chauhan||2,787 e-passes issued, 5,000 vehicles enter Himachal||Tribune News ServiceShimla, June 14The number of vehicles entering the state from various borders is higher than the e-pass issued for the purpose.As many as 7,201 persons entered Himachal yesterday on 2,787 e-passes but the Shimla police claimed that 5,000 vehicles arrived in Shimla. If this is the case, then either the police, manning the entry points, are being liberal in allowing vehicles without an e-pass or some other routes are being used by tourists.As per data available with the IT Department, 31,961 persons have entered Himachal since June 11. As many as 5,711 tourists on 2,338 e-passes reached borders till 5 pm today. A total of 1.79 lakh people have visited since May 15 on 88,242 e-passes.To provide respite to the tourism sector, the government announced opening of the borders of the state and the condition for tourists to carry the RTPCR report has been lifted. Hoteliers and other stakeholders had demanded that the RTPCR report should not be mandatory as this was discouraging tourist arrivals.The Cabinet, at its last meeting, had given the aproval for several relaxations, including resumption of public transport and doing away with the RTPCR report for anyone entering the state.Long queues of tourist vehicles at various inter-state borders like Parwanoo, Una and Kangra are giving nightmares to the locals, who fear that such unhindered entry could pose a risk to their safety. Many people have echoed their concerns on the social media by remarking “welcome corona” and that the safety of the locals cannot be compromised for hoteliers’ benefit.Responding to a query about the huge influx of tourists, Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur said today that the entry of people would be monitored through registration in the Covid e-pass software. The persons desirous of entering the state were now required to enter their particulars in the software and the details were being shared with the stakeholders.However, the government will have to put in place some foolproof mechanism to ensure that there is proper record and people enter only after obtaining an e-pass, which is still mandatory.Popular tourist destinations like Kufri, Mashobra, Chail, Kasauli, Dalhousie, Kullu-Manali and Dharamsala-McLeodganj are witnessing a heavy rush of vehicles.HP had witnessed the worst-ever spike in Covid cases in April-May. The experience still haunts people with many families losing more than one member.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/2-787-e-passes-issued-5-000-vehicles-enter-himachal-268505
15-06-2021||Abhinav Vashisht||Opened after 18 months, tourists reach Rohtang Pass in droves||KULLU, JUNE 14The tourists today rushed to the Rohtang Pass from Manali as 150 local taxis were given permits as per the guidelines of the National Green Tribunal (NGT).The pass was deserted since last year due to Covid outbreak and it was thrown open to the tourists today after about 18 months.The BRO cleared snow from the pass on May 29 and now the government relaxed the Covid curfew and announced that the RT-PCR report from the tourists was not required, resulting in the influx of tourists to the pass. The Rohtang Pass is a world famous tourist destination and lakhs of tourists arrive here to enjoy snow, which is there till June-end and sometimes even later.Now as the second wave of Corona was subsiding, the tourists have started arriving to this popular tourist destination. The tourist influx was expected to increase in the coming days. A record 6,54,622 tourists had arrived in Manali during the winter season from October to February after the first wave of Covid subsided. The beneficiaries of the tourism industry, who had suffered heavy losses due to Covid crisis, are hopeful that their business will now gain pace.With the Lahaul and Spiti administration also doing away with the requirement of RT-PCR report to visit the valley from today, tourists can cross over to the Lahaul valley from Rohtang Pass and return back to Manali via Atal Tunnel.Lahaul and Spiti DC Pankaj Rai said that vehicles would not be allowed to go from Koksar side towards Rohtang Pass as this would result in traffic jams. He said that weekly RT-PCR tests of employees of hospitality units, restaurants and dhabas will be carried out as a safety measure. He added that RAT test of labourers will be done at the district borders.Manali SDM Raman Gharsangi said all stakeholders should adhere to the Covid norms and inform their guests to follow Covid protocols. The visitors should be apprised not to venture near the river as strong current of water during summers could prove fatal. He said that warning boards to caution tourists had been put at various dangerous spots near the river.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/opened-after-18-months-tourists-reach-rohtang-pass-in-droves-268506
15-06-2021||Shimla||Not wearing face masks in Himachal may attract eight-day imprisonment and Rs 5,000 fine||Following the opening of state borders for tourists without RT-PCR negative report, Himachal Pradesh Police on Monday issued an advisory asking the tourists to wear face masks, maintain social distance and follow Covid guidelines or face action.“We welcome all the tourists entering the state and advise them to abide by the norms. However, the violators would attract a fine of Rs 500 at first instance and repeat offenders would be arrested and may be sentenced to eight days imprisonment or fine of Rs 5,000 or both as per the provisions of the HP Police Act," the advisory cautioned.There has been a surge in tourist arrival in Shimla and as many as 5,000 vehicles entered Shimla through Shoghi border in 36 hours from June 12 (8 am) till June 13 (8 pm) while the data for today is still awaited.People were fed up due to lockdown and curfew and want to breathe fresh air and those who have been vaccinated or survived Covid-19 are looking for an outing.Moreover, people in the plains are rushing to the hills of Himachal to get relief from sultry heat.The occupancy on this weekend touched 30 per cent which is further expected to go up to 60 per cent in the coming week.About 25 per cent online bookings have poured in while 25 per cent tourists are walk in, says president of Shimla Hotel and Restaurant Association Sanjay Sood.“We have appealed to the hotel owners to abide by the standard operating procedures (SOPs) like wearing of masks, proper sanitisation and avoid overcrowding so that tourists feel safe and comfortable,” said president, Tourism Industry Stakeholders Association MK Seth.The tourism industry which suffered heavy losses in peak summer season in 2020 and 2021 are hopeful that with relaxation on restrictions, industry would be able to cover up the losses to some extent.After a long gap, the Mall and the ridge was abuzz with activity as tourists strolled at these places.Shimla is a beautiful place with ideal weather and the tourists can enjoy and roam, however temples are still closed, said Richa Jain, a tourist from Delhi who was given a mask by the Shimla police after a monkey snatched her mask.“We were anticipating tourist inflow after the restrictions were lifted and ten reserves have been deployed in the district (seven for corona curfew and three for internal mobilization) besides 200 police personnel on traffic duty as flow of traffic has also increased. Police patrolling parties are on the ground to guide the tourists,” said SP Shimla Mohit Chawla.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/not-wearing-face-masks-in-himachal-may-attract-eight-day-imprisonment-and-rs-5-000-fine-268384
