16-06-2021||Shimla||Four more Covid deaths, 210 new cases in Himachal; active case count below 4K||Four more people died of Covid-19 in Himachal Pradesh, taking the death toll to 3,398, while 210 fresh cases pushed the infection count to 1,99,407, an official said on Wednesday.Three of the new fatalities were registered in Kangra district and one in Hamirpur district.According to the state health department, the number of active cases has now dipped to 3,733.The recovery count has reached 1,92,256 with 523 patients recuperating from the infection in the past 24 hours, the official said. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/four-more-covid-deaths-210-new-cases-in-himachal-active-case-count-below-4k-269403
16-06-2021||Mumbai||Anupam Kher, mother Dulari land in Chandigarh; visit Shimla home after 2 years; see videos||Actor Anupam Kher took to social media on Wednesday to inform that he is headed for his home in Shimla after a gap of two years. The actor is accompanied by his mother Dulari Kher.Kher shared a video where he is seen walking hand in hand with his mother inside Mumbai airport. Asked where she is headed to, Dulari replies in Hindi: "To our home in Shimla."They mother-son duo landed in Chandigarh, and have now left for Shimla. "Landed in Chandigarh with Mom! On way to Shimla! #DulariRocks #HomeComing", read Anupam's caption.A post shared by Anupam Kher (@anupampkher)  "Taking Mom home in Shimla after two years. She has stayed indoors all this time. Now vaccinated with both jabs. She is excited and ecstatic like a child!! Jai Ho! #DulariRocks #Home #Life #Happy," Kher shared on Instagram.A post shared by Anupam Kher (@anupampkher)A post shared by Anupam Kher (@anupampkher)On Tuesday evening, Anupam Kher shared a throwback photograph where he is seen posing in a simple Kurta pajama together with Jackie Shroff and Shah Rukh Khan, who holds a plate of food."When innocently looking at the camera was a style statement!! Unless you are @apnabhidu!! When a plate of food in the hand was a natural thing. When a plain kurta pajama was the ultimate party dress. With #Jackie and @iamsrk!! From my album of memories! #Friends #Actors #OldPics #Memories," Kher captioned the photo. — IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/anupam-kher-mother-dulari-land-in-chandigarh-visit-shimla-home-after-2-years-see-videos-269368
16-06-2021||Astreet in ward number six of the town has turned into a stinking street as the sewerage gutter on the stretch gets choked time and again. It is for the fourth time that this street has been dug up to clear the blockage. The repeated problem is creating inconvenience to the residents of the ward. It is unfortunate that the ward representative of the area has also turned a blind eye to this situation. — Rajeev Kumar||Choked gutter emits foul smell||Erratic water supply in nurpur villageAbout 30 houses of Chobees Meel village of Pundar gram panchayat in Nurpur subdivision are getting erratic drinking water supply for the past many years. New taps are being installed under the Jal Jivan Mission, but the problem has not been resolved. In this village, a water pipe was laid, but residents do not get piped supply. A complaint was also filed on the CM helpline, but in vain. —Sukh Dev, Chobees Meel village (Nurpur)Is a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: hpreadersfeedback @tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/choked-gutter-emits-foul-smell-269276
16-06-2021||The SFI has demanded that the government should ensure free vaccination of students at their educational institutes. Stating that education had suffered during the pandemic||Ensure vaccination of students: SFI||Webinar on ‘Science behind yoga’Shoolini University organised a webinar on 'Science behind yoga', in which Dr Mantu Saha, head, exercise physiology and yoga laboratory, Defence Institute of Physiology and Allied Sciences (DIPAS), DRDO, was the keynote speaker. Saha explained the role of DRDO research in yoga. Representatives of Dev Sanskriti Vishwavidyalaya, Haridwar, Uttrakhand, explained the concept of artificial intelligence and the laws of happiness. Shrinivas Murthy, founder, Yog Bharti, spoke about the significance of yoga.SFI, ABVP blame each otherThe SFI and the ABVP blamed each other for the recent clash between their activists at HPU. While the SFI alleged the RSS workers and HPU Vice-Chancellor were responsible for the clash, the ABVP claimed the SFI was a habitual offender.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/ensure-vaccination-of-students-sfi-269275
16-06-2021||---||Gudiya rape: Accused produced in court||Shimla, June 15The arguments on the quantum of sentence in the Gudiya rape and murder case were held as the lone accused Anil Kumar alias Nilu, a chirani (woodcutter), was produced in the CBI special court today. However, the final verdict was deferred to June 18.The CBI counsel demanded capital punishment for Nilu, maintaining that the heinous crime falls in the ‘rarest of the rare “category and the convict was a habitual offender with a history of crimes.However, the defence counsel opposed the plea and pointed out that there was no eyewitness in the case and the convict was found guilty on circumstantial evidences. He argued that it was not a cold-blooded murder but the crime that was committed on the spur of the moment under the influence of liquor.The court had held Nilu guilty of rape and murder on April 28. This is the sixth time the sentence has been deferred.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/gudiya-rape-accused-produced-in-court-269133
16-06-2021||Our Correspondent
||Train service resumes on Pathankot-Jogindernagar line||Nurpur, June 15 The train service on the Pathankot-Jogindernagar narrow gauge line resumed today after remaining suspended for over a month due to the curfew. The Northern Railway started two up and two down trains on the route though there were only a few passengers due to an improper time table scheduled by the authorities. The train service had earlier remained suspended for 11 months due the first wave of Covid, and was resumed on February 22 this year. However, it was again suspended in March after a sharp spurt in Covid cases.    Commuters Arun Kumar, Ram Swaroop, Sunil Kumar and Asha Devi, all residents of Nagrota Surian, have appealed to the railway authorities to keep at least a six or seven hours’ gap between both trains so that they could frequently leave the station and return home the same day. They said that the present time table was not suitable for the commuters of the area.  According to sources, the first train started from Pathankot at 7.50 am and reached  the Baijnath railway station at 1.15 pm. The same train left Baijnath at 2.10 pm and reached Pathankot at 9.30 pm.  The commuters paid Rs 30 to travel from Nagrota Surian to Guler whereas the bus fare for this journey is Rs 25. Similarly. the travellers paid Rs 30 for the journey from Jawali to Nagrota Surian while earlier they had to pay only Rs 10.  There is demand to rationalise train fares keeping in view the distance mileage between the railway stations and reduce it from Rs 30 to Rs 10 so that a maximum number of commuters can travel by train.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/train-service-resumes-on-pathankot-jogindernagar-line-269134
16-06-2021||Dipender Manta||Kullu trout farmers irked at price drop in Bilaspur||Tribune News ServiceMandi, June 15Trout farmers of Kullu district are irked at the state Fisheries Department for reducing the sale price of the fish variety it produces at Kol Dam in Bilaspur district from Rs 550 per kg to Rs 350 per kg. The decision is aimed at attracting more buyers for the fish variety.The department has specified a price of Rs 550 per kg for trout in the state. However, to sell its trout stock produced at Kol Dam in Bilaspur, the department has reduced its sale price to Rs 350 per kg citing low demand as the reason for the decision.The department produced the fish at Kol Dam as an experiment this year. Generally, trout is found in cold streams of the state but it is the first time that the department has experimented to produce it in normal water streams. it is encouraging people to adopt fish farming as an additional source of income. Shakti Singh, president of Trout Fish Farmers Association in Kullu district, says, “We are disappointed by the decision of the Fisheries Department. The reduction in its sale price will directly affect the livelihood of trout farmers in the state”.“If the department reduces the sale price of trout to sell its produce, it will prove disastrous for fish farmers of the state. Customers will prefer to buy fish at a lower price, directly affecting our livelihood,” he says.Mahesh Kumar, Deputy Director, Fisheries Department, Bilaspur, says, “The sale price of trout has been reduced to sell the fish produced in Kol Dam. Due to a low demand in the market, we decided to reduce the price temporarily to attract more buyers”.He says that the actual sale price of trout is Rs 550 per kilo, as declared by the department and it will remain the same.Fisheries Dept’s experiment||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/kullu-trout-farmers-irked-at-price-drop-in-bilaspur-269135
16-06-2021||---||Shimla MC gets cleaning machines||Shimla, June 15 Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur today flagged off two sewer jetting and litter picking machines mounted on trucks provided to the Municipal Corporation, Shimla, by Power Grid Corporation of India Limited, as part of its corporate social responsibility (CSR) initiative at The Ridge here.   The Chief Minister said that PowerGrid had sanctioned Rs 1.98 crore for providing four special purpose vehicles (SPVs) to the MC. “One truck-mounted sweeping machine with vacuum cleaner and another truck-mounted compactor were handed over to the Municipal Corporation in December last year,” he said. Thakur said, “These machines will help in maintaining cleanliness and hygiene in the city. Further, with these technologically advanced machines, the process of cleaning, especially in difficult terrains of the hilly region, will become easier and rapid,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/shimla-mc-gets-cleaning-machines-269136
16-06-2021||New Delhi||SC refuses to hear Zaidi''s plea for restoration of bail||The Supreme Court Tuesday refused to entertain a plea for the restoration of bail to former Himachal Pradesh IGP Zahur Haider Zaidi in a custodial death case, saying that attempting to influence a witness, who is a senior IPS officer, is a “very important” charge. Zaidi is one of the accused in the case related to the custodial death of a man, who was among those arrested on the charge of gang-raping a minor schoolgirl at Kotkhai in Shimla district in 2017. He was granted bail on April 6, 2019, by the top court, which later transferred the case from Shimla to Chandigarh. The special trial court at Chandigarh in January 2020 cancelled Zaidi’s bail after a prosecution witness and IPS officer Soumya Sambasivan alleged that she was being pressured by him to influence the trial. The Punjab and Haryana High Court later refused to tinker with the trial court’s order of cancelling Zaidi’s bail. “You have been the highest IPS officer (of the state). How can you give a threat to another IPS officer... If you can attempt to influence an IPS officer, you can influence and tamper with other witnesses also,” said a vacation Bench of Justices Indira Banerjee and MR Shah. Senior advocate VK Gupta, appearing for Zaidi, said all other accused were on bail. Moreover, the former IGP had been in jail for over a year even after the other IPS officer made the statement of being pressured by him. He said many witnesses were yet to be examined in the trial and moreover, the main charge against Zaidi was of the destruction of evidence punishable with the maximum seven years of jail term. “You may consider this a little factor, but as far as criminal trials are concerned, influencing a witness is a very important thing. We are not on the merits of the case, we are on how you did not follow the bail conditions imposed by the trial court,” the Bench said. Sensing the outcome, the lawyer for Zaidi withdrew the plea against the cancellation of bail from the apex court. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/sc-refuses-to-hear-zaidis-plea-for-restoration-of-bail-269137
16-06-2021||Shimla||Hoteliers seek relief for dying industry||The Hotel and Restaurant Association of Northern India (HRANI) has urged the government to provide waivers and concessions to save the dying hotel industry. In a letter to Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur, Renu Thapliyal, secretary general of HRANI, thanked the government for its unwavering support to the tourism sector amid the pandemic. “The impact of Covid on the industry has been disruptive as all hotels have lost business,” said Thapliyal.  She said the excise fee must be refunded or adjusted as bars did not operate for several months and it should be waived for six months. “Besides, there should be complete waiver on fixed power charges and property tax for a period,” she demanded. Their other demands included enhancing the cap at all social gatherings to 25 from the present 20, waiver on water bills and sewerage charges and automatic extension/one-time special renewals of certificates for one year. They also sought a special relief from penal provisions for delays in dues and relief from regulatory compliances under state laws or Central laws.  She said with the second wave, it had become impossible for the sector to stay afloat. “The hospitality has become the most unviable and unsustainable business. Many hotels are heading for the closure in many parts of the country,” she said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/hoteliers-seek-relief-for-dying-industry-269138
16-06-2021||Shimla||Private bus operators call off strike||The private bus operators’ union has called off its indefinite strike. “Following our meeting with Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur and Transport Minister Bikram Singh today, we have decided to call off the strike,” said union president Rajesh Parashar.  “Private buses will be pressed into service from tomorrow,” he said. The private fleet had gone off roads in May, demanding exemption of special road tax and a working capital of Rs 2 lakh per bus. They had refused to call off their strike even when the government offered them 50 per cent exemption in tax and assistance in payment of interest in the working capital a few days back. However, the deadlock was broken after the private operators, accompanied by Satpal  Satti, met the Chief Minister. “The Chief Minister and the Transport Minister saw our point and assured us that our demands would be considered,” said Parashar. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/private-bus-operators-call-off-strike-269129
16-06-2021||Dipender Manta||In Mandi, Covid deaths rose 100 times in two months||Tribune News ServiceMandi, June 15As many as 215 deaths due to Covid-19 were reported in Mandi district in April and May this year while only two deaths due to the virus were recorded during the corresponding period last year.According to the district health authorities, last year, no death due to Covid was reported in April in the district but two deaths were recorded in May. This year, 54 Covid deaths were reported in April, and 161 in May. As many as 378 persons have died of Covid in the district since March last year while 26,684 persons have contracted the virus.In April 2021, a total of 432 deaths were registered in the district, including 54 due to Covid. In May, 615 deaths were registered, including 161 due to Covid. The maximum number of fatalities occurred in May this year since the outbreak of the disease.In April 2020, a total of 286 deaths were reported in Mandi but there was no death due to Covid. However, in May, two of the total 390 deaths were because of Covid. Mandi is one of the worst-affected districts by the second wave of the pandemic. Sources said that many deaths in far-flung rural areas had not been registered. The true data of deaths was likely to emerge after a few months when people would seek death certificates.The data of the Health Department accessed by The Tribune revealed that a majority of Covid deaths were reported at the dedicated hospital at Shri Lal Bahadur Shastri Government Medical College at Nerchowk.According to Dr Panna Lal Verma, Medical Superintendent of the Nerchowk hospital, one person died of Covid at this medical college in May last year, while 36 and 201 deaths due to the virus were reported in April and May, respectively, this year. Most of the deceased belonged to the district, while a few of them were from neighbouring districts of Kullu, Lahaul and Spiti, Bilaspur and Hamirpur. There has been a considerable decline in the number of cases in the past few days.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/in-mandi-covid-deaths-rose-100-times-in-two-months-269130
16-06-2021||Rajiv Mahajan||No road link, Chowari villagers in Himachal carry patients on their back||Nurpur, June 15Hundreds of residents of Priyungal and Khabbar villages of Banet gram panchayat in Chowari subdivision of Chamba district are facing hardships due to the lack of road connectivity. In case of medical emergencies, Priyungal villagers have to walk five or six kilometres and Khabbar villagers have to tread a 2-km kutchha bumpy path to reach the Banet link road.In such a situation, locals have no option but to carry a patient on their back to reach the link road, from where they hire a taxi to reach the Civil Hospital at Chowari. For this 5-km distance, poor villagers have to shell out Rs 300.As per information, only two buses ply on this rural route. Without even basic development in these two villages, over 350 residents have been a victim of the apathy of successive state governments. There is no medical facility available here, due to which people have to rush to the Chowari Civil Hospital even for minor ailments.Villagers Karnail Singh, Rakesh Kumar, Guro Devi, Anita, Pankaj, Padma, Koushlya Devi and Balwan Singh, lament that in the absence of a road connectivity, they face hardships. They say that a resolution demanding road connectivity was submitted to the state government over 15 years ago by the then gram panchayat but the issue of forest clearance for road construction had not been addressed so far.“Road connectivity has become a distant dream for the residents of these villages,” they rue.Bobby Thakur of Priyungal ward says that most of the rural areas in the Bhattiyat Assembly constituency are located remotely and have a tough terrain, making the lives of locals miserable. He appeals to Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur to formulate a special rural infrastructure development plan to provide basic amenities in the area. “Taking patients and expectant mothers during an emergency at night to the Civil Hospital at Chowari is a challenging task,” he says. Meanwhile, Bhattiyat MLA Vikram Jaryal refused to comment on the issue.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/no-road-link-chowari-villagers-in-himachal-carry-patients-on-their-back-269131
16-06-2021||Our Correspondent||MLA ‘attends party’ amid curfew; action sought||UNA, JUNE 15The Una BJP today submitted a memorandum to the Governor demanding that the membership of Una Congress MLA Satpal Raizada of the Vidhan Sabha should be suspended for allegedly attending a party in his hotel along with Congress workers when the curfew was in force in the state.The BJP workers later shared photographs of the ‘party’ organised at ‘Raizada Resorts’ in Lalsingi village where the MLA was seen in the company of youths. The photographs were reportedly posted on social media by Congress workers.After submitting the memorandum, the BJP leaders said the curfew was imposed in the district on May 6. Under the rules, dining and organising public gatherings were prohibited. They said the orders under the Disaster Management Act were blatantly flouted by the sitting MLA.They said while the government, official machinery and the common man were fighting the pandemic, the MLA and his associates were making merry in hotels. They also requested the Deputy Commissioner to initiate a punitive action against those who attended the party. They said the BJP would also move the High Court.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/mla-attends-party-amid-curfew-action-sought-269132
16-06-2021||Our Correspondent
||Andretta museum to reopen today||Palampur,  June   15 The Sobha Singh Art Gallery and Museum at Andretta village in Palampur will open tomorrow after remaining closed for almost two months. According to a spokesperson for the gallery, the management has taken the decision after the state government yesterday decided to open its museums. Tourists and other visitors will have to strictly follow all Covid-19 related instructions and will be allowed entry to the premises in small batches. The gallery situated at Andretta village, 11 km from here, attracts domestic and foreign tourists, besides a large number of art lovers from all over the country. During the pandemic, it remained closed for almost seven months last year and was closed on April 21 this year.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/andretta-museum-to-reopen-today-269117
16-06-2021||Nurpur||Pathankot man booked for exploiting girl||The Damtal police in Indora subdivision yesterday booked Om Deep, a resident of Pathankot, for allegedly physically exploiting a 26-year-old girl on the pretext of marrying her.  According to the police, the accused, who is serving in paramilitary forces, had come in contact with the complainant girl a few months ago. He allured her on the pretext of marrying her and established physical relations with her in a hotel near Damtal. However, he later refused to marry her and also threatened her not to disclose the incident to anyone. DSP, Nurpur, Ashok Ratan said that a case under Sections 376 and 506 of the IPC had been registered against the culprit and the medical examination of the victim had been conducted. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/pathankot-man-booked-for-exploiting-girl-269118
16-06-2021||Chamba||Plan to beautify Bharmour NH||The Forest Department and the NHAI are planning to plant saplings of medicinal herbs, multi-coloured varieties of flowers and chinar along both sides of the highway from Katori Bungalow to Bharmour. For this, the department and the NHAI will jointly carry out a massive plantation campaign from July. Besides, basic facilities will also be raised at Devi Dehra, Parihar, Kandu and Kuranh Panihar halt points. In Bharmour, deodars and other species will be planted. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/plan-to-beautify-bharmour-nh-269119
16-06-2021||---||Milestone for varsity in research||Solan, June 15Shoolini University has attained an H-index of 75 on the basis of the number of citations.The H-index denotes quality research and is calculated on the basis of the number of citations equaling the number of research papers.Chancellor Prof PK Khosla said, “The index is calculated on the basis of Scopus indicators, which are considered a good citation database for academic literature. This implies that the university’s 75 research papers have been cited 75 times. This parameter is also dependent on the age of the establishment of the university.”“It reflects the quality of research and the hard work put in by the scholars at the university. As per Scopus, the total number of publications now stand at 1,673 and citations at 25,752,” he said.The university would continue to put emphasis on research work and promote it at the undergraduate level, said Khosla.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/milestone-for-varsity-in-research-269120
16-06-2021||Lalit Mohan||Kangra farmers grow low-chill apple varieties||Tribune News ServiceDharamsala, June 15Low-chill apple varieties are becoming popular among the farmers of Kangra district. A couple of years ago, a few progressive farmers started growing low-chill apple varieties in the region. Now, their saplings have been planted on about 530 hectares in the district comprising the mid-Himalayan region.Kamalsheel Negi, Deputy Director Horticulture, Kangra, says that horticulture is done on around 41,000 hectares in Kangra and around 47,000 metric tonnes of fruits are produced. Apple saplings of low-chill varieties have been planted on 530 hectares in the district and 330 metric tonnes of the fruit are being produced, he adds.Negi says that apple orchards were planted in Kangra only a few years ago mostly in Baijnath, Shahpur and Dharamsala development blocks. The plants of low-chill apple varieties, anna and dorset, have been planted in the district and these get ready by June 10. These days, due to the nonavailability of apple in many parts of the state, gardeners are getting good prices in the market, he adds.Purna Chand, a farmer of Durgela village in Shahpur tehsil, has become famous in the region for growing low-chill variety of apple. He planted an apple orchard in 2018 and sold about six quintals of apple last year. He claims that he does not use chemical fertiliser or spray in his garden. “I use a variety of organic fertilisers made from pulses, kitchen waste, oil seeds, cow urine and cow dung,” he adds.He says that he had a good apple crop this year but it was damaged due to a hailstorm. However, he had still sold about one quintal of apples so far. “Due to the good quality of apple, customers come to my home,” he adds. Purna Chand has also prepared a nursery of about 25,000 apple saplings by taking land on lease. He says in the winter this year, he sold about 2,500 saplings to local farmers. As many as 25 families have planted 50 saplings each in the Shahpur area. “I have helped people in planting apple saplings,” he adds.Purna Chand also got 80 per cent subsidy for anti-hailnet from the state government. At present, he has planted about 150 plants of anna and dorset apple species on a four-kanal garden. He calls upon the youth to become self-employed. He advises them not to leave their land barren and adopt horticulture by planting saplings of apple, kiwi and guava.Sanjay Gupta, a horticulture expert, says the farmers of Kangra have planted apple, kiwi and guava plants. Farmers at Durgela, Bhanala, Bandi, Rajol, Dhadamba villages in Shahpur have planted apple saplings and harvesting has started. These plants start giving yield in two to three years, he adds.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/kangra-farmers-grow-low-chill-apple-varieties-269121
16-06-2021||Bhanu P Lohumi||Follow guidelines to avoid excess online teaching, schools directed||Tribune News ServiceShimla, June 15The state government today directed all principals/ headmasters of government and private schools to implement the Pragya guidelines for digital education to avoid excess online teaching.In a letter addressed to all Deputy Directors of higher education and elementary education, Director Higher Education Amarjeet Sharma said that the Department of School Education and Literacy, Government of India, had already circulated the guidelines in this regard.Aim is to reduce stress among studentsThe guidelines concerning the planning of online and digital education such as duration, screen time, inclusiveness, balance of online and offline activities, stage-wise interventions for health and mental wellness had been issued so that children did not get overly stressed or get affected negatively due to postural defects, ophthalmic issues and other physical problems.The guidelines also provided sufficient do’s and don’ts regarding cyber safety of the students. The schools had been advised to avoid online education on mobile phones and laptops and depend on radio or TV programmes.In case of availability of online and offline mobile and laptops applications for children below Class II, their parents must be engaged as a bridge between the digital device and the child. For Class IX to XII, not more than four sessions of 35 to 40 minutes be held and special attention should be paid to children with special needs.Further, different online studies should be formulated for various classes and students of different age groups by consultations between teachers and parents. Teachers should also take into consideration learning styles while planning group-wise sessions, as some students learn by reading, some by listening and some be doing things.There have been complaints that students are overburdened and their parents are also stressed due to long online sessions and allied activities.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/follow-guidelines-to-avoid-excess-online-teaching-schools-directed-269122
16-06-2021||Lalit Mohan||Curbs eased, but most hotels in Dharamsala unoccupied||Tribune News ServiceDharamsala, June 15There have been reports that thousands of tourist vehicles have entered the state, but hotels at McLeodganj in Kangra district have still not done much business. Sources said the pandemic seemed to have changed the pattern of tourists. Most of the tourists prefer to stay in home stays in rural areas, rather than in tourist hubs like McLeodganj, they said.Ashwani Bamba, president of hotel and restaurant association of Dharamsala, while talking to The Tribune said as per reports, about 2,700 vehicles had entered the Kangra region in the last few days. However, hotels in McLeodganj, Bhagsunag and Naddi were lying vacant. “Today, I have just one guest at my hotel. The district administration should check where tourists are going if they are not staying in registered hotels,” he said.Bamba alleged that online platforms such as Airbnb and Oyo were offering rooms of unregistered properties in rural areas. Very few of these properties are registered while the rest are unregistered, he alleged. “People running these properties are not paying any taxes,” he alleged.“Amid the pandemic, when the hotel industry is already reeling under losses, the mushrooming of unregistered properties is hitting the business,” he said.Sanjeev Gandhi, general secretary of the Smart City Dharamsala Hotel and Restaurant Association, said, “We were expecting tourist flow to increase after the government eased entry conditions. Most hoteliers had called their staff back. However, to date, most hotels in upper Dharamsala were lying unoccupied.”He said most of the summer tourist season of Kangra region would be over by the end of June. Even though the state government has eased the entry restrictions, the hotel industry is not receiving any online booking. “Mostly tourists are coming from Punjab and they are staying in camps or home stays in rural areas,” he said.The hoteliers demanded that the mushrooming of unregistered home stays in the state should be checked.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/curbs-eased-but-most-hotels-in-dharamsala-unoccupied-269123
16-06-2021||Our Correspondent||70 advocates get jab in Una||Una, June 15The Una District Bar Association today organised a vaccination camp on the District Courts premises, wherein 70 advocates were administered the jab against Covid.Chief Judicial Magistrate (CJM) Avinash Chander Sharma, who was the chief guest on the occasion, honoured the health workers.The CJM called upon advocates and people to get themselves vaccinated, so that physical hearing of cases could be initiated.He also educated the people about sanitation and social distancing norms specified by the health authorities to check the spread of the virus.District Bar Association president Randeep Thakur and General Secretary Desh Deep Jaswal were also present, besides other senior advocates.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/70-advocates-get-jab-in-una-269124
16-06-2021||---||Rain, hailstorm lash Shimla||Shimla, June 15  Light to moderate rain lashed parts of Himachal while state capital Shimla received sharp showers accompanied by a hailstorm today; the sky remained overcast with dark clouds.   The local Met office has issued a yellow warning of a thunderstorm and lightning in lower and middle hills in Una, Chamba, Kangra, Kullu, Mandi, Shimla, Solan and Sirmaur districts for the next four days and predicted a wet spell in the region till June 21. Dharamsala was the wettest with 56 mm of rain, followed by Gaggal 24 mm, Dalhousie 15 mm, Sujanpur Tira 9 mm, Shimla 7 mm; Saloni, Narkanda and Wangtoo 5 mm each; and Mandi, Jubbar Hatti and Chamba 3 mm each. The minimum temperatures were 2°C to 3°C below normal and Kalpa was the coldest with a low of 8.5°C. There was no significant change in the maximum temperatures and Una and Bilaspur were the hottest with a high of 36°C.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/rain-hailstorm-lash-shimla-269125
16-06-2021||Ambika Sharma||Himachal hoteliers call for abolition of e-passes||Tribune News ServiceSolan, June 15Kasauli hoteliers have requested the state government to do away with the condition of e-pass for tourists, as it has done in the case of RT-PCR test report.The visitors entering the state are suppose to register themselves on the Covid portal and provide details like house address, place to be visited, besides the purpose of the visit. This passes are scanned by the police at the inter-state barriers.The e-passes have, however, lost their purpose after the state has done away with RT PCR negative test reports for tourists. Interestingly, a Himachali, who re-enters the state after visiting other state, does not require an e-pass.“As the local administration has no mechanism to monitor a visitor once he enters the state, the purpose is defeated. It was useful earlier when a visitor from a high-load state had to be quarantined for two weeks,”said an official.Devinder Verma, president, Chail Hoteliers Association, said “The cases in states like Maharashtra, Delhi, Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh, etc have already dipped substantially and they are no longer categorised as risk-prone states. So, e-passes should be discontinued.”Verma added, “The occupancy has picked up as 50 per cent to 70 per cent visitors are expected this weekend.”Kasauli hoteliers have made a similar demand as they are now witnessing packed weekends. Rocky Chimni, vice-president, Kasauli Residents and Hoteliers Association, said, “The e-passes are discouraging visitors. Hotels are operating at about 30 per cent lower rates and the tourism rush will receive a boost with the hassle-free entry.”“The government has directed officials to ensure their speedier clearance to facilitate the visitors. Less than 10 per cent passes are rejected for want of relevant information. Though panchayats are keeping a check on the visitors, there is no system to check thousands of visitors entering cities and towns,” said a Sub-divisional Magistrate.Deputy Commissioner, Solan, KC Chaman, said they were complying with the state government’s directions and ensuring that the passes were issued at the earliest.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-hoteliers-call-for-abolition-of-e-passes-269126
16-06-2021||---||2nd Covid wave in Himachal Pradesh five times more severe||Shimla, June 15The second wave of Covid in the state has been about five times bigger than the first one, especially in terms of deaths and cases registered during their respective peaks.According to a government spokesperson, 320 deaths due to Covid were registered in November last year when the first wave peaked. However, in May this year, when the second wave peaked, 1,643 persons died of the virus in the state.The maximum number of 18,459 cases in a month during the first wave were registered in November last year while the figure in May this year rose sharply to 91,043.The highest positivity rate during the first wave was 13.6 per cent in November last year while it was 22.1 per cent during the second wave this year. For a couple of weeks in May 2021, the positivity rate crossed 25 per cent, and rose to 28 per cent. In Sirmaur and Kangra districts, the positivity rate was bordering 40 per cent.The other difference between the two waves is that the first one saw a steady rise in cases from three in March to 18,459 in November last year. During the second wave, the number of cases rose from 4,960 in March to 91,043 in May this year. Interestingly, the second wave, after hitting the peak, declined at an equal pace. While the number of fresh cases have dipped to 8,220 from 91,043 in just 15 days, the positivity rate, too, has nosedived to 3.5 per cent from a high of 22.1 per cent.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/2nd-covid-wave-in-himachal-pradesh-five-times-more-severe-269127
16-06-2021||Shimla||321 new cases, 12 deaths in Himachal||As many as 321 Covid cases were reported in the state today, taking the tally to 1,99,197. Besides, 12 persons died in the past 24 hours. Three deaths were reported in Hamirpur, two each in Kangra, Chamba and Sirmaur and one each in Mandi, Solan and Una. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/321-new-cases-12-deaths-in-himachal-269128
16-06-2021||Rajiv Mahajan||Posts of doctor vacant in Nurpur hospital||Nurpur, June 15The Health Department has sanctioned only four posts of doctor (medical officers), besides posts of paramedical staff for the local Civil Hospital after June 6, 2018, when its upgrade to a 200-bed facility was notified.Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur had during a public meeting at Nurpur in March 2018 announced the upgrade of the hospital from 100 beds to 200 beds. Interestingly, the previous Virbhadra Singh government had sanctioned 18 posts in February 2016.This lone specialty hospital in the lower Kangra area has become a referral hospital, as most of the posts of specialist are lying vacant for a long time.Intriguingly, the state government has approved the post of Medical Superintendent to run the hospital administration three years after the notification of the hospital upgrade. As per information, posts of physician, gynaecologist, radiologist and ophthalmologist are vacant.The hospital caters to the needs of thousands of patients from lower Kangra areas such as Nurpur, Jawali, Fatehpur and Indora and neighbouring Bhatiyat subdivision of Chamba district.The ultrasound machine in the hospital is lying idle in the absence of a radiologist. The vacant posts of gynaecologist and radiologist have added to the woes of the expectant mothers, as they are forced to take costly medical care in private hospitals at Pathankot. Patients are also being referred to the Tanda medical college in Kangra. In the absence of physicians, the hospital’s ICU has been closed and critical patients, besides those with chronic ailments, are not getting proper treatment.Resentment is brewing among the residents of lower Kangra areas against the utter neglect of the hospital. As per official information, only one anaesthetist, one ENT specialist, one paediatrician, one orthopaedic surgeon, two general surgeons and eight MBBS doctors have been posted at the hospital. Before Covid-19 outbreak, the hospital had recorded the second highest (2.97 lakh) annual footfall in the OPDs in Kangra district during 2019-20.Gurdarshan Gupta, Chief Medical Officer, Kangra, said that he had submitted a detailed report of the existing status of vacant posts to the Health Department.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/posts-of-doctor-vacant-in-nurpur-hospital-269116
16-06-2021||Bhanu P Lohumi||Himachal BJP to seek self-assessment reports from MLAs||Tribune News ServiceShimla, June 15For the first time in the history of Himachal BJP, the party is likely to ask its MLAs and defeated candidates to submit self-assessment reports of their performance during the party’s three-and-a-half-year rule in the state to decide a roadmap for the 2022 Assembly polls. The information would also be crucial to devise a strategy for the byelections to Jubbal-Kotkhai and Fatehpur Assembly and Mandi Lok Sabha constituencies.The BJP core group met here today and discussed strategy for the state government’s ‘Mission repeat’ as well as the bypolls. The three-day brainstorming session will continue till June 17.Presided over by BJP state president Suresh Kashyap, the meeting was attended by Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur, former CM Prem Kumar Dhumal, Union Minister Anurag Thakur, party state in-charge and co-in-charge Avinash Rai Khanna and Sanjay Tandon, Cabinet ministers and other senior leaders.Former CM Shanta Kumar could not attend the meeting due to “personal reasons” while BJP national vice-president Saudan Singh is likely to be present tomorrow.Sources said the party high command was serious about the self-assessment reports, which would, among other things, have details of various developmental projects initiated by BJP leaders in their constituencies during the pandemic. The chairpersons and vice-chairpersons of various boards and corporations, too, may be told to submit performance reports.The performance of the Jai Ram government would also be analysed, besides reviewing reasons for the party’s defeat in the recent Palampur and Solan MC polls, said sources. The leaders would also discuss how to reach out to the people at the booth level with various welfare schemes.A meeting with the 2017 candidates of all 68 Assembly constituencies and state conveners of various BJP cells will be held tomorrow. The party general secretaries and heads of various morchas, chairpersons and vice-chairpersons of various corporations and boards among others would give their inputs on June 17, said sources.3-pronged strategy||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-bjp-to-seek-self-assessment-reports-from-mlas-269112
