17-06-2021||Shimla||Covid death toll crosses 3400-mark in Himachal Pradesh||Ten more people died of Covid-19 in Himachal Pradesh, taking the death toll to 3,408, while 292 fresh cases pushed the infection count to 1,99,699, an official said on Thursday.According to the state health department, the active cases have dipped to 3,430.The overall recoveries so far have reached 1,92,841 with 585 patients recuperating from the infection in the last 24 hours, the official said. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/covid-death-toll-crosses-3400-mark-in-himachal-pradesh-269911
17-06-2021||Shimla||2 women die as debris fall on them in Shimla district||Two women were killed as rolling stones and debris fell on them near Satkaldi Nallah on Nerva-Bajathal road, about 10 km from Nerva in Chopal subdivision of Shimla district on Thursday while they were on their way to mourn a death in the adjoining village.One of the women identified as Kamla Devi (40), wife of Gopichand, died on the spot while the other Shukri Devi (70), wife of Panna Lal, succumbed to injuries at Civil Hospital Nerva while four others sustained injuries.The kin of the deceased have been given an immediate relief of Rs 10,000.Pradhan of Gram Panchayat Ghara, Dinesh, alleged that the condition of the road is very bad due to which vehicles cannot commute on the stretch and the residents are forced to walk. The villagers had informed the PWD about the poor condition of the road but nothing has been done so far.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/2-women-die-as-debris-fall-on-them-in-shimla-district-269899
17-06-2021||Shimla||Pandemic turns blessing in disguise for Himachal cherry growers; here's why||Amidst the pandemic, cheers have been brought on the faces of cherry growers, with the crop turning out to be bountiful despite natural vagaries. Also, the crop is reaching out to north Indian cities with no impact of lockdowns and earning remunerative prices owing to benefit to boost immunity.Last year they were complaining that the crop could not reach the market owing to curbs on interstate transportation of goods.At 773 tonnes, this year's production of luscious black and red cherries in the hill state, whose economy largely depends on horticulture, is way below the estimated yield of 1,000 tonnes but an improvement over last year's 683 tonnes, state Horticulture Director J.P. Sharma told IANS on Thursday."This season we were expecting production of 1,000 tonnes of cherries. But extended winter and untimely heavy rains accompanying hailstorms when the crop was maturing in April and May have damaged it at several places, mainly upper Shimla," he said.Likewise, the plum production, which was expected 22,448 tonnes this season, has been reduced to 17,000 tonnes with an improvement over last year's 11,250 tonnes.In Asia's main peach bowl—the Rajgarh belt in the state's Sirmaur district—the production of the fruit is expected to decline to 7,200 tonnes against the estimated production of 10,636 tonnes. However, this year's production is less than last year's production of 8,986 tonnes.Sharma said hailstorms too hit the plum and peach crops when they were in the blooming stage—a period when flowers start to blossom in March.The major markets of fruits are in Chandigarh, Punjab, Haryana and Delhi, with Narkanda town, some 65 km from the state capital, being a major hub for the fruit trade.Trade representatives told IANS that the farmers were apprehensive this time too that the Covid-19 lockdown would hamper the marketing of their crops.The higher reaches of Shimla, Kullu, Mandi, Chamba, Kinnaur and Lahaul-Spiti, at 6,000-8,000 feet altitudes above sea level, are ideal for stone-fruit cultivation.Nearly 20,000 marginal farmers are involved in cherry cultivation and grow over 20 varieties on 475 hectares.Traders say the state's imported cherry varieties, like deuro nera, stella, merchant and celsius, which have a longer shelf life, are always in great demand mainly in metropolitan cities.The hub of cherry cultivation is Narkanda, Kotgarh, Baagi, Matiana, Kumarsain and Thanedhar in the Shimla district.The cultivation of cherries has emerged as an alternative in the apple-growing areas of the state and is fetching fairly high prices compared with other fruits.S.P. Bhardwaj, former joint director at Dr. Y.S. Parmar University of Horticulture and Forestry in Solan, told IANS that due to its high food value the cherries fetched remunerative prices."The cherry farmers are getting record prices as its demand is high among the fruits due to high anti-oxidant values and rich in potassium, calcium, magnesium and copper," he said.According to Bhardwaj, the benefit of cherry amidst the Covid-19 pandemic to boost immunity has increased its demand, with prices in wholesale and retail markets increasing rapidly compared to the previous year.Traders say local cherry varieties have been selling at Rs 150 to Rs 200 per kg in retail in Shimla depending upon the quality and packaging, while high-end varieties like 'deuro nera' are being sold for Rs 300 to Rs 350 per kilo.They say the current price is almost double what they received last year.Cherry grower Mohan Begta of Kotgarh, the hub of cherry cultivation, said this time buyers have procured the fruit from the orchards themselves. "The pandemic has turned out to be a blessing in disguise for the farmers."Cherry and plum harvesting in the state will continue till June-end, when the peach and apricot crop will start arriving in the market.The shelf-life of normal cherry varieties ranges from two to three days, while the top varieties last up to six days.The Himachal Pradesh's economy is highly dependent on horticulture, apart from hydroelectric power and tourism, with the annual fruit industry worth over Rs 3,500 crore.Apples alone constitute about 89 per cent of the total fruit production.According to the Horticulture Department estimates, lack of cold chains causes decay of 25 per cent of the produce. — IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/pandemic-turns-blessing-in-disguise-for-himachal-cherry-growers-heres-why-269864
17-06-2021||Shimla||Shimla man ‘killed’ Nepali domestic worker, ‘burnt body in forest’||A man was arrested for allegedly killing his Nepali domestic worker and cremating his body in the forest in the Theog subdivision of Shimla district, police said on Thursday.The deceased, who was living at his employer Shyam Singh Lath’s house, reportedly received serious injuries after being thrashed by Lath. The worker, however, was not admitted to the hospital, causing his condition to deteriorate, resulting in his death.Police said on June 14 they received information that a body had been set ablaze, in the forest during the late evening, following which an investigation was initiated. Police collected forensic evidence and questioned the accused as the body was charred beyond recognition.An eyewitness, Prem Singh, told police that he saw Lath “beating the worker”, near Shimla washing centre behind Devi Maud, about 3 KM from Theog on Theog Matiyana rod, with an iron road a few days back and later came to know that the worker had died.A case of murder and causing disappearance of evidence under sections 302 and 201 of the IPC have been registered against Shyam Singh, who has been arrested, said Theog DSP Kulwinder Singh.Singh said that Lath claimed that the deceased was named Bheem and had come to work for him about 20-25 days back.However, the cops are confirming the identity and other details of the deceased.Meanwhile, the daughters of the accused, Nisha and Sarita, have alleged that their father had been falsely implicated in the case by the police.“Our father used to serve food and provide medicine to a mentally ill person. That person died during the pandemic and our father performed his last rights and immersed his mortal remains.However, due to a personal enmity, a local person, with the help of a local leader, lodged a complaint following which our father was questioned. Police pressured him to confess to the crime,” they added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/shimla-man-killed-nepali-domestic-worker-burnt-body-in-forest-269856
17-06-2021||New Delhi||Himachal's Baddi among 9 places for Sputnik V pilot launch||Himachal Pradesh's Baddi is among nine cities where the limited pilot launch of the Russian Covid shot Sputnik V will soon be extended with preparations in the final stages. The pilot, to test cold storage at minus 18 degrees, and other logistics, is being extended to Baddi and eight other cities -- Vishakapatnam, Bengaluru, Mumbai, Kolkata, Delhi, Chennai, Miyalguda and Kolhapur after a successful pilot in Hyderabad.Dr Reddy's in an announcement on Wednesday said, "The limited pilot launch of the Sputnik V was started in Hyderabad on May 14 and is being extended to nine cities. Being a limited pilot, registration on COWIN will not be open to people of these cities but the doses will become available once the shot is commercially launched. The pilot phase will allow us to test cold storage arrangements at minus 18 degree in these nine cities apart from COWIN integration, track and trace and other logistical requirements ahead of our commercial launch," the company said.It said the limited pilot phase is in the final leg ahead of the commercial launch.Dr Reddy's said an adequate number of cold chain units were being deployed and last-mile cold chain arrangement being validated at every partner hospital to ensure seamless storage and handling of the vaccine."All necessary supply arrangements are being executed to ensure availability of both the dose components in the right quantity at the right time at partner hospitals," said Dr Reddy's."Once the pilot is ready we will announce the commercial launch of Sputnik V," the firm said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachals-baddi-among-9-places-for-sputnik-v-pilot-launch-269816
17-06-2021||Shimla||Increase import duty on apple to 100%, says forum||The Hill State Horticulture Forum, which comprises fruit and vegetable growers from Himachal, Uttarakhand and the union territory of Jammu and Kashmir, today urged Anurag Thakur, Union Minister of State for Finance and Corporate Affairs, to increase import duty on apple to 100 per cent. Besides, the forum also urged the minister to check illegal import of apple from Iran and other neighbouring countries through Afghanistan without paying import duty.“The import of apple through Afghanistan will prove disastrous for small and marginal fruit growers of the state. The sale of this apple in mandis meant for domestic growers have already pulled down the prices by 30 per cent to 40 per cent,” the forum said. “If this continues, local farmers will have no market left for their produce,” it added.The forum said that the import duty on apple should be 100 per cent and the quantity of apple to be imported should be fixed to safeguard the interests of the domestic growers. “Also, the horticulture produce in these state and UTs should be brought under the MSP,” it added.Harish Chauhan, convener of the forum, said Anurag assured them of help. “The state has estimated the losses to be a little over Rs 250 crore. The actual losses are over Rs 500 crore,” he said — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/increase-import-duty-on-apple-to-100-says-forum-269517
17-06-2021||Mandi||Mandi woman injured in leopard attack||A woman was injured after she was attacked by a leopard in Hukal village, under Dharampur assembly segment of Mandi, yesterday.As per the police, Barfi Devi (60) of Hukal village, was cutting grass in her field, when a leopard attacked her. The victim received injuries on her arm. She brandished a sickle to scare it away. Her condition is stable. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/mandi-woman-injured-in-leopard-attack-269519
17-06-2021||Shimla||‘University sought scholarship of students who left course midway’||A former employee of Indus International University (IIU), Una, which is under scanner for withholding the documents of 100 SC students, has alleged that the university had applied for the scholarship of 31 students, who had taken admission in 2017, but left the course midway.Writes to edu regulatory panelIn a mail to the Himachal Pradesh Private Educational Institutions Regulatory Commission (HPPIERC), former employee Vinod alleged that these students neither attended classes nor appeared in the examinations. The university withheld the original documents of students and applied for scholarship.These students were admitted on zero tuition fee on the pretext that it would be taken from government. However, the students left the course midway to study elsewhere. The university withheld their original documents and applied for scholarship. It kept the documents until the amount was received in a student’’s account.The documents were returned to them only after taking tuition fee (scholarship fee), he alleged.He urged the commission to initiate an inquiry into the matter. The complainant also attached the list of 31 students with Aadhaar numbers.Vinod alleged that every year, the university claimed such scholarships and recovered money from students.When contacted, Chairman, HPPIERC, Maj Gen Atul Kaushik (Retd) said it was a serious matter as fee and scholarship were not linked. The commission would seek a reply from the university and in case it was not satisfactory, the case would be forwarded to investigation agencies.Another student (2015-2019 BTech batch) of the university alleged that his original certificates, including caste, bonified and income certificate and Aadhaar card and PNB passbook, had not been returned till date.A security amount ofRs 10,000 was also not refunded even afterdirections from the regulatory commission.Meanwhile, to maintain quality in education and prevent malpractices, the commission has constituted an expert committee to investigate and analyse the matter pertaining to lodging an FIR related to the fake degree of Lekh Raj and also asked the Una SP to provide assistance to the panel.Lekh Raj, who was working as the head of the department of civil engineering at the university, had claimed that he pursued his MTech from Manav Bharti University (MBU,) but the university denied his claim and maintained that neither Lekh Raj was registered with them nor any certificate had been issued.The commission had directed the Indus university to lodge an FIR against Lekh Raj after the VC admitted that he did not fulfill the necessary qualification and had been terminated. However, the university did not comply with the orders and misguided the commission.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/university-sought-scholarship-of-students-who-left-course-midway-269520
17-06-2021||Shimla||Fire breaks out at Totu milk plant||Machines worth lakhs of rupees were gutted after a fire broke out at the plant of Milk Federation located at Totu in the suburbs of Shimla town, today evening. No casualty was reported.The employees spotted smoke coming out of the milk plant in evening and found a machine had caught fire.Fire tenders were rushed to the spot from The Mall Road, Chota Shimla and Boeliuganj, and the fire was doused. As per the sources, a short-circuit led to the fire. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/fire-breaks-out-at-totu-milk-plant-269521
17-06-2021||Mandi||35 stranded near Gramphu||As many as 35 passengers were stranded on the National Highway 505 near Gramphu in tribal district Lahaul Spiti today because of massive landslide in the area.As per information received from Koksar, an incident of landslide occurred on NH-505, nine km ahead of Garmphu, under Lahaul subdivision at around 6 pm. Six vehicles and three bikes with 35 passenger were stranded. Those stuck included five children.According to police, a BRO team has moved along with its machinery towards the spot to clear the road for traffic movement. The restoration work is underway in the area. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/35-stranded-near-gramphu-269522
17-06-2021||A webinar on ‘The impact of pandemic on jobs and global qualification is the key to success’ was held at APG Shimla University. Key speakers Vikas Khosla and Nikhil Sharma from the International Skill Development||Webinar on pandemic impact||NCC cadets’ work laudedMajor General JS Sandhu, Additional Director-General, NCC Directorate, Punjab, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh and Chandigarh, visited the NCC Group headquarters, Shimla. He was given the guard of honour by the NCC cadets. Brig Thakur gave out a briefing on the activities carried out by NCC cadets of schools and colleges and their contribution during the pandemic. The ADG appreciated the efforts of the NCC units in conducting and imparting training to the cadets.Dikshant wins essay-writing contestGovernment College Sanjauli’s literature society, in collaboration with the Shimla Literary Society, held a state-level essay writing competition for students up to 18 years. Dikshant Verma of GBSSS, Lalpani, secured the first position. Anshika Kashyap of GSSS, Badagaon, and Mumtaj of Rupi Valley School, Garsa, Kullu, secured the second and the third positions, respectively. In the singing competition, Rishita Shandil won the first position, while Sakshi Sharma and Rimjhim bagged the second and the third spots, respectively.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/webinar-on-pandemic-impact-269523
17-06-2021||NURPUR||Breeding season on, 2-month  ban imposed on fishing||The fishing in the Pong Dam reservoir on the foothills of Kangra district was banned for the next two months today in view of fish breeding season.Sprawling over 24,000 hectares, the manmade water body, which is 42-km long and 19-km broad, is providing livelihood to nearly 2,800 fishermen. As per official information, the Pong reservoir is producing Singhara fish species which is around 60 per cent of the total fish production. It fetches the highest price in the market. Apart from this, species of Rahu, Katla, Common Carpe and Mahasheer are also produced here which are in huge demand.Sat Pal Mehta, Director, Fisheries Department, Bilaspur, said the department planned to put fish seed worth Rs 29 lakh in the Pong reservoir in the current breeding season and 360 tons of fish production was expected this season.“During fish breeding season each fishermen will be paid Rs 1,500 per month as off-season allowance-cum-financial relief. The department is also providing free accidental insurance cover of Rs 2 lakh to every fisherman apart from providing quality fishing nets and boats on subsidized price to them,” he said.Mehta said to check illegal fishing during the two-month fishing breeding season the Fisheries Department had geared up its machinery and deployed a flying squad which would use motor boat to keep close look on illegal fishing in the Pong reservoir. A special patrolling camp comprising department and outsourced employees had also been set up at Nagrota Surian for conducting round the clock patrolling around the reservoir.The Fisheries Department imposes blanket ban on fish catching every year in Gobindsagar, Pong, Chamera, Kol Dam and Ranjit Sagar reservoirs. Fishing has also been banned in all rivers in HP for two months from today. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/breeding-season-on-2-month-ban-imposed-on-fishing-269524
17-06-2021||Ravinder SoodPalampur||After 2 months, paragliding resumes in Bir Billing||After a gap of two years, paragliding resumed in Bir Billing today. Following the lockdown in April, the state government had imposed a ban on paragliding.The ban was imposed on tandem and solo flights in April, keeping in view the safety of tourists. Now, all types of paragliding will be allowed in Billing, which will boost the tourism activities in the valley.However, there is no confirmation on holding of the International Paragliding World Cup Championship-2021 in Billing during the last week of October due to Covid-19 crisis.Though three months are left for the event, no preparation is in sight.The PWCA, the agency that organises such global adventurous events, has not notified the dates of International Paragliding World Cup Championship in its calendar, so far. Over 300 pilots from India and abroad take part in the event every year.Most of the officers of the state Tourism Department and the district administration are not ready to confirm whether the event will be held or not. Last year too, the International Paragliding World Cup Championship was cancelled because of the pandemic.The championship is organised in Billing every year. The Bir Billing site, which ranks among the 10 best paragliding sites in the world, is situated on a height ranging from5,000 feet to 9,000 feet above sea level in the foothills of the Himalayas. The lush green Bir Billing valley has emerged as the first choice of domestic and foreign tourists for paragliding.Billing hosts International Paragliding World Cup Championship in October every year.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/after-2-months-paragliding-resumes-in-bir-billing-269525
17-06-2021||People are urging the Mandi Municipal Corporation to complete the construction of a toilet||Complete construction of toilet||Residents want buses to ply in tribal beltsResidents have raised a common demand to ply a bus from Lilh to Preena and Dunali, to Brehi, in Bharmour tribal Assembly constituency of Chamba district. These areas fall in mountainous terrains and people have to walking is difficult in winding hills. In case of any emergency, they face problems in bringing the patients to hospitals on time. — Tarsem Bhardwaj, Samra (Chamba)Is a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at:hpreadersfeedback@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/complete-construction-of-toilet-269526
17-06-2021||Shimla||210 new cases, 4 deaths in Himachal||As many as 210 Covid cases were reported in the state today, taking the tally to 199,407. Besides, four persons died of the virus—three in Kangra and one in Hamirpur. There were 32 cases in Shimla, 29 in Mandi, and 26 each in Bilaspur and Sirmaur. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/210-new-cases-4-deaths-in-himachal-269528
17-06-2021||Shimla||Non-performing BJP MLAs asked to pull up socks||The performance of BJP MLAs and defeated candidates was reviewed on the basis of self-assessment report cards submitted by them on the second day of the three-day conclave. Non-performing and under-performing leaders were asked to pull up socks.The report cards of some MLAs were not satisfactory while some others could not come up with a concrete road map for the future and were asked to reach out to people, insiders said.The MLAs and defeated candidates were asked to submit a report of development works undertaken by them in three-and-a-half years, involvement in party activities, touring during the pandemic to help the people and future plans.BJP national vice-president Sudan Singh also reached here today and attended the meeting. He would take the report cards of all 68 candidates for discussion with the high command.The meeting focused on the Mandi Lok Sabha and Fatehpur and Jubbal-Kotkhai Assembly bypolls and party leaders were asked to gear up to ensure the victory of the party candidates as these elections are considered as semi-final for the 2022 Assembly elections.The BJP also appointed in-charge, co-incharges and coordinators for byelections. Jal Shakti Minister Mahinder Singh will be the in-charge for the Mandi Lok Sabha seat while Education Minister Govind Thakur and Rakesh Jamwal will be co-incharge and coordinator.Industries Minister Bikram Singh Thakur and Urban Development Minister Suresh Bharadwaj will be in-charges for Fatehpur and Jubbal-Kotkhai Assembly byelections while Forest Minister Rakesh Pathania and Health Minister Rajiv Saizal, will be co-incharges. Former state BJP chief Satpal Satti and former Speaker Rajeev Bindal will be coordinators.The meeting also discussed the construction of BJP offices at all 17 organisational district headquarters and the need for the early completion of works was stressed, state general secretary Randhir Sharma said.The BJP will celebrate Yoga Divas at state, district and mandal levels on June 21, conduct a tree plantation drive from June 26 to July 6 and observe June 25 (46th anniversary of Emergency) as “black day”. Training camps will be held in all districts from June 20 for six weeks.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/non-performing-bjp-mlas-asked-to-pull-up-socks-269529
17-06-2021||Shimla||BJP, Cong deliberate on candidates for bypolls||The BJP and the Congress are deliberating on the probable candidates for the byelections to the Mandi Lok Sabha seat and two Assembly segments.The next Assembly poll are due by the end of 2022. As such, the BJP will work overtime to ensure victory in the byelections while the Congress will also try to wrest the seats to motivate its workers.The BJP is confident of winning the Mandi Lok Sabha seat, which fell vacant on the demise of MP Ram Swaroop in March this year, but it is not willing to take a chance. The names of IPH Minister Mahender Singh, Education Minister Govind Thakur, Brig Kushal Thakur (retd) and former MP Maheshwar Singh are doing the rounds. The name of Ajay Rana, senior party functionary from Sundernagar, is also under consideration.There is a long list of probables for the BJP ticket for the Mandi seat that Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur will like to win at all cost.At the same time, senior Congress leaders are reluctant to fight the byelections. Former IPH Minister Kaul Singh Thakur is the tallest Congress leader in Mandi, but he is reluctant to contest the Lok Sabha bypoll. The name of Pratibha Singh, former MP and wife of Virbhadra Singh, is also doing the rounds though she, too, does not seem to be inclined to contest, especially when her husband is hospitalised for the past over two months.Ashray Sharma, son of former Telecom Minister Sukh Ram, is keen to contest but he is considered a lightweight, which will make the BJP’s victory much easier. Both parties are banking on voters’ sympathy to win the two Assembly bypoll. Chetan Bragta is the frontrunner for the BJP ticket from Jubbal-Kotkhai, which fell vacant following the death of his father Narinder Bragta. The Congress is all set to field former MLA Rohit Thakur.In the Fatehpur Assembly seat, the Congress is hoping to cash in on the voters’ sympathy by fielding Bhawani Singh Pathania, son of late MLA Sujan Singh Pathania. In the BJP, Kripal Parmar and Baldev Thakur are in the race for the ticket.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/bjp-cong-deliberate-on-candidates-for-bypolls-269530
17-06-2021||Solan||In Sirmaur, May saw most fatalities in 2021||The second wave proved to be the most fatal for the bordering district of Sirmaur, where the death rate registered a seven-fold increase to 208 from last year’s number of 30.An analysis of the data reveals that 52 deaths had occurred within 12 hours of being hospitalised, 31 deaths had taken place within 24 hours, 17 within five days and 12 within four days. The remaining deaths occurred within a span of six to 35 days.“As many as 30 Covid deaths were reported in Sirmaur district in 2020 while this figure skyrocketed to 208 in 2021, comprising 139 males and 69 females. Comorbidities like diabetes, kidney and heart ailments as well as late reporting of cases caused more fatalities,” said Deputy Commissioner, Sirmaur, RK Pruthi.As many as 57 people died in the age group of 60-70 years, followed by 46 people in the age group of 70 to 80 years, 37 in the age group of 50-60 years. As many as 21 lost their lives in the age group of 80-100 years. While only one child in the age group of 1 to 10 years died due to Covid, 46 people in the 20-50 age group lost their lives in the two waves.As many as 36 death certificates were issued by the Nahan MC in April 2021, including 10 Covid deaths, while this number rose to 54, including 34 Covid deaths.In the two civic bodies of Nahan and Paonta Sahib, no deaths had occurred in April and May in 2020. The month of May 2021, however, saw 83 deaths in these civic bodies as against 28 fatalities registered in April.An analysis of the figures secured from the Nahan Municipal Committee (MC) reveals that out of the 36 death certificates issued in April this year, only 10 pertain to Covid while in May, out of the 54 certificates issued, 34 pertained to Covid deaths.The Covid data secured from the district administration, however, reveals that 48 deaths had occurred in Nahan in April and May this year as against 44 death certificates issued by the Nahan MC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/in-sirmaur-may-saw-most-fatalities-in-2021-269531
17-06-2021||Mandi||ADG reviews work on Darcha road to Nimu||Harender Kumar, ADG of BRO, today reviewed the construction of the Darcha-Padum-Nimu road via Shinkula in Lahaul and Spiti.The BRO is constructing a road between Darcha in Lahaul and Spiti and Nimu in Ladakh via Shinkula, to connect the Kargil-Leh road.After the inauguration of the Atal Tunnel, Lahaul has become accessible round the year. But to reach in Leh via the Darcha-Padum-Nimu road, the Shinkula is a major hurdle during the winter because the area receives heavy snowfall. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/adg-reviews-work-on-darcha-road-to-nimu-269532
17-06-2021||Shimla||Himachal government committees to take charge of 55 panchayats||The government-appointed committees will take charge of 55 tribal panchayats in Chamba, Kullu and Lahaul and Spiti districts from the outgoing representatives after June 24. The five-year term of the incumbent representatives will end on June 24, but there are no elected persons to take their place.Pandemic falloutDue to the pandemic, the elections to these panchayats could not be held. As a result, the government will appoint committees to temporarily fill the void.Due to the pandemic, the due elections to these panchayats could not be held. As a result, the government will appoint committees to temporarily fill the void. “We will have to make an alternative arrangement, as the term of these panchayat representatives is coming to an end. We will appoint committees to ensure development works continue in all these panchayats,” said Panchayati Raj Minister Virender Kanwar. “The day the tenure of the incumbent office-bearers ends, the government will notify the formation of committees,” he said.The minister, however, did not reveal who would be in these committees. “I can’t say anything about it at present but the committees will most probably have three members each,” he said. He added that it was for the state Election Commission to decide the appropriate time to hold the elections to these panchayats. Incidentally, it’s the first time when the panchayat elections could not be held in the state. “Since 1995 elections to panchayati raj institutions are mandatory after every five years. It will be the first time that government-appointed committees will take charge of the panchayats,” said Kewal Sharma, Joint Director, Panchayati Raj Department.He added that these committees could function for a maximum of six months. “Elections will have to be conducted within six months after these committees are appointed,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-government-committees-to-take-charge-of-55-panchayats-269533
17-06-2021||Shimla||Moderate to heavy rain in Himachal; Shimla wettest||Moderate to heavy monsoon rain lashed most parts of the state and Shimla was the wettest with 73 mm of rain.The local meteorological office has issued a yellow warning of thunderstorm and lightning in low and middle hills of Bilaspur, Shimla and Sirmaur on June 17; Mandi, Solan and Sirmaur on June 18; Kangra and Kullu on June 19; and Chamba and Mandi on June 20.Shimla was the wettest with 73 mm of rain, followed by Sundernagar with 49 mm of rain, Kahu 37 mm, Mandi 36 mm, Jogindernagar 27 mm, Bhoranj 26 mm, Nalagarh 25 mm, Palampur and Sarkaghat 22 mm each, Arki 21mm, Dalhousie 19 mm each, Naina Devi and Dharamsala 18 mm each, Manali 17 mm, Barsar 14.5 mm, Kasauli, Dehra Gopipur, Tissa, Bajura, Olinda and Amb 14 mm each, Malan 13.5 mm, Chamba, Bilaspur, Dharmpur and Ghumarwin 12 mm each, Bhuntar and Hamirpur 11 mm each and Jubbarhatti 10 mm.These rains are a boon for farmers in rainfed areas as it would help in timely sowing of kharif crops like maize, paddy, pulses and oilseed. Farmers in lower areas are happy as rains have come at the right time for sowing the crops.The high altitude tribal areas experienced traces of snow, causing a sharp fall in temperature in adjoining valleys. The minimum temperatures were 2 to 3 degrees Celsius below normal and Keylong in the tribal Lahaul and Spiti was the coldest at night. The maximum temperatures dropped by 9 to 10 degrees Celsius and Una with 30.7 degrees Celsius was the hottest in the day.The monsoon arrived almost two weeks early this year and the state received 39 per cent excess rains from June 1 to June 16. In this summer season from March 1 to May 31, Himachal received 105 mm of rain which was 11 per cent deficit.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/moderate-to-heavy-rain-in-himachal-shimla-wettest-269534
17-06-2021||Mandi||8.4 kg charas seized in Mandi, 2 held||The police today seized 8.4 kg charas under the jurisdiction of Padhar police station in Mandi district and arrested the two accused under the NDPS Act.Superintendent of Police Mandi Shalini Agnihotri said that on receiving specific information a raid was conducted on the house of Prem Singh, a native of Chowki village in Mandi.“During search of the house, the police seized 8.4 kg charas and Indian currency note of amount Rs 49,700. Apart from this, 24 bottles of country made liquor, 12 bottles of beer and 12 bottles of the IMFL were recovered. A separate case under the Excise Act has been registered against the accused,” she said.A weighing machine, packaging material and financial documents were seized from the spot. The SP stated that his accomplice and supplier of contraband Gulab Singh, a native of Barohi village in Mandi, has also been arrested under the NDPS Act in this case. Investigation in the case was going on. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/8-4-kg-charas-seized-in-mandi-2-held-269535
17-06-2021||Solan||Leopard hide seized in Parwanoo; 1 held||A team of the Parwanoo police arrested a man, identified as Rajinder Kumar (34), a resident of Khadeen village in Kasauli tehsil, with eight-foot-long leopard hide in his backpack, near TTR barrier at Parwanoo, yesterday evening.A police team led by Inspector Daya Ram, who had received a tip-off, laid a naka near TTR barrier, when they saw a man coming from Khadeen village towards Parwanoo. He was directed to stop by the police and on searching his backpack eight-foot-long and four-foot-wide leopard hide was found.The man was coming to Parwanoo to sell the hide. The forest officials were also called at the spot, and they identified it as leopard hide. A case under Section 51 of the Wildlife Act has been registered and further probe is under way.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/leopard-hide-seized-in-parwanoo-1-held-269541
17-06-2021||Chamba||Cong accuses BJP leaders of defying curbs||District Congress Committee (DCC) president Neeraj Nayar has sought a probe into public meetings conducted by the local BJP MLA allegedly with the intention of taking political mileage in Chamba while flouting Section 144.In a statement here today, Nayar stated that on the pretext of distributing Covid material among people, the ruling party people violated the restrictions whereas the common man was challaned if he defied the curbs.Nayar alleged that the development during the BJP rule had slowed down. A BJP spokesperson maintained that their party leaders and workers had complied with the Covid guidelines. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/cong-accuses-bjp-leaders-of-defying-curbs-269546
17-06-2021||Our CorrespondentKullu||HPSEBL appoints 215 JEs, to be posted soon||Himachal Pradesh State Electricity Board Ltd (HPSEBL) has appointed 215 Junior Engineers (JEs). Anurag Prashar, Joint Director (PR), HPSEBL, said that the newly recruited JEs would be soon posted on vacant posts throughout the state. He added that the matter was under litigation and the appointments had been done following court orders.Sanjay Kaushal, Superintending Engineer, HPSEBL, Kullu, said that 28 posts of JE were vacant in the Kullu circle. He added that there were 72 sanctioned posts of JE in the Kullu circle and at present their strength was 44. Eleven posts were vacant in Kullu division, 10 in Keylong division, five in Thalout division and two in Manali division. Due to the shortage of staff, the employees were overburdened to maintain uninterrupted power supply to consumers.The power supply to consumers has improved over the time and employees have to make extra efforts to provide regular supply to the consumers due to staff shortage. Sources said that in some areas only one JE was looking after three sections. The present staff was overburdened and they were carrying out regular maintenance, besides addressing complaints and other issues.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/hpsebl-appoints-215-jes-to-be-posted-soon-269551
17-06-2021||Shimla||Jawali ex-MLA summoned||Former Chief Parliamentary Secretary (CPS) Neeraj Bharti has been named in an FIR registered by the cyber crime cell of the state police in the case of an anonymous letter containing derogatory and defamatory insinuations against a Cabinet minister that went viral on social media.Former Jawali MLA Bharti is in the dock for sharing the letter on social networking sites and has been called for questioning on June 18, said sources in the police.Bharti had shared the letter on social media and later removed the post. However, he again shared the content of the letter on public platforms, following which he was named in the FIR. The cyber police are investigating the case to find the author of the letter.The letter has caused commotion in political circles, as besides allegations of corruption, it casts doubtson the character of the minister. Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur has taken serious note of the matter and said that stringent action would be taken againstthe accused. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/jawali-ex-mla-summoned-269557
17-06-2021||Solan||Baddi fire: Forensic team to be roped in||The Baddi police will requisition a team of forensic science experts to ascertain the cause of fire which caused loss worth crores in the Baddi-based Harsoria Healthcare Pvt Ltd on Monday.Four workers had sustained burn injuries from 45 to 90 per cent in the fire which broke out in the basement of the packaging section.DSP Baddi, Navdeep Singh, said, “A probe was underway to ascertain the cause. A team of forensic science experts will soon visit the unit to ascertain the cause of the accident. Other issues like availability of exit routes would also be probed.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/baddi-fire-forensic-team-to-be-roped-in-269563
17-06-2021||Palampur||1 held with illegal liquor  in Andretta||The police, on a tip-off received today, searched two houses of liquor smugglers in Andretta village, 15 km from here, under the Panchrukhi police station. They impounded a huge stock of liquor and arrested the kingpin of the mafia, Kuldip Kumar."Strict instructions have been issued to all station house offices (SHOs) in Palampur to identify liquor smugglers and suppliers in their areas. The officers have been asked to take all possible legal action against such persons to ensure that no smuggling of liquor takes place,” said the Palampur DSP. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/1-held-with-illegal-liquor-in-andretta-269568
17-06-2021||Subhash Rajta||Vaccine not anytime soon at Shimla’s private hospitals||Tribune News ServiceShimla, June 16It’s going to be a while before private hospitals in Shimla start administering Covid vaccine to general public. Chief Medical Officer, Shimla, has approved two private hospitals for vaccination in the city — Tenzin and Siddhi Vinayak Hospital — but both the hospitals have no clue when they would get the vaccine.“We have placed an order for 5,000 Covishield doses with the Serum Institute of India and a smaller order with the manufacturer of Sputnik. Unfortunately, we have been told to wait, without any confirmation about the time when we would get the vaccine,” said Dr ML Kaushal, MS, Tenzin Hospital.Siddhi Vinayak Hospital, too, took the similar line. “We have been told by the manufacturers that there’s no availability of the vaccine at the moment. The manufacturers are first trying to meet the government demand. So, we don’t know when we will have the vaccine and when will we start administering it,” said a Sidhi Vinayak Hospital spokesperson.Have to procure vaccine themselvesThe private hospitals will have to procure the vaccines themselves. The NHM will facilitate the process in case they are facing any problems. Except for that, it’s entirely private hospitals own initiative. —Nipun Jindal , NHM DirectorThe recently changed guidelines also seem to have left these hospitals a little confused regarding the procurement process. Clearing the air, National Health Mission Director Nipun Jindal said, “The private hospitals will have to procure the vaccines themselves. The NHM will try and facilitate the process in case they are facing any problems. Except for that, it’s entirely private hospitals own initiative,” said Dr Jindal.Even as these hospitals wait for the arrival of vaccine without knowing when it would be available, they have started rendering their services to the companies/corporates that have managed to procure the vaccine.“We will administer the vaccine to the staff of Reliance-Jio and the Adani group. In fact, we have started vaccinating the Jio employees from Tuesday itself. The Adani group is expected to procure the vaccine in a few days. Once they do, we will send our staff to vaccinate them in their stores,” said Dr Kaushal.Incidentally, only two private hospitals in the state have been able to procure vaccine — Fortis in Kangra and Jindal Sanjeevani Hospital in Kinnaur. “They had placed their order before us, and had therefore received the supplies,” said Dr Kaushal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/vaccine-not-anytime-soon-at-shimlas-private-hospitals-269452
