18-06-2021||Shimla||Covid cases cross 2 lakh mark in Himachal||Covid-19 claimed five more lives in Himachal Pradesh, taking the death toll due to the disease to 3,413, while 344 fresh cases pushed the infection count to 2,00,043, an official said on Friday.Three persons died in Kangra and one each in Chamba and Hamirpur, According to the state health department, the active cases have now dipped to 3,193.The overall recoveries so far has reached 1,93,418 with 576 patients getting cured of the infection in the past 24 hours, the official said. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/covid-cases-cross-2-lakh-mark-in-himachal-270441
18-06-2021||Shimla||Gudiya case: Man sentenced to life imprisonment on charge of rape, murder||A local court found Anil alias Nilu guilty in the four-year-old Gudiya rape and murder case and sentenced him to life imprisonment on Friday.The Court had held Kumar, a Chirani (woodcutter), guilty of rape and murder of a minor girl and convicted him under sections 376 (2)(i), 376 (A), and 302 of the Indian Penal Code and Section 4 of the POCSO Act.District and Sessions Judge, Shimla, Rajiv Bharadwaj, who is also Special Judge of CBI Court said that out of the 14 crucial points of evidence produced by the CBI, 12 were found to be against Nilu.The conviction was based on the fact that DNA from a blood sample of Nilu matched with the semen on the private parts and clothes of the victim and soil samples from clothes matched with the soil samples taken from the spot where the body of the deceased was found. The bite marks on the body of the deceased were also found to be of Nilu's in forensic investigations.There were 59 witnesses, including students, teachers of the school where Gudiya was studying, villagers, doctors, forensic experts, police and eyewitnesses who saw the accused in the area before and after the crime was committed.The judge observed that the crime was committed in a spur of the moment, with Nilu making up his mind to rape and kill the victim when he encountered her on a passage in the forest while she was returning home from school.As per the CBI charge sheet, the accused spotted Gudiya, about 1.5 km from Dandi on the mud path on Dandi-Bankufar road in Kotkhai on July 4, 2017. He had an altercation with the victim after she spat on him following which he caught hold of her and dragged her down in the forest. He then raped and strangulated her and dumped her body in a ditch, about 32 metres away from the road.Two days later on July 6, her body was found in the nearby forest in Haliailla in the Kotkhai area of Shimla district. Postmortem reports confirmed rape and murder. The special investigation team was constituted in the case and six suspects were arrested earlier out of which Suraj was killed in custody following which High Court asked CBI to probe both the rape case and custodial death.The case chronologyJuly 4, 2017: A minor girl is reported missing on her way back from school in Kotkhai (Shimla)July 6: Her Body was found in the nearby forest in HaliaillaJuly 7: Postmortem confirms rape and murderJuly 10: Special investigation team constitutedJuly 12: Photos of some suspects were uploaded on the CM’s Facebook page and deleted within minutesJuly 13: Police say six suspects arrested.July 19: Suraj, an accused in the case killed in police custodyJuly 19: A mob torches Kotkhai police station, vehicles and people block roads at TheogJuly 19: HC asks CBI to probe both the rape case and custodial death of the accusedJuly 22 – CBI registers two cases under Sections 302, 376 of IPC and Section 4 of POCSO Act relating to rape and murder of a minor girl and another case under section 302 of IPC relating to the custodial death of Suraj.April 13, 2018 – CBI arrests woodcutter Anil Kumar alias Nilu in Kotkhai minor rape and murder caseMay 29– CBI submits charge sheet in court against Nilu, the lone accused in the caseOct 15, 2020 – Family members of Gudiya file petition in High Court seeking re-investigation into the caseApril 28, 2021 - Lone Accused Nilu convicted in Gudiya rape and murder case||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/gudiya-case-man-sentenced-to-life-imprisonment-on-charge-of-rape-murder-270384
18-06-2021||Shimla||'A humbling experience': Anupam Kher interacts with police officers, staff in Shimla||Bollywood actor Anupam Kher on Thursday visited the police headquarters here and had an informal interaction with the officers and staff present there.Kher was welcomed by DGP Sanjay Kundu and was presented with mementoes, a shawl and a cap.The actor shared his experiences from the time he lived with his joint family at the Nabha Estate in Shimla."Thank you DGP #SanjayKundu ji and other illustrious police officers of Himachal Pradesh for your appreciation and graciousness. It was a humbling experience to be honoured by you all. I had a wonderful time chatting with you. Keep up the great work you all are doing. Jai Ho!!", shared Kher on Instagram. A post shared by Anupam Kher (@anupampkher)  He also spoke about the importance of the power of dreams and hopes and women empowerment, pointing out that "a failure is an event, not a person".The DGP appraised him of the activities of Himachal Police in general, and of the role, women have come to play in policing during recent times in particular.He also presented Kher with a coffee table book titled 'Veerangana', which was unveiled on the occasion of International Women's Day on March 8 this year.Kher spent about two hours at the police headquarters. — IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/a-humbling-experience-anupam-kher-interacts-with-police-officers-staff-in-shimla-270374
18-06-2021||Even as the public transport has resumed services with 50 per cent occupancy||Overcrowding in buses goes unchecked||Neeraj Thakur, ShimlaChoked sewer lines a nuisanceChoked sewer lines and blocked streets have become a regular feature in Hamirpur town. One of the manholes in a street of ward 6 is without cover for the past many days. Now, the authorities have dug a stretch in the street without informing the residents. People have been forced to stay indoors.—Rohit Kumar, HamirpurIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at:hpreadersfeedback@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/overcrowding-in-buses-goes-unchecked-270229
18-06-2021||Nine-year-old Arshiya from GAV Public School||Arshia wins laurels in U-10 chess||Webinar on yogic pranayamaThe School of Yoga at Shoolini University organised a webinar on the significance of ayurveda and yogic pranayama. It began with mantra chanting by Divya Matlani, a research associate. Chancellor, Shoolini University, Prof PK Khosla, delivered a welcome speech. Dr Rajendra Sharma, District Ayurveda Officer, spoke on the “Significance of ayurveda and yogic pranayama on our body systems”. He explained the concepts of ‘tri-doshas’ and ‘saptadhatu’. He emphasised on the four pillars of ayurveda that lead to healthy and happy life ie ‘ahara’, ‘vihara’, ‘achara’ and ‘vichara’. “A healthy individual having right faith, attitude, knowledge and hardwork can achieve success in life,” he concluded.Action sought against schoolThe Student Parent Forum has accused Dayanand Public School of misguiding the Education Department and demanded strict action against the authorities. The forum threatened that if the department failed to take action against the school, it would launch an agitation. Alleging that the school’s response to a query raised by the Education Department on fee hike was a bundle of lies, forum convener Vijender Mehra said how could the school claim that parents’ consent was taken for the hike when parents’ general house was not held.General Sandhu meets Education MinisterMajor General JS Sandhu, Additional Director General, NCC Directorate Punjab, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh and Chandigarh met Education Minister Govind Thakur and Secretary, Education, Rajeev Sharma. General Sandhu sought the minister’s cooperation in the early implementation of the NCC as an elective subject in all universities of the state. He also interacted with the cadets and officers of Shimla, Mandi, and Kullu NCC units and acknowledged their efforts.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/arshia-wins-laurels-in-u-10-chess-270228
18-06-2021||Shimla||Storm, rain likely in next 4 days in Himachal||Moderate to heavy rain occurred across Himachal triggering landslides at some places and minimum temperatures dropped by two to four degrees.Paonta Sahib was the wettest with 107 mm of rains followed by Jatton Barrage 101mm, Dharampur and Sangrah 63 mm each, Nahan 36 mm and Sundernagar 34 mm.The local MeT office has warned of thunderstorm and lightning in low and middle hills of Kangra, Kullu, Mandi, Shimla, Solan and Sirmaur for the next four days and predicted wet spell in the region till June 23.Keylong in tribal Lahaul and Spiti was the coldest at night recording a low of 4°C. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/storm-rain-likely-in-next-4-days-in-himachal-270226
18-06-2021||Palampur||Minister lauds works of CSIR||Virendra Kanwar, Minister for Rural Development, Panchayati Raj, Agriculture, Animal Husbandry, today visited the CSIR-Himalayan Institute of Bioresource Technology.He appreciated works and achievements of the institute and expressed hope that along with rural development, the CSIR-IHBT would work towards increasing the income of farmers and making them self-reliant.“The institute is playing an active role in increasing the income of farmers by cultivating and processing aromatic crops such as wild marigold, damask rose, lemon grass, sugandhabala etc. This will help farmers earn more as compared to traditional crops,” said the minister. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/minister-lauds-works-of-csir-270224
18-06-2021||Shimla||Hamirpur leads in vaccination||The state has vaccinated 22,30,277 persons with the first dose. As many as 4,39,276 have been given the second dose as well. In the 18-44 age group, vaccination for which started from May 17, a total of 2,40,528 people have been shots within one month. “From the commencement of the vaccination drive in the country, a total of 9,85,185 persons in the 45+ age group and 7,37,246 in the 60+ age group have received the first dose of vaccination,” said the government spokesperson.Hamirpur district has vaccinated the highest percentage of its population with the first dose (49.5 per cent), followed by Kinnaur (46 per cent) and Bilaspur (45.6 per cent). TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/hamirpur-leads-in-vaccination-270218
18-06-2021||Shimla||292 new cases, 10 deaths in Himachal||As many as 292 Covid cases were reported in the state today, taking the tally to 199,699. Besides, 10 persons died of the virus—four in Kangra, two in Mandi and one each in Shimla, Una, Chamba and Hamirpur. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/292-new-cases-10-deaths-in-himachal-270203
18-06-2021||---||Nepalese thrashed to death at Theog, body cremated secretly||Tribune News ServiceShimla, June 17A case of murder of a Nepalese servant and cremating his body in the forest clandestinely has rocked Theog in Shimla district.The deceased, who was staying with Shyam Singh Lath, a dhaba owner, was reportedly thrashed by the employer and received serious injuries but he was not admitted to the hospital. He succumbed to the injuries.On June 14, the police received information that a body had been set ablaze in the forest following which they started investigation and collected forensic evidence and questioned the accused as the body was charred beyond recognition.A local Prem Singh informed the police that he had seen Shyam Singh beating up his servant near a washing centre behind Devi Maud, about, 3 km from Theog on the Theog-Matiyana road with an iron rod a few days back. He later came to know that the servant died and was burnt.A case of murder and causing disappearance of evidence under Sections 302 and 201 has been registered against Shyam Singh, who has been arrested, said DSP Kulwinder Singh, adding that Shyam Singh had revealed that the name of the victim was Bheem and the victim had come to him about 25 days back.However, the police are confirming the identity and other details of the deceased.Meanwhile, daughters of the accused Nisha and Sarita have alleged that their father has been falsely implicated in the case. “Our father used to serve food and provide medicine to a mentally ill person visiting his dhaba. During corona, the mentally unstable person died and our father performed his last rights. Due to personal enmity, a villager made a false complaint following which our father was questioned. The police built pressure on him to confess to the crime and a case was registered yesterday,” they added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/nepalese-thrashed-to-death-at-theog-body-cremated-secretly-270182
18-06-2021||---||Cosmetics firm at Himachal's Baddi told to stop operation||Solan, June 17A cosmetics company at Baddi in the district has been directed to stop operation, as it was undertaking manufacturing in the absence of technical persons in violation of the provisions of the Drugs and Cosmetics Act.“An inspection, conducted by the Drugs Inspector on June 15 at Ozone Pharmaceuticals, Baddi, revealed that the company was manufacturing and testing cosmetics in the absence of technical persons in quality control and production. The firm was found not complying with the provisions of Schedule M-II of the Act,” said Manish Kapoor, Deputy Drugs Controller-cum-licensing authority.“The management has been issued a show-cause notice and directed to stop manufacturing till the compliance of the rules is done. The sale of cosmetics products has also been stopped and any violation will attract Section 18(c) of the Act,” said Kapoor.As per the norms, no manufacturing and sale can take place in a unit without the presence of quality control and production officials. They are supposed to ensure the adherence of the quality and production norms. While the company had no quality control official for the past about two months, the production official had also left. No official has been appointed to oversee the manufacturing.Officials of the Drugs Control Administration (DCA) are inspecting pharmaceutical units to ensure that norms are adhered to.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/cosmetics-firm-at-himachals-baddi-told-to-stop-operation-270180
18-06-2021||---||NGT team inspects mining activities, crushers in Una||Our CorrespondentUna, June 17A team of the National Green Tribunal (NGT) today inspected ongoing mining activities in the Swan river at Basal village in the district and crushers following complaints of illegal mining in the area. The team was led by former Judge of the Punjab and Haryana High Court, Justice Jasbir Singh, and included experts from the fields of environment and pollution as members.Locals interacted with the NGT team and showed it deep pits left by excavating machines, not only on the riverbed, but also along the embankments. They said that most of the mining activities take place after sunset and the law enforcement authorities were allegedly not taking prompt action on their phone calls.The team, accompanied by Deputy Commissioner Raghav Sharma, SP Arijit Sen Thakur and other departmental heads, also inspected crushers and inquired about the pollution control equipment.Justice Jasbir Singh told the accompanying mediapersons that they visited the area following complaints of illegal mining. He added that the use of heavy excavating machinery for mining was illegal. The team would make recommendations to the state government on how to tackle the problem.He suggested geo-tagged fencing of 5 km around the area under mining lease and putting GPS trackers on all vehicles used by the crushers and the lessees to keep tabs on their movements.He said that the lease period needs to be decreased from present five years to two years and a one-year gap needs to be given between successive leases so that extracted mining material gets replenished during the monsoons.Justice Jasbir Singh directed the district administration to strictly enforce the law to curb the menace of illegal mining in unleased areas and unscientific mining in leased areas.He suggested fixing land-level indicators near areas under mining lease, which should be periodically monitored by the Mining Department to check over mining.He directed the district administration to submit a report on illegal mining in unleased areas of the Swan river system at Basal village within 10 days to the NGT and later a status report on illegal mining for the entire river system.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/ngt-team-inspects-mining-activities-crushers-in-una-270173
18-06-2021||Subhash Rajta||Wait for anti-hail net subsidy gets longer for apple growers in Himachal||Tribune News ServiceShimla, June 17The apple growers’ hopes of receiving anti-hail net subsidy, pending since 2013, anytime soon received a major blow today. Horticulture Minister Mahender Singh, during a visit to Parala fruit mandi, said the pending amount was too big for the government to clear quickly.“The subsidies piled up during the reign of the previous government. If you ask the current government to clear all of those, it’s not possible as the quantum is too much. Although, we have cleared many cases,” he said.The horticulture minister also used the issue to take a political potshot at the Congress. “The horticulture minister was from Theog in the previous Congress government. So, why subsidy cases were not cleared in 2013, 2014, 2015 and 2016? Why is there so much pendency, where did the subsidy go?” he questioned.For the record, the Horticulture Department offers 80 per cent subsidy on anti-hail nets to the growers. The growers spend the amount from their pocket initially and the department reimburses it as per the available budget. However, since 2013 and thereafter, many growers have not received the subsidy amount, especially in Theog block of district Shimla.Horticulture Director JP Sharma also agreed that the pending subsidy amount was huge, running into crores of rupees. “The maximum pendency is in Theog, running into crores of rupees. Even if we use the entire allocated budget, we will not be able to clear it,” said Sharma.“Nevertheless, we are trying to clear it on the first-come-first-served basis. We are keeping provision for the pendency every year, but it’s going to take some time, people will have to wait,” he said.“The pendency is higher in Theog area because the cases have not been cleared as quickly as in other blocks. Also, the pendency in the cases of agriculture equipment like power tiller too is rising,” said Sohan Thakur, an orchardist from Theog block.The minister also defended the decision to stop selling subsidised pesticides and fungicides through the department-run outlets.As an alternative, the growers buy these things from the market and the government reimburses them partly. “We don’t want our horticulture officials to turn into shopkeepers. The job is to be present on the field and visit the orchards. This decision has ensured that,” he said.He further assured that the government would make all necessary arrangements to ensure that the upcoming apple season runs smoothly.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/wait-for-anti-hail-net-subsidy-gets-longer-for-apple-growers-in-himachal-270172
18-06-2021||Bhanu P Lohumi||BJP to focus on Mission Repeat, three byelections in Himachal||Tribune News ServiceShimla, June 17The three-day conclave of the Himachal BJP concluded here today with a call for ensuring Mission Repeat in the 2022 Assembly poll and the party’s victory in the Mandi Lok Sabha and Fatehpur and Jubbal –Kotkhai Assembly bypolls.The thrust of the party was on winning the byelections ahead of the Shimla Municipal Corporation poll, as this performance would be crucial for Mission Repeat.The series of sessions held during the conclave underlined the need for keeping the party on the hyperactive mode and chalked out programmes for all morchas and cells to reach out to people.The defeat of the party in the Palampur and Solan Municipal Corporation elections and a “not so impressive” performance in Dharamsala was discussed and the leaders were advised to analyse the causes and prepare a plan to overcome the shortcomings.Besides district in-charge, the party also appointed ministers as in-charges for all 17 organisational districts for better coordination between the party and the government.Besides MLAs and defeated candidates, the performance report from chairpersons of boards and corporation was also sought and Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur also submitted his report.Chief spokesman for the party Randhir Sharma said that there would be no change in the government and the party and Jai Ram Thakur would be the face of the party in the 2022 Assembly poll.The morchas would organise rallies and conventions after the pandemic is over and the yuva morcha, mahila morcha and kissan morcha would launch “one booth 20 youth”, “One booth 20 Sakhian” and “One booth 20 Kisan Prahari” programmes, Sharma added.National vice-president Saudan Singh, state in-charge Avinash Rai Khanna and state co-incharge Sanjay Tandon attended the meeting.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/bjp-to-focus-on-mission-repeat-three-byelections-in-himachal-270148
18-06-2021||Pratibha Chauhan||Eyebrows raised as Bhardwaj made incharge for Jubbal bypoll||Tribune News ServiceShimla, June 17Even as the threat of undercutting haunts both BJP and Congress, the appointment of Urban Development Minister Suresh Bhardwaj as in-charge for the Assembly bypoll in Jubbal Kotkhai has taken everyone by surprise.Bhardwaj happens to be the tallest BJP leader in Shimla district but his discordant relations with late MLA Narinder Bragta, who died earlier this month, is no secret. The move to appoint Bhardwaj as in-charge for the Jubbal-Kotkhai Assembly bypoll has raised eyebrows. Narinder Bragta has represented the segment thrice as he won the elections in 1998, 2007 and 2017.Had discordant ties with late BragtaSuresh Bhardwaj had discordant relations with late MLA Narinder Bragta, who died earlier this monthBragta was peeved at not being inducted into the Cabinet in 2017 and was angry over Bhardwaj’s political interference in his Assembly segmentHe had expressed his resentment to the Chief Minister several timesThe frontrunner for the Congress ticket, former MLA Rohit Thakur, can also become a victim of undercutting. Rohit, who is the grandson of former Chief Minister Ram Lal Thakur, can face a threat from the supporters of Virbhadra Singh as the two families never enjoyed cordial relations.“As the BJP is most likely to field Chetan Bragta, son of Bragta, for the bypoll, making Bhardwaj in-charge is part of the party strategy to ensure that the latter does not indulge in undercutting,” said a senior BJP functionary.Even though there are many contenders for the BJP ticket, Chetan appears to be the frontrunner as he has been active in Bharatiya Janta Yuva Morcha and the BJP is hoping to encash on voters’sympathy.Bragta, who was peeved at not being inducted into the Jai Ram Cabinet in 2017 on the formation of the BJP government had been sore at Bhardwaj’s political interference in his assembly segment of Jubbal-Kotkhai. In fact, he had met the Chief Minister on several occasions to air his grouse.Similarly, Bhardwaj has been unhappy over Chetan Bragta’s active presence in Shimla assembly segment. As such the feeling of distrust between the two senior BJP leaders, Bhardwaj and Bragta was no secret in political circles.As such the appointment of Bhardwaj as election In-charge has raises eyebrows. “By making Bhardwaj, the in-charge for the bypoll the party has brought Bhardwaj under scanner to prevent any chances of undercutting,” said a senior party MLA.Though the BJP is yet to take a call on the candidate, making Bhardwaj in-charge is being viewed as an attempt to preempt any move to sabotage or damage Chetan Bragta in the bypoll. Now, it remains to be seen how Bhardwaj will conduct himself and ensure that the entire brass of the party works for Chetan Bragta, considering the fact that he is himself the bypoll incharge.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/eyebrows-raised-as-bhardwaj-made-incharge-for-jubbal-bypoll-270146
18-06-2021||Solan||Anupam Kher meets friend after '50 long years' on Shimla trip with mom Dulari; see videos||Veteran actor Anupam Kher shared a glimpse of his reunion in Solan with his batch mates.The actor posted pictures with one of his school friends, Anil Dutta, on Instagram."On my way to Shimla I was delighted to meet my school friend AnilDutta after 50 long years in Solan . The last time we had seen each other was when we were in 11th grade in 1971. We connected in the pandemic. Dulari was happy to meet him too! School friends are the bestest. Jai Ho!," read his caption.A post shared by Anupam Kher (@anupampkher)  Anupam was accompanied by his mother, Dulari Kher, and an assistant. Anupam spent some time at Anil's house in Kotla Nallah in Solan and, then, headed for Shimla.Anupam recalled how Dutta always topped in class, while he always fared last. The duo last met when they were in 11th grade, about 51 years ago.Anil Dutta had superannuated from the HP State Electricity Board Limited and both had studied together at Shimla. Dutta's father JC Dutta is a retired HAS official.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/anupam-kher-meets-friend-after-50-long-years-on-shimla-trip-with-mom-dulari-see-videos-269849
