19-06-2021||Shimla||10 deaths, 239 fresh virus cases in Himachal Pradesh||Ten more people died from COVID-19 in Himachal Pradesh on Saturday as 239 fresh cases pushed the state’s infection count to 2,00,282, an official said.So far, the virus has killed 3,423 people in the state.According to the state Health Department, the number of active cases has now dipped to 2,990.The overall recoveries so far has reached 1,93,850 with 432 patients recuperating from the infection in the past 24 hours, the official said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/10-deaths-239-fresh-virus-cases-in-himachal-pradesh-270994
19-06-2021||Shimla||Anupam Kher recalls 47-year-old experience of being 'rejected by All India Radio' Shimla; here's what he said||"Failure is the stepping stone of success", said veteran actor Anupam Kher while recalling his 47-year-old experience of being rejected as a casual announcer during a live programme at All India Radio Shimla on Saturday."During December 1974, when people were reeling under biting cold conditions, I had come to All India Radio as a casual announcer, but while giving a summary of the programme my voice fumbled and the duty officer was so upset, that he asked me not to come again”, said Kher during a 12-minute unscheduled programme.Kher—who believes in the power of dreams and hopes—had stated, earlier, that "a failure is an event, not a person. Had AIR not rejected me, I would have not taken admission to the National School of Drama, and became an actor", adding that the actor "feels that he is successful today".The favourite songs of Kher’s mother “Allah Tero Naam, Ishwar Tero Naam” from the film "Hum Dono" was also played during the interaction, said Programme Head (AIR) Umesh Kashyap.A post shared by Anupam Kher (@anupampkher)The staff of the AIR was caught by surprise as Kher casually walked into AIR this morning.The actor is sending a message that "happiness is found along the way, and not at the end of the road by meeting his old friends and spending time with them". On Friday, he strolled on Mall Road and Ridge with his childhood buddies.He also visited his old DAV Senior Secondary School.Kher, who is in Shimla after two years also Visited Nabha, where he resided during student days, and went emotional meeting his old neighbours.He also met chief minister Jai Ram Thakur along with his mother Dulari Kher and appreciated the efforts of the State Government in making the Film Policy.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/anupam-kher-recalls-47-year-old-experience-of-being-rejected-by-all-india-radio-shimla-heres-what-he-said-270979
19-06-2021||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Dhoni in Shimla along with his family, may visit Ratnari apple belt tomorrow; see pictures||Former Indian cricket skipper MS Dhoni is in Shimla along with his family and friends. Dhoni has been staying at a homestay called White Heaven in Mehli near Kasumpti.In all, there are 12 persons in the group, and they haven't stepped out of the homestay since last night.Sources said Dhoni and his group may visit Ratnari, an apple belt in the higher reaches of Shimla district, on Sunday.This is Dhoni’s second visit to Shimla in the past three years. The Chennai Super Kings captain had last visited Shimla in August 2018 for the shooting of an ad film.In 2018, Dhoni shot a digital payment ad for a bank on Mall Road in Shimla.Dhoni enjoying holiday with his friends ❤️@MSDhoni | #MSDhoni | #WhistlePodu pic.twitter.com/W0XYVoqgDk||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/dhoni-in-shimla-along-with-his-family-may-visit-ratnari-apple-belt-tomorrow-see-pictures-270943
19-06-2021||Shimla||Anupam Kher spotted strolling on Shimla's Mall Road; meets CM Thakur; see videos||Bollywood actor Anupam Kher on Friday strolled on the Mall Road here and later met Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur.During his meeting with the chief minister, Anupam Kher appreciated efforts of the state government in making the film policy, an official spokesperson said.As the actor himself hails form the state, he would try his best to promote Himachal Pradesh as the destination for film shootings, he added.Anupam Kher also shared his childhood experiences and memories of Shimla with the chief minister.A post shared by Anupam Kher (@anupampkher)The actor's mother Dulari Kher and chief minister's wife Dr Sadhna Thakur were also present.A post shared by Anupam Kher (@anupampkher)A post shared by Anupam Kher (@anupampkher)Thakur said to develop Himachal Pradesh as an important destination for film production and to disseminate information about its culture, history and heritage, his government has framed the Himachal Pradesh Film Policy, 2019. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/anupam-kher-spotted-strolling-on-shimlas-mall-road-meets%C2%A0cm-thakur-see-videos-270919
19-06-2021||Bhanu P Lohumi||Woodcutter gets jail till death in 2017 Gudiya rape-murder case||Tribune News ServiceShimla, June 18The lone accused convicted in the Gudiya case involving the rape and murder of a schoolgirl four years ago, Anil Kumar (28) was today sentenced to life imprisonment till death by Special Judge Rajiv Bharadwaj.Anil, a woodcutter, was awarded life imprisonment till death for rape under Section 376 of the IPC and life imprisonment till death with a fine of Rs 10,000 for murder under Section 302 of the IPC. Both the sentences would run concurrently. The Special Judge pronounced the order in the presence of the convict.Victim’s kin had moved HC for re-probeThe victim’s kin had filed a petition in the HC on October 15, 2020, seeking re-investigation into the case by the CBI. The plea was accepted and the hearing in the case is going on.The court had on April 28 held Anil, alias Nilu, guilty under the Indian Penal Code sections related to rape and murder, as well as the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act.The heinous crime had triggered an outrage all over Himachal Pradesh. The 16-year-old victim was raped and killed in a forest area in Shimla’s Kotkhai while she was on her way home from school on July 4, 2017.The case saw dramatic twists, including the custodial death of a man earlier suspected of having committed the crime and the arrest of a senior police officer in this connection. The CBI then took charge of the case and arrested Anil three years ago.The Special Judge said 12 of the 14 crucial points of evidence presented by the CBI went against the convict. The most important of them was the matching of his DNA with samples found at the crime spot, he said.During the hearing on April 28, the Judge ruled that the crime was committed on the spur of the moment under the influence of liquor when Anil came across the girl as she walked home through the forested area.The girl’s body was found in the forest two days after she went missing. A post-mortem report indicated rape and murder. Days later, the police set up an SIT headed by IG Zahur Zaidi. The police arrested six men on July 13. One of them, Suraj, died in police custody on July 19.Amid public outrage, the HP High Court handed over the case to the CBI, which arrested nine policemen, including the IGP, for the custodial death. The proceedings against the five men arrested along with Suraj were dropped for lack of evidence.The custodial death case against the police officers was later transferred to Chandigarh, where it is currently being heard. Anil was arrested in April 2018 on the basis of suspicion.The case file||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/woodcutter-gets-jail-till-death-in-2017-gudiya-rape-murder-case-270781
19-06-2021||Kullu||Raft overturns in Kullu, four rescued||Four tourists had a miraculous escape after a raft overturned in the Beas, near the Police Lines at Bashing, 6 km from here, today. Kullu SP Gaurav Singh said four persons were onboard the raft when it overturned. Other raft operators rescued the tourists. The police were investigating the incident. Meanwhile, a video of the incident went viral on social media. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/raft-overturns-in-kullu-four-rescued-270727
19-06-2021||Mandi||Several stranded on Gramphu-Kaza road||The Gramphu-Kaza road was blocked for traffic in tribal district Lahaul Spiti today for hours because of massive landslide in the area. As a result, a large numbers of tourists as well as regular commuters were stranded in the area for hours. The BRO engaged its workforce and machinery to clear the debris from the road and restored it for the movement of 4x4 vehicles. The restoration work is underway to restore this road for normal traffic in the region.The landslide was reported at Doharni Nala between Chhatru and Gramphu in Lahaul Spiti. Similarly, landslides were reported on the Manali-Leh highway between Zingzingbar and Baralacha La at several places, which hampered the traffic for short intervals. However, BRO workforce and machinery kept working in road clearance task to keep the road open for traffic.According to Superintendent of Police Lahaul Spiti, Manav Verma, the BRO machinery and workforce is working to restore the Gramphu-Kaza road for traffic. Though the road was restored for movement of 4x4 vehicles, it will take time to restore it for normal traffic. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/several-stranded-on-gramphu-kaza-road-270725
19-06-2021||---||Family feud turns violent in Dharamsala village, four hurt||Dharamsala, June 18A feud between two families from Veerta village, near Kangra, turned violent and reached up to the Matour-Kangra national highway, leaving four people injured. Two of them were seriously injured and referred to PGI, Chandigarh.The sources said Kartar Chand, along with his family members, attacked his neighbour Rakesh Kumar and his family with sharp weapons today morning. In the attack, four members of the family of Rakesh Kumar got injured and were referred to the Tanda medical college. Two of them were later referred to PGI, Chandigarh, as their condition was serious.After the attack, residents of Veerta village came to the main Matour-Kangra road and blocked the national highway. The traffic blockade continued for over an hour, leading to long queues of vehicles on the road. People lifted the dharna from the road after Kangra SP Vimukt Ranjan and the SDM reached the spot. The police arrested nine person involved in the feud and registered a case of attempt to murder against them. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/family-feud-turns-violent-in-dharamsala-village-four-hurt-270724
19-06-2021||Abhinav Vashisht||Five buses from Delhi fined Rs 5K each for wrongful entry in Kullu||Kullu, June 18The Kullu police have intercepted five Volvo buses carrying tourists from Delhi in the past three days though the inter-state movement of buses is not yet allowed in Himachal.The inter-state movement of buses is not permitted yet. However, five Volvo buses arrived here by crossing three districts despite vigil at the borders. Kullu SP Gaurav Singh said that the buses came via Nalagarh and reached here bypassing the barriers. He added that the buses were stopped at Bhuntar and Patlikul in Kullu. A fine of Rs 5,000 each had been imposed on the buses and had been halted. The challans had been forwarded to the Transport Department for further action.The SP said tourists in these buses did not have e-passes to enter the state. However, they were registered and were allowed to stay. He added that the entry of tourists was not prohibited but they should register themselves for e-passes.Meanwhile, the tourism industry has praised the police decision to allow the Delhi tourists to stay after registration. They said that the police ensured that the tourists are not hassled because of the fault of the bus operators. “If a group of tourists wants to visit Kullu-Manali, they should choose four-wheelers having 12 to 18 seats to avoid inconvenience and embark on journey only after the approval of the e-passes.Hoteliers of Manali said that the e-pass system should be done away with, as it was causing losses to a large number of hospitality units dependent on walk-in customers. They added that some visitors find applying for an e-pass as complicated and time consuming. The e-pass approval was sometimes delayed for days together.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/five-buses-from-delhi-fined-rs-5k-each-for-wrongful-entry-in-kullu-270723
19-06-2021||Dipender Manta||Water supply in freezing winters in Keylong soon||Tribune News ServiceMandi, June 18To provide round the clock potable water supply to Keylong in tribal Lahaul Spiti district, Jal Shakti Department is planning to set up an anti-freezing water supply system at a cost of Rs 13.69 crore.The government has approved a sum of Rs 2.6 crore to start the work. Under this scheme, Jal Shakti Department at Keylong will lay down water pipes at least 1.5 m deep into the ground. This will prevent water pipes from freezing as it usually occurs in Lahaul-Spiti during winter.On the basis of a study in European countries, where temperature dips below freezing point but water supply remains uninterrupted, Lahaul & Spiti DC Pankaj Rai had asked the Jal Shakti Department at Keylong to prepare a detailed report.“The state government has approved Rs 2.6 crore for this project. The authority concerned has been directed to start the work. On a trial basis, a 200-m water pipeline was laid underground to provide regular water supply to district hospital Keylong in the month of January and the trial was successful,” Rai said.“After opening of Atal tunnel on the Manali-Leh highway, the Lahaul-Spiti district has become an epicentre of tourist activity. As a result, there is a need to develop basic infrastructure in the district. During the winter season without regular water supply, it will be difficult to operate tourist units in the district,” the DC stated.“So we have decided to work on this project effectively to provide round the year water supply to the residents. The water scheme will be connected to Billing water source,” said the DC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/water-supply-in-freezing-winters-in-keylong-soon-270722
19-06-2021||---||PWD under lens over poor road quality in Palampur||Ravinder SoodPalampur, June 18The Public Works Department is under scanner over the damage caused to roads constructed just a few months ago. Heavy rainfall in the last few days has led to the situation which shows that the PWD has failed to follow the guidelines of the state government to maintain quality in road construction.A number of roads constructed a few months ago in different divisions of PWD in Palampur have washed away in first showers of monsoons. Even the cemented roads built under new technology have failed to bear the load of mini trucks, tempos and have developed cracks.Most of the roads have been constructed under the Centrally sponsored road projects like Pardhan Mantri Gramin Sarak Yojna (PMGSY), National Agriculture Bank for Rural Development (NABARD) and Central Road Fund (CRF). Interestingly, as per clause of award letters, the contractor are bound to maintain these roads and keep it in good working conditions for three to five years. However, these road could not survive even for six months.The Thamba Sulaha – Pharehar road constructed recently is in bad shape. This road is yet to be inaugurated. The road was washed away in the first showers of monsoon at many points. Likewise, newly laid Raipur Saloh road has started to wear out and needs attention of the authorities. The residents of nearby areas have complained to the PWD but in vain. Likewise, the patch work done on the Palampur- Chowki road has also been damaged in the recent rains.The Centre has specifically laid down conditions for roads constructed under the PMGSY, NABARD and CRIF. The conditions say that there should be regular video recording of the works, payments be made only after third-party inspection, payment of bills through electronic system and lodging criminal complaints against contractors for his failure to repair roads.“The contractors have used low-quality material and less bitumen and cement to save money. It is time that the higher authorities took strict action against the contractors and the officers concerned,” alleged residents.Manish Seghal, Executive Engineer, PWD, when contacted, said the matter was in his knowledge and necessary action was being taken against erring contractors. They had already been directed to repair the roads immediately or face legal action.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/pwd-under-lens-over-poor-road-quality-in-palampur-270720
19-06-2021||Solan||Worker dies, management of Baddi unit booked||The Baddi police today booked the management of a healthcare unit for causing death by negligence to worker Ajay Kumar, who died of burn injuries at the PGI, Chandigarh.Four workers had sustained burn injuries on June 14 in a blast in the packaging section at the basement of the factory.The deceased (28) hails from Palampur. While the condition of two workers was stable, the other one was serious, as he had sustained more than 90 per cent burns.A team of forensic experts visited the factory today and collected samples to ascertain the cause of the fire. DSP, Baddi, Navdeep Singh, said that various issues such as the building plan were being examined. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/worker-dies-management-of-baddi-unit-booked-270716
19-06-2021||---||Course for frontline workers launched in Himachal||Shimla, June 18Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur today thanked Prime Minister Narendra Modi for launching a customized crash course programme for Covid-19 frontline workers via video conferencing from New Delhi on Friday to train about one lakh frontline workers in a span of two-three months.The training programme would be conducted in 111 training centres in 26 states of the country, including Himachal Pradesh. Thakur said that the training would be imparted to Covid warriors in six customised job roles such as home care support, basic care support, advanced care support, emergency care support, sample collection support and medical equipment support.He said the training would include fresh skilling as well as up-skilling of those who have some training in this type of work. He expressed the hope that the training would give fresh energy to the health sector frontline force and would also provide job opportunities to the youth.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/course-for-frontline-workers-launched-in-himachal-270714
19-06-2021||Ravinder Sood||No power supply, Oxygen plant nonfunctional in Palampur||Palampur, June 18Despite instructions from the Prime Minister’s Office for speedy installation of medical oxygen plants, the state government has not provided a power connection to a plant in the Civil Hospital, Palampur, set up under the PM CARES Fund.As per a Central Government’s letter to state governments, it was their responsibility to provide space and infrastructure to the plants. Though the oxygen plant was ready more than 20 days ago, the power connection has not been provided due to official redtape.The Centre assigned the task to the DRDO to install plants in Civil Hospital, Palampur, in May and directed the Project Manager, NHAI, to undertake the construction of the structure, which had been completed.There is no headway for the installation of transformer and transmission lines. It was to be inaugurated on May 30 but it could take another month.SDM Dharmesh Ramotra said the matter was pending for approval with the government. It was expected that plant would be operational in a few days, as the government had released Rs 10 lakh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/no-power-supply-oxygen-plant-nonfunctional-in-palampur-270713
19-06-2021||---||Himachal Govt targets 1st dose for all in tribal, hard areas by June 25||Shimla, June 18The state government is aiming to provide the first dose of the Covid vaccine to 100 per cent eligible population in the tribal areas of Lahaul and Spiti, Kinnaur, the Pangi region of Chamba district and the hard areas of Dodra-Kwar in Shimla district by June 25 through on-the-spot sessions. To achieve the target, sessions will be held everyday, including on Sundays and holidays, if required.In the strategy announced today for vaccination post-June 21, the government removed the condition of online slot booking for the tribal, hard and rural areas of the state. The modality of online slot booking in the 18-44 years age group would, however, continue in the urban areas. “Urban areas will be considered places under the direct control of municipal corporations or NACs or nagar panchayats. Here, sessions would be published on the online slot booking mode only,” said a government spokesperson. “All online sessions in urban areas will be published one day before the proposed date between 12 noon and 1 pm,” he added.Under the new strategy, the target beneficiaries have been divided into Category A and B. “For Category A beneficiaries, the sessions will be held on Thursday, Friday and Saturday (including gazetted holidays) and for Category B beneficiaries, the sessions will be held on Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday (including gazetted holidays). No session will be held on Sundays,” said the spokesperson. He said that under the new vaccination drive, 2.5 lakh doses of Covishield had been supplied to the state.Truck & taxi unions in new priority groupsPeople associated with truck unions, private bus operators, taxi unions and the hotel industry have been identified as priority groups for the purpose of vaccination. The bus, taxi, or truck operators or the hotel owners shall issue the specific formats for identification or certification for the purpose of registration and authentication on the CoWIN portal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-govt-targets-1st-dose-for-all-in-tribal-hard-areas-by-june-25-270711
19-06-2021||---||Covid-19: Tally past two lakh; 344 new cases, 5 die in Himachal||Shimla, June 18As many as 344 Covid cases were reported in the state today, taking the tally past two lakh to 200,043. Besides, five persons died of the virus in the last 24 hours. Three deaths were recorded in Kangra and one each in Hamirpur and Chamba.The highest 123 cases were reported in Kangra, followed by 43 in Chamba, 39 in Mandi, 37 in Hamirpur, 24 in Shimla, 21 in Sirmaur, 19 in Kullu, 16 in Bilaspur, nine in Una, six in Solan, four in Kinnaur and three in Lahaul and Spiti.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/covid-19-tally-past-two-lakh-344-new-cases-5-die-in-himachal-270709
19-06-2021||Abhinav Vashisht||56 Covid deaths in Kullu in 2 months||KULLU, JUNE 18As many as 56 persons died due to Covid in April and May during the second wave in the district this year while 84 had succumbed from May to December last year.The pandemic took eight lives in April 2021 while 48 deaths were reported in May. There were no deaths in April and May last year.Due to the efforts of the administration, the police and the Health Department, the graph of Covid cases has also started declining. There were 995 active cases in the district on May 19 this year, and the number had reduced to 211 on June 15.A total of 4,354 cases had been reported during the first wave while 4,342 cases during the second wave till now. The infection had spread rapidly during the second wave and the monthly death toll was also higher as compared to the first wave.Meanwhile, the inoculation drive was also in the full swing. So far, over 1,57,000 shots have been administered at various centres across the district. Teams of the Health Department are also carrying out special vaccination camps at far-flung areas.Health officials say over 1.28 lakh persons have been administered the first dose of the vaccine while over 29,000 have also taken the second shot. They add that there is no dearth of vaccine in the district.They saythat the vulnerability of getting infected and the mortality rate of the inoculated persons reduced to a large extent.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/56-covid-deaths-in-kullu-in-2-months-270708
19-06-2021||---||Political heat over allotment  of land to CUHP in Himachal's Dehra||Dharamsala, June 18The allotment of 82 hectares forestland for the construction of the campus of the Central University of Himachal Pradesh (CUHP) at Dehra in Kangra district is generating political heat. Parveen Sharma, a former BJP legislator from Palampur and Shanta Kumar loyalist, in a statement issued here, has questioned the silence of Dharamsala MLA Vishal Nehria and Kangra MP Kishan Kapoor over the decision to set up the main campus of the CUHP at Dehra.Sources say Shanta Kumar is also not happy with the transfer of land at Dehra to the CUHP, as no decision had been taken to allot land for the institution at Dharamsala. He has taken up the issue with Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur.BJP leaders of Dehra are, however, elated that the main campus of the CUHP will come up in their area. They have organised various events to thank Union Minister of State for Finance and Corporate Affairs Anurag Thakur for bringing the majority CUHP campus at Dehra. The Dehra MLA, who does not have good terms with Anurag, has also praised the Union minister for the allotment of land for the CUHP.To add to the controversy, Vice-Chancellor of the CUHP Roshan Lal Sharma has clarified that, according to the vision document of the institute, the main (70 to 80 per cent) campus is to be located at Dehra and only 20 to 30 per cent campus is to be built at Dharamsala. Now that 82 hectares forestland has been transferred in the name of the CUHP, the construction of the campus at Dehra will start soon.The Vice-Chancellor has said that the university has already suffered for the past 10 years due to the non-allotment of land. Now that the land has been transferred to it, the construction of the campus will start at the earliest.Most of the senior Congress leaders of Kangra district are silent on the issue. However, HPCC general secretary Kewal Singh Pathania has said that the UPA government had in 2005 announced the university for Kangra district. He alleges that it is injustice with the Kangra parliamentary constituency that land for the university has been allotted at Dehra.Former Congress MP Chander Kumar, in a statement issued here, has said that the land allotted to the CUHP lies in the prohibitory area of the Pong Dam Wildlife Sanctuary and nothing can be constructed there, as per the rules.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/political-heat-over-allotment-of-land-to-cuhp-in-himachals-dehra-270705
19-06-2021||Is a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many||No check on Stray dog menace||The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: hpreadersfeedback@tribunemail.com No check on Stray dog menace Stray dogs are causing inconvenience to people in the Panthaghati locality of Shimla city. The number of these dogs has increased manifold and they create a nuisance at night, making it impossible for people to have a peaceful sleep. They are a trouble, especially to the elderly and patients. Sanjay Chauhan, PanthaghatiTraffic lights on chamba highway out of order The traffic lights on the Chamba-Pathankot highway, near Sultanpur in Chamba town, are out of order these days. Consequently, a police personnel have been deputed here to regulate the flow of heavy vehicular traffic. The traffic lights must be rectified at the earliest for smooth movement of vehicles. AK Sharma, Chamba||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/no-check-on-stray-dog-menace-270704
19-06-2021||The ABVP has started ‘Mission Rakshak’ to stop the spread of Covid. Under the campaign||ABVP launches ‘Mission Rakshak’||Conference on ‘self-reliant’ IndiaThe three-day national integration conference on ‘Self-Reliant India: Towards Swarajya in Ideas’, organised by the Indian Institute of Advanced Study (IIAS), started through Cisco Webex. Prof Makarand R Paranjape, director, IIAS, and convener of conference Prof Rajvir Sharma said the roots of self-reliant India were linked with the Swadeshi movement in the past. In this webinar, several eminent individuals would present their research papers, in which they would talk about the historical background of Swaraj, role and contribution of the RSS in Swaraj and mathematical or political independence in ideological Swaraj.Restore Nehru’s plaque: NSUIThe NSUI demanded that the plaque outside the HPU library should be restored. NSUI's state secretary Rajat Singh Rana said the plaque was removed while the renovation of the library was going on. He said the construction was over, but the plaque had not been put up again. NSUI's Babita Pojta said while the HPU had been spending money for building a statue of Atal Bihari Vajpayee on the campus, the administration was reluctant to put back Nehru’s plaque.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/abvp-launches-mission-rakshak-270663
19-06-2021||Solan||Shoolini University, Solan, Chancellor gets award for research in agroforesty||Prof PK Khosla, Chancellor, Shoolini University, Solan, was honoured today by the Indian Society of Agroforestry, Jhansi, with the Lifetime Achievement Award 2017 for his contributions to research in the field.An alumnus of Oxford University, Khosla was instrumental in starting agroforestry education in the country for conservation of the the Himalayan trees. He remained at the forefront in establishing the Indian Society of Tree Scientists and worked as its secretary and secretary general for more than two decades. Dr Khosla has edited more than 15 books on agroforestry. He played a key role in maintaining greenery in the mid-Himalayas and is popularly known as ‘Green Scientist’. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/shoolini-university-solan-chancellor-gets-award-for-research-in-agroforesty-270630
19-06-2021||Our Correspondent||Jawali villagers protest piped water shortage||Nurpur, June 18A large number of residents of ward number 1, 2 and 6 of Dann gram panchayat in Jawali subdivision yesterday protested at the divisional office of the Jal Shakti Department against poor water supply.Led by panchayat pradhan Veena Devi and Mahila Mandal pradhan Kamlesh Kumari, the irate villagers expressed their resentment to Neeraj Bhogal, Executive Engineer, Jawali, and also threatened to stage a dharna before his office if water supply to the wards was not restored in the next three days.Veena said that 1,100 residents of Dann gram panchayat were facing a shortage of piped water for the past nine days but the Jal Shakti Department did not rectify the technical fault in the tube well from which they get the supply.Mulkh Raj, Pradeep Kumar, Hardeep Kaur, Sahil Dhiman, Joginder Singh and Baldev Raj said, “The water problem has not been addressed despite several reminders to the authorities concerned. It is a Herculean task to fetch water from far off resources during the summer and village women suffer the most”.They urged the department to fulfil the daily requirement of the villagers through water tankers.The Executive Engineer said that there was a technical snag in the tube well motor initially.During repair by a department’s technical team the motor along with its pipes fell in the well.He added that the department would provide water to the villagers through tankers and also made alternative arrangements by interlinking defective tube wells with other tube wells in the gram panchayat. The department was working on a war footing to restore piped water supply in the affected area soon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/jawali-villagers-protest-piped-water-shortage-270610
19-06-2021||---||23% decline in road fatalities in Himachal||Solan, June 18A decline of 23 per cent has been registered in the number of deaths and 36 per cent in those injured in road accidents in the last one year in the state.This was stated by Director General of Police (DGP) Sanjay Kundu while addressing mediapersons at Nahan today. Kundu came on a three-day visit to Sirmaur district today.He appealed to officials of all departments to work in unison to put an end to organised crime in the state. “The state police have taken stringent measures to curb drug trade and intoxicants have been seized in large quantities. While investigating such cases, properties of accused worth Rs 11.37 crore has been attached.”“In a bid to curb road accidents in Sirmaur, intelligent traffic management system will be started. This will also provide respite from traffic jams,” said the DGP.He held a coordination meeting with the heads of various departments like mining, excise and taxation and industries. He stressed the need to enhance the number of CCTVs installed in the distict to crack down effectively on organised crime networks.The DGP also gave details of recent drug seizures made by the Paonta Sahib police, including 844.2 kg of poppy husk and 425.635 kg of marijuana. He said the enforcement directorate was probing financial transactions of accused involved in the nefarious trading of opioids from two drug firms of Kala Amb and Paonta Sahib, from where large-scale tablets were seized.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/23-decline-in-road-fatalities-in-himachal-270609
19-06-2021||Solan||Landslide disrupts traffic near Solan||Vehicular traffic on the Solan-Shimla section of national highway-05 was disrupted for about half an hour this morning near Koton as mounds of debris rolled down on the road from the hill above.Such disruptions have become routine as excavation of the hill due to the four-laning work leads to debris flowing on to the highway.SDM Solan Ajay Yadav and Additional SP Ramesh Sharma who rushed to the spot instructed the staff of private company four-laning the highway to clear the debris at the earliest.Yadav, said ARIF Engineers, which was executing the four-laning work, has been directed to place signboards at all vulnerable spots to caution motorists.The company has also been directed to keep necessary equipment and workers ready to meet any such eventuality in view of the excavation work. They have also been directed to keep at least two lanes functional on this key highway which connects the state capital of Shimla.With a large number of tourists heading for the hills to beat the summer heat, disruption of traffic even for a few minutes leads to queuing up of vehicles on the highway. Traffic influx once created takes long to be cleared. Policemen were stationed at the spot to channel the traffic.Some locals use the Basaal-Kandaghat arterial road to bypass the highway but being a single lane and narrow it is of little help to channel heavy traffic in case of such eventualities, informed SP Solan, Abhishek Yadav. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/landslide-disrupts-traffic-near-solan-270597
19-06-2021||Ambika Sharma||Poor response to housing scheme for slum dwellers in Himachal||Tribune News ServiceSolan, June 18The Union Government’s efforts to rehabilitate slum dwellers under the Integrated Housing and Slum Development Programme (IHSDP) have failed to yield results due to a lackadaisical response from buyers.The scheme is now being implemented by the state government in Solan, Parwanoo, Nalagarh and Dharamsala as the Centre had discontinued funding owing to poor response.Slum dwellers are eligible to buy two-bedroom flats at a nominal payment of Rs 1 lakh. However, most flats have been not allotted even after years of their construction.The Department of Urban Development, which is executing the scheme, has also failed to find takers for some two-bedroom flats in Solan district. “Since slum dwellers keep moving from one place to another, they are reluctant to buy these flats after paying Rs 1 lakh,” said an MC official.After the Centre discontinued the scheme in 2014, funds were granted till March 2017 for the ongoing projects by the Government of India. The state had secured only the first instalment from the Centre then as it could not utilise the earlier grant allotted. “Suitable land was not available in Solan and Dharamsala to construct these dwellings, failing which the implementation also suffered. The Centre and the state shared funding on 90:10 per cent basis,” said Director, Urban Development, Abid Hussain.After the discontinuation of the scheme, funds have either been provided by the state government or collected from beneficiaries to construct these flats.Sources said there were no takers for 205 flats in Parwanoo and Nalagarh while 115 have been allotted in these two urban dwellings till now after much delay.In Parwanoo, 192 flats have been constructed, but only 59 could be allotted. In Nalagarh, 128 flats have been constructed, but only 56 have been allotted.In Solan, out of 96 flats, 48 were allotted last year while the remaining are under construction.In Dharamsala, out of 168 dwellings, work on 144 has been completed so far. Although 96 beneficiaries showed interest to occupy them, only 48 have deposited beneficiary share.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/poor-response-to-housing-scheme-for-slum-dwellers-in-himachal-270577
19-06-2021||---||Draft Bill to regulate fee of private schools in Himachal ready||Shimla, June 18After witnessing public outrage over frequent increase in fees and other charges by private schools in Himachal Pradesh, the state government has finalised the draft for bringing in a legislation to regulate the fee structure in these schools. After Delhi, Himachal will be the second state in North to introduce such a legislation.A high-level committee, headed by the Education Minister, has already submitted its report to the government, which will now be presented before the state Cabinet for its approval so that a necessary law is enacted in the monsoon session of the state Assembly next month.The draft of Himachal Pradesh Private Schools (Regulation of Fee and Other Related Matters) Bill, 2021, has already been uploaded on the website of the state Education Department for seeking suggestions and objections from public.“There have been many complaints by parents regarding exorbitant fees being charged by private schools, due to which the government has prepared a draft Bill which has been posted on the website for suggestions and comments. The suggestions will be received till June 23,” said Director Higher Education Amarjit Sharma.According to the draft Bill, the private schools shall determine their fee structure based on their operational expenses, augmentation of facilities, expansion of infrastructure and facilities provided to students in order to generate reasonable surplus to be utilised for the development of education.It has been proposed that private schools shall upload the statements of fees on their websites 60 days prior to the commencement of each academic year. No school shall enhance the fee by more than six per cent in an academic session. Besides, students shall be at liberty to purchase books, bags and uniform etc from the open market, without any kind of compulsion by schools.The state government was under pressure to bring about a legislation due to the rising public anger. Parents have formed associations all over the state to oppose the increase in school charges year after year. As educational institutions throughout the country were closed in the wake of the pandemic and online classes were underway, many private schools had been pressurising parents to pay fees and charges.Despite government orders in the past two years, many private schools did not follow the directions, claiming there was no law in the state to regulate fees.As classes have begun again, there have been complaints regarding demand for annual and other charges by private school managements.There are reports that school managements have been sending messages and making phone calls through class teachers and even threatening parents that their children’s names would be struck off from the rolls or their results would be withheld.Many private schools have been saying that they are not obliged to follow the state government’s directions as they are not affiliated with the HP Education Board.Meanwhile, over a dozen parents and students associations in Kangra have hailed the proposed Bill and thanked the Chief Minister for the move. What it proposes||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/draft-bill-to-regulate-fee-of-private-schools-in-himachal-ready-270555
