20-06-2021||Shimla||Covid-19: Himachal Pradesh records 128 new cases, 3 more deaths||Three more people died of Covid-19 in Himachal Pradesh, taking the death toll to 3,426, while 128 new cases pushed the infection count to 2,00,410, an official said on Sunday.The three fatalities were reported from Kangra district.According to the state health department, the active cases have now dipped to 2,771.The total recoveries so far have reached 1,94,249 with 399 people recuperating from the infection in the last 24 hours, the official said. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/covid-19-himachal-pradesh-records-128-new-cases-3-more-deaths-271484
20-06-2021||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Kangana Ranaut reveals how yoga avoided mother's heart surgery; they share pics from Himachal home||Kangana Ranaut has shared how yoga has helped her parents become fit again. This comes ahead of International Day of Yoga. Taking to Instagram, Kangana shared a series of pictures of her parents doing yoga at their home in Mandi, Himachal.Kangana informed her fans how yoga "helped cure her mother of multiple health issues". The 'Queen' actress said that her mother was recommended an open heart surgery by a doctor, but Kangana decided to try curing her mother with yoga instead."Tomorrow is #internationalyogaday I am gonna share my Yoga stories, every one knows how and when I started yoga but no one knows how I got my whole family to learn and follow this boon and blessing called Yoga. Some resisted, some took time, few years ago Mother was diagnosed with diabetes , thyroid and high level of cholesterol(600) doctor said we need to do an open heart surgery for her cause there might be blockage, I told mother with tears in my eyes give me 2 months of your life please I can’t let them open your heart, she trusted me and eventually I succeeded in my persistent pursuit today she has no meditation, no illness she is healthiest and fittest in the family, with excessive walking Papa had damaged his knees that time I got an opportunity and converted him to an ardent practitioner of Yoga, he even jogs now, today I can say with proud that biggest gift that I gave to my family is Yoga. A happy family is not something you get automatically you need to work hard for it. Every morning I call them and ask only one question,Yoga kiya!! today they sent these pictures to me from this morning practice in their house in Mandi ( Himachal) How are you investing in your family?," Kangana wrote.A post shared by Kangana Ranaut (@kanganaranaut)In 2015, Kangana had spoken at length about her love for yoga. "I had lost interest in life. I used to think, ‘what’s the purpose of life?’ Also, around Fashion (2008), since I was doing depressing roles, I started thinking about mortality, and things like ‘why were we born?’ and ‘what will happen to us?’ At that point, my guruji (Surya) introduced me to the teachings of Swami Vivekananda. I started finding strength within myself and my inner voice. I started doing yoga in a big way. I did Raja Yoga, which is a very difficult practice and it requires you to be a celibate. So, I lived a monk’s life for a year or two (smiles). I also did Kundalini Yoga, and studied all its chakras too," Kangana had said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/kangana-ranaut-reveals-how-yoga-avoided-mothers-heart-surgery-they-share-pics-from-himachal-home-271427
20-06-2021||Hamirpur June 19||Sportsmen mourn Milkha Singh’s death||Sportspersons of the district mourned the death of flying Sikh Milkha Singh here today. Dronacharya awardee Romesh Pathania said that Milkha Singh had not only brought laurels to the country but also dedicated his life to sports, particularly athletics.National athletics coach Bhupinder Singh said that the country has lost a gem of athlete. He added that Milka Singh’s contribution to athletics would be remembered forever. Pankaj Bharatiya, secretary of the Himachal Pradesh Athletics Association, said that Milkha Singh had inspired sportspersons to conquer tracks even in the toughest competitions. National hockey players Pardeep Thakur, Subhash, Rakesh Handa, and Kamaljeet also mourned his death. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/sportsmen-mourn-milkha-singhs-death-271364
20-06-2021||Nurpur||Nurpur health block bags five awards||Under the Union Government-sponsored programme ‘Kayakalp’, five rural health institutions in Nurpur health block have bagged awards for 2020-21 for their performance as per parameters laid down by the Union Health and Family Welfare Ministry.As per official information, the Primary Health Centre (PHC), Ladori, has bagged the top position among PHCs of 13 health blocks in Kangra district and has got a cash award of Rs 2 lakh.Apart from this, Health Wellness-cum-Health Sub Centre (HWHSC), Kathal, was ranked first and whereas the HWHSC, Thora-Bhaloon, ranked second across the district got cash awards of Rs 1 lakh and Rs 50,000, respectively. The PHCs of Baranda and Sadwan got commendation awards of Rs 50,000 each. In order to promote cleanliness, hygiene and infection-control practices in public health care facilities, the Union Health and Family Welfare Department had launched the ‘Kayakalp’ programme on May 15, 2015.Nurpur Block Medical Officer Dr Neerja Gupta, congratulated health care workers on achieving this recognition. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/nurpur-health-block-bags-five-awards-271362
20-06-2021||Our Correspondent||Minister, Board discuss formula to evaluate Class XII students||KULLU, JUNE 19Education Minister Govind Singh Thakur held a meeting with Himachal Pradesh Board of School Education (HPBSE) Chairman Suresh Soni and Secretary Akshey Sood regarding the preparation of Class XII results at Manali today. The minister discussed the formula for the evaluation of students.The minister said the HPBSE had prepared a formula keeping in mind all aspects related to the examination results in a comprehensive and objective way. He said the formula of the CBSE had been taken into account for giving marks to students.The Chairman informed the minister that five indicators of the CBSE had been adopted to assess the children. Under these five indicators, the children’s internal assessment, practical or project work, marks obtained in Class X and XI along with the pre-board performance had also been taken into consideration.Soni said three more indicators had been adopted. Their performance in online examinations in the first and second house tests and the results of English exam held on April 13 had also been made the basis. The students had been divided into five categories and all subjects given equal priority for marks.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/minister-board-discuss-formula-to-evaluate-class-xii-students-271359
20-06-2021||Shimla||Bypass widening must not affect life, says Himachal CM||A presentation on the proposed alignment on the Shimla bypass widening project from Kaithlighat to Dhalli section and the construction of a highway tunnel parallel to the Dhalli tunnel under the Shimla Smart City Mission was made before Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur here today.Five tunnels were required to be constructed on the Kaithlighat to Dhalli section and the present proposal of twin tunnels/viaducts from Bhattakufar to Dhalli would completely bypass the urban area and bare minimum forest area/structures would be impacted during the construction of this four-lane project, it was stated.Thakur said the bypass widening project should not disturb the lives of area residents. He expressed hope that the separate twin tunnels proposed to connect the Sanjauli bypass and connectivity with the city roads would ensure better travel experience to the people of Shimla town. He also felt the need for improvement in the Dhalli junction and the bypass. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/bypass-widening-must-not-affect-life-says-himachal-cm-271357
20-06-2021||---||Family feud leaves one dead in Kangra, villagers protest||Dharamsala, June 19Subhash Kumar, who was seriously injured in a clash at Veerta village near Kangra yesterday, has died in the PGI, Chandigarh.Residents of Veerta today gheraoed the office of the SDM, Kangra, and alleged that the death was caused due to failure of the police to act on time.Congress MLA from Kangra Pawan Kajal, in a statement issued here today, said if the police had acted on time on the complaint of the victim family, the feud would not have turned bloody.The police that had registered a case for attempt to murder have added Section 302 of the IPC and booked the accused.A clash between two families took place, leaving four persons injured, two of them seriously who had to be referred to the PGI. Sources said Kartar Chand, along with his family members, attacked his neighbour Rakesh Kumar and his family members with sharp-edged weapons. In the attack, four members of the family of Rakesh were injured and referred to Tanda medical college. Two of injured were later referred to the PGI, Chandigarh, as their condition worsened.After the attack, residents of Veerta blocked the Matour-Kangra road. The blockade continued for over an hour, leading to long queues of vehicles. The people lifted the dharna only after SP Vimukt Ranjan and SDM reached the spot. The police arrested nine persons and registered a case against them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/family-feud-leaves-one-dead-in-kangra-villagers-protest-271356
20-06-2021||Our Correspondent||Train engine derails at Sulah, narrow escape for 70 travellers||Palampur, June 19The train services on the Pathankot-Jogindernagar track were disrupted after the engine of a train derailed near the Sulah railway station, 15 km from here, last evening. The train had left Pathankot on Friday, which was on its way to Baijnath.Official sources said over 70 passengers had a miraculous escape after the engine derailed following some technical snag in its front wheels. The engine derailed minutes after it crossed the Sulah railway station.Official sources confirmed that no loss of life was reported.The railway authorities rushed a team of technical experts from Pathankot to the mishap site to repair the defect and clear the track.The traffic on the track remained suspended till today. The train services were resumed three days ago, which were suspended following Covid.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/train-engine-derails-at-sulah-narrow-escape-for-70-travellers-271355
20-06-2021||---||43.5 bighas identified for NCC academy||Mandi, June 19The process to set up the first NCC academy in Himachal Pradesh has gathered momentum. Officers have inspected the land selected for the academy at Rajgarh-Khiyuri village in the Balh Assembly segment of the district.The state government has identified about 43.5 bighas at Rajgarh-Khiyuri village. Major General Jasveer Singh Sandhu, Additional Director General (ADG) of National Cadet Corps (NCC), Directorate of Punjab, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh and Chandigarh, along with officers, inspected the land on Thursday evening.Major General Sandhu said, “The objective of my visit was to check the land given by the Himachal Government for opening the academy and know what needs to be done for land development here. Many states have academies or schools for NCC training. With the formation of an NCC academy in Himachal, the local cadets will get facilities of training and camp. It will be convenient to start outdoor training as well”.Mandi Deputy Commissioner Rugved Thakur said, “Of 43.5 bighas identified, 18 bighas has been transferred in the name of the Higher Education Department. As soon as the work regarding forest clearance is completed, the next step will be implemented.”Land sought for Olympic Bhawan||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/43-5-bighas-identified-for-ncc-academy-271353
20-06-2021||---||Rs 400 cr ethanol plant to be set up in Una||Shimla, June 19Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Limited (HPCL) will set up a Rs 400 crore grain-based ethanol plant with a capacity of 125 KL per day in Una district.Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur said here today that the state government would provide about 70 acres for the plant and a rail-fed POL terminal of higher capacity.“Major raw materialsfor producing ethanol such as rice and maize will be procured from Kangra, Hamirpur, Bilaspur and Una districts, besides Hoshiarpur and Rupnagar districts of Punjab,” he added.He said that the project would be set up at a cost of Rs 400 crore and would provide direct and indirect employment to about 300 persons.Besides, the project would accelerate the pace of development in the state and earn anannual revenue of Rs 20 to Rs 25 crore for the exchequer in the form of State GST, he added.Thakur said that during a recent visit to New Delhi, he requested Union Petroleum and Natural Gas Minister Dharmendra Pradhan to set up an ethanol plant through the HPCL in the state.The plant produces ethanol from grains to be mixed in petrol and diesel, which in turn will help in reducing pollution due to vehicular emission. This would also help in protecting the environment in the state, he added.State govt to provide 70 acres||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/rs-400-cr-ethanol-plant-to-be-set-up-in-una-271352
20-06-2021||Bhanu P Lohumi||Actor Anupam Kher goes down memory lane||Tribune News ServiceShimla, June 19Failure is a stepping stone to success, said noted actor Anupam Kher in Shimla today. He was recalling his 47-year-old experience of being rejected as an announcer at the All India Radio in Shimla.During a 12-minute unscheduled programme recorded at the radio station today, he said, “In December 1974, when people were reeling under biting cold conditions, I had come to the All India Radio as a casual announcer but while giving a summary of the programme, my voice fumbled and the duty officer was so upset that he asked me not to come again.”Kher, who said he believed in the power of dreams and hopes, had said earlier, “Failure is an event, not a person.”“Had AIR not rejected me, I would have not taken admission in the National School of Drama and become an actor,” he said, adding that he feels he is successful today.Favourite songs of his mother “Allah Tero naam, Ishwar Tero Naam” from the movie ‘Hum Dono’ were also played during the interaction. The staff of the AIR was taken by surprise as Kher casually walked in on Saturday morning.Yesterday, he took a stroll on the Mall Road and The Ridge with his childhood friends. Kher, who has come to Shimla after two years, also visited DAV Senior Secondary School.He, along with his mother Dulari Kher, also met Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur and appreciated the efforts of the state government in making the film policy.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/actor-anupam-kher-goes-down-memory-lane-271350
20-06-2021||Ambika Sharma||Milkha Singh didn’t visit Kasauli house for years||Tribune News ServiceSolan, June 19Milkha Singh, 91, who passed away at the PGI, Chandigarh, yesterday owned a house on the Kimmughat-Chakki Ka Mor road near Kasauli. The house has been named after his wife as Nirmal Niwas. It wears a deserted look and locals have neither seen Milkha Singh or his wife here in the past few years.House named after his wifeThe house perched on a hill was constructed about 15 years ago. Locals say that a caretaker looks after it and also attends to guests, who turn up once in a while, especially during the summer.Rocky Chimni, Director, Glenview Resorts, recalls how Milkha Singh had come walking from his house till his nearby resort some years ago. He says that the passing away of the flying Sikh is a loss to the sporting world. Milka Singh visited the British-era Kasauli Club during the summer for its annual week-long celebrations. He was a member of the elite club. Locals remember him as a warm and cordial person. In 2013, he had also participated in the annual Khushwant Singh Literature Festival where a session was dedicated to his biopic “Bhaag Milkha Bhaag”.The Padma Shri awardee in a discussion with filmmaker Rakeysh Omprakash Mehra had dwelt upon the making of “Bhaag Milkha Bhaag” and his desire to see an Indian athlete bag an Olympic gold. The jam-packed session titled “The man and the Myth” had the audience in awe, as they listened to him with rapt attention. The session was moderated by journalist Rahul Singh. Suchet Attri, who stays in the vicinity of Nirmal Niwas, says that Milkha Singh has not visited his house in the past several years.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/milkha-singh-didnt-visit-kasauli-house-for-years-271349
20-06-2021||Our Correspondent||No surgeon, gynaecologist in Palampur Civil Hospital||Palampur, June 19Ashish Butail, local MLA and general secretary of the HPCC, today alleged that the state government had neglected the Palampur Civil Hospital, which caters to the medical needs of five lakh residents of the region.Ashish Butail, MLACONG MLA FLAYS GOVTThe government should remember that the Civil Hospital caters to the people of five subdivisions... Since the BJP has come to power, the situation has worsened.In a press note issued here, Butail said that six posts of postgraduate doctor were vacant in the Civil Hospital for the past five months and there was no surgeon and gynaecologist. He had repeatedly requested the state government to fill the posts, but to no avail.He said that during the Congress rule three surgeons were posted in the hospital and all major surgeries were performed there. But a few months ago, the state government allowed two surgeons to go for higher studies while one of them left the job. The 200-bed hospital has no surgeon at present. He added that all surgical cases were being referred to private hospitals or Tanda medical college. Even at Tanda medical college, most of the OPDs were closed because of Covid, thus giving an opportunity to private hospitals to exploit poor patients.Butail said that there was also no gynaecologist in the hospital, as two gynaecologists posted there were transferred out long ago without a replacement. Around 50 to 60 women visit the mother–child care OPD of the hospital everyday but there was none to attend to them. Most of the cases were referred to private hospitals or Tanda medical college, he added.He said that a post of child specialist was also vacant for the past six months. After the death of a child specialist a replacement doctor had been posted there. He added that an anaesthetist posted in the hospital was recently promoted and transferred as Block Medical Officer at Thural. The post was lying vacant since then.Butail said that the government should remember that the Civil Hospital caters to the medical needs of the people of five subdivisions of Palampur, Baijnath, Jaisinghpur, Jogindernagar and Dheera. The hospital has a 200-bed capacity and a sanctioned strength of 35 doctors. But since the BJP came to power in 2017, the situation had worsened, causing hardships to people, he alleged.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/no-surgeon-gynaecologist-in-palampur-civil-hospital-271348
20-06-2021||Mandi||Dr Karanjeet Singh attached with boxing federation||Dr Karanjeet Singh of Manali has been appointed as the Chairman of the Medical Commission of the Boxing Federation of India.Hemanta Kumar Kalita, secretary general of the federation, entrusted Dr Karanjeet with the responsibility yesterday.He is working with the Health Department for the past many years. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/dr-karanjeet-singh-attached-with-boxing-federation-271332
20-06-2021||Solan||Solar rooftop project opens in Himachal||A 50-kw solar rooftop project was commissioned by HP State Electricity Board Ltd here today as part of the ‘Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav’ celebrations, marking 75 years of Independence.Sukh Ram Chaudhary, Power Minister, PK Singh, Director, Commercial and Projects, PFC Ltd, joined the inauguration virtually. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/solar-rooftop-project-opens-in-himachal-271323
20-06-2021||Solan||Youth looted of Rs 22,500 at gunpoint in Baddi||A 21-year-old youth from Bihar was looted of Rs 22,500 at gunpoint by motorcycle-borne miscreants near the Housing Board Colony Phase 3 at Baddi around 12.50 am today.Raghuvir Yadav, who runs a fruit shop at the Housing Board Colony Phase 3 in a complaint to the police stated that he visits Chandigarh every night to buy fruits and vegetables. As soon as he left his house around 12.50 am today, he saw four youths riding two motorcycles without registration number plates.One of them came towards him, and snatched his mobile phone at gunpoint. They forced him to unlock the phone and also took away Rs 22,500 from his pocket. They also decamped with an ATM card of Axis Bank, which was kept in the cover of the mobile phone.A case had been registered and a probe was underway, said a police official.DSP, Baddi, Navdeep Singh said that CCTV camera footage of the area was being examined and it was also being verified whether a country-made pistol was used in the crime. He added that miscreants often modify a motorcycle used in the crime to conceal its identity and all these aspects were being probed. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/youth-looted-of-rs-22-500-at-gunpoint-in-baddi-271322
20-06-2021||Shimla||BJP will wrest Fatehpur seat, says Avinash Rai Khanna||The BJP will win the Fatehpur seat and retain the Mandi parliamentary and Jubbal-Kotkhai Assembly seats, said Avinash Rai Khanna, in-charge of BJP affairs in Himachal, here today.He also appreciated the work done by the chairman and the vice-chairman of the Gaushala Board, Gudiya Saksham Board and Milkfed. He said most of the MLAs had submitted their self-assessment reports.Earlier, Governor Bandaru Dattatreya released a book titled “My Experience during Covid-19” authored by Khanna, who is also the vice-president of the National Red Cross Society.The book highlights the author’s experiences during the pandemic. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/bjp-will-wrest-fatehpur-seat-says-avinash-rai-khanna-271303
20-06-2021||Shimla||Two more die of black fungus at IGMC-Shimla||Two more mucormycosis patients, including a woman, have died at the IGMC here. While the male patient hailed from Hamirpur, the woman was a Shimla resident. They were hospitalised on May 28, and died yesterday.As many as 12 black fungus patients had been admitted to the IGMC Hospital since May 20 when the first case was reported in the state. “Of the total 12 patients, six have died, three have recovered and three others are under treatment,” said Dr Rahul Gupta, Deputy Medical Superintendent, IGMC. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/two-more-die-of-black-fungus-at-igmc-shimla-271302
20-06-2021||---||Covid-19: 239 new cases, 10 deaths in Himachal||Shimla, June 19As many as 239 Covid cases were reported in the state today, taking the tally to 2,00,282. Besides, 10 persons died of the virus in the past 24 hours.Two deaths each were reported in Kangra, Shimla and Hamirpur and one each in Chamba, Solan, Una and Mandi.There were 47 cases in Kangra, 38 in Mandi, 33 in Chamba, 31 in Kullu, 18 in Shimla, 16 in Una, 15 in Sirmaur, 12 in Solan, 11 in Kinnaur, eight in Bilaspur, seven in Hamirpur and three in Lahaul and Spiti. The total active cases declined to 2,990, providing a relief for the Health Department.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/covid-19-239-new-cases-10-deaths-in-himachal-271300
20-06-2021||---||Congress appoints observers for bypolls in Himachal||Shimla/Dharamsala, June 19The Congress has started gearing up for the Mandi Lok Sabha and two Assembly byelections and appointed observers.AICC secretary and incharge for Himachal Sanjay Dutt made the appointments of observers for Mandi, Fatehpur in Kangra and Jubbal-Kotkhai in Shimla. Two AICC secretaries Sanjay Dutt and Gurkirat Singh Kotli will coordinate with them.Congress Legislature Party leader Mukesh Agnihotri along with Asha Kumari and Sukhwinder Singh Sukhu, both MLAs, and former minister Gangu Ram Musafir has been appointed observers for Mandi.The observers for Jubbal Kotkhai are Ram Lal Thakur, Dhani Ram Shandil and Harshwardhan Chauhan, all MLAs, and former MLA Harsh Mahajan. The observers for Fatehpur are former ministers GS Bali and Chander Kumar and MLA Rajender Rana.Rajneesh Khimta, general secretary, organisation, will facilitate the overall coordination among the observers.The BJP has already appointed Bikram Singh Thakur, Industries Minister, and Rakesh Pathania, Minister for Forest, as incharge and co-incharge for the byelection.Sources said Sujjan Pathanis’s son Bhavani Singh Pathania was the frontrunner for Congress ticket from Fatehpur. The party intends to cash in on sympathy for the family to win the byelection. They said Sujjan’s family also enjoys a tacit support of some Rajput BJP leaders from the area.For the BJP, it is a tough task to choose between former MP Kirpal Singh Parmar and local BJP leader Baldev Thakur for the byelection. Parmar contested the election from Fatehpur in 2017 but lost due to infighting. Baldev Thakur, who had contested as Independent, garnered more votes than Parmar. The party failed the win Fatehpur despite the fact that Prime Minister Narendra Modi had organised a rally in favour of Parmar.The sources said the party could field a Brahmin. Earlier, Shanta Kumar used to be the tallest Brahmin leader for the BJP from Kangra district. He had taken retirement. There was not even a single Brahmin MLA in the BJP from Kangra. Brahmins constitute a significant percentage of electorate in the district.Former BJP MP Rajan Sushant may contest as Independent. Rajan Sushant had quit the BJP and joined AAP. He has been extensively touring the constituency and meeting people.They said the BJP is also facing anti-incumbency due to the second wave of coronavirus, rising unemployment and prices of essential commodities.BJP mulls Brahmin candidate||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/congress-appoints-observers-for-bypolls-in-himachal-271073
20-06-2021||---||Undercutting in Himachal Assembly bypolls haunts Congress, BJP||Shimla, June 19Even as the fear of undercutting in the Assembly byelections for Fatehpur and Jubbal-Kotkhai haunts the BJP and the Congress, both parties are hopeful of cashing in on the sympathy factor.The BJP is likely to field Chetan Bragta, son of Narinder Bragta on whose demise the Jubbal-Kotkhai Assembly seat in Shimla district has fallen vacant.Similarly, for the Fatehpur seat in Kangra district, which fell vacant after the death of Congress MLA Sujan Singh Pathania, the party is likely to field his son Bhawani Singh Pathania.Both parties, however, are keeping their fingers crossed, hoping to rein in dissidents who could queer the pitch for their official candidates. Meanwhile, they have set the ball rolling for the elections with the appointment of poll observers.While the BJP has made senior ministers in charge for the Mandi Lok Sabha bypoll and two Assembly byelections, the Congress today entrusted the responsibility to its senior state leadership.While both political players hope to cash in on the sympathy factor, the party leadership is aware that undercutting by its own leaders could mar the chances of victory.The threat of undercutting is giving sleepless nights to the BJP in Fatehpur with a tussle for the ticket going on between former Rajya Sabha member Kripal Parmar and Baldev Thakur, who contested as a rebel in 2017 Assembly poll.Similarly, the possible Congress candidate and two-time former legislator Rohit Thakur will have to watch out against undercutting by his own party men, considering the one-upmanship in Shimla district.Dissidents may play spoilsport||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/undercutting-in-himachal-assembly-bypolls-haunts-congress-bjp-271188
