22-06-2021||Chandigarh||Weakening of monsoon notwithstanding, rain surplus in region so far||Notwithstanding the weakening of the south-western monsoon that is still to cover some part of Punjab and Haryana, rains over the region during this season so far have been above normal.The Monsoon arrived over the region about 15 days in advance and has covered most parts of the country, but prevailing climatic conditions have been withholding progress into its last phase.A bulletin issued by the India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Tuesday evening states that further progress of monsoon is unlikely during the next 7 days. Analysis of predictive models up to June 30 indicates mid-latitude westerly winds dominating over north India during the next week.A Western Disturbance as lies over north Pakistan and adjoining Jammu and Kashmir and its associated meteorological developments are likely to enhance rainfall along the east coast during 24-26 June. These are not favourable for enhancing monsoon activity over central and northwest India, IMD said.Forecasts based on model consensus show less probability of formation of low pressure systems over core monsoon areas as well as over north Bay of Bengal till June 30 and further weakening of lower levels easterly winds over northern plains of India, IMD added.At present, the northern limit of southwest monsoon continues to pass through Barmer, Bhilwara, Dholpur, Aligarh, Meerut, Ambala and Amritsar, which is about the same as it was on June 14.According to data compiled by the IMD, cumulative rainfall during this year’s southwestern monsoon across the country has been 37 per cent above the long period average (LPA) so far.As far as the region is concerned, rain was 66 per cent above the LPA in Haryana for the period from June 1 to June 22. In Punjab and Himachal Pradesh it was above the LPA by 51 per cent and 29 per cent, respectively, for this period. Barring four districts in Punjab and two each in Haryana and Himachal, all parts of these states have received surplus rainfall so far.The IMD has predicted that under the influence of western disturbance and upper tropospheric westerlies, the current spell of isolated light to moderate rainfall is very likely to continue over the western Himalayan region and adjoining plains of northwest India during the next five days. A gradual rise in maximum temperatures by 3-4 degrees Celsius over most parts of northwest India is also expected during the next three days||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/weakening-of-monsoon-notwithstanding-rain-surplus-in-region-so-far-272415
22-06-2021||Tribune Web Desk||Dhoni, daughter Ziva enjoy in apple orchards in Shimla; watch videos and pictures||Chandigarh, June 22Former Indian cricket captain Mahendra Singh Dhoni has been vacationing along with his family and friends at a homestay in Ratnari village of Shimla district in Himachal Pradesh.In exclusive videos, Dhoni can be seen moving near apple orchards covered with nets.He is learnt to have tried a pahari dish 'siddu', suffed and steamed wheat flour buns that are had with 'ghee'.Rather than staying at expensive hotels, the Chennai Super Kings skipper has this time experimented with homestays. Before proceeding to Ratnari, a place famous for its apple orchards, the group halted for a day at a homestay in Mehli near Shimla.Dhoni's wife Sakshi and daughter Ziva posted pictures and videos of the family enjoying at the picturesque Ratnari. They can also be seen walking up an orchard to the homestay.A post shared by Sakshi Singh Dhoni (@sakshisingh_r)  A post shared by Sakshi Singh Dhoni (@sakshisingh_r)  A post shared by Sakshi Singh Dhoni (@sakshisingh_r)  Dhoni's Indian Premier League (IPL) franchise Chennai Super Kings (CSK) shared a picture of Dhoni with Ziva, where he can be seen flaunting a new look.In all, there are 12 persons in the group.This is Dhoni’s second visit to Shimla in the past three years. He had last visited Shimla in August 2018 for the shooting of an ad film. In 2018, Dhoni shot a digital payment ad for a bank on Mall Road in Shimla.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/dhoni-daughter-ziva-enjoy-in-apple-orchards-in-shimla-watch-videos-and-pictures-272371
22-06-2021||Bhanu P Lohumi||Follow Central norms on online teaching||Tribune News ServiceShimla, June 21The state government has directed all principals/headmasters of government and private schools to implement Pragya guidelines circulated by the Centre for digital education to avoid excess online teaching, said Director, Higher Education, Amarjeet Sharma.The guidelines laid stress on avoiding online education on mobile phones and laptops and depending on radio or TV programmes, he said, adding that the deputy directors had been told to ensure compliance and action would be initiated if any complaint was received.As per the guidelines, physical activities should be a mandatory part of the teaching schedule to reduce stress by involving students in yoga, story-telling, drawing, dance, singing, playing music instruments and the initiative had been started in government schools, he added.The prolonged use of mobiles, remaining glued to laptops and other gadgets can result in vision impairment, frequent headaches, fatigue and mobile addiction.Students of primary classes are the most vulnerable as the continuation of online teaching can lead to behavioural changes, says IGMC child specialist Dr Mohit Karol, adding that the unfortunate part is that there is no other option in the wake of the pandemic.“It is difficult to handle children at home, making a 4 or 6-year-old child to sit for hours at home with virtual teaching is tough as the burden falls on the parents,” says a parent.Moreover, in adolescents, the exposure to the Internet as it is a double-edged weapon and families, where both parents are working, would be the most vulnerable, says mental health expert Dr Sanjay Pathak, adding that to curb the tendency to access other sites, it is important for parents to know how to limit the access to only education sites.The children, whose parents are not well-educated and not adapted to the use of mobile, laptop and other gadgets, are facing a big problem as there is no one to guide them during online classes.‘Activities must to reduce stress’||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/follow-central-norms-on-online-teaching-272201
22-06-2021||Abhinav Vashisht||Manali sees tourist rush at the weekend||Kullu, June 21The green tax barriers (GTB) set up near Manali registered 3,798 vehicles from outside the state from Friday to Sunday. This number does not include vehicles registered within the state that visited the hill station.Kullu District Tourism Development Officer Krishan Chand said 1,290, 1,446 and 1,062 vehicles from other states entered Manali on Friday, Saturday and Sunday, respectively. While only 300 to 500 vehicles were being registered daily for the past few days, the numbers surged during the weekend.While 56,053 vehicles from other states were registered in the GTB in June 2019, only 28 vehicles from other states came in June last year due to Covid-induced lockdown. Beneficiaries of the tourism industry were hopeful that the tourist influx would increase further as it had increased after October last year after the first wave of Covid subsided.He said 6,54,622 tourists had arrived in Manali from October to February. The boredom faced by people due to the lockdown and restrictions also attributed to the growth in the number of tourist arrivals. According to a data provided by the Tourism Department, 1,13,601 vehicles from other states were registered in the GTB from October to February last year while 75,350 vehicles were registered in the corresponding period in 2019-20.The daily number of vehicles visiting the Rohtang Pass was also around 250 so far as the tourist footfall was increasing gradually and only local taxis were allowed by the administration.A taxi operator in Manali said they were offering 50 per cent discount at present and an Alto car was available for around Rs 3,000 and an Innova for Rs 5,000 to go to the Rohtang top. He said tourists preferred visiting the Lahaul valley by crossing the Atal Tunnel.Meanwhile, the Himachal Pradesh Tourism Development Corporation (HPTDC) had also started deluxe bus service to the Rohtang Pass. The fare has been kept at Rs 600 per seat. The bus will go from Manali to Rohtang and return via the Atal Tunnel.Anil Taneja, DGM, HPTDC, Manali, said today 13 passengers went to the Rohtang Pass and they could add more buses if the rush increases.May increase further||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/manali-sees-tourist-rush-at-the-weekend-272202
22-06-2021||Dharamsala||Dharna outside CUHP temporary campus||Congress workers from various Shahpur villages held a dharna outside the temporary campus of CUHP in Shahpur and raised slogans against the state government. HPCC general secretary also addressed the dharna. While addressing the protesters, Kewal Singh Pathania alleged that students of government college Shahpur gave their campus for setting up temporary campus of CUHP. The students of the college suffered for 10 years and now the university was being shifted away from Shahpur. This was injustice to them. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/dharna-outside-cuhp-temporary-campus-272203
22-06-2021||Solan||Staff nurses complain of poor quality food in hostel||Staff nurses, deputed at the newly constructed makeshift hospital at Radha Soami Satsang Bhawan (RSSB), Anji,  today complained  about the deteriorating food quality and lack of clean drinking water in the hostel. In a representation to the CMO, they said, “The quality of food in the hostel is not up to the mark. There is no sitting arrangement to have food, causing hardships to nurses at the hostel.”  Three ward sisters, 52 nurses, a few ward boys and security personnel are staying in the hostel. The hospital was made functional on June 1. They have urged the CMO to either provide a new accommodation or look into these problems.  CMO Rajan Uppal said the issues raised by the staff had been resolved.  The in-charge of the RSSB had been directed to provide food as per the  menu  and food from outside could also be ordered. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/staff-nurses-complain-of-poor-quality-food-in-hostel-272204
22-06-2021||Dipender Manta||e-pass must to visit Chandertal lake area||Tribune News ServiceMandi, June 21The district administration of Lahaul & Spiti has made e-pass mandatory to monitor traffic movement towards the famous Chandertal lake area from the Manali or Kaza side.The district administration has launched a website www.eaagman.hp.gov.in, where tourists can register themselves along with their full details and vehicle number to avail the e-pass. The e-pass can be obtained free of cost by adopting a simple procedure to apply online for it on a concerned website.The e-pass will be issued by Sub-Divisional Magistrates of Kaza and Lahaul for the tourists, those visiting to Chandertal lake area from Kaza and Koksar side on Koksar-Kaza road.Talking to The Tribune Deputy Commissioner Lahaul Spiti Pankaj Rai said that “The mechanism has been developed to monitor and control tourist movement and to ensure their safety. For more information tourists can contact on number 9459461355.”Rai stated that “this system would also enable District Disaster Management Authority, Lahaul Spiti, to provide help to the needy tourists if they are trapped somewhere because of bad weather conditions. Chandertal lake area is quite remote, where telecommunication service is negligible. As a result, the information gets delayed or is inaccurate about the number of tourists.” He said that locals are exempted from this procedure.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/e-pass-must-to-visit-chandertal-lake-area-272205
22-06-2021||Shimla||Youth locks up leopard in toilet||A leopard entered a house in the Krishna Nagar area of the capital city in the wee hours today and attacked a youth, who showed exemplary courage and locked the animal in a toilet.“Around 3.15 am today, our dog started barking. When my nephew Gaurav opened the door to see if everything is fine, a leopard attacked him and injured him. However, he did not lose his calm and locked up the leopard in the bathroom,” said Karnail Singh, injured Gaurav’s uncle.Gaurav was taken to the IGMC Hospital, Shimla. Police and forest officials were informed about the incident. A team of forest officials reached their house around 6 am, tranquilised the leopard and took it away. Meanwhile, the incident created panic among the residents of Krishna Nagar, a thickly-populated area in the heart of the city. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/youth-locks-up-leopard-in-toilet-272206
22-06-2021||Chamba||Rs 30L approved for road to Churah villages||Deputy Speaker Dr Hans Raj said Rs 30 lakh had been sanctioned for the road from Chandodh to Guila and Mansa villages in the remote Guila panchayat of Churah in the district. He said this while on a visit to Guila gram panchayat today. He took stock of various development works being carried out in the panchayat. Interacting with the people, he assured them that the road would be ready soon. Regarding a permanent solution to the problem of electricity supply, Dr Hans Raj directed HPSEBL officials to take steps. He also asked them to install transformers to solve the problem. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/rs-30l-approved-for-road-to-churah-villages-272207
22-06-2021||Shimla||HPMC hikes cost of apple cartons||The HPMC has enhanced the cost of the packaging material of apple. “The cost of carton has gone up by around 10-15 per cent. The brown cartons will be available for Rs 54-62, and white cartons will cost anywhere between Rs 60 and 70,” said HPMC General Manager Bhuwan Sharma. “There has been no significant increase in the cost of trays. They will be available for more or less the same price as last year,” he said.The growers aren’t happy with the hike. “Didn’t the Horticulture Minister promise a few days ago that there would be no price hike this time? Also, the hike is not 10-15 per cent but around 25 per cent. The cartons last year were available for Rs 44-54,” said a grower and Kisan Sabha leader Sanjay Chauhan.Meanwhile, the efforts to introduce crates as an alternative to cartons for transporting and marketing apple are gaining support of both growers and traders. In a meeting of growers and traders called by the State Agricultural Marketing Board here today, the stakeholders reached a broad consensus on using crates on a trial basis this year in five different mandis in the state. “Even as some traders and growers had some concerns about using crates, the majority is in favour of giving it a try. We will start using the crates by July 10,” said State Agricultural Marketing Board Managing Director Naresh Thakur.Thakur is hopeful that the IIT-Mandi will come out with better packaging material by next year. “The IIT-Mandi is already working on it. I am sure they will come up with a packaging material that is cost effective as well as eco-friendly,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/hpmc-hikes-cost-of-apple-cartons-272208
22-06-2021||---||Virbhadra beats Covid again, shifted to special ward||Shimla, June 21Veteran Congress leader Virbhadra Singh has beaten coronavirus twice in two months. The 86-year-old, who will turn 87 two days later on June on June 23, was today shifted from a Covid ward to a special ward at the Indira Gandhi Medical College and Hospital.“He’s assumed negative, so he has been shifted to the special ward,” said IGMC Medical Superintendant Dr Janak Raj. As per the guidelines, a Covid patient could be discharged without a negative test 10 days after the onset of symptoms and no fever for the last three days.Singh was moved to a Covid ward on June 11 after he had tested positive second time in two months. He had tested positive the first time on April 12 following which he was moved to Max Hospital, Mohali.For an 86-year-old, who has comorbidities related to kidney and heart and diabetes, beating Covid twice in two months is quite significant. “The recovery is indeed remarkable, and this could be attributed to vaccination. The vaccine has apparently helped,” said Dr Janak Raj.Singh had received the first dose of the vaccine on March 3.The Medical Superintendent said that the other co-morbidities of the veteran leader were also under control. However, he added that it would be a while before the hospital could think of discharging the Congress leader. Clearly, the former Chief Minister would ring in his 87th birthday at the hospital.Positivity rate dips to 1.3%||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/virbhadra-beats-covid-again-shifted-to-special-ward-272209
22-06-2021||Lalit Mohan||BJP panel to visit Fatehpur, decide candidate for bypoll||Tribune News ServiceDharamsala, June 21A committee of BJP leaders, including Industry Minister and in-charge for the byelection Bikram Thakur, will visit the Fatehpur Assembly constituency on June 23. It will meet party workers and leaders to decide the candidate for the Fatehpur byelection.Sources said that the ticket aspirants were planning to present a show of strength to impress the committee, which also comprises former BJP president Satpal Satti and Forest Minister Rakesh Pathania.Kirpal Parmar, former Rajya Sabha member, is considered the frontrunner for the party ticket. Parmar had unsuccessfully contested the last Assembly election in 2017 and lost to Congress leader Sujjan Singh Pathania. He had polled 17,248 votes and lost to Sujjan Singh Pathania by just 1,744 votes.Parmar’s supporters are claiming that he lost the 2017 Assembly elections with the lowest margin ever despite the damage done by BJP rebel Baldev Thakur, who contested the election as an Independent candidate. Baldev Thakur got 12,999 votes and was the major reason for Parmar’s defeat. However, Baldev later rejoined the BJP and is trying hard for the ticket.The sources said that the fact that Baldev had contested the last Assembly elections against the official candidate may dim his chances of getting the ticket. However, some party leaders label Parmar as an outsider in the Fatehpur constituency. Parmar’s supporters counter the charge saying that even Baldev Thakur’s house is located in the Jawali Assembly constituency and not in Fatehpur.It is a prestige issue for the BJP to win the Fatehpur Assembly byelection, as the party is facing anti-incumbency in Kangra district due a high Covid death rate, loss of jobs and unemployment and high prices of essential commodities and petrol and diesel. Besides, the party will also have to counter sympathy votes for the Congress due to the death of sitting MLA Sujjan Singh Pathania. The Congress is likely to field Sujjan’s son Bhavani Singh Pathania from Fatehpur.Parmar frontrunner for BJP ticket||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/bjp-panel-to-visit-fatehpur-decide-candidate-for-bypoll-272210
22-06-2021||---||Yoga a ray of hope in tough times: CM||Shimla, June 21Yoga has emerged as a ray of hope in the testing times of Covid, as it not only keeps humans physically and mentally fit but also goes a long way in maintaining a balance between the body and the soul, said Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur while addressing the virtual celebration of International Yoga Day-2021 organised by the Ayush Department here today.He said that the day being celebrated with the theme ‘Yoga for well-being’ was much relevant in the prevalent times of coronavirus that “was not only hurting physically but also leaving a lasting impact on mental health”.“It has left many people in psychological suffering, depression, anxiety and yoga can help them deal with the crisis and pandemic-necessitated restrictions,” he said.Thakur said that the idea of an UN-mandated International Day of Yoga was first proposed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi during his speech at the United Nations General Assembly in 2014. The initiative was backed by 177 nations, he added.He said that the state government was committed to promoting yoga and with the active cooperation of Art of Living, Yog Bharati, Vivekanand Yog Kendra and others, the Ayush Department had launched the Ayush Ghar Dwar programme from May 14 this year to virtually help Covid patients and other people in doing yoga and ‘pranayam’.The founder of Art of Living Shri Shri Ravi Shankar also joined the event virtually to motivate people by his ‘enlightening’ thoughts. “Himachal is an abode of god and goddesses and steps must be taken to make the state prosperous and healthy,” he said.Health Minister Rajiv Saizal said that 1,327 groups were constituted under the Ayush Ghar Dwar programme and over 53,000 people were motivated to practise yoga and ‘pranayam’.Governor Bandaru Dattatreya performed various ‘asanas’ at Raj Bhavan here in a yoga session organised by the Department of Ayush, through a virtual platform.He said, “Yoga is the best means to purify mind and soul, and without it we cannot envisage a healthy body. In the Covid-19 times, it has become more relevant”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/yoga-a-ray-of-hope-in-tough-times-cm-272211
22-06-2021||Shimla||193 new cases, six deaths||As many as 193 Covid cases were reported in the state today, taking the tally to 200,603. Besides, six persons died—two in Shimla and one each in Mandi, Kangra, Hamirpur and Solan.The highest 36 cases were in Chamba, 31 in Kangra, 28 in Mandi, 22 in Shimla, 19 in Bilaspur, 18 in Kullu, 14 in Una, and eight each in Hamirpur and Sirmaur. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/193-new-cases-six-deaths-272212
22-06-2021||Legal Correspondent
||Kochhar is chairman of Bar Council||Shimla, June 21 Advocate Ajay Kochhar was unanimously elected as the chairman of the Bar Council of Himachal Pradesh during a General House meeting of the council held yesterday.  The election was held in the wake of the vacancy created due to the death of Ramakant Sharma, the sitting chairman of the Bar Council.  Earlier, the General House paid tribute to Ramakant Sharma and observed a two-minute silence in his memory. The meeting was presided over by the vice-chairman of the council, Narender Singh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/kochhar-is-chairman-of-bar-council-272213
22-06-2021||---||Sukhu demands audit of Covid deaths||Shimla, June 21Former state Congress president and MLA Sukhwinder Singh Sukhu today demanded that the government must hold an audit of all Covid deaths in the state since the outbreak of the pandemic last year.In a statement issued here today, Sukhu said that the number of Covid deaths in the state was high as all those who were comorbid and contracted the infection were not given proper treatment for other ailments.“It is to ascertain whether those who succumbed to Covid were given proper treatment for other ailments like diabetes, blood pressure, heart, kidney or cancer that the death audit is a must,” he quipped.He said the government must also make public the duties performed by specialist doctors during the pandemic. “The harsh reality is that a majority of the Covid deaths took place due to the lack of proper treatment for comorbidities as specialist doctors did not even go near the patients,” he alleged.Sukhu said only a death audit will ascertain the real cause for the Covid fatalities. “There was complete callousness in treating the comorbidities faced by Covid patients, which resulted in high morality,” he claimed.Sukhu said had the senior doctors treated the comorbidities faced by Covid patients many of them would have survived.He demanded that the government must reveal how many people who had got the first vaccine and those who had got both jabs had died of Covid.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/sukhu-demands-audit-of-covid-deaths-272214
22-06-2021||The Department of Philosophy and the NCC Unit of COE-GDC Sanjauli celebrated International Yoga Day. A short video was released by students/cadets about the importance of yoga in our day-to-day life. Principal CB Mehta said it was important to understand that mental health was very important for survival and yoga was not only beneficial for the body but also for the mind. The celebration was carried out with various yoga-related events such as online pledge-taking||Yoga day celebrated at GC, Sanjauli||Asanas performed at st Bede’sAn online session of yoga was arranged by the NCC cadets of St Bede's College. The session was conducted by Parul Chauhan, a yoga practitioner. The cadets from the 7HP (I) Coy, NCC Shimla and 1HP Naval Unit, NCC, Bilaspur, collaborated with the Health Club of St Bede's College to organise the event. The theme for the day was 'Be with Yoga, Be at Home'. The session included various asanas like "pranayama" and "vinayasa flow". There was also a meditation session.Yoga session at Shoolini varsityShoolini University celebrated the 7th international Day of yoga with a one-hour session, in which Major General (retd) Atul Kaushik, chairman, Himachal Pradesh Private Educational Institutions Regulatory Commission, was the chief guest. Prof PK Khosla, Chancellor, Shoolini University, shared his experiences of yoga and Prof Atul Khosla, Vice Chancellor, delivered the welcome address. Traditional yoga prayer was chanted by Dr Mala Tripathi, Assistant Professor Yoga. Dr Subodh Saurabh Singh, Head, School of Yoga, gave details of yoga-related activities. The programme concluded with Shanti mantra chanted by Dr Mala Tripathi.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/yoga-day-celebrated-at-gc-sanjauli-272215
22-06-2021||Shimla||Spot vaccination drive in villages: Himachal CM||The government has decided to start vaccination without registration in all rural areas in a three-day campaign, besides vaccinating one lakh persons in the 18-44 age group daily.Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur said at the launch of the vaccination campaign here today that the government had decided to relax the condition only in rural areas. Under the campaign, 100 per cent population would be covered with at least the first dose through on-the-spot sessions in Lahaul-Spiti, Kinnaur and Pangi region of Chamba. The hard area of Dodra-Kwar region in Shimla would also be covered with first dose by June 25.He said till date 27.45 lakh doses had been administered and more doses were available. “About one lakh doses will be administered to people between the age group of 18-44 years daily. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/spot-vaccination-drive-in-villages-himachal-cm-272216
22-06-2021||Roadside parking continues to cause inconvenience to people in the Kasauli cantonment. This is despite the construction of a multi-storey parking by the cantonment authorities. Haphazardly parked vehicles on the mall road mars the beauty of this quaint town||Parking woes at kasauli||Rakesh, KasauliFollow Covid guidelinesThe government should formulate a strategy to check crowding and the surge of Covid cases in the state. After easing of curbs, people are becoming casual again towards the pandemic. They are not following Covid appropriate behaviour even after witnessing the drastic and fatal outcome of the second wave. People should avoid violation of Covid protocol. Neeraj, NurpurIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at:hpreadersfeedback@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/parking-woes-at-kasauli-272274
