23-06-2021||Dharamsala||Restriction free entry allowed in Himachal from today||Confusion prevailed in Kangra district on Wednesday over the relaxations given by the state government in coronavirus restrictions.In a Cabinet decision taken yesterday, the government decided to allow all shops to open till 8 pm from July 1st.It was also decided that the restrictions on state borders would be lifted on July 1st and condition of corona e-pass for entry into the state would be removed.However, in a late-night decision the government decided to give said concessions with immediate effect.In the morning hours, the local shopkeepers lined up before authorities asking them to clarify over timings for relaxation in curfew.The situation became clear only in the afternoon when the district magistrate Kangra issued orders that the shops would be allowed to open up till 8 pm in the evening from today onwards.In another order released later, the district administration stated that all restaurants and dhabas would remain open on weekends and weekly closure day would be declared by local administrations.Deepak Kumar, who runs a fast-food joint, said he was enquiring from local officers in Dharamsala about the timings for opening up shops.However, none of them was clear about it. It was only late in the afternoon that we were informed that the shops would be allowed to open up till 8 pm in the evening, he said.The tourists and other commuters were also allowed free entry from state borders of Kangra and Una district right from the morning hours. The police officials lifted their barricades on interstate borders.The move of state government to allow free entry of tourists was welcomed by the hotel and tourism industry of Kangra region.Ravi Sharma, general manager of a local hotel, while talking to The Tribune said that most of summer tourist season has been washed away due to the second wave of coronavirus pandemic and restrictions imposed due to it.It was good that the government has lifted all restrictions from state borders. It would encourage tourists at least from adjoining states to come.We hope that new ease in restrictions would bring in tourists to Kangra region before the onset of monsoon season, he said.Raghav Sharma, DC, Una, said that all restrictions or Covid e-pass were removed from state borders right in the morning as per government orders.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/restriction-free-entry-allowed-in-himachal-from-today-272947
23-06-2021||Shimla||Doctors say Virbhadra Singh's health improving; supporters celebrate his 87th birthday in Shimla||As former Himachal Pradesh chief minister Virbhadra Singh convalesces at a hospital here after recovering from Covid, his family and supporters cut a cake at his residence to celebrate his 87th birthday on Wednesday.Singh recovered from the disease on Monday and has been shifted from the Covid ward of the Indira Gandhi Medical College and Hospital (IGMC) here to a special ward.IGMC Senior Medical Superintendent Dr Janak Raj said Singh's health is improving.Singh's wife Pratibha and son Vikramaditya celebrated his birthday at their residence, Holly Lodge, about 1 km from the IGMC, by cutting a cake with the veteran Congress leader's supporters.Vikramaditya told reporters that the family would provide Rs 15,000 as financial help to the families of those who succumbed to Covid in Arki and Shimla Rural Assembly segments.He also flagged off three ambulances for the two segments from Holly Lodge.While Singh represents the Arki Assembly segment, his son represents Shimla Rural.Taking to Twitter, Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur wished Singh a long and healthy life.Singh has tested positive for Covid twice in two months – on April 12 and June 11.He was admitted to a hospital in Chandigarh after he tested positive for coronavirus for the first time. He returned home on April 30.However, Singh was admitted to the IGMC hours after reaching home as he complained of cardiac and breathing problems. He has been undergoing treatment at the hospital ever since. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/doctors-say-virbhadra-singhs-health-improving-supporters-celebrate-his-87th-birthday-in-shimla-272907
23-06-2021||Shimla||Key Shimla projects delayed as forest clearances awaited||The work on some major Smart City projects has been badly hit due to pending forest clearances. These projects include the planned lift and escalator at Lakkar Bazaar, escalator to the Jakhu top, smart path from Sanjauli to Indira Gandhi Medical College and Hospital, a vending zone in Khalini, the Krishnanagar-Combermere nullah and the widening work in the Dhalli area.“There’s a proper procedure for seeking clearances under the Forest Conservation Act (FCA). We have uploaded most of these cases on the website of the Forest Department. All these cases are at various stages of the clearance process at the moment,” said Abid Hussain, MD, Shimla Smart City Mission Limited.The FCA clearance is a long and laborious process, often taking a lot of time. Smart City, however, doesn’t have much time left to start and complete these projects – the deadline for the project is ending next year.“We have limited time to complete these projects. We are vigorously pursuing these cases to get the required permissions and complete the pending projects within the given time period,” said Hussain.For the speedy execution the projects, the Smart City had initiated several processes simultaneously. “The processes for tendering work, land status and forest clearances were initiated simultaneously. Due to the pending clearances, the work on many of these projects has been hit,” said Smart City GM (Technical) Nitin Garg.“These cases are being reviewed regularly at the level of UD Minister and Chief Secretary to ensure they are cleared as early as possible,” said Garg.While not much work could be done on the ground in the absence of forest clearances in most of these projects, thePWD has carried out some work on the Sanjauli-IGMC smart path.“Wherever the forest clearances are not required, the executing agencies are carrying out work on those portions,” said Garg. “As and when the clearance comes, work will be started on the entire project,” he said.Meanwhile, the widening of narrow roads, especially on the circular road, is being carried at several spots. The traffic flow will become a lot smoother once these bottlenecks are removed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/key-shimla-projects-delayed-as-forest-clearances-awaited-272660
23-06-2021||Shimla||248 public services notified, brought under guarantee Act||As many as 248 public services have been notified by 34 departments of the state under the Public Service Guarantee Act, said Urban Development Minister Suresh Bhardwaj while chairing a meeting of the Cabinet sub-committee constituted for the implementation of Swarnim Himachal Drishti Patra-2017, here today.These services are being made available to the people in a time-bound manner. The time period has been fixed for the public services provided by every department, he said and added that out of 248 public services, 110 services are being provided through online medium, 30 services through e-district and 80 services under ease of doing business.The minister said that a provision had been made for imposing fine ranging from Rs 1,000 to Rs 5,000 for not providing the services within the stipulated time period. He said that this would help improve the governance.Bhardwaj directed the officers to take appropriate steps to make people aware of various services provided under the Public Service Guarantee Act and said that maximum publicity of the provisions of this Act should be ensured.The Urban Development Minister directed that the backlog posts reserved for Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes, Other Backward Classes and specially abled persons should be filled immediately. He also directed the departments to submit the action taken report in this regard within 15 days and ensure implementation of the existing quota for ex-servicemen in government jobs.Directions to further improve the grievance redress system were also issued. He said that the e-tender process had been made mandatory to bring transparency in the government working system and an online portal- CM Dashboard has been created.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/248-public-services-notified-brought-under-guarantee-act-272661
23-06-2021||Solan||Ten trains back on Kalka-Shimla heritage route||The services of 10 trains, which were suspended on May 10 this year due to low occupancy, have resumed on the Kalka-Shimla world heritage track. These include two rail cars and other passenger trains.The trains were suspended in the wake of the Covid surge and only one train was running on the route for the past over a month. “The services of five trains on the Kalka-Shimla route resumed yesterday and of the other five trains today. They are registering about 50 to 60 per cent occupancy though only a few passengers travelled from Parwanoo to Solan,” said railway staff.The first train starts from Kalka at 6.20 am and the last one at 12.10 pm for Shimla. “Passenger traffic is likely to pick up in the days to come, as tourists come to know about the resumption of trains,” said officials.Tickets for these trains can be booked only online and tourists from West Bengal, Delhi, and Uttar Pradesh can be seen travelling in family groups to hill stations such as Shimla, Barog, and Solan. “General tickets are available at the platforms, which were suspended in March last year due to the pandemic outbreak. The trains running on this route are connecting trains for passengers coming from Mumbai, Delhi, West Bengal, etc.,” added the officials.Tourists especially book the Kalka–Shimla Rail Motor Special, which is the fastest train on this track, and covers a distance of 96 km in around four hours and 25 minutes as against the usual time of five hours and 11 minutes taken by passenger trains. The picturesque view of the hills along the track is a special attraction for the tourists.The 2 ft, 6 inch narrow-gauge rail track was opened in 1903 during the British era. It has 103 tunnels and 969 bridges and the train journey to Shimla is a life-time experience.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/ten-trains-back-on-kalka-shimla-heritage-route-272662
23-06-2021||Solan||Cause of fire at Baddi unit yet to be ascertained||Chief electrical inspector will examine the Baddi-based healthcare unit where fire caused big losses besides injuring four workers on June 14.DSP Baddi, Navdeep Singh, said, “Report of the forensic science experts was awaited to ascertain the cause of the accident. One of the four workers who had sustained burn injuries had died. Another continues to be serious while two others were stable. Chief electrical inspector will also examine the unit soon.”A company official today said they did not manufacture hand sanitisers or any alcohol-based product. Isopropyl alcohol was found in the company’s basement which was used as a packaging area and its utility was being ascertained by the police. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/cause-of-fire-at-baddi-unit-yet-to-be-ascertained-272663
23-06-2021||Mandi||Kullu villagers seek road connectivity||Residents of Nahin village in Pekhri panchayat in the Banjar Assembly segment of Kullu district have been demanding road connectivity to the area since long so that they can avail transport facilities on the doorsteps.Durga Das, Dile Ram and a few other residents of Nahin village said, “There is an urgent need to provide road connectivity in the area for the convenience of people. They said in case of a medical emergency, people of the village have to carry critically ill patients on shoulders and walk for about four km to reach the roadhead to avail transportation facilities.”“The farmers of the area are not able to transport their agriculture and horticulture produce to the nearby market on time due to lack of road connectivity. They have to pay heavy charges to the labourers to carry their produce to the roadside,” they said.They said, “We urge Banjar MLA Surender Shourie to look into the matter and discuss the issue with the Chief Minister to ensure road connectivity to the village. It will be a relief for us.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/kullu-villagers-seek-road-connectivity-272664
23-06-2021||Solan||New-born found in dung||Dulo Ram of Khadkah village in Sirmaur, today saw a new-born girl dumped in a pile of cow dung at 7.30 am while he working in a field, near his house.He heard some noise and when he went near the pile, he saw something hidden beneath grass and stones over cow dung. The villager informed his son and other villagers, who further informed the police. “A police team, along with a doctor, reached the spot. The doctor examined the new-born girl and admitted her to the hospital,” said the DSP.A case under Section 317 of the IPC has been registered and probe was on to find the baby’s mother. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/new-born-found-in-dung-272665
23-06-2021||The last date for filling the application forms for HPU-MAT 2021 for admission to MBA course had been extended till July 12||Last date to fill forms of HPU-MAT 2021 for admission to MBA extended||International Yoga Day celebratedInternational Yoga Day was celebrated by staff and teachers of Kendriya Vidyalaya, Chamera, and DAV, Chamba. The yoga instructors demonstrated various asanas. The staff performed the asanas diligently. The importance of asanas was also explained simultaneously. Children learnt the importance of yoga that embodies unity of mind and body. It was an exhilarating experience for all. The programme ended with speeches by the heads of the institutions.School gives CCTV cameras to policeLawrence School, Sanawar, donated five CCTV cameras to Kasauli police station in charge Sanjay Kumar Sharma. “Lawrence School, Sanawar, is committed towards its social responsibilities and welfare of the poor and the weaker sections of society. We will continue to make contributions in future as well,” said school headmaster Himmat Singh Dhillon. The school provided ration, masks, sanitisers and ambulance services to the needy during the lockdown.Teachers, students perform asanasAPG University, Shimla, and Venkateshwara Open University conducted a webinar on International Yoga Day. Students and teachers from both the universities attended the webinar to listen to the thoughts of yoga gurus. Yoga guru Swami Parakasthananda from San-Francisco and Swami Anantbodh Chaitanya from Anantbodh Yoga of Lithuania attend were the key yoga teachers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/last-date-to-fill-forms-of-hpu-mat-2021-for-admission-to-mba-extended-272667
23-06-2021||Abhinav VashishtKullu||River rafting resumes in Kullu, stakeholders upbeat||People involved in adventure tourism have heaved a sigh of relief as activities have resumed in Kullu after about 18 months. Rafting hotspots at Raison, Babeli, Bashing, Pirdi, Bhuntar and Bajaura have started seeing enthusiasts again.During the peak season, around 550 rafts operate at these locations. So far, only around 300 rafts are being used, but stakeholders are hopeful that their business will improve in the coming days with the increase in tourist footfall.About 5,000 persons are directly or indirectly linked with adventure tourism. These activities provide income to raft operators, paraglider pilots, guides, helpers, taxi operators, jeep operators, eateries, tea stalls and street vendors.Paragliding, too, has started at Solang Nullah, Marhi and Dobhi. Both rafting and paragliding are carried out in Kullu throughout the year, except for two months during the rainy season from July 15 to September 15.Shyam Attri, president, Kullu River Rafting Association, said there had been no business for the past 18 months. He said about 40 per cent of the raft operators had resumed operations. He said business had not picked up yet due to less tourist arrival but it was expected to be back on track as the tourist influx had started gaining pace.As many fatal accidents have occurred during adventure activities in the past, the government and the Tourism Department have enforced strict norms to carry out these activities. The Tourism Department provides licences to the guides conducting rafting and the pilots of paragliders. The department also carries out periodic inspections of the fitness of guides and pilots, besides checking rafts, paragliders and other equipment to ensure the safety of revellers.Despite the vigil, operators sometimes give a go-by to norms like ensuring a rescue team and adhering to restricted hours. At times, they do not hesitate in using over-used equipment, endangering lives of enthusiasts. Action is taken against operators in case an accident occurs due to negligence.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/river-rafting-resumes-in-kullu-stakeholders-upbeat-272669
23-06-2021||People have started abandoning tagged cattle||Tagged cattle abandoned in Kullu||Tourists step on to middle of road, drivers waryAt Hasan Valley, the famous tourist spot on the Dhalli-Chharabra highway, people step on to the middle of the road while clicking pictures or admiring the dense forest, giving a nightmare to the drivers of the vehicles passing by. The drivers have to either apply sudden brakes or take a sharp turn. A police personnel should be deputed at this point. — Vikram, DhalliIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at:hpreadersfeedback@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/tagged-cattle-abandoned-in-kullu-272673
23-06-2021||Our CorrespondentHamirpur||Paragliding trial run in Himachal's Sujanpur successful||A team of paragliders conducted a trial run at Sujanpur in the district today. The team was sent by Minister of State for Finance and Corporate Affairs Anurag Thakur to explore the possibility of paragliding there, provide an opportunity to the youth to earn a livelihood and encourage adventure sports in Sujanpur constituency.Vinod Thakur, media in charge of the Sujanpur BJP unit, said the trial run was successful and soon people of the town would see gliders flying in the sky. He said Anurag Thakur had also assured them to encourage water sports activities in the Beas. He said the river provided scope for blue water rafting, sailing, canoeing and boating.Sujanpur was a historical town that enjoyed the status of capital of the Katoch dynasty, but it had been ignored by the Congress governments, he said. He said with the introduction of adventure sports, the town would regain its glory.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/paragliding-trial-run-in-himachals-sujanpur-successful-272675
23-06-2021||Shimla||188 Covid cases, five deaths in Himachal||As many as 188 Covid cases were reported in the state today, taking the tally to 200,791. Besides, five persons died of the virus in the past 24 hours. One death each was recorded in Mandi, Kangra, Una, Sirmaur and Shimla.There were 36 cases in Shimla, 28 in Mandi, 21 in Chamba, 19 in Kangra, 18 in Kullu, 16 in Bilaspur, 15 in Una, 12 in Solan, 11 in Hamirpur, six each in Lahaul & Spiti and Sirmaur. The total of active cases declined to 2,276.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/188-covid-cases-five-deaths-in-himachal-272677
23-06-2021||Shimla||Himachal Cabinet okays formula for Class XII results||The Cabinet today approved the formula worked out for the calculation of the percentage of Class XII students, who were promoted without appearing in examinations.As per the formula, the Class XII theory marks would be calculated on the basis of 10 per cent weightage for the Class X results, 15 per cent for the Class XI results, 55 per cent for the first and second term and pre-board exams, five per cent for the English subject results and 15 per cent weightage for internal assessment. The Class XII results would be declared by the third week of July.The Cabinet also approved one month vacation in schools from June 26 to July 25 in summer-closing areas. Kullu district would have vacation for 23 days from July 23 to August 14, and Lahaul and Spiti district for one month from July 1 to 31. Teachers in the winter-closing areas would start attending schools from July 1. However, online teaching would continue.The Cabinet directed the education and health departments to prepare plans in such a way that a maximum number of teaching and non-teaching employees of the educational institutions are vaccinated by June end.It decided to enhance the stipend of postgraduate students (MD/MS and DNB), Junior Residents, tutor specialists and DM/M.Ch students of government medical colleges and dental colleges by Rs 5,000 per month. The Cabinet also decided to double the diet allowance of sportspersons of the Education Department—from Rs 50 to Rs 100 per day per student at the block level, from Rs 60 to Rs 120 at the zonal and district levels and from Rs 75 to Rs 150 per day per student at the state level.It also enhanced the honorarium of 1,252 part-time water carriers of the Education Department by Rs 300 per month from April 1, 2021. The Cabinet also gave ex-post facto approval to fill 1,602 posts in various health institutions up to June 30 on the outsourced basis to tackle the second wave of Covid-19. It also decided to give extension in service to these employees up to September 30 keeping in view the possibility of a third wave of the pandemic.The Cabinet decided to extend the lease/tender period of modification in the working of the Govind Sagar reservoir for a minimum period from one to four years and fill 25 posts of Assistant District Attorney in the Prosecution Department on the contract basis through direct recruitment.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-cabinet-okays-formula-for-class-xii-results-272681
23-06-2021||Shimla||Lt Gen Suri is DG of Army Aviation||Lt Gen Ajay Kumar Suri has taken over as Director General and Colonel Commandant of Army Aviation in the Indian Army. He was born and brought up in Shimla. A pass-out of St. Edward’s School and Kendriya Vidyalaya, Jakhoo, Suri was commissioned as Second Lieutenant on June 8, 1985, from the IMA, Dehradun, and he joined the artillery regiment.Later, he earned his flying badge in June 1990 and has over 6,000 flying hours to his name. Lt Gen Suri recently moved a proposal for women helicopter pilots via the Chief of Army Staff and as a result two women officers joined training in Nasik after a rigorous selection process. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/lt-gen-suri-is-dg-of-army-aviation-272683
23-06-2021||Shimla||Himachal govt seeks Rs 20 cr pharma lab to boost quality exports||Himachal has urged the Central Government to provide funds for the Rs 20 crore pharma laboratory project at Baddi being mooted to improve the quality standards of the pharmaceutical industries.Industries Minister Bikram Singh raised the issue with Union Minister for Railways, Commerce and Industry Piyush Goel in New Delhi today. Though civil engineering works for the project at Baddi had been undertaken under an earlier scheme, which was discontinued, Rs 20 crore would be required to set up the pharma lab. “The fact that the annual consumption of API is worth Rs 30,000 crore reflects the importance of our pharma hub. To be able to compete in a highly competitive world market, it is imperative that there is Himachal’s demand for the pharma laboratory comes amidst repeated incidents of spurious and sub-standard medicines made in the Baddi-Barotiwala industrial hub, failing quality checks across the country. This has brought a bad name to the pharma units here, putting a question mark on the drugs produced. Some of the pharma giants have their production units in Baddi-Barotiwala.Medicines failed quality checksThere are more than 200 WHO-GMP certified pharma units in the industrial hub of Baddi-Barotiwala. Presently, most of the pharma units get their products tested at private commercial labs outside the state. The DPR has been submitted to the Trade Infrastructure for Export Scheme of the Commerce Ministry.Bikram Singh also requested Goyal to extend the Industrial Development Scheme for at least two more years up to 2024 and grant incentives to the state, as being given to Jammu and Kashmir.He apprised the Union minister about the industry-friendly environment in the state. He said that Himachal would like to join the national programme of industrial corridors for creating sustainable infrastructure to meet the requirements of the industries. He requested Goyal to include Baddi-Barotiwala-Nalagarh as an industrial node under the Amritsar Kolkata Industrial Corridor so that the area could witness growth at a faster pace. Goyal assured Bikram of all possible assistance to the state.Bikram Singh also met Union Minister of State for Youth Affairs and Sports Kiren Rijiju and apprised him that the state government had submitted a DPR for the construction of an indoor sports stadium at Pragpur village in Kangra district and urged him for its speedy approval.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-govt-seeks-rs-20-cr-pharma-lab-to-boost-quality-exports-272687
23-06-2021||Shimla||Himachal Congress in-charge Sanjay Dutt to tour poll-bound areas||AICC secretary and in-charge for Himachal Sanjay Dutt would embark on a week-long tour of the poll-bound Assembly segments in the state from June 25.Dutt will visit Jubbal-Kotkhai besides Kinnaur, Rampur, Kullu, Anni, Manal, Mandi and Sundernagar Assembly constituencies which form part of Mandi Lok Sabha segment.Dutt will visit Jubbal Kotkhai Assembly segment on June 26, which has fallen vacant following the death of sitting BJP MLA Narender Bragta. He will meet former MLA Rohit Thakur, office-bearers of the Block Congress Committee (BCC) and party workers to get their feedback. He is likely to take feedback and gauge the mood of the workers with regard to the party candidate to be fielded for the bypoll.Similarly, Dutt will interact with the BCCs of all Assembly segments to gear up the party cadres for the by-poll. He will interact with office bearers of the local units of the Kisan, SC and all other cells to get feedback on farmers and social issues, specific to the area.The byelections to the Mandi Lok Sabha seat and two Assembly constituencies of Fatehpur in Kangra and Jubbal-Kotkhai in Shimla are due anytime. MP Ram Swaroop died in March while the Fatehpur seat fell vacant after the death of Congress MLA Sujan Singh Pathania.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-congress-in-charge-sanjay-dutt-to-tour-poll-bound-areas-272688
23-06-2021||Rajiv MahajanNURPUR||Panic after 25 cows, calves die of mysterious disease in Nurpur||Residents of Baleer gram panchayat in Nurpur have been spending sleepless nights for the past few weeks after a mysterious disease killed their milch cattle. So far, 25 cows and calves have died of this disease in the past four weeks at Chochar village of the panchayat.A team of veterinary experts from Veterinary College, Palampur, rushed to the affected village yesterday and collected samples of dead animals after an autopsy for laboratory testing to ascertain the exact cause of the mortality of the animals.SDM, Indora, Somil Gautam, who accompanied the veterinary team, said villagers were panicky in the wake of the mysterious disease and scared of its spread among the human beings.Deputy Director, Animal Husbandry, Dharamsala, told The Tribune that initially the cases of the mysterious disease were reported to the department on May 22 when some milch animals with initial symptoms of body shivering fell down and died suddenly.“A team of doctors from veterinary polyclinic, Shahpur was sent to verify the primary reason behind the cattle mortality. The animal samples were analyzed and the cause of the mortality was reported ‘Nitrate Toxicosis’. The villagers were asked not to leave their animals open for grazing and use only dry fodder to feed them,” he informed.He said after reporting mortality again a few days before, experts of veterinary college, Palampur would verify the exact name and cause of the disease.Meanwhile, Balbir Singh, pradhan of Baleer gram panchayat, said he had approached local MLA Reeta Dhiman who arranged the visit of veterinary experts to the village.He lamented that the affected village had been left with only four milch animals within four weeks. He said surprisingly, some residents who kept their animals tied in the cowsheds and fed them dry fodder could not be saved from the dreaded disease.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/panic-after-25-cows-calves-die-of-mysterious-disease-in-nurpur-272690
23-06-2021||Our CorrespondentKULLU||Feedback sought on medical tourism||The Union Ministry of Tourism has invited comments on the draft national strategy and road map to promote rural tourism, MICE industry and medical and wellness tourism.The main objective is to facilitate tourism by augmenting infrastructure, ensuring ease of travel, promoting tourism products and destinations. Driven by the spirit of “Vocal for Local”, rural tourism can contribute significantly to the mission of “Atmanirbhar Bharat”.Medical tourism is a term used to describe the rapidly growing practice of travelling internationally to obtain healthcare.The ministry has sought feedback, comments and suggestions on or before June 30 to make the documents more comprehensive. These drafts can be accessed from the link available under the “what’s new” section on the website (https://tourism.gov.in/) of the ministry. The feedback can be sent at e-mail IDs js.tourism@gov.in, bibhuti.dash72@gov.in or prakash.om50@nic.in.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/feedback-sought-on-medical-tourism-272693
23-06-2021||---||From July 1, enter Himachal Pradesh without e-pass||Shimla, June 22In view of the improved Covid situation, the Himachal Government today decided to discontinue the e-pass system for entering the state from July 1, besides resuming the inter-state bus service.A meeting of the state cabinet was held under the chairmanship of Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur to review the Covid-19 situation. It was decided that from July 1, the inter-state bus service would be resumed with 50 per cent capacity, e-pass system discontinued and government offices allowed to work with full attendance.All shops would remain open from 9 am to 8 pm and restaurants up to 10 pm. Social gatherings would be allowed up to 50 per cent of the total indoor capacity with maximum 50 persons. Maximum 100 persons would be allowed at outdoor gatherings.No decision has been taken on opening schools, colleges and other educational institutions so far.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/from-july-1-enter-himachal-pradesh-without-e-pass-272507
23-06-2021||Shimla June 22||No e-pass required to enter Himachal from July 1||In view of the improved Covid-19 situation, Himachal government on Tuesday decided to discontinue the e-pass system for entering the state from July 1 onwards.The state Cabinet in a meeting held here under Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur reviewed the Covid-19 situation in the state.It was decided that inter-state buses, including Volvos, would be started with 50 per cent capacity in the state from July 1, 2021 and the e-pass would be discontinued from the same day.The government offices would start working with hundred per cent capacity from July 1.It has also been decided that all the shops would remain open from 9 am to 8 pm while restaurants would be allowed to remain open till 10 pm.Social gatherings/attendance etc. would be allowed up to 50 per cent of the total indoor capacity with maximum 50 persons, whereas maximum 100 persons would be allowed in the outdoor gatherings.These steps have been taken in view of persistent demand form hoteliers and others associated with the tourism sector. The hospitality sector has been the worst hit, with thousands of people losing their jobs.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/no-e-pass-required-to-enter-himachal-from-july-1-272419
