24-06-2021||Shimla||Two more Covid deaths in Himachal, active cases dip to 212||Two more people died of Covid-19 in Himachal Pradesh, taking the death toll to 3,447, while 161 fresh cases pushed the infection count to 2,01,210, an official said on Thursday.According to the state health department, the active cases have now dipped to 2,123.The overall recoveries have so far reached 1,95,611 with 322 patients recuperating from the infection in the past 24 hours, the official said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/two-more-covid-deaths-in-himachal-active-cases-dip-to-212-273406
24-06-2021||Manali||Gadkari lays foundation stones of Rs 6,155-crore road projects in Himachal||Union Minister Nitin Gadkari on Thursday inaugurated and laid the foundation stones of various road projects costing Rs 6,155 crore for Himachal Pradesh and assured that within two years the travelling distance between Delhi and Kullu would be reduced to seven hours.In the presence of Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur here, Gadkari dedicated the four-lane Parwanoo-Solan section of the National Highway-5, having a length of 39.14 km and constructed at a cost of Rs 1,303 crore.The Road Transport and Highway Minister laid the foundation stones, among others, of four-lane of the Kangra bypass to Bhangbar section of NH-88, having a length of 18.13 km to be constructed at a cost of Rs 1,323 crore; four-lane of Kiratpur to Nerchowk section having a length of 47.75 km to be constructed by spending Rs 2,098 crore; four lane and two lane of Paonta Sahib to Hewna section of 25 km length to be constructed at a cost of Rs 273 crore; and two lane of Hewna to Ashyari section of 25 km with an outlay of Rs 243 crore.Gadkari said better roads in the state would go a long way in tourism promotion.He said in the next two years the travelling distance between Delhi and Kullu would be reduced to seven hours. This would give a big boost to tourism in the state. The Minister assured that all roads and projects whose foundation stones were laid by him on Thursday would be completed within the stipulated timeframe.He said road projects of Rs 15,000 crore would be awarded to this state this year. The detailed project report (DPR) for the construction of 40 km left bank road project in Manali would be prepared at the earliest.Gadkari said that the Union government would provide all possible assistance to the state for the construction of alternative mode of transportation such as cable car and for strengthening the road networks in the state.Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur said being a hilly state roads are the only mode of transportation.He said the state has about 40,000 km road length, but being a hilly state a lot more needs to be done.Thakur thanked the Union Minister for dedicating and laying the foundation stones of road projects.He said the state government has succeeded in getting sanction of 997 projects from the Centre in the last three and a half years.During this period, the government connected 305 villages by roads as compared to 261 roads connected during the tenure of the previous Congress government.The Chief Minister urged Gadkari for the construction of the Bhuboo Jot tunnel and for double laning of the left bank road for Manali.Union Minister of State for Road, Transport and Highways V.K. Singh, who connected with the programme virtually, said road projects worth Rs 2,000 crore have been completed in the state and work was in progress on projects of Rs 7,000 crore.Union Minister of State for Finance Anurag Thakur, while addressing the event virtually, said the road infrastructure in the country has witnessed unprecedented expansion. — IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/gadkari-lays-foundation-stones-of-rs-6-155-crore-road-projects-in-himachal-273397
24-06-2021||Himachal Pradesh University campus unit of the ABVP expressed resentment over delay in declaration of examination results and submitted a memorandum to Comptroller of Examinations||Himachal Pradesh University: Declare BEd results, demands ABVP||Vaccinate students before exams: NSUIHPU campus unit of the NSUI opposed the decision of the government to hold examinations without vaccinating the students, as it poses a risk of catching Covid-19 infection. The government must vaccinate all students before holding the examinations, said Chhattar Singh Thakur, president of the campus unit. A delegation of the NSUI called on the Governor and urged him to direct the university authorities to ensure students were vaccinated before conducting examinations, as Covid-19 threat was still looming large.Open hostels for tribal students: ABVPThe ABVP urged the Director of Higher Education to open the hostels for tribal students and gave him a memorandum, pointing out the tribal students were staying in rented accommodations for the past one- and-a-half year, which was not affordable. Akash Negi, convener, tribal areas students' wing, said as online classes were going on, the students had no option except taking rooms on rent. Students belonged to remote places, where Internet connectivity was poor, so hostels should be opened, the ABVP said.Farewell party at Shoolini varsityThe Belletristic, the literature society of the department of English, Shoolini University, organised a virtual farewell party for the outgoing students. The event included a short skit summing up student life before and during the lockdown was presented on the screen, some poems capturing the nostalgia of the years gone by and several short speeches by the outgoing students. The thoughts expressed by Saquib, Chetali, Ritika, and Jagriti were appreciated.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-pradesh-university-declare-bed-results-demands-abvp-273329
24-06-2021||The failure of the authorities to prevent parking of vehicles on the widened Bemloe bypass link road has rendered the efforts to broaden the road futile. The work has been undertaken at several places to remove the bottlenecks but these are immediately used by people to park their vehicles. It is high time that the Shimla policementake action against roadside parking to prevent traffic congestion. Chandini Sharma||Roadside parking obstructs traffic||Ensure Tourists abide by normsThe government has opened the state borders for tourists, but steps need to be taken to ensure strict adherence to Covid norms. Often, the tourists can be seen roaming around without masks and in huge groups. Such reckless behaviour can pose a risk to the safety of locals. Gaurav Sharma, ShimlaIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at:hpreadersfeedback@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/roadside-parking-obstructs-traffic-273328
24-06-2021||---||Delhi tourist killed in Himachal mishap, 3 hurt||Mandi, June 23A Delhi tourist was killed in a car accident, near Hull village in Spiti subdivision of Lahaul-Spiti district yesterday evening, while three others were injured. The deceased has been identified as Mohit Yadav (25), son of Vijender Yadav, a native of Delhi.According to the police, the driver lost control over the car near Hull village in the Spiti region and it fell into a deep gorge. At the time of the accident, four persons were travelling in the car. While Mohit died on the spot, three others sustained grievous injuries. They were taken to the Rampur hospital in Shimla district. “The injured are Mohit Yadav, son of Rajesh Yadav of Delhi; Samir Sharma, son of Devender Kumar Sharma, and Barat John, aka Joni, son of Somveer John, both natives of Haryana. They are undergoing treatment and their condition is stated to be stable,” said a police officer.A misjudgment of the road by the driver is said to be the cause of the accident. The police have registered a case under Sections 279 and 304 A of the IPC, and a probe is under way.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/delhi-tourist-killed-in-himachal-mishap-3-hurt-273232
24-06-2021||---||Paonta man booked in child dumping case||Solan, June 23 The Paonta Sahib police today registered a case under the POCSO Act and rape against the brother-in-law of a minor girl, who had delivered a baby girl. The newborn was found dumped in a dung heap at a village in Shillai subdivision yesterday. DSP, Paonta Sahib, Bir Bahadur said that investigation  revealed that the minor girl was raped by her brother-in-law, following which she conceived. The newborn was reportedly dumped in a dung heap to escape humiliation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/paonta-man-booked-in-child-dumping-case-273233
24-06-2021||Bhanu P Lohumi||Road widening works in Shimla the bane of people||Tribune News ServiceShimla, June 23The ongoing construction works to widen roads in Shimla city has become the bane of people, who are facing inconvenience due to frequent traffic jams.The works are being undertaken at more than 12 road stretches in different parts of the city, causing traffic snarls as construction material and debris piled up on the roads obstruct the movement of vehicles. Various agencies, including the Public Works Department (PWD), are executing the works under the Smart City Project.There was no such problem during the lockdown, as vehicles were off roads and transport services were also suspended. However, after the resumption of bus services, opening of offices and free vehicle movement, roads are crowded with vehicles.Also, tourists are making a beeline for Shimla as curbs imposed have been relaxed; weekends witness crowds. As many as 28,212 vehicles crossed the Shogi barrier (to and fro) from 8 am on Friday to 8 pm on Saturday last week.Most of the works are related to the construction of retaining walls for the widening of roads but all these points have become traffic bottlenecks witnessing frequent traffic jams. Also, narrow roads have shrunk further due to the heaps of construction material and debris lying on the wayside and labourers working on them. The tourist rush is likely to increase as the government has done away with the requirement of e-pass from July 1.About 200 police personnel have been deployed on traffic duty in the city, besides one reserve, says SP, Shimla, Mohit Chawla. He adds that the situation will improve if the road widening works are undertaken during night.The road works are being carried out in the heart of the city, where the volume of traffic is high, particularly during morning and evening hours and at weekends. Regulating traffic on these roads is a daunting task for the police. The road stretches that are being widened include Dhalli to Sanjauli, Navbahar to Sanjauli, Chhota Shimla to Navbahar, Chhota Shimla to Kasumpti, Mehli to Kasumpti, Chhota Shimla to Tolland, Bus Stand to Tolland, Victory Tunnel to Lakkar Bazaar, Sanjauli to IGMC Hospital and Lakkar Bazaar and Tolland to Khalini.“Traffic movement was minimal during the lockdown and had the PWD worked in three shifts with a bigger workforce, the works would have completed by now and people saved inconvenience and perpetual traffic jams,” says Amit Sood, a local resident.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/road-widening-works-in-shimla-the-bane-of-people-273222
24-06-2021||Lalit Mohan||Chaos in Himachal's Kangra after govt advances lifting of Covid restrictions||Tribune News ServiceDharamsala, June 23Confusion prevailed in Kangra district today over the relaxation in restrictions allowed by the state government. The Cabinet at its meeting yesterday decided that from July 1 all shops would be allowed to open up to 8 pm, and the restrictions on the state borders and the condition of e-pass for entry to the state would be done away with.New rules in placeHowever, in a late night development, the government decided to offer these concessions with immediate effect. This morning, local shopkeepers reached out to the district authorities for a clarification on the relaxation in timing. The situation became clear in the afternoon when the Kangra District Magistrate issued the order stating that all shops could remain open up to 8 pm from today itself. Later he issued another order stating that all restaurants and dhabas could open at weekends and the local authorities would decide the weekly closure day.Deepak Kumar, who runs a fast food joint, said that he asked government officers in Dharamsala about the timings for shops but none of them had the right answer. However, it was in late afternoon that we were informed that all shops could open up to 8 pm, he added.Tourists and other travellers were allowed a hassle-free entry to Kangra and Una districts since the morning and police officials lifted barricades from the interstate borders.Meanwhile, the hotel and tourism industry of Kangra has welcomed the government decision to allow tourists entry to the state without any conditions. Ravi Sharma, general manager of a local hotel, said, “The summer tourist season has mostly been wasted due to the second wave of the pandemic and curfew restrictions. It is good that the government has lifted all restrictions imposed on the entry of tourists. It will encourage tourists, at least from adjoining states, to visit Himachal. We hope that the latest relaxation in restrictions will encourage tourists to come to the Kangra region before the onset of the monsoons.Una Deputy Commissioner Raghav Sharma said that all restrictions, including the e-pass condition, were removed this morning, as per the government orders.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/chaos-in-himachals-kangra-after-govt-advances-lifting-of-covid-restrictions-273223
24-06-2021||Shimla||Himachal farmers oppose hike in prices of apple cartons||The Kisan Sangharsh Samiti has slammed the hike in the price of packaging material by the Horticulture Produce Marketing and Processing Corporation (HPMC). “The hike must be withdrawn and cartons should be made available to the growers at reasonable prices,” said Sanjay Chauhan, secretary, Kisan Sangharsh Samiti.Chauhan said the cartons were available for Rs 45-55 last year. “This year, the cost is around Rs 55-75, which is a hike of 25 to 30 per cent,” said Chauhan.“This will put an overall burden of Rs 80 to 90 crore on the orchardists. At the time of pandemic, the decision taken is wrong,” he said.Chauhan said 20 days back, the Horticulture Minister had said the prices of the cartons would not be increased this year.“The hike, despite the minister’s assurances, raises doubt over the working of the government. The decision makes it clear that the government is working under the influence of carton manufacturers,” said Chauhan. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-farmers-oppose-hike-in-prices-of-apple-cartons-273224
24-06-2021||Dharamsala||CSK Agriculture University releases 13 crop varieties||CSK Agriculture University, Palampur recently released 13 new crop varieties developed by the scientists of the institute. HK Chaudhary, Vice-Chancellor, said that the variety HPW 373 (Him Palam Gehun 3) had been recommended for late-sown rainfed conditions in low and mid-hills of Himachal Pradesh.  “It has good chapatti-making parameters, coupled with a high degree of resistance against yellow rust and leaf rust,” he said. The wheat variety would have a yield of 28 to 32 quintals per hectare, he added. Other than cereal and oil seed varieties, nine vegetable crop varieties had also been released.  The Vice-Chancellor expressed hope that the farmers would adopt the newly developed varieties, which would  in turn increase their harvest and income. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/csk-agriculture-university-releases-13-crop-varieties-273225
24-06-2021||---||Kullu SP, Himachal CM security staffer scuffle, video clip goes viral||Kullu, June 23A video clip of local SP Gaurav Singh and a police official deputed in the security of Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur slapping and kicking each other has gone viral on social media.SP shifted, 2 CM security staffers sent on leaveThe incident took place outside the Bhuntar airport in Kullu today where the Chief Minister had gone to receive Union Minister for Road Transport and Highways Nitin Gadkari. The official version is yet not available but it has been reliably learnt that DGP Sanjay Kundu has sought a detailed report from DIG (North) Madhusudan, who also reached the airport to conduct an inquiry. Sensing the sensitivity of the matter, Kundu, too, left for Kullu.While CM watchedIn the video, the SP can be seen slapping a police official posted in the Chief Minister’s security after a heated argument, reportedly over allowing members of the Four Lane Prabhavit Kisan Sangh to assemble outside the airport. The police official can also be seen kicking the SP in retaliation, right near the Chief Minister’s vehicle. The SP is kicked as he withdraws and eventually runs back to save himself. All this while, the Chief Minister was seated in his official car. In the meantime, other personnel in the Chief Minister’s security and the local police intervened to defuse the situation.The SP and the Chief Minister’s security staff got into a heated argument over allowing Four Lane Prabhavit Kisan Sangh members to assemble outside the airport. About 50 members of the association carrying banners were standing outside the Bhuntar airport in Kullu, hoping to meet Gadkari and Thakur.Interestingly, Gadkari on seeing these people with banners stopped his vehicle and stepped out to give them a patient hearing. The association members submitted a memorandum to him. Thakur also standing next to Gadkari and listening to their grievances; they were demanding higher compensation for their land acquired for highway widening.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/kullu-sp-himachal-cm-security-staffer-scuffle-video-clip-goes-viral-273226
24-06-2021||---||SP shifted, 2 CM security staffers sent on leave||Shimla, June 23DGP Sanjay Kundu has taken serious note of the Kullu incident and transferred Kullu SP Gaurav Singh to the Range Office, Mandi, and sent two Chief Minister’s security personnel on compulsory leave till the inquiry is complete.Additional SP, Chief Minister’s security, Brijesh Sood and Chief Minister’s Personal Security Officer (PSO) Balwant Singh have been sent on compulsory leave. DIG (North) Madhusudan will perform the duty of the Kullu SP while Puneet Raghu, Additional SP, Third Battalion, Pandoh, will perform the duties of Additional SP, CM’s Security.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/sp-shifted-2-cm-security-staffers-sent-on-leave-273227
24-06-2021||Our Correspondent||Kullu: Nitin Gadkari arrives on four-day sojourn||KULLU, JUNE 23Union Road Transport and Highways Minister Nitin Gadkari was welcomed by Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur and other BJP leaders at the Bhuntar airport in Kullu today. Gadkari along with his family arrived for a four-day sojourn in Manali.The Union minister is scheduled to inspect the Atal Tunnel and visit the Lahaul valley tomorrow. He will lay the foundation stone of some projects, including national highways, from Manali virtually. He will have a meeting with the Chief Minister and discuss many ongoing projects in the state. He is scheduled to return to Delhi on June 27.Earlier, while talking to mediapersons, the Chief Minister said that the matter of strategically important Bhubu and Jalori tunnels would be taken up prominently with the Union minister. Earlier Thakur inaugurated and laid the foundation stones of around 15 developmental projects worth about Rs 64 crores for the Manali, Banjar and Kullu Assembly constituencies virtually from Kullu.He inaugurated bridges over the Sajla Nullah built at a cost of Rs 1.20 crore, over the Prini Nullah costing Rs 1.56 crore and the Kais Nullah. He inaugurated a parking lot constructed at a cost of Rs 1.14 crore at the Gulaba barrier.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/kullu-nitin-gadkari-arrives-on-four-day-sojourn-273228
24-06-2021||Shimla||Covid-hit former Himachal CM Virbhadra Singh’s birthday a low-key affair||The 87th birthday of former Chief Minister Virbhadra Singh was a low-key affair as the “Raja” still at the hospital though he has recovered from Covid.Virbhadra is under treatment at the IGMC Hospital here for over a month. Earlier, he remained admitted to a private hospital in Mohali but had to be again hospitalised on his return here.His son Vikramaditya Singh, who is Congress MLA from Shimla (Rural), flagged off sn ambulance and oxygen concentrators bought from his MLA Area Development Fund for Arki and Shimla (Rural). Supporters gathered at Virbhadra’s residence where a cake was cut.Party workers and Youth Congress activists distributed fruits and sweets to people at various places in the state. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/covid-hit-former-himachal-cm-virbhadra-singhs-birthday-a-low-key-affair-273229
24-06-2021||Ravinder Sood||HPSEB paid Rs10 lakh, still no power connection for Palampur oxygen plant||Palampur, June 23The state government has released Rs 10 lakh to the HP State Electricity Board (HPSEB) for the installation of a power connection for a medical oxygen plant at the local Civil Hospital following a news item published in The Tribune last week. However, the district administration has not yet submitted documents pertaining to the power load required for the plant to the HPSEB.A senior HPSEB officer said that there was no delay on their part in releasing the power connection but the district administration was yet to submit some technical documents mandatory for the installation of the required machinery for the plant at the Civil Hosptial.It may recalled that an oxygen plant set up under the PM CARES Fund at the Civil Hospital here is awaiting an electricity connection for the past one month. As per a letter of the Central Government addressed to the state governments, it is the responsibility of the states to provide buildings and other infrastructures, including electricity and water connections, to the oxygen plants to be set up under the PM CARES Fund. In Palampur, the oxygen plant at the Civil Hospital is ready but it still does not have an electricity connection.The DRDO had provided the design and site plan of the platform of the plant to the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI), which completed the task well in time. Later the plant was airlifted from Bangalore to Palampur and installed at the Civil Hospital. However, in the absence of a power connection, the plant has been nonfunctional.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/hpseb-paid-rs10-lakh-still-no-power-connection-for-palampur-oxygen-plant-273230
24-06-2021||Shimla||258 new Covid cases, eight deaths in Himachal||As many as 258 Covid cases were reported in the state today, taking the tally to 201,049. Besides, eight persons died of the virus in the past 24 hours—two in Solan and Sirmaur and one each in Shimla, Hamirpur, Kangra and Mandi.There were 74 cases in Shimla, 30 in Bilaspur, 29 in Mandi, 26 in Sirmaur, 21 in Kangra, 19 in Chamba, 18 in Hamirpur, 17 in Una, 14 in Mandi, seven in Solan, two in Kinnaur and one in Lahaul and Spiti. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/258-new-covid-cases-eight-deaths-in-himachal-273231
24-06-2021||---||In Himachal Pradesh, 8 districts get new DCs||Shimla, June 23In a major administrative reshuffle in Himachal late last night, the state government transferred 41 IAS officers, including the deputy commissioners (DC) of eight of the 12 districts.Dr Nipun Jindal, Mission Director, National Health Mission, will replace Kangra DC Rakesh Prajapati, who has been appointed Director, Industries. Arindam Chaudhary, Special Secretary, Excise and Taxation, will be the new Mandi DC, replacing Rugdev Milind Thakur, who has been appointed Director, Rural Development and Panchayati Raj. Ashutosh Garg, IT Director, has been posted as Kullu DC in place of Richa Verma, who goes as Chief Executive, Baddi Barotiwala-Nalagarh Development Authority.Lahaul & Spiti DC Pankaj Rai has been shifted as Bilaspur DC. Neeraj Kumar, Labour Commissioner, will be Lahaul & Spiti DC. RK Gautam, Director, Food and Civil Supplies, has been appointed Sirmaur DC in place of RK Pruthi, who has been posted as Special Secretary, Agriculture. Kinnaur DC Hemraj Bairwa will be replaced by Abid Hussain, Director, Urban Development. Bairwa has been posted as Mission Director, National Health Mission.Kritika Kulhari, Director, Women and Child Development, goes as Solan DC, replacing Kalyan Chand, who has been posted as Director, Food and Civil Supplies.Amit Kashyap will be the new Director, Tourism, while Yunus has been appointed Excise and Taxation Commissioner in place of Rohan Thakur, who goes as MD, HP Financial Corporation. Manasi Sahay Thakur has been shifted as MD, General Industries Corporation, and Lalit Jain as MD, State Civil Supplies Corporation. Apoorv Devgan, Shimla ADC, has been posted as Member Secretary, HP State Pollution Control Board.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/in-himachal-pradesh-8-districts-get-new-dcs-273198
24-06-2021||Shimla||Video of scuffle between Kullu SP and Himachal CM's security personnel goes viral||A video of Kullu's Superintendent of Police and a police officer deputed in Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur’s security engaged in a scuffle that resulted in the policemen slapping and kicking each other has gone viral on social media.The incident took place outside Kullu's Bhuntar airport where the CM had gone to receive Union Minister Nitin Gadkari. In the video, one can see the SP, Gaurav Singh, slapping Brijesh Sood, Additional SP, CM Security, after a heated argument. The CM's security personnel can be seen retaliating by kicking the SP right outside the CM’s vehicle. The CM was seated inside his official car all this while. The SP can be seen being kicked as he withdraws and eventually runs back to save himself.  In the meantime, one can see other CM security staff intervening to defuse the situation.Though an official confirmation is still awaited, it is learnt that the SP and CM security staff got into a heated argument over allowing those affected by the four-laning project to assemble outside the airport. Interestingly, Gadkari, on seeing these people with banners stopped his vehicle and stepped out to give them a patient hearing. All this while Chief Minister also stood next to Gadkari and listened to the grievances of people who've been affected by land acquisition for the road-widening project.People have been demanding higher compensation for their acquired land.Taking serious cognizance of the incident, DGP Sanjay Kundu said  Kullu SP Gaurav Singh had been transferred to Range Office Mandi.Brijesh Sood, the Additional Superintendent of Police, CM Security,  and Balwant Singh, Personal Security Officer (PSO) to CM, have been sent on compulsory leave until the inquiry is over.Duties of the Additional SP, CM Security, would be taken over by Puneet Raghu, Additional SP, Third Battalion, Pandoh, Kundu said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/video-of-scuffle-between-kullu-sp-and-himachal-cms-security-personnel-goes-viral-272945
24-06-2021||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Dhoni, wife given warm send-off as he leaves picturesque Ratnari village in Shimla, see pictures||Former Indian cricket captain Mahendra Singh Dhoni, who had been vacationing along his family and friends at a homestay in Ratnari village of Shimla district in Himachal Pradesh, was given a warm send-off.He left ‘Meena baag’ at 9 am.Aman Singh Thakur, who runs an NGO and is an environmentalist, interacted with Dhoni and his wife.“I gave the traditional Himachal cap to Dhoni sir and a Dhatu (traditional women’s cap) to his wife. They said they loved it here as it is so peaceful and nobody disturbs them. Appreciating the efforts of locals in keeping the place neat and clean, they said they would visit again soon,” Thakur said.In all, there are 12 persons in the group.View this post on InstagramA post shared by Sakshi Singh Dhoni (@sakshisingh_r)In videos that have gone viral, Dhoni can be seen moving near apple orchards covered with nets.He is learnt to have tried a pahari dish ‘siddu’, stuffed and steamed wheat flour buns that are eaten with ‘ghee’. Rather than staying at expensive hotels, the Chennai Super Kings skipper has this time experimented with homestays.Before proceeding to Ratnari, a place famous for its apple orchards, the group halted for a day at a homestay in Mehli near Shimla. Dhoni’s wife Sakshi and daughter Ziva posted pictures and videos of the family enjoying at the picturesque Ratnari. They can also be seen trekking in a jungle.Dhoni’s Indian Premier League (IPL) franchise Chennai Super Kings (CSK) shared a picture of Dhoni with Ziva, where he can be seen flaunting a new look.This is Dhoni’s second visit to Shimla in the past three years. The Chennai Super Kings captain had last visited Shimla in August 2018 for the shooting of an ad film.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/dhoni-wife-given-warm-send-off-as-he-leaves-picturesque-ratnari-village-in-shimla-see-pictures-272920
