25-06-2021||Dharamsala||BJP MLA’s wife alleges physical and mental harassment||Oshin Sharma, wife of BJP MLA from Dharamsala Vishal Nehria, has alleged physical and emotional abuse by her husband.In a recorded message, Oshin Sharma who is posted at the DRDA office at Dharamsala has alleged that her husband has abused her repeatedly physically and emotionally.Nehria and Oshin Sharma got married on April 26, this year.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/bjp-mlas-wife-alleges-physical-and-mental-harassment-273909
25-06-2021||Shimla||Himachal Pradesh reports 153 Covid-19 cases, two deaths||Himachal Pradesh reported 153 Covid-19 cases and two fatalities on Friday, taking the state's infection tally to 2,01,363 and its death toll to 3,449.  According to the state health department, the number of active cases of the disease now stands at 1,956.A total of 318 more Covid-19 patients have recovered from the disease in the state, taking the count of overall recoveries to 1,95,929, it said. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-pradesh-reports-153-covid-19-cases-two-deaths-273890
25-06-2021||---||Army Chief visits Shimla-based ARTRAC, briefed on training initiatives||Chandigarh, June 25Chief of the Army Staff General MM Naravane visited the Shimla-based Army Training Command (ARTRAC) today, where he was briefed on a range of issues such as strategic-military futures, doctrinal corrections, operational challenges and preparedness, technological infusion and training pedagogy.He was apprised about a number of initiatives being undertaken to maximise the effectiveness of the Indian Army and steps taken to make professional military education (PME) more contemporary and responsive to current challenges, according to an official statement.General Naravane also called upon the Governor of Himachal Pradesh, Bandaru Dattatraya, and discussed issues of mutual interest with him.Later, the Army Chief and the President, Army Wives Welfare Association interacted with and honoured the next of kin of Sepoy Ankush, who had made the supreme sacrifice during the Galwan standoff in Ladakh during June 2020 and was decorated posthumously with the Sena Medal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/army-chief-visits-shimla-based-artrac-briefed-on-training-initiatives-273881
25-06-2021||Tribune Web Desk||Unseen photo of MS Dhoni on Himachal village cricket ground surfaces online||Chandigarh, June 25Unseen photo of former Indian cricket captain Mahendra Singh Dhoni inspecting a cricket ground in a village in Shimla has surfaced online.Dhoni, wife Sakshi and daughter with 9 other persons in a group were on a holiday at a homestay in Ratnari village near Shimla for five days.Dhoni was also seen tracking in the apple belt, met local people and also took photos with them. He also tried local pahari food and was seen flaunting a new look.He and his wife said that they were happy to visit the peaceful place and would visit again soon.The wicketkeeper-batsman will be next seen in action in the Indian Premier League, which is due to resume in UAE in September.Chennai Super Kings was second on the points table when the tournament was called off due to the rising Covid cases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/unseen-photo-of-ms-dhoni-on-himachal-village-cricket-ground-surfaces-online-273835
25-06-2021||Our Correspondent||19 tunnels to be constructed in Himachal, work on 8 in progress: Gadkari||Kullu, June 24Union Minister for Road Transport and Highways Nitin Gadkari, during a visit to Atal Tunnel today, said 19 tunnels would be constructed in Himachal.He said the work was in progress on eight tunnels while the work on 11 tunnels would be awarded soon. Gadkari was accompanied by Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur. They were accorded a traditional welcome by people of Lahaul and Spiti district while they entered the north portal of the tunnel.Gadkari said the BRO would also construct tunnels at Shinkula, Baralacha, Tanglangla and Lachungla for better connectivity to border areas.Later, the Union minister inaugurated and laid the foundation stone of nine road projects of 222 km worth Rs 6,155 crore through video-conferencing from Manali. He dedicated the four-laned Parwanoo-Solan section of the NH-22 (now NH-5) to public. He also inaugurated a double-lane bridge built by the NHAI at a cost of Rs 12.86 crore on the Beas in Manali. The 80-metre long and 28-metre wide bridge would ease traffic jams in Manali.He said that better roads would go a long way in promoting tourism. In two years, the travelling distance between Delhi and Kullu would reduce to seven hours.Gadkari said the road projects worth Rs 15,000 crore would be awarded this year. The DPR for the construction of a 40-km left bank double lane road project from Kullu to Manali would be prepared at the earliest.Union Minister of State for Road Transport and Highways Gen VK Singh said that road projects worth Rs 2,000 crore had been completed in Himachal and the work was in progress on projects worth Rs 7,000 crore.Minister of State for Finance Anurag Thakur, addressing the event virtually from New Delhi, said the road infrastructure had witnessed an unprecedented expansion during Gadkari’s tenure.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/19-tunnels-to-be-constructed-in-himachal-work-on-8-in-progress-gadkari-273679
25-06-2021||---||39 km Parwanoo-Solan stretch on Shimla highway opened||Solan, June 24Nitin Gadkari, Minister for Road Transport & Highways, today inaugurated the 39-km Parwanoo-Solan stretch of the Kalka-Shimla national highway-05 virtually from Kullu district today.The work, which began in September 2015, was supposed to be completed within 30 months, but its smooth implementation was affected due unavailability of land, exodus of migrants during the Covid, besides an NGT order putting the work on hold for a few months owing to environmental concerns. It was supposed to be completed by March 2018.About 97 per cent of the work has been completed and an overpass at Solan and a viaduct bride near Parwanoo were among a few structures which were yet to be completed by the GR Infraprojects, which was executing the project.“The pending works were part of change of scope which were likely to be completed by September. The work assigned in the original project have, however, been completed. Barely 2.26 per cent land was available when the work had begun,” informed Balwinder Singh, project in-charge, GR Infraprojects.The project cost has escalated from Rs 748 crore due to change of scope for executing additional work. “Additional Rs 123 crore have been sought from the National Highways Authority of India and our case is before the arbitration” said Singh.The project also includes a 965-metre one-way tunnel on the Barog bypass which will reduce the distance from Shimla to Chandigarh by 3.5 km. Two railway overbridges have been constructed at Sanawar and Barog bypass and a flyover at Kumarhatti which will reduce the distance by three km.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/39-km-parwanoo-solan-stretch-on-shimla-highway-opened-273680
25-06-2021||Solan||Sirmaur woman held for duping Haryana groom||A 24-year-old woman married a Haryana resident and duped him of cash and valuables in Paonta Sahib.The police on Thursday arrested the woman, identified as Sheela of Kando Haryas village from Renuka.Sheela presented herself as Asha to Babber Singh of Pipliwala village in Haryana and married him at the Paonta Sahib gurdwara on March 20.DSP Bir Bahadur said a case of cheating, criminal conspiracy and breach of faith had been registered against seven persons.Two Haryana residents — Pirthi and Rishi — had offered to get him married to a local woman. They visited her house at Majra and the alliance was fixed. Five others hatched the conspiracy by posing as the bride and her relatives.The bride demanded Rs 1.5 lakh cash soon after the marriage to repay her parents’ loans and after staying with her husband for a few days, she fled with the jewellery and a mobile phone on April 14.The DSP said a similar case had been registered against the woman in Panchkula and a few other places in Haryana. Probe was under way. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/sirmaur-woman-held-for-duping-haryana-groom-273682
25-06-2021||Our Correspondent||Clear status of 69 NHs: Cong MLA to Gadkari||Hamirpur, June 24“Union Road Transport and Highways Minister Nitin Gadkari must clear the status of 69 national highways (NHs) he had announced during his previous visit to the state,” said Ram Lal Thakur, MLA, Sri Naina Devi Constituency, here on Thursday.He said the state government had approved the preparation of the detailed project report (DPR) of 58 national highways but nothing was seen on the ground. Ram Lal alleged that despite repeated meetings with the authorities of the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI), there was no development on the announced NHs.He said Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur had said a 140-km-long national highway from Kullu to Samshar in Anni was to be constructed but nothing had been done. “A fund of Rs 7.5 crore was sanctioned by the government for this project but the DPR was not prepared even after months.”Meanwhile, Prem Kaushal, spokesperson, Himachal Pradesh Congress Committee, said the purpose of Gadkari’s visit was just for tourism and to observe the political scenario in the state.He said the CM was unable to handle the government machinery and that was evident from the scuffle among police officers in his presence. He said Gadkari must understand the situation in the state from the incident.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/clear-status-of-69-nhs-cong-mla-to-gadkari-273683
25-06-2021||Abhinav Vashisht||Support pours in for Kullu SP on social media sites||Kullu, June 24There has been an outpouring of support for Kullu SP Gaurav Singh on social media though the inquiry into the incident of scuffle involving him and two other police officials here yesterday is underway.Most people have expressed concern over deteriorating discipline in the police force, while opinion is divided on who was at fault; the Kullu SP slapped the Additional SP, Chief Minister’s security, and in retaliation the Chief Minister’s personal security officer (PSO) kicked the SP.Social media is replete with video clips of the incident showing the police officials slapping and kicking each other outside the Bhuntar airport in Kullu yesterday where Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur had gone to receive Union Minister for Road Transport and Highways Nitin Gadkari.Social organisations and eminent persons have posted comments in the SP’s support but some people also thought that he was at fault. Some conscientious people felt that it would be premature to comment on the incident until the inquiry is complete. Many reputed persons have remarked that it was unruly on the part of the Chief Minister’s PSO to attack the SP.Kullu residents have supported the SP for allowing a peaceful gathering of people demanding higher compensation for their lands acquired for a highway project. “In a democracy, people have every right to express their opinion and the SP was right in allowing them to express their resentment. So, why should the Chief Minister’s security object to it,” the posts read. Many people have said that the Kullu SP is an excellent officer and he should not be transferred. They even credited him with improving law and order and tightening the noose around the drug mafia.Members of the Four Lane Prabhavit Kisan Sangh have also come out in Gaurav Singh’s support and thanked the district administration and the SP for allowing them to gather peacefully outside the airport, affording them an opportunity to raise their issues with the Union minister and the Chief Minister.They say that they did not stop Gadkari’s entourage and the Union minister himself stepped out of his vehicle and gave them a patient hearing. They add that there was no law and order problem and the security of the dignitaries was not compromised. The personnel in Chief Minister’s security were peeved at seeing them, resulting in the scuffle.Meanwhile, Sunanda Karol, sister of Additional SP Brijesh Sood, has in a Facebook post demanded justice for her brother. “Law does not permit anyone to raise his hand on others, much less on a police officer,” she writes. She says that isn’t slapping the Chief Minister’s security in-charge a punishable offence. She has also appealed to the Sood Sabha and local people for help in providing justice to her brother and punishment to the SP for his misconduct.Statements of SP, 2 other officials recorded||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/support-pours-in-for-kullu-sp-on-social-media-sites-273684
25-06-2021||---||161 Covid cases, two deaths||Shimla, June 24As many as 161 Covid cases were registered in the state today, taking the tally to 201,210. Besides, two persons died of the virus in the past 24 hours. One death each was recorded in Mandi and Hamirpur.There were 29 cases in Chamba, 24 in Kullu, 20 in Kangra, 17 in Mandi, 16 in Hamirpur, 13 in Shimla,10 in Sirmaur, nine each in Solan and Bilaspur, four in Kinnaur and three in Lahaul and Spiti. The number of active cases declined to 2,123.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/161-covid-cases-two-deaths-273686
25-06-2021||---||No end to political impasse in Tibetan parliament-in-exile||Dharamsala, June 24The political stalemate continues in the Tibetan parliament-in-exile as 22 newly elected MPs have not yet taken oath. There are 45 members of the Tibetan government-in-exile. Of these, only 21 MPs have taken the oath of office. There is one interim speaker and one member of the Tibetan parliament-in-exile from Australia, who has not been able to come to India to take oath due to travel restrictions.The 22 MPs are not willing to take oath from Dawa Tsering, interim speaker. The MPs have been claiming that the Chief Justice Commission that appointed the interim speaker has no jurisdiction over the matter, as the previous parliament-in-exile had removed him.Chief Justice Sonam Norbu Dagpo and two Justice Commissioners Karma Damdul and Tenzin Lungtok of the Tibetan Supreme Justice Commission were removed from office on March 25. The previous Tibetan parliament-in-exile, citing Article 58 of the exile Tibetan charter, had removed them from their posts on the charges of interfering in the business of the House.However, a constitutional crisis was created as only the Chief Justice of Tibetan Supreme Justice Commission of the Tibetan government-in-exile can administer oath to the new president, also known as Sikyong.Chief Justice Sonam Norbu Dagpo and two Justice Commissioners of the Tibetan Supreme Justice Commission resumed office on May 24. After taking over, they administered the oath of office to the new president of the Tibetan government-in-exile (Sikyong), Penpa Tsering, on May 27.Sources said that the members of the Tibetan Supreme Justice Commission resumed office on the plea that the due process was not followed for their removal. As per the Tibetan Charter for the termination of the justices, a parliamentary committee should have been formed, and its report submitted to the parliament for a discussion. However, the process was not followed.The Standing Committee of the previous Tibetan parliament-in-exile has, however, criticised the justices for resuming their duties, saying the act would be in defiance of the Tibetan Charter. The 21 newly elected MPs had supported the Justice Commissioners resuming their duties.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/no-end-to-political-impasse-in-tibetan-parliament-in-exile-273687
25-06-2021||---||Discipline erring police officials: Rathore to CM||Shimla, June 24Himachal Pradesh Congress Committee (HPCC) president Kuldeep Rathore today condemned the unruly behaviour of police officers at Kullu yesterday.In a statement issued here, Rathore said the Himachal police has become a target of mockery all over the country. “It was not just unfortunate but also shocking to see officers of a disciplined force, which is meant to enforce law, slapping and kicking each other that, too, in the presence of the Chief Minister,” he said.Rathore urged Thakur to rein in the erring police officials and ensure complete discipline in the police.He said what could public expect from the police when the custodians of the law start taking the law in their hands. “Seeing such an irresponsible behaviour of police officials, the public is bound to lose faith in the police force,” he added.He flayed the government for repeated incidents of ministers and politicians misbehaving with officials. “The misbehaviour of a minister with the Chief Secretary during the Cabinet meeting is condemnable. Such a behaviour will result in the officialdom losing confidence,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/discipline-erring-police-officials-rathore-to-cm-273688
25-06-2021||Mandi||College prof becomes Flying Officer||Chamanlal, Assistant Professor, Government Degree College, Mandi, has been commissioned as Flying Officer (Indian Air Force) and attached with 1 HP Air Squadron, NCC, Kullu, as Associate NCC Officer (ANO). He is the first trained ANO in the NCC Air Wing, Mandi.Chamanlal was the only Himachali in the PRCN-46, Senior Division course and piping ceremony, held at the Air Force Station at Tambaram, Chennai.Chamanlal said, “The officer cadets have been put through a rigorous military training package of almost four-and-a-half months duration”. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/college-prof-becomes-flying-officer-273689
25-06-2021||---||BJP core committee to meet in Dharamsala today||Dharamsala, June 24BJP top leaders from the state and Delhi, who are in the extended core group of the party for Himachal, will meet here tomorrow. Sources said the two-day meeting would devise a strategy for the mission repeat 2022.Prominent leaders such as BL Santosh, national general secretary of the party, Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur, former CMs Prem Kumar Dhumal and Shanta Kumar, Minister of State for Finance Anurag Thakur and BJP president Suresh Kayshap would attend the meeting.They said the party leaders would lay stress on winning the politically vital Kangra district that has 15 Assembly constituencies.The party is also facing criticism for allegedly ignoring Kangra district. Some projects like the expansion of the Gaggal airport, setting up of the Central University of Himachal Pradesh campus and the Smart City project of Dharamsala have been in limbo for the past about 4 years.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/bjp-core-committee-to-meet-in-dharamsala-today-273690
25-06-2021||Shimla||File fresh report in drug case: High Court||The High Court has directed the officer investigating the case of seizure of tramadol tablets from Kala Amb-based Orison Pharma in Sirmaur to file a fresh status report by June 28.Justice Anoop Chitkara directed the investigating officer to produce the record of the audit of the purchase, manufacturing and sale of the tablets celcidal TM 100.The court passed the order on an anticipatory bail application filed by chairman of the firm Rakesh Kumar Goyal.The court extended the interim bail granted to him till June 28.The court directed him to produce the latest investigation report about the authenticity of the address of “PP Pharma, East Mumbai” and the latest verification of the address of “New Care Healthcare, Ahmedabad.” — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/file-fresh-report-in-drug-case-high-court-273691
25-06-2021||Chamba||Rs5 cr for Churah water schemes||NABARD will provide Rs 5 crore for the drinking water schemes in Lensui, Khushnagri and Guila areas of Churah subdivision in the district, said Deputy Speaker Hans Raj at a meeting with officers of the Jal Shakti Department yesterday. He reviewed the work plan of drinking water and irrigation facilities at Tissa.He said that the construction of the Lensui, Khushnagri and Guila drinking water schemes would be started soon. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/rs5-cr-for-churah-water-schemes-273692
25-06-2021||Ambika Sharma||Huge tourist influx clogs road to Kasauli||Tribune News ServiceSolan, June 24The road leading to Kasauli is bursting at the seams with a huge rush of tourists heading for the hills to beat the summer heat of the plains from Delhi, Punjab and Haryana. The traffic situation has worsened after the lockdown was lifted in the plains and the state did away with the RT-PCR test for the visitors.The Garkhal junction, where five roads converge, has become a major headache for motorists as well as police. A motorist has to cross this junction to reach Kasauli from the Parwanoo-Dharampur national highway.The narrow single lane road is far too inadequate to handle such a huge volume of traffic as tourists enter from the national highway. The constant movement of VIPs, including Central ministers, adds to the turmoil as policemen face a challenging task to ensure smooth passage of vehicles at this junction.“The vehicles heading towards Kasauli and returning back are routed through two different roads at Garkhal to avoid traffic bottlenecks. Staff from the police station at Kasauli is deputed at the weekends to channelise traffic at this junction but since all roads are narrow and single lane, handling the huge traffic becomes tough,” said Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP), Parwanoo, Yogesh Rolta.Residents residing along the roads are subject to air and noise pollution because of constant honking by vehicles lined up on all roads. Unsavoury scenes are often witnessed as the desperate tourists sometimes argue with the policemen, who are engaged in manning the traffic smoothly. Policemen deployed rue they were helpless as roads were choked with vehicles.The district administration has failed to come up with a solution and decongest the roads despite the National Green Tribunal (NGT) directions to do so.The NGT had directed the state government to devise ways to decongest the Garkhal junctionafter undertaking a study on its carrying capacity in 2017. Its recommendations have, however, failed to yield any result.Kasauli has seen immense commercialization in the last two decades. Despite manifold increase in the number of hotels and tourists in the Kasauli Planning Area, not even a single road has been widened.It is surprising why the government has not initiated any move to work out a bypass for Garkhal junction. It is also used by goods trucks from the industrial belt of Baddi-Barotiwala-Nalagarh. Multi-axle trucks often add to the traffic woes due to their huge size.Despite roads being available to channelise industrial vehicles, the administration was turning a blind eye to this problem which was growing by each passing day.Commercialisation rises, Infra missing||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/huge-tourist-influx-clogs-road-to-kasauli-273693
25-06-2021||Shimla||Himachal doctors back Punjab counterparts||The Himachal Medical Officers Association (HMOA) will hold a two-hour pen-down strike against the reduction of non-practising allowance (NPA) and its delinking from basic pay in Punjab.The HMOA has decided to oppose the move as HP follows the pay scale of Punjab and it fears the reduction will be implemented here as well.“The HMOA has decided to oppose the recommendation to reduce the NPA from 25% to 20% along with its counterparts in Punjab until it is taken back,” said HMOA secretary Dr Pushpender Verma.Following a meeting today, the HMOA said the decision was unfortunate at a time when the doctors were busy fighting the pandemic, putting themselves at risk. “We will soon form a joint strategy to firmly oppose this recommendation,” said Dr Verma. He said the HMOA would demand to raise the NPA from 25% to 35% to keep the morale of the medical fraternity high in these tough times. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-doctors-back-punjab-counterparts-273694
25-06-2021||---||Rise in retirement age of doctors opposed||Shimla, June 24The State Association of Medical and Dental College Teachers (SAMDCOT) has urged Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur and Health Minister Rajiv Saizal to not increase the retirement age of superspecialty faculty from 62 to 65 years.While appreciating the government’s effort to provide super specialty care in the state — a super specialty facility is coming up on the outskirts of Shimla – SAMDCOT said this should be done without hurting the interests of the teaching faculty ofthe premier institute like Indira Gandhi Medical College and Hospital.The doctors’ body fears that the raised retirement age for super specialties in the postgraduate institutes will not only block the promotional channel of the faculty but will also obstruct the feeding cadre of senior professors to new colleges, already facing shortage.“There is already a policy of re-employment for teachers so where’s the need to extend the retirement age to 65?” asked SAMDCOT secretary Dr GK Verma. As per this policy, the re-employed person can’t hold an administrative post.In a veiled warning, SAMDCOT said the doctors had made a lot of sacrifices to handle the Covid situation in the state, so their concerns should not be ignored and the government should refrain from increasing the retirement age.The doctors’ body, however, thanked the government for raising the stipend of junior doctors by Rs 5,000 during the pandemic.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/rise-in-retirement-age-of-doctors-opposed-273695
25-06-2021||Shimla||18+ to get jabs for 2 more days||The government has decided to continue vaccinating the 18-44 age group on Friday and Saturday as well.As per the initial schedule, the days were kept reserved for the 45 plus and prioritised groups. Meanwhile, the sessions planned for them will be held as planned.A government spokesperson said the session in tribal and rural areas would continue with on-the-spot registration. He said the spot registration for 45 plus and prioritised groups would also be held in urban areas. “For the 18-44 age group, the sessions will be held with online registration in urban areas.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/18-to-get-jabs-for-2-more-days-273696
25-06-2021||Ravinder Sood||CCTVs to be set up for wildlife Census in Dhauladhars||Palampur, June 24The Wildlife Department will install CCTV cameras in the Dhauladhar ranges of the Kangra valley to carry out Census in the Dhauladhar Wildlife Sanctuary. To date, the Wildlife Department has no actual count of animals and birds in the Dhauladhar hills.Information gathered by The Tribune revealed that the upcoming wildlife counting would be taken up from July 1 jointly by the state wildlife and forest departments. Dozens of high-resolution CCTV cameras and other electronic devices would be installed in high-altitude areas of the hills to capture wild animals and birds.It is expected that during the Census, the Wildlife Department would be able to detect snow leopard for the first time in the Dhauladhar hills. The snow leopard is on the verge of extinction in the state. In past, the snow leopards were never spotted in the Dhauladhar hills which remains covered under snow for almost 10 months a year. Snow leopards were only found in Lahaul-Spiti and Kinnaur districts.Rahul Rohane, Deputy Conservator of Forests (Wildlife Wing), said this exercise was being taken up for the first time in snow-covered mountains of the Dhauladhar in which experts of the department would participate. He said staff of the state Wildlife Department had been imparted training by experts of the Wildlife Institute of India to conduct this Census.“Once the data is compiled, it will help the department to have an exact idea of the wildlife population in over 1,500 sq km of the Dhauladhar ranges. It will also help in the identification of the populated areas of wildlife in the region,” said a senior officer of the Forest Department.Joint exercise by Wildlife & Forest Departments from July 1||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/cctvs-to-be-set-up-for-wildlife-census-in-dhauladhars-273697
25-06-2021||Solan||Rs20-crore grant sought to spruce up pharma infra||Industries Minister Bikram Singh has requested the Union Minister of Commerce and Industry Piyush Goyal for Rs 20 crore under the Trade Infrastructure for Export Scheme (TIES) to give impetus to exports and spruce up infrastructure at Asia’s pharmaceutical hub of Baddi-Barotiwala-Nalagarh.A common effluent treatment plant, with a capacity to treat 25 MLD of effluents, was operational at Baddi since 2016. “To comply with the NGT directions, a new facility for treating fixed dissolved and total dissolved solids is needed to be set up, costing Rs 20 crore,” Bikram said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/rs20-crore-grant-sought-to-spruce-up-pharma-infra-273698
25-06-2021||Pratibha Chauhan||Soon, buy Chamba rumaal, Kullu shawl on Amazon||Tribune News ServiceShimla, June 24The online sale of Himachali handicrafts like Kangra miniature paintings, exquisitely embroidered Chamba rumaal and Kullu-Kinnauri shawls on Amazon and Flipkart will open up global markets for artisans, who have been hit hard by Covid.The Himachal Pradesh Handloom and Crafts Corporation will sign an MoU for facilitating the sale of Himachal handicrafts on their sites by the end of this month. The corporation will facilitate the sale of products made by weavers and artisans from across the state on the two popular online shopping sites.“We have been exploring the possibility of providing a global platform to our artisans so that they can get good prices for their products and showcase and market their craft,” says Bikram Singh, Industries Minister. “We are hopeful that the online sale of their products will open channels for the artisans, many of whom depend on their art for a livelihood,” he added.Though the artisans are well-versed in their art there will be handholding by the staff of the two online sites to provide them training regarding selection, marketing, accounting and packaging of their products as per the market requirements.“We will make clusters of artists for giving training, which will be undertaken physically provided the Covid situation permits or else it will be done virtually,” says Kumad Singh, MD, Himachal Pradesh Handloom and Crafts Corporation.She said to begin with the products to be made available on the online sites had been selected by government officials. Many products like Kinnaur and Kullu shawls, Chamba rumaal and Kangra tea have already been accorded the Geographical Indications (GI) tag, authenticity stamp.It is based on the response for these products that more items would be made available for online sale. Weavers, painters and artisans used to sell their products at exhibitions, both in the state and outside, and many of them used to export their stuff prior to the outbreak of Covid. However, now with the pandemic still not over, they have been severely hit and some of them are faced with the problem of sustaining their families.The government explored the possibility of a tie-up with these online shopping sites as they felt that Covid could result in many of these arts being pushed on the brink of extinction with no buyers and demand due to the repeated lockdowns.PRODUCTS FOR SALEOther items that will be available for sale include Kangra miniature paintings; metal thaalis and embroidered leather slippers; woollen jackets, woven mufflers, wood carving items, bamboo products and sketches of heritage buildings and famous temples of the hill state.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/soon-buy-chamba-rumaal-kullu-shawl-on-amazon-273699
25-06-2021||A webinar was organised by AP Goyal Shimla University on the ‘Development of personality through yoga’. Keynote speaker IG JP Singh (IPS)||Personality development Webinar||Extend date for filling HAS formsThe ABVP has demanded the extension of the last date for filling the forms for the HAS exams. While the date had already been extended once till June 22 because of inclement weather and poor connectivity, the ABVP has now demanded further postponement as there has been changes in the application process on the website and students have been facing problems in filling the forms.Chamba youth to get icon awardSunny Suryavanshi, a final-year student of Government College, Chamba, has been selected for the India Icon Award to be presented the National Human Rights Organisation in Delhi on July 11. Sunny and his classmates formed an NGO ‘Helping Hands’, which is providing free education to more than 60 slum children in Chamba. This NGO also contributes to environmental cleanliness. “I want to contribute towards ensuring that every child gets the basic education,” Sunny said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/personality-development-webinar-273753
25-06-2021||Shopkeepers have encroached upon pedestrian paths at several places across Mandi town. These shopkeepers keep their products on the pedestrian paths to attract customers||Mandi shopkeepers encroach upon pedestrian paths||Sushil Kumar, MandiHorses, yaks pose risk to commutersHorses and yaks can be seen roaming in the middle of the Kufri-Dhalli road quite often during early morning hours, putting the lives of commuters at risk. The owners should ensure the animals are kept off the road and someone should be accompanying them all times. Ramesh Verma, TheogIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at:hpreadersfeedback@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/mandi-shopkeepers-encroach-upon-pedestrian-paths-273756
25-06-2021||Shimla||Scuffle: Himachal Pradesh Government takes tough stand, moves SP, ASP||SP Gaurav Singh and ASP (CM-Security) Brijesh Sood involved in the showdown outside the Bhuntar airport in Kullu on Wednesday have been transferred. Even though an inquiry report by DIG (Central Range) Madhusudan is yet to be submitted, the government sent out a strong signal by transferring both officers. The SP had slapped Sood and another cop in CM’s security, Balwant Singh, who retaliated. All were sent on leave. Gurdev Sharma, Commandant, Fifth IRB (Mahila), has been posted as SP, Kullu, in place of Gaurav Singh, who has been shifted to Mandi DIG’s office. Sharma will be replaced by Akriti, Commandant, 1st IRB, Bangarh, Una. Puneet Raghu, Additional SP, IRB, replaces Brijesh Sood. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/scuffle-himachal-pradesh-government-takes-tough-stand-moves-sp-asp-273758
25-06-2021||Mandi||Kullu-Kaza bus runs after 20 months||The HRTC resumed its Kullu-Kaza bus service after a gap of 20 months today. The service was stopped on October 15, 2019. Mangal Menepa, Regional Manager of the HRTC depot atKeylong in Lahaul-Spiti, said the Kullu-Kaza bus service resumed today. The bus that started from Kullu at 4.30 am had 18 passengers on board, he said. After starting from Kullu at 4.30 am, the bus will have a brief stopover at Manali from where it will head for Kaza at 6 am. The Kullu-Kaza fare is Rs 498 per passenger. The bus will begin its return journey from Kaza at 5 am every day.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/kullu-kaza-bus-runs-after-20-months-273759
25-06-2021||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Watch: Himachal man fails to recognise Anupam Kher in hilarious video; actor calls it 'reality check'||Actor Anupam Kher was in for a "reality check" when a man in Himachal Pradesh was unable to recognise the veteran actor who has worked in 518 films.In an Instagram post, the actor said he "presumed that everybody in India knows him".A post shared by Anupam Kher (@anupampkher)  In the video, Kher is seen interacting with a man during a walk. Kher asked the man if he knew his name, to which the man said "no" and smiled. Kher proceeded to remove his face mask and asked the man again, who was still unable to recognise him.Sharing the video, Anupam Kher wrote: "Reality Check. I always proudly announce to the world that I have done 518 films. And I presume that everybody (at least in India) knows me. But #GyanChand ji very innocently shattered my confidence. He had no idea who I was. It was funnily heartbreaking and yet beautifully refreshing! Thank you, my friend for helping me keep my feet on ground! #KuchBhiHoDSaktaHai #LifeIsBeautiful #Innocence #Hilarious."||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/watch-himachal-man-fails-to-recognise-anupam-kher-in-hilarious-video-actor-calls-it-reality-check-273376
