26-06-2021||Shimla||Covid cases in Himachal dip below 1,900||Covid-19 claimed six more lives in Himachal Pradesh on Saturday, taking the death toll to 3,455, while 184 new cases pushed the infection count to 2,01,547, an official said on Saturday.According to the state Health Department, the active cases in the hill state have now dipped to 1,885.The overall recoveries so far have reached 1,96,178 with 249 patients recuperating from the infection in the past 24 hours, the official said.— PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/covid-cases-in-himachal-dip-below-1-900-274434
26-06-2021||Dharamsala||HP: Congress demands suspension, arrest of BJP MLA Nehria for ‘torturing’ his wife||Congress leaders and workers held a protest here on Saturday demanding suspension and arrest of BJP MLA Vishal Nehria over allegations of torturing his wife.The Congress has also demanded a high-level inquiry into the matter.Two months after the marriage, Oshin Sharma, the wife of Dharamsala MLA Nehria, lodged a police complaint on Friday accusing her husband of physical and mental torture.She also released an 11-minute video that has gone viral on social media.Sharma, a Himachal Pradesh Administrative Service (HPAS) officer, alleged that her husband had physically and mentally tortured her several times.Nehria and Sharma got married on April 26 this year.A police official said Nehria met the Kangra SP and submitted his statement on Saturday.When asked to comment on the matter, BJP spokesperson Randhir Sharma said, “The video has gone viral on this issue. A written complaint has also been made to the police. The police will take action according to that complaint. The government is not going to put any kind of pressure on this subject.” “The incident is unfortunate, it should not have happened. It is a family matter, the matter of husband and wife. The police administration will proceed with seriousness and the government will not put any kind of pressure on this. I assure you that,” he added.Report  The Himachal Pradesh State Commission for Women has sought a report from Kangra superintendent of police over the allegations.Commission chairperson Daisy Thakur told PTI that they took suo motu cognisance of the matter on the basis of a video that surfaced on the social media.In a letter to Kangra SP Vimukt Ranjan, the commission asked him to submit a report immediately, she added. However, the SP was not available for comments despite repeated attempts. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/hp-congress-demands-suspension-arrest-of-bjp-mla-nehria-for-torturing-his-wife-274409
26-06-2021||Certain localities in Nadaun are facing an acute water shortage for the past one month. Despite several complaints to the Irrigation and Public Health Minister||No end to water woes in Nadaun||Bharmour villagers demand link road Arki village of Khanni panchayat in Bharmour tribal area does not have a link road. In the absence of the road, we have to walk a long distance to reach the main road. We even have to bring patients on our back or in palanquins to hospital for treatment. We have been pressing for construction of a link road to our village, as the hilly terrain makes it difficult to travel long distance. Villagers, BharmourIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: hpreadersfeedback@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/no-end-to-water-woes-in-nadaun-274342
26-06-2021||Ishaan Sammi brought laurels to DAV||Chamba's Ishaan tops NTSE in Himachal||Extend date for filling forms: ABVPThe ABVP has urged the state School Education Board to extend the date for filling forms for TET exams. The ABVP said many students had not been able to fill forms because of bad weather, poor Internet connectivity and Covid-related reasons. The ABVP said many students from the hilly areas were in touch with them, requesting extension of the last date.Students, teachers perform asanasStudents of Doon Valley Public School celebrated International Yoga Day virtually. As many as 2,000 students, along with 100 teachers and yoga instructors, performed various asanas. A powerpoint presentation on yoga was shown to students to display the various asanas. Principal Devendera Mahal told the students yoga was beneficial for a healthy mind and body during the pandemic. She said students should do yoga for at least 40 minutes everyday. Chairman Rajeev Sharma lauded the students and the staff on conducting the event successfully.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/chambas-ishaan-tops-ntse-in-himachal-274341
26-06-2021||Hamirpur||Give jobs to specially abled on priority: Special Olympic Association of India||Job Opportunities must be provided to specially abled on priority, said Sumiti Thakur, district president, Special Olympic Association of India, here on Friday. She said with the efforts of Mallika Nadda, national president of the association, the government had increased eligibility categories from seven to 21. She said due to lack of awareness, specially abled people were deprived of their legitimate share in government services. OCHamirpur19-year-old girl remains untracedA 19-year-old girl from the Barsar area of the district, who has been missing since June 19, is yet to be traced. Her marriage was fixed in the second week of July. A missing person complaint was lodged by the girl’s father. In his complaint, he alleged that his daughter fled the house before her marriage and took away Rs 50,000 cash and jewellery. SP Gokulchandran Karthikeyan, however, said it was not a case of kidnapping or abduction. OCMandiMother, 10-year-old son drown in MandiA mother and her 10-year-old son drowned in the Balohal river at Tikru village of Mandi district, on Friday. The police said Abhishek of Bedu village was playing on the banks of the river while his mother was working in a nearby field. The child lost his balance and fell into the river, where a check dam has been constructed. Due to the high volume of water, the child drowned. As soon as the child fell into the river, his mother Rajjo Devi jumped into the water to rescue him, but she also drowned. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/give-jobs-to-specially-abled-on-priority-special-olympic-association-of-india-274227
26-06-2021||---||Historic Shoolini fair begins in Solan||Solan, June 25The historic state-level Shoolini fair, signifying devotion to Goddess Shoolini, began in Solan today, where Deputy Commissioner Kritika Kulhari offered prayers at the temple.Owing to the pandemic, prayers were offered in a restricted manner and other celebrations have been done away with.The fair marks the sojourn of the ruling deity of the area at her elder sister Goddess Durga’s temple, located in Ganj Bazaar. The palanquin of Goddess Shoolini was received by the DC at Ganj Bazar.The fair was being live streamed for the second consecutive year to enable devotees to pay obeisance online.The fair is usually marked by three-days of celebrations, and the whole town celebrates the pious occasion. As the fair sees a huge rush of people, the administration has banned all festivities.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/historic-shoolini-fair-begins-in-solan-274231
26-06-2021||Mandi||Power projects not good for Lahaul-Spiti, Nitin Gadkari urged||Residents of Lahaul-Spiti today submitted a memorandum to Union Minister for Road Transport and Highways Nitin Gadkari against the proposal of the state and Central governments to set up power projects on the Chenab.  Gadkari, on a tour of the Lahaul valley, was accorded a warm welcome at Sissu by the residents of Lahaul and Spiti. A delegation of the Tandi Bandh Sangharsh Samiti Lahaul Spiti led by its president Vinod Larje  met the Union minister and submitted the memorandum. Pirdi Lal, a spokesperson for the samiti, said, “We apprised the Union Minister that the state and Central governments were keen to set up power projects on the Chenab in Lahaul and Spiti. There are around 16 mega power projects and 30 micro power projects proposed on the Chenab, which will prove disastrous for the area residents”. The residents of the Lahaul valley also requested Gadkari to declare the Tandi-Sansari road as a national highway. Meanwhile, Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar also arrived in Kullu on a private visit today. Union Minister for Textiles Smriti Irani left Kullu after a two-day sojourn in the Tirthan valley. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/power-projects-not-good-for-lahaul-spiti-nitin-gadkari-urged-274222
26-06-2021||Shimla||Need for quality education in tribal areas: Himachal Governor||Governor Bandaru Dattatreya today stressed the need for quality education and health facilities in tribal areas and said special efforts should be made to launch employment schemes for the youth of this region.He was presiding over a videoconferencing with senior officials of the Tribal Development and Forest Department on various issues of the tribal districts at Raj Bhawan.The allotment of ‘pattas’ of Nautor land in all sanctioned cases in the tribal areas and follow-up action were discussed. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/need-for-quality-education-in-tribal-areas-himachal-governor-274224
26-06-2021||---||Himachal byelections: BJP says candidates yet to be finalised||Dharamsala, June 25No candidate has been shortlisted for the forthcoming byelections in the state. The names of the candidates will be considered once the byelections are announced, said state BJP spokesperson Randhir Sharma while addressing mediapersons here today.He said that in the extended core group meeting being held at Dharamsala, the senior BJP leaders would discuss the report cards submitted by the party MLAs in the meeting held in Shimla recently.He said that a divided Congress in the state was no match for the BJP in the Assembly elections due next year. The various splinter groups of the party in the state were constantly fighting with each other while the BJP works as an organised party. The divided Congress would offer no challenge to the BJP in the next Assembly elections, he claimed.Asked about the unprecedented rise in the prices of various commodities, especially petrol and diesel in the country, Sharma said that the party was concerned about the price rise and its impact on common people. Steps were being taken to check the price rise and soon it would be brought under control, he added.He said that BJP workers had provided ration to around 10,000 households in the state. The BJP Mahilla Morcha had stitched and distributed about 12 lakh masks. Vidhan Sabha Speaker Bipin Singh Parmar had adopted a child orphaned due to Covid, he added.Sharma admitted that many people had resorted to black marketeering and profiteering at the cost of common people during the pandemic. The government was earlier busy in tackling Covid and it would now take steps to check black marketeering and profiteering. About the anonymous letters being written against various functionaries of the BJP, Sharma said that such an activity was a sign of distorted mentality of some people.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-byelections-bjp-says-candidates-yet-to-be-finalised-274220
26-06-2021||Lalit Mohan||BJP focuses on strategy to win 3 bypolls in Himachal||Tribune News ServiceDharamsala, June 25The two-day meeting of the extended core group of BJP began here today under the chairmanship of BL Santosh, national general secretary of the party. Most senior leaders of party like party in-charge of Himachal Avinash Rai Khanna, co-incharge Sanjay Tandon, Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur, former CM Prem Kumar Dhumal, Union Minister of State for Finance and Corporate Affairs Anurag Thakur and all ministers of the Himachal Cabinet attended the meeting.The party leaders dwelled on strategies for winning the forthcoming byelections to the Fatehpur and Jubbal-Kotkhai Assembly constituencies and the Mandi parliamentary constituency. The BJP leaders don’t want to leave any stone unturned to win the byelections as these would set the tone for the Assembly elections to be held next year.For Mission Repeat 2022, the sources said that the senior leaders also discussed the performance of various MLAs. They also discussed strategies to beat anti-incumbency in the state. Former Chief Minister Shanta Kumar, who was also invited, did not attend the meeting today. Party spokesperson Randhir Sharma, when asked about Shanta Kumar’s absence, said that he would attend the meeting tomorrow.The meeting was held in camera and even BJP MLAs were not invited.The sources said that the meeting was organised to assess the impact of Covid and the price rise on the popularity of the party. The leaders suggested strategies for how to tackle the issues of rising unemployment and the price rise, which the party attributes to the pandemic and its economic impact.The meeting entrusted the responsibilities of various wings such as panna pramukhs, mahila wing, Bharatiya Janta Yuva Morcha to party workers. How the party workers associated with these wings would approach people and explain to them the steps taken by the BJP governments in the state and at the Centre during the pandemic was also discussed.The state ministers and MLAs have already submitted detailed reports to the party on how they helped people during the pandemic. The party workers were directed to convey the work done by the ministers and the MLAs to the people.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/bjp-focuses-on-strategy-to-win-3-bypolls-in-himachal-274221
26-06-2021||---||Border roads to be strengthened, says Army Chief||Shimla, June 25The Chief of the Army Staff, General MM Naravane, today said that the Indian Army had prepared a plan to strengthen the road network along the border areas of the state, which would help promote development activities and contain migration.Gen Naravane called on Governor Bandaru Dattatreya at the Raj Bhawan here and held detailed discussions on various issues related to the development of border areas of the state. He said that the Army was capable of giving a befitting reply to every nefarious attempt of the enemy. As far as the border with China was concerned, talks were going on and there was nothing to worry, he added.Gen Naravane said that there was a lot of enthusiasm among the youth for the Army and a large number of them were willing to join the force. Efforts were being made to give representation to every district of the country in the Army. He also expressed concern over narco-terrorism in border areas and said that the local administration had done a good job to contain it.The Governor stressed the need for infrastructure development along the border areas with China. “The Army has an important role in the development of roads, helipads and other infrastructure. Youths from villages adjoining the border are migrating to cities for employment opportunities. It is a matter of concern and we need to explore the possibility of self-employment and employment at the local level,” he said.Dattatreya said that jawans from almost every household in the lower belt of Himachal were serving in the Army and the number of ex-servicemen was also quite high. He also raised the issue of the Walker Hospital at Shimla with the Army Chief.Visits ARTRAC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/border-roads-to-be-strengthened-says-army-chief-274213
26-06-2021||---||153 new cases, two deaths in Himachal||Shimla, June 25As many as 153 Covid cases were reported in the state today, taking the tally to 201,363. Besides, two persons died of the virus in the past 24 hours. One death each was reported in Mandi and Sirmaur, raising the total number of fatalities to 3,449.There were 35 cases in Chamba, 23 in Kangra, 22 in Mandi, 18 in Bilaspur, 16 in Kullu, 10 in Shimla, nine in Una, seven each in Solan and Kinnaur, five in Hamirpur and one in Sirmaur. The number of cases continued to decrease and as a result total active cases declined to 1,956. As many as 318 recovered in the past 24 hours.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/153-new-cases-two-deaths-in-himachal-274215
26-06-2021||Shimla||HP High Court addl judge  appointed||The Centre today notified the appointment of senior advocate Satyen Vaidya as Additional Judge of the HP High Court. The notification reads, “In exercise of the power conferred by clause (1) of Article 224 of the Constitution, the President is pleased to appoint Satyen Vaidya to be an Additional Judge with effect from the date he assumes the charge of his office”. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/hp-high-court-addl-judge-appointed-274216
26-06-2021||Shimla||Monoclonal antibodies administered to Covid patient at IGMC, Shimla||The IGMC Hospital administered monoclonal antibodies to a Covid patient here today.  “We have administered monoclonal antibodies to a Joint Director of the Health Department. It’s the first time we have used the therapy,” said Dr Rahul Gupta, Deputy Medical Superintendent, IGMC Hospital. According to Dr Gupta, monoclonal antibodies don’t let the virus bind to the cells and the patient will be negative for the virus within 24 hours. The state has received 200 injections of monoclonal antibodies as part of foreign aid. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/monoclonal-antibodies-administered-to-covid-patient-at-igmc-shimla-274218
26-06-2021||Mandi||Work on Rs 100 crore water scheme under way in Mandi||Jal Shakti Minister Mahender Singh Thakur has said that the Longani-Sari-Jodhan lift irrigation scheme in the Dharampur Assembly segment in Mandi would be constructed at a cost of Rs 100 crore. He said the  work on the scheme was in progress in Dharampur. Water would be lifted from the Beas. On the completion of the scheme, better irrigation facilities would be available to farmers. The minister was on an official tour of Sajyaopiplu, Dhwali, Binga and Longani of Dharampur. He said that a gau sadan would be constructed in Dharampur at a cost of Rs 2 crore.  He added that the construction of the Bida-Balh road had been completed.  Sandalwood saplings would be planted on 10 hectares in Shivdwala and Dodar areas of Dharampur.  He also distributed induction ovens and solar lamps to 13 workers in Sajyaopiplu, 56 in Longani and 38 in Dhwali. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/work-on-rs-100-crore-water-scheme-under-way-in-mandi-274219
26-06-2021||ibune News Service 
||Anti-encroachment drive in Shimla leads to ruckus||Shimla, June 25 An anti-encroachment drive carried out by Municipal Corporation led to a ruckus in the city’s Lower Bazaar today. While the MC officials claimed that the shopkeepers resisted the drive and even tried to intimidate them, the shopkeepers alleged that the former picked goods from inside their shops and did not even give them the receipt of the articles picked from their shops.  Later, the MC returned the articles after issuing challans to as many as 26 shopkeepers.  “If someone is found guilty of encroachment again, the confiscated articles will be auctioned,” said MC joint commissioner Ajit Bhardwaj, who led the drive along with Additional Commissioner (Legal) Joginder Chauhan. Bhardwaj said the drive was launched following complaints from people that shopkeepers had covered a lot of portion of the road with their goods and it was getting tough to walk through the bazaar.  “We found encroachment on a large scale. Besides overhanging projections, many shopkeepers had covered a portion of the road too, leaving little space even for emergency vehicles to pass through,” said Bhardwaj. Meanwhile, the shopkeepers said the drive was absolutely unwarranted, especially at a time when they were trying to get their business back on track following the lockdown.  “For the last one-and-a-half year, traders are struggling to stay afloat. There’s hardly any business. How do we take care of our families and pay our salesman,” said an aggrieved shopkeeper.  Another shopkeeper alleged that the MC officials picked up articles from inside the shops and did not even provide the receipt for it. “We don’t support encroachment but the MC officials should have informed the Beopar Mandal once,” said Shimla Beopar Mandal president Inderjeet Singh.  Taking a tough stance, Bhardwaj said the encroachment would not be allowed at any cost and such drives will continue in different parts of the city on regular basis.  Warning of strict action against encroachment, Joginder Chauhan said as per the High Court orders, there were provisions for stricter action against encroachment, including disconnecting water and electricity supply and even cancellation of the traders’ licence.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/anti-encroachment-drive-in-shimla-leads-to-ruckus-274206
26-06-2021||Legal Correspondent
||Now, consumer complaints can be filed online in Himachal||Shimla, June 25 The HP State Consumer Commission today launched E-dakhil online application for filing consumer complaints in the State Consumer Commission and the District Consumer Commission. It was launched by presiding member Sunita Sharma.  The E-dakhil portal under the confonet project is a tie-up with the State Bank of India. Consumers can use ATM cards /debit or credit cards, net banking or all other UPI payments while availing the facility. Narender Mehta, joint registrar of the State Consumer Commission, said currently, E-dakhil online application was available for filing consumer complaints. However, the facility of filing appeals in the State Commission through the E-dakhil portal would soon be introduced.  Several senior officials were present on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/now-consumer-complaints-can-be-filed-online-in-himachal-274207
26-06-2021||Our Correspondent
||Taps running dry for 10 days, Baijnath villagers protest||Palampur, June 25 Residents of Khara Nal areas of Baijnath subdivision today lodged a protest over the shortage of drinking water in their villages. They lamented that the Jal Shakti Department had failed to restore the water supply to these villages. Anuj Acharaya, Ankush Sood, Vinay Kumar and Sanjiv, residents of Khara Nal area, said there was no water in taps for the past 10 days. Despite repeated complaints to the officials of the Jal Shakti Department, no steps had been initiated to restore the water supply. They said a complaint was also lodged on the CM helpline, but in vain. The villagers met local MLA Mulakh Raj Premi, but he too failed to help them, said the residents. “The phone calls made on the complaint number of the department are rarely answered,” they said. Most of the villages are elderly or retired persons. An elderly couple said they had requested their relatives living in Baijnath, 3 km km away, to deliver water to them daily, in their car, as there was no drinking water available nearby. Sanjay Thakur, Executive Engineer, Jal Shakti Department, said the matter had come into his notice and he had deputed the Junior Engineer and the Assistant Engineer, Baijnath, to resolve the issue and unblock the pipelines to restore the water supply.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/taps-running-dry-for-10-days-baijnath-villagers-protest-274208
26-06-2021||Ambika Sharma||Pollution board faces NGT wrath over toxic discharge into Sirsa river in Baddi||Tribune News ServiceSolan, June 25The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has come down heavily on the State Pollution Control Board (SPCB) for its failure to prevent the discharge of toxic industrial effluents from pharmaceutical units into the Sirsa river in the Baddi area.In orders pronounced by a Principal Bench on June 23, the NGT stated that such failure of the statutory duty is at the cost of public health and protection of the environment.An analytical study undertaken by the SPCB reveals that the Common Effluent Treatment Plant (CETP) commissioned to treat industrial effluents at Baddi is not meeting the norms and discharging effluents without proper treatment into the river. Its treatment efficiency for residual antibiotics is also not on a par with prescribed norms.The concentration of residual antibiotics such as ciprofloxacin and ofloxacin was 1,139 and 348 times, respectively, higher than the draft standards notified by the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change (MoEFCC).Samples drawn from several places show antibiotic discharge into the surface water and subsoil water. This can cause harmful antibiotic resistance among the humans and animals and can reduce their chances of recovery from diseases while also proving fatal.Since 100 per cent random test positivity has been found in the study, it appears that the whole lot of polluting antibiotics are being discharged onto the surface and subsoil water, which is worrisome.Moreover, since pharmaceutical units located at Nalagarh and Barotiwala are not connected to the CETP, they were discharging their effluents directly into the rivers.The NGT took strict note of the fact that board officials pinned their inaction on the fact that the MoFECC had not revised the standards for residual antibiotics. The board has been directed to lay down standards under Section 17 of the Water Act. It has also directed the ministry to expedite the process of finalising these standards.A joint committee comprising a nominee of the ministry, Central Pollution Control Board, SPCB and District Magistrate has also been directed to file a report of violation and remedial action taken within three months.A report on the performance of individual pharmaceutical units, particularly regarding the removal of residue of active pharmaceutical ingredients as well as by the Common Effluent Treatment Plant is supposed to be submitted in three months. The report will also take into consideration the number of pharma units connected to the CETP and those discharging effluents directly into the drain and the river and affecting the chemical and biological quality of the Sirsa and Sutlej rivers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/pollution-board-faces-ngt-wrath-over-toxic-discharge-into-sirsa-river-in-baddi-274209
26-06-2021||---||HRTC employees seek regular jobs||Mandi, June 25 Contractual employees of the Himachal Road Transport Corporation (HRTC) have been urging the state government to regularise their jobs, as they had completed three years on a contract basis on March 31.  The employees in Sundernagar, including Jaswant Singh, Om Prakash, Yog Raj and Dayanand  said there was a provision to regularise jobs of contractual employees in the government sector after completion of three years of service on contract basis.  The declaration for regularisation of jobs in different departments was given on March 31 or September 30 every year, they said. They alleged in other departments, the state government had regularised the contractual employees, who had completed three years service in their department concerned on March 31.  However, the employees of the HRTC were still waiting regularisation, they said. “We urge the Chief Minister to look into the matter and do the needful to regularise the employees,” they said in a joint statement.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/hrtc-employees-seek-regular-jobs-274210
26-06-2021||Shimla||Vaccination drive for teachers, students on June 28, 29 in Shimla||The Education Department has decided to undertake a special vaccination drive on June 28 and 29 for students above the age of 18 and both teaching and non-teaching staff of all educational institutions in the state.In a letter to the principals of all schools and colleges, both government and private, Dr Amarjeet K Sharma, Director Higher Education, said, “The special vaccination drive for all employees and students above 18 years will begin shortly and the priority must be given to BA final year students, whose exams are due in July,” he said.He also directed the Deputy Directors of the Higher Education Department in all districts and the principals of all colleges to identify some educational institutions in their districts that could be designated as vaccination centres. “The centre should be big enough to be able to cater to the requirements of vaccinating 250 to 300 persons,” he said.Sharma directed the heads of educational institutions to submit by June 26 the details of the vaccination centres along with the lists containing the names of about 250 to 300 teachers, non-teaching staff and students to be vaccinated at each centre. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/vaccination-drive-for-teachers-students-on-june-28-29-in-shimla-274211
26-06-2021||Subhash Rajta||These Kashmiri men gave up food, sleep for Covid patients at Shimla's DDU hospital||Tribune News ServiceShimla, June 25For about two months, three Kashmiri men, popularly known as ‘Khans’, stayed in the basement of the Deen Dayal Upadhyay Hospital in Shimla to keep oxygen flowing to Covid patients when the second wave started to get out of control towards the end of April.“An oxygen manifold system was set up in the basement and cylinders had to be changed anytime after an hour or so, depending on the flow,” says Gulam Mohidin. “The delay in replacing cylinders could have put patients in danger, so we moved in and stayed there for almost two months,” he says.Having treated 678 patients in these two months, the DDU administration expressed gratitude to the ‘Khans’ for their invaluable service. “Oxygen was a lifeline for the patients and it would have been impossible to keep its interrupted supply without the Khans,” said Dr Ravinder Mokta, DDU Hospital Medical Superintendent.“A Type D cylinder weighs between 70 kg and 80 kg. A normal person can’t move these cylinders even a few feet. The Khans not only managed the manifold system but also unloaded and loaded hundreds of cylinders day and night during the period,” said Dr Mokta.The hospital had three vehicles bringing in the cylinders and taking back empty ones for refill to Mandi. “These had to be unloaded and loaded immediately, often forcing us to forgo sleep and food,” said Mohidin, a native of Anantnag.Incidentally, the surge of the pandemic coincided with Ramadan, the holy month for Muslims. So busy were the Khans with managing oxygen cylinders that they missed Eid. “Though we kept fast, we could not figure out when was Eid and missed it. Anyway, we are glad that we could play some part in saving the lives of so many people,” said Mohidin.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/these-kashmiri-men-gave-up-food-sleep-for-covid-patients-at-shimlas-ddu-hospital-274212
26-06-2021||New Delhi/Chandigarh||51 Delta plus cases across 12 states, 2 in Punjab, 1 Haryana||Punjab’s Ludhiana and Patiala districts, Faridabad in Haryana and Katra in J&K have reported their first cases of the highly transmissible Delta plus variant. In all, 51 cases have been reported across 12 states, the maximum 22 in Maharashtra.In Himachal Pradesh, Vax drive for teachers, studentsShimla: HP Education Department will undertake a special vaccination drive on June 28 and 29 for students above the age of 18 and both teaching and non-teaching staff of all educational institutions in the state.The Centre on Friday urged states and UTs to take up immediate containment measures, including preventing crowds, conducting widespread testing and increasing vaccine coverage on a priority basis in districts where the Delta plus variant had been detected. The measures were suggested by Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan in a letter to the chief secretaries of Punjab, Haryana, Jammu and Kashmir, Tamil Nadu, Rajasthan, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh and Gujarat.Cases in Patiala and Ludhiana, Punjab alertedChandigarh: With Punjab reporting first two cases of the Delta plus variant in Patiala and Ludhiana districts, Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan has, in a letter to state’s Chief Secretary Vini Mahajan, asked the state to take up immediate containment measures as the variant was highly transmissible. The Centre has also suggested sending adequate samples to the designated INSACOG laboratories for genome sequencing.Sujeet Singh, National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) Director, said 22 had been found in Maharashtra, nine in Tamil Nadu, seven in MP, three in Kerala, two each in Punjab and Gujarat, and one each in Andhra Pradesh, Odisha, Rajasthan, J&K, Haryana and Karnataka. The cases have been found in 45,000 samples sequenced so far.No tax on Covid ex gratiaThe government on Friday announced tax exemption for expenditure incurred on Covid treatment as well as on ex gratia up to Rs10 lakh received on death due to the pandemic.The Delta variant of concern, meanwhile, has emerged as the dominant Covid mutation circulating in India with presence in a whopping 80 per cent of the samples genome sequenced so far to study viral mutations. Of the 21,109 variants of concern detected in India after studying 65,000 samples until now, 16,238 are Delta, first detected in Maharashtra last year and now present in 80 countries.“Delta is a stronger variant than B117, first detected in the UK. Among all variants of concern found in India, Alpha (B117) accounts for 3,969 cases, Beta (detected in South Africa) 149 and Gamma (detected in Brazil) one case. We have found 48 cases of the Delta plus mutation and are studying them for public health implications,” National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) Director SK Singh said today.The NCDC data shows the Delta variant spread across 174 districts in 35 states with the highest numbers reported from districts in Maharashtra, Delhi, Kerala, Punjab, Telangana, Bengal and Gujarat. Of the 21,109 variants of concern, Maharashtra has highest 3,117, Delhi 2,973, Kerala 2,382 and Punjab 1,431.The NCDC chief said even the proportion of cases with variants of concern in India had risen from 10.31 per cent in May to 51 per cent on June 20. The spread of Delta in India has been dramatic—from presence in one district in late December 2020 to 52 districts in late March and 174 today.Although overall the second wave was receding and 565 districts today had below 5 per cent positivity rate, ICMR chief Balram Bhargava said 74 districts still had over 10% positivity rate and 92 districts had 5 to 10% positivity. “States must impose strict restrictions wherever case positivity is above 5%,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/51-delta-plus-cases-across-12-states-2-in-punjab-1-haryana-273920
26-06-2021||Shimla||Airport scuffle: Kullu SP, CM’s PSO suspended||Kullu SP Gaurav Singh and Himachal Chief Minister’s PSO Balwant, who were involved in a showdown outside the Bhuntar airport, have been placed under suspension. Director General of Police Sanjay Kundu confirmed their suspension.The government chose to send out a strong signal by suspending the two even before DIG (Central Range) Madhusudan submitted his inquiry report into the incident. Brijesh Sood, Additional SP (CM Security), who was slapped by the Kullu SP after heated arguments, has been transferred and Puneet Raghu, ASP, third IRB, Pandoh (Mandi), has been posted in his place. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/airport-scuffle-kullu-sp-cms-pso-suspended-273955
26-06-2021||---||Kullu SP, Himachal CM's PSO suspended for slapping, kicking each other outside airport||Shimla, June 25Both police officials, Kullu SP Gaurav Singh and Balwant Singh, PSO to Chief Minister, who were involved in the showdown outside the Bhuntar airport in Kullu have been placed under suspension.Director General of Police Sanjay Kundu confirmed the suspension of the two. The inquiry report into the incident is expected today evening.Also read: Kullu SP, Himachal CM security staffer scuffle, video clip goes viralThough the report of the inquiry being conducted by DIG (Central Range) Madhusudan is yet to be submitted, the government chose to send a strong signal by suspending the two. Brijesh Sood, ASP (CM Security), has been shifted and  Puneet Raghu, Additional SP, Third India Reserve Battalion, Pandoh, in Mandi has been posted in his place to look after the CM security.Following the incident on Wednesday where Kullu SP had slapped Sood and Balwant had retaliated by kicking the SP, all three had been sent on compulsory leave. The incident took place when CM Jai ram Thakur had come to receive Union Minister Nitin Gadkari at the Bhuntar airport in Kullu.Gurdev Sharma, Commandant, Fifth India Reserve Battalion (Mahila), has been posted as SP, Kullu, in place of Gaurav Singh. Gurdev will be replaced by Akriti, Commandant, First India Reserve Battalion at Bangarh in Una.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/kullu-sp-himachal-cms-pso-suspended-for-slapping-kicking-each-other-outside-airport-273831
