27-06-2021||Our CorrespondentPalampur||New income tax portal  faces glitches||The Palampur Taxation Bar Association yesterday lodged a protest over the glitches being faced in the newly launched income tax portal. It has appealed to the Central Government and the PMO to restore the old portal for the time being.In a press statement issued here, the association said that hundreds of income tax payers, chartered accountants and tax consultants were feeling harassed, as the new portal launched by the Union Government on June 7 had failed to take off. Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman had inaugurated it with much fanfare and it was supposed to improve taxpayers’ experience but it has instead multiplied their problems.RK Sood, president of the Bar Association, said that the glitches in the portal were giving a tough time to the taxpayers as well as chartered accountants and tax consultants. “We are unable to perform most of the tasks as the website has not been working properly since June 7, the day it was inaugurated. Even login is taking 30 to 40 minutes,” said Sandeep Sood and Sandeep Kakkar, two chartered accountant of the town.A bank manager said that he had to renew the cash credit limits of several businessmen but he was unable to verify their financial credentials from the IT portal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/new-income-tax-portal-faces-glitches-274614
27-06-2021||Ravinder SoodPalampur||Cases down, tourists throng Kangra for weekend getaway||The tourism industry in the Kangra valley is slowly limping back to normalcy, though the threat of a third wave looms large. Tourists have started thronging the valley for the weekend getaway. Hoteliers, however, say they have opened their establishments with limited operations as the tourist footfall is low as compared to the previous years.Tourism backbone of state’s economy“The situation is still volatile. Most tourists coming to the valley are not willing to venture out in crowd. The threat of a third wave looms large. It is not possible for us to make our hotel fully functional in the absence of tourists, as it will be difficult to meet the expenses and pay salaries to our staff. The state government should come to our rescue and waive GST, bank loan interest, water bills and minimum electricity charges at least till March 2022 as a revival package,” says Vishal Rana, a member of the Palampur Hotels’ Association.The tourism sector plays a significant role in the economy of the state and is also a major source of employment. It alone contributes 7 per cent to the state’s GDP. However, amid the pandemic outbreak, the industry has been facing losses for the past 16 months.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/cases-down-tourists-throng-kangra-for-weekend-getaway-274615
27-06-2021||Mandi||Soon, avalanche protection structures near Atal Tunnel||The Border Roads Organisation (BRO) has started erecting avalanche protection structures from Palchan up to the south portal of the Atal Tunnel at Dhundhi on the Manali-Leh highway to provide safety to commuters during the winter. The BRO has identified 11 such sites, which are prone to snow avalanche.3 snow galleries under constructionAccording to sources, the BRO is erecting 16 layers of snow avalanche protection structures, which will minimise the threat. It is constructing three snow galleries and one viaduct to ensure safe movement of vehicles. The tunnel has become a big tourist attraction and witnesses a huge rush of visitors.Due to the high altitude, the region gets heavy snowfall during winter, making journey risky. So, the BRO has decided to raise permanent avalanche protection structures. The structures are being constructed with the help of the Defence Geoinformatics Research Establishment (DGRE), which provides cutting-edge terrain intelligent solutions to the armed forces.The Manali-Leh highway is strategically important, as it allows the Army an easy access to Ladakh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/soon-avalanche-protection-structures-near-atal-tunnel-274616
27-06-2021||Palampur||1975 Emergency ‘black day’ in history of democracy: Shanta||Former Chief Minister Shanta Kumar has said that the national Emergency imposed 46 years ago on June 24 midnight in 1975 marked a black chapter in the history of Indian democracy and should always be remembered. He had spent over 19 months in the Nahan jail during the Emergency.The 86-year-old BJP leader, while addressing mediapersons at his residence here, said that the Emergency was declared on June 24-25 midnight and by the next day the entire country was converted into a prison. Over 1,10 lakh opposition leaders were put behind bars in the country.The former CM said he had had come to Shimla for a meeting with his party colleagues. All of them were picked up from MLA Hostels and the guesthouse and thrown in jails. “When we argued in court that the right to life was bestowed on us by the Constitution, the government in its reply said that even this right had been suspended,” he added. He said that people should always remember that the Emergency was not imposed due to an enemy attack or a natural calamity but because the Allahabad HC had declared the election of the then PM Indira Gandhi to the Lok Sabha null and void. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/1975-emergency-black-day-in-history-of-democracy-shanta-274617
27-06-2021||Our CorrespondentKULLU||Gadkari enjoys adventure sports in Manali||Union Road Transport and Highways Minister Nitin Gadkari left for Shanag village adjoining Manali today and enjoyed adventure sports there. Later, he reached the Mall Road and had coffee in a hotel.Tourists gathered outside the hotel to catch a glimpse of the leader. Security personnel had to intervene to keep the tourists, who were insisting on taking a selfie with the minister, at bay. Gadkari accepted the greetings of the tourists with folded hands. The tourists stayed outside the hotel until the minister left.Khattar calls on GadkariHaryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar also called upon the minister on the 4th day of his sojourn near Manali. Both discussed development works over the breakfast. Khattar discussed the proposed road routes in Haryana with the Union Minister.The minister went to the Solang Nullah yesterday and enjoyed the ropeway ride to Fatru. He had a discussion with Manali MC president Chaman Kapoor over a cup of coffee.The president proposed a monorail project for Manali and the minister liked the suggestion. He said the MC should prepare a project report and forward it to the Central Government.Chaman Kapoor said tourists would be able to reach various tourist spots around Manali, if the dream of mono rail comes true. It would reduce the problem of traffic jams.Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar also called upon the Union Minister on the 4th day of his sojourn near Manali. Both discussed the developmental works over the breakfast. Khattar discussed the proposed road routes in Haryana with the Union Minister.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/gadkari-enjoys-adventure-sports-in-manali-274619
27-06-2021||Nurpur||Help families hit by road project, minister urged||Himachal Pradesh Human Rights Lok Body president Rajesh Pathania has urged Union Road Transport and Highways Minister Nitin Gadkari to address the grievances of 3,800 families affected by the Pathankot-Mandi highway widening project in Nurpur. He said that these families had been denied a fair compensation for their lands and structures acquired for the project.Pathania, while addressing mediapersons here, said that the affected people had been struggling for the past over two years for a fair compensation for their lands acquired by the NHAI, but the state government had been indifferent to their grievances.“The BJP in its Vision Document released before the last Lok Sabha elections had promised the factor-2 compensation to the people affected by road projects in the country but its government had backed out and announced the factor-1 relief to the affected people,,” he said. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/help-families-hit-by-road-project-minister-urged-274620
27-06-2021||Legal CorrespondentShimla||Satyen Vaidya sworn in as High Court Additional  Judge||Satyen Vaidya was sworn in as Additional Judge of the High Court of Himachal Pradesh today. He was administered the oath of office by Chief Justice L. Narayana Swamy in a simple but impressive ceremony held in the High Court here.Registrar General Virender Singh read out the warrant of appointment issued by the President of India appointing Satyen Vaidya as Additional Judge. The Judges of the High Court, Justice Tarlok Singh Chauhan, Justice Sureshwar Thakur, Justice Vivek Singh Thakur, Justice Sandeep Sharma, Justice Chander Bhusan Barowalia, Justice Anoop Chitkara and Justice Jyotsana Rewal Dua were present on the occasion. Besides, retired judge Kuldip Singh, Advocate General Ashok Sharma, Chairman of the Bar Council of Himachal Pradesh Ajay Kochhar, Assistant Solicitor General of India Bal Ram Sharma, and officers of the Registry were also present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/satyen-vaidya-sworn-in-as-high-court-additional-judge-274621
27-06-2021||Shimla||Use social media tools to check drug abuse: Governor||Governor Bandaru Dattatreya today stressed the need for the use of social media to check the growing menace of drug abuse, especially among youngsters.He was speaking at a function held to observe International Day against Drug Abuse and Illicit Trafficking at Raj Bhawan here. The event was organised by the Police Department. “The Himachal Police have a distinct identity of its own and is known for its discipline, devotion to duty and honesty,” he said.He underlined the need to develop digital support in handling narcotics cases and the use of social media tools to check trafficking and crime.“Drug addiction not only affects a person or family, but also society. The police administration must work more vigorously to eliminate this social evil,” said the Governor.He praised the police administration’s efforts towards curbing this menace and appealed to the public to cooperate with cops in the campaign against drug addiction.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/use-social-media-tools-to-check-drug-abuse-governor-274624
27-06-2021||Shimla||Don’t get misguided by halo of power: Kundu||DGP Sanjay Kundu today issued an advisory to all IPS and Himachal Police Service (HPS) officers to not get misguided by the “halo of power” due to their position.However, he did not divulge the details of the Kullu showdown which saw police officers engage in a scuffle. “There is no gainsaying that the image of the police has taken a beating after the ugly spat in front of the dignitaries, which has undone the cumulative good work done by the police in the past one year,” said Kundu. He added that no matter what the provocation is, all must maintain calm and poise.Kundu said that regardless of the outcome of the inquiry, it was important to avoid such incidents in future. “Power is always attached to a position and not to a person, so you should always be mindful of the gospel,” he added. The advisory has been prepared on the basis of a brainstorming session of the top brass of the state police.He said that the entire police force must strive hard as a cohesive team to re-establish its image and prevent the recurrence of such ugly incidents. Policemen have been asked to identify their blind spots or deficiencies in their personalities and address them.“All officers need to learn to apply tact and not be unduly technical about guidelines,” the advisory says though it is not exactly known what made the situation ugly that Kullu SP Gaurav Singh slapped Additional SP (CM Security) Brijesh Sood.It has also been recommended that Police Training College must include in its curriculum training for officers for temperance and poise when under duress. It has also been recommended that the thrust should be on maintaining interpersonal relations and collaboration, especially during functions, VIP movement and law and order situations.Kundu has no qualms in admitting that the incident has not only become viral on social media but also has elicited a negative and highly uncharitable public response.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/dont-get-misguided-by-halo-of-power-kundu-274627
27-06-2021||Shimla||Kullu scuffle: Inquiry report submitted||DIG, Central Range, Madhusudan today submitted the inquiry report of the scuffle involving the former Kullu SP, Additional SP (Chief Minister’s security) and the personal security officer (PSO) of the Chief Minister outside the Bhuntar airport a few days ago to DGP Sanjay Kundu.SlapgateKullu SP Gaurav Singh had reportedly slapped Brijesh Sood, Additional SP (CM Security), after a heated argument on June 23. The Chief Minister’s PSO also retaliated by kicking the SPHe submitted the preliminary fact-finding report with regard to the incident that occurred in Kullu during the visit of Union Minister for Road Transport and Highways Nitin Gadkari on June 23.“It is after studying the preliminary fact-finding report, the yellow book (Guidelines on security protocol of highly vulnerable persons) and other evidence on record that the police headquarters will send a report to the state government,” said Kundu.The government has already suspended former Kullu SP Gaurav Singh and Chief Minister’s PSO Balwant, but the inquiry report will indicate the reason for the showdown and who was at fault. The scuffle has brought a bad name to the Himachal Police.Additional SP Brijesh Sood, who was slapped by the SP outside the Bhuntar airport, was sent on compulsory leave. Sood, in a video on social media, is seen engaged in an argument with the SP, and later slapped by him. Sood, however, did not retaliate but the Chief Minister’s PSO kicked the SP, who ran to save himself.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/kullu-scuffle-inquiry-report-submitted-274628
27-06-2021||Dharamsala||To win voters’ trust, BJP to train workers||The two-day extended core group meeting of the BJP concluded at Dharamsala today. State BJP spokesperson Randhir Sharma, while addressing mediapersons, said that the assembled leaders decided to organise mass training programmes for the party workers across Himachal Pradesh.He said that the party would organise training programmes from October at the district, sub-divisional and block levels and these would continue in 2022. Later, trained party workers would conduct a mass contact programme and approach voters to make them aware about the achievements of the BJP governments at the Centre and in the state, Sharma said.He added that it was decided at the meeting that the party workers at the panchayat level would be trained to carry forward the information campaign of the BJP.Sharma said that 30 top leaders of the party attended the meeting. They gave suggestions on increasing the party base in Himachal. The party workers would be motivated and galvanised in view of Mission Repeat 2022 for the Assembly elections.He said that party committees had been formed to take feedback regarding the constituencies where the byelections are due. Once the Election Commission announces the dates for the byelections, the BJP would announce the candidates.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/to-win-voters-trust-bjp-to-train-workers-274629
27-06-2021||Dharamsala||Mahila Cong stages  protest against MLA||Members of the Mahila Congress today staged a protest here demanding action against local BJP legislator Vishal Nehria for allegedly harassing his wife Oshin Sharma, an HAS officer.State BJP spokesperson Randhir Sharma said though it was an internal family matter of the MLA, law would take its own course.In a recorded message that went viral on social media yesterday, Oshin alleged that her husband had abused her physically and emotionally. Nehria and Oshin were married on April 26. She has also given a complaint to the SP, Kangra, Vimukt Ranjan.The SP admitted that Oshin had given a complaint against her husband. He said that Oshin had stated that she would take legal action if her husband harassed her again. Vishal Nehria was not available for comments. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/mahila-cong-stages-protest-against-mla-274630
27-06-2021||Our CorrespondentNurpur||Pvt schools flay fee regulation draft Bill||The Himachal Pradesh Independent School Association has protested the provisions of the draft of the HP Private Schools (Regulation of fee and other related matters) Bill, 2021.Gulshan Kumar, president of the association, in a statement here, said the provisions were irrational and violate Article 14 of the Constitution. He added that such a Bill would reduce the standard of education and force school managements to shut their institutions.He said the association, which represents a sizeable number of private schools affiliated to the CBSE and the HP Board of School Education, was against the provision of a cap of 6 per cent on the fee hike. Gulshan added that the Bill would throttle the fiscal sustainability of the schools, which were already under a financial stress due to Covid since last year. If the government enacts the Bill, the association would move the High Court.Earlier, too, the High Court, in a landmark judgment on August 24, 2020, had held that the state has no right to interfere in the fee structure determined by a private school in accordance with the parameters, he said. The association had also submitted its objections against the provisions of the draft Bill to the Director Higher Education.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/pvt-schools-flay-fee-regulation-draft-bill-274631
27-06-2021||Mandi||Plug seepage from sewers, say residents||Seepage from the sewerage has made the life difficult for the residents of the Suhda ward in Mandi. They complain that due to the seepage, a foul smell has spread all around in the area. It has also caused a threat of disease outbreak.Local residents Inderpal, Navjyoti, and Jai Kumar say that there is need to upgrade the sewerage in the area to check seepage. They add, “We urge the Jal Shakti Department and the Municipal Corporation Mandi to resolve the problem”. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/plug-seepage-from-sewers-say-residents-274633
27-06-2021||Shimla||Jubbal bypoll:  BJP, Congress gear up cadres||The BJP and the Congress are gearing up their cadres for the Jubbal-Kotkhai Assembly byelection as their observers visited the area. The death of BJP MLA Narendra Bragta necessitated the bypoll.Urban Development Minister Suresh Bhardwaj, who is the in-charge of the bypoll for the BJP, visited Jubbal-Kotkhai on June 23. Besides, office-bearer of the BJP mandal Chetan Bragta, son of Narinder Bragta, was also present.High-stake battle, to set tone for ’22 pollThe outcome of the bypoll has high stakes for both parties. The Congress win will prove to be a major morale booster. On the other hand, it will be imperative for the BJP to win to show that its victory graph has not gone downAICC secretary Sanjay Dutt also visited the constituency today to interact with party workers and get their feedback.He met the Block Congress Committee (BCC) office-bearers, besides former MLA Rohit Thakur, who is the frontrunner for the party ticket.Rohit is the grandson of former Chief Minister Ram Lal Thakur. The observer Harshwardhan Chauhan was also present.Both parties will have to work overtime to ensure that there is no undercutting from a faction having vested interest. The BJP is hoping to ride high on the sympathy votes, which may not be enough to see it through. The outcome of the bypoll has high stakes for both parties; if the Congress wins, it will prove to be a major morale booster. On the other hand, it will be imperative for the BJP to win to show that its victory graph has not gone down.Bhardwaj urged the party workers to work unitedly to ensure the victory. “We all are BJP workers and we will contest on the party symbol, which will be a real tribute to Bragta,” he said.Dutt took feedback on the suitable candidate that the party could field though it was almost certain that Rohit would be fielded to take on the BJP. Rohit had lost the last elections by a slender margin of 1,062 votes, as such he remains the Congress’ best bet.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/jubbal-bypoll-bjp-congress-gear-up-cadres-274634
27-06-2021||Bharmour||2 die in Chamba mishap||Two persons died on the spot when their pickup van fell into a gorge near Nayagran in the Holi area of Bharmour last night, sources said here today. The deceased has been identified as driver Amit Kumar and Ajay Kumar, both locals.Bharmour SDM Manish Soni said an interim relief of Rs 10,000 each to the next of kin of the deceased had been given. The cause of the accident is being probed. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/2-die-in-chamba-mishap-274638
27-06-2021||Ambika Sharma||Violations galore, NGT raps Himachal||Tribune News ServiceSolan, June 26The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has slammed the HP State Pollution Control Board for “inaction” against industrial units polluting waterbodies in the state.The observation was made in a case pertaining to pollution in Balad river on account of leakage from a common effluent treatment plant.“Merely keeping an eye on units discharging more than 200 kilo-litres per day (KLD) effluents is not enough. Violations by those discharging less than 200 KLD effluents are no less serious,” it observed.A four-member joint committee, comprising representatives of the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change, Central Pollution Control Board, state board and district magistrate, has been directed to file a status report after inspecting the erring units. The NGT expressed serious concern over the fact that four textile units of Baddi are still not meeting water pollution norms and fixed dissolved solids (FDS) released by them were beyond the prescribed limit.These units — Auro Textiles, Auro Textiles unit-II, Auro Dyeing of Vardhman Textiles and Winsome Textile — were yet to install advance system for treating FDS, a category IV effluent comprising concentrated dyes. The pipeline carrying these effluents was found choked. The NGT has directed the state board to take remedial action to enforce environment laws.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/violations-galore-ngt-raps-himachal-274473
