28-06-2021||New Delhi||Justice Malimath appointed Acting Chief Justice of Himachal Pradesh High Court||Justice Ravi Vijaykumar Malimath was on Monday appointed the acting chief justice of the Himachal Pradesh High Court, the Law Ministry said.An official statement citing a notification issued by the Department of Justice said that Justice Malimath, the senior-most judge of the Himachal Pradesh High Court, will perform the duties of the office of the chief justice of that high court with effect from July 1 consequent upon the retirement of Justice Lingappa Narayana Swamy, Chief Justice, Himachal Pradesh High Court.Justice Narayana Swamy demits office on June 30.Chief justices and judges of the 25 high courts retire at the age of 62. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/justice-malimath-appointed-acting-chief-justice-of-himachal-pradesh-high-court-275237
28-06-2021||The Dhalog-Kehal road alongside the Government High School||No crash barriers near school||Parked Vehicles create traffic bottlenecksParking on narrow roads of Dharamsala is creating problems for locals as well as commuters. The road leading from Kotwali Bazaar to Khaniara is already narrow and to add to the problems, people park cars on the road, creating traffic bottlenecks. The police should check parking of vehicles on the road for smooth plying of traffic. —Sanjay Sharma, DharamsalaWHAT OUR READERS SAYIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted?THE TRIBUNEinvites its readers to have their say. Please email at:hpreadersfeedback @tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/no-crash-barriers-near-school-275086
28-06-2021||---||Shimla secures 16th place in ‘climate smart city’ ratings||Shimla, June 27Shimla and Dharamsala, two smart cities of the state, have secured 16th and 90th positions, respectively, in the Climate Smart City Assessment Framework (CSCAF). As many as 125 cities had participated in the assessment.Launched recently by the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs (MoHUA), the objective of this initiative is to provide a clear roadmap for cities towards combating climate change while planning and implementing their policies and inculcate a climate-sensitive approach to urban planning and development in the country.Solan, Palampur laggardsWhile Shimla earned 1,387 points out of the total 2,800 points, Dharamsala finished with 556 points.Four other cities — Mandi, Hamirpur, Palampur and Solan — had also participated in the initiative. All these finished with the rankings over 100, with Palampur taking the 125th place.The cities were judged on five parameters — energy and green building, urban planning, green cover and biodiversity, mobility and air quality, water management and waste management.Shimla earned the best scores in waste management, securing an impressive 510 points and a five-star rating. The facilities considered under this parameter included scientific landfill availability and operations, extent of wet waste processed, extent of dry waste recovered and recycled etc.“We have developed a robust waste management system, right from collection to disposal. We generate electricity and compost from the collected waste,” said GM, Smart City, Ajit Bhardwaj.What pulled down Shimla in the rankings was its poor performance in mobility and air quality and water management parameters. Shimla’s scores on these two parameters were below average — 198 and 150, respectively. While the components such as clean air action plan, level of air pollution, availability of public transport, percentage of non-motorised transport network comprised mobility and air quality index, the water management parameters had indicators such as energy-efficient waste water management system, energy-efficient water supply system, flood/water stagnation risk system, waste water recycle, etc.“We could not perform well in the urban mobility and water management parameters. Besides other things, we lag in non-motorised transport such as cycling tracks and pedestrian paths,” said Bhardwaj. “As for poor scores in water management, we are doing well in water supply, but need to catch up on other indicators such as the use of recycled water, water harvesting, etc.”5-point criteriaThe cities were judged on five parameters Energy and green building; urban planning; green cover and biodiversity; mobility and air quality; water management and waste management||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/shimla-secures-16th-place-in-climate-smart-city-ratings-274936
28-06-2021||Dharamsala||Sixth Pay Commission of Punjab: Kangra doctors on pen-down strike from today||Members of the HP Medical Officers’ Association, Kangra wing, have decided to go on an indefinite pen-down strike from tomorrow against the recommendations of the Sixth Pay Commission of Punjab. The doctors will remain on pen-down strike from 9.30 am to 11.30 am.Dr Sunny Dhiman, president of the association, said the HP Government followed the pay scales given by Punjab. The Sixth Pay Commission of Punjab had recommended reduction in allowances for doctors, he said. It had also recommended that the Non Practicing Allowance (NPA) paid to doctors would not be linked with their basic pay. This would cause financial loss to doctors working in the government sector. The doctors working in the government sector in Punjab were already on strike and Himachal doctors stood in solidarity with them, he said.The association demanded the state to increase the NPA for government doctors from 25 per cent of the basic pay to 35 per cent. Dr Dhiman said the association was trying to contact Dental Medical Officers’ Association, Ayurvedic Medical Officers’ Association and Veterinary Medical Officers’ Association to form a joint front. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/sixth-pay-commission-of-punjab-kangra-doctors-on-pen-down-strike-from-today-274937
28-06-2021||---||Himachal farmers get financial aid to cultivate medicinal plants||Shimla, June 27The state government is pushing hard for cultivation and conservation of medicinal plants. It has introduced several policies to encourage farmers to cultivate these plants and supplement their income. The State Medicinal Plants Board, functioning under the aegis of the Ayush Department, is also working to ensure easy availability of medicinal plants for manufacturing Ayurvedic medicines.According to a government spokesperson, the state government was providing financial assistance to farmers in different agro-climatic zones for cultivating medicinal plants under the National Ayush Mission. “Various farmer clusters have been prepared for this purpose. To avail the financial assistance, a farmer cluster must cover at least two hectares. A cluster can comprise three adjoining villages within 15-km radius,” the spokesperson said.Clusters preparedThe National Ayush Mission (NAM) in 2019-20 provided financial assistance of about Rs 128.94 lakh in the state. “The government has established herbal gardens in Joginder Nagar in Mandi, Neri in district Hamirpur, Rohru in Shimla and Jungle Jhalera in Bilaspur to promote production of medicinal plants. Different types of medicinal plants catering to various agro-climatic zones are being grown in these herbal gardens, which are used to prepare medicines,” he said.National Medicinal Plants Board, Ministry of Ayush, has established Regional-cum-Facilitation Centre of Northern Region at Research Institute in Indian Systems of Medicine, Joginder Nagar, Mandi. “The centre is promoting cultivation and conservation of medicinal plants in six neighbouring north Indian states, including Punjab, Haryana, Uttarakhand, Uttar Pradesh, Chandigarh and Himachal Pradesh,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-farmers-get-financial-aid-to-cultivate-medicinal-plants-274938
28-06-2021||Our Correspondent||Chamba-Chowari tunnel beneath Jot Pass can save trees: NGO chief||Chamba, June 27Founder and president of the Himalaya Bachao Samiti Kulbhushan Upmanyu has pleaded for giving priority to the construction of the Chamba-Chowari tunnel beneath the Jot Pass, which could save felling of trees while constructing the Draman-Chamba-Pangi national highway.Upmanyu thanked Union Minister for Road Transport and Highways Nitin Gadkari for according the approval to the Draman-Chamba-Pangi national highway about three years ago.Upmanyu said due to the construction of the highway from Chowari to Chamba, a number of green trees would face axe.Therefore, to save ecology, the tunnel was the alternative, Upmanyu said.Moreover, it would be the shortest route to Ladakh if another tunnel was constructed at Chehni that would link Pangi, Upmanyu said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/chamba-chowari-tunnel-beneath-jot-pass-can-save-trees-ngo-chief-274940
28-06-2021||---||Driving risky on potholed Manali-Leh highway||Mandi, June 27A few stretches on the Manali-Leh highway are full of potholes, making travelling difficult and risky.Some rivulets flow alongside the highway from Darcha to Leh where the road condition is risky for the movement of vehicles. Recently, a truck overturned on the road between Sarchu and Pang. Accidents happening on these stretches of the road are being attributed to its poor condition.Truck drivers travelling on the stretch have urged the government to undertake urgent maintenance work between Sarchu and Pang. Besides, a few road stretches between Baralacha and Sarchu are in a poor condition, needing repairs.Mukesh Thakur, a resident of Mandi, visited Leh from Lahaul and found travelling on the Manali-Leh highway cumbersome from Darcha to Leh. He said that the road required urgent maintenance to ensure safe travelling for tourists as well as local commuters. The Border Roads Organisation (BRO) should identify such key points on the highway for repair work.“From Zingzingbar to Bralacha La, some stretches of the road are in a poor condition and travelling is tough. The BRO has engaged its workforce and machinery at these places to make the road smooth for travelling. The condition of the Manali highway is bad between Balacha and Killing Sarai,” Pintu, an adventure lover from Manali, said.BRO officials said that the workforce and machinery had been engaged on the Manali-Leh highway at different stretches for its maintenance. At key locations, where the condition of the road is poor, the BRO was trying to find out a permanent solution.The Manali-Leh highway is strategically important as it provides Indian troops access to Leh from the Himachal side. Besides, a large number of tourists and adventure lovers travel on this highway every year during the summer towards Leh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/driving-risky-on-potholed-manali-leh-highway-274941
28-06-2021||Our Correspondent||Palampur MC to clean water channels soon||Palampur, June 27The Palampur Municipal Corporation will complete the cleaning of local water channels soon.Pankaj Sharma, Commissioner, Palampur Municipal Corporation, told The Tribune that the civic body had taken up the task of cleaning all traditional water channels, which had never been cleaned in the past 30 years. After the formation of the Palampur MC in December 2020, 15 panchayats were brought under its jurisdiction and facilities were extended to these areas. The government started an operation to keep Palampur, spread over 15 sq km, clean and green.“The water channels have become polluted and will be made garbage free. It is a difficult task as most of the channels have been choked with plastic waste or gunny bags for the past many years. The MC has started the operation in all 15 wards,” Sharma said.He appealed to the residents of Palampur to cooperate with the MC in keeping the area clean and green and hand over garbage to the vehicles visiting their wards, instead of dumping it in forests or water channels.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/palampur-mc-to-clean-water-channels-soon-274942
28-06-2021||Ravinder Sood||Land acquired, MC yet to set up waste treatment plant in Burli Kothi near Paprola town||Palampur, June 27The Baijnath-Paprola Municipal Council has not been able to set up a garbage treatment plant on 30 kanals acquired at Burli Kothi near Paprola town in Kangra district five years ago.Official sources say that the municipal council has also procured machinery for the garbage treatment plant but local residents are not allowing its installation. At present, there is no provision for the scientific handling and disposal of garbage in the twin towns of the district.Baijnath-Paprola is one of the biggest councils of the district having 11 wards spread in a seven-km radius and has a population of 18,000. These towns are major business centres surrounded by a number of Tibetan monasteries. Baijnath is also known for an ancient Shiva temple, one of the 11 Jayotirlingas in India.In the absence of an identified place, the area residents are dumping garbage in Binwa river flowing through the twin towns. The Binwa, one of the major tributaries of the Beas, is considered the lifeline for the local residents as several water supply schemes of the IPH Department are dependent on it. Garbage dumping has rendered Binwa water contaminated and unfit for human consupmtion.A few days ago, a local panchayat had protested the dumping of dead chicken in the river. They also met Baijnath SDM Saleem Azam over the failure of the authorities concerned to initiate appropriate steps to save the river from contamination.When contacted, the SDM told The Tribune that he had joined duty recently and the matter has now come to his notice. “Efforts are on to resolve the issue and soon the district administration will try to persuade local residents not to oppose the settingup of the garbage treatment plant at Buril Kothi,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/land-acquired-mc-yet-to-set-up-waste-treatment-plant-in-burli-kothi-near-paprola-town-274943
28-06-2021||Lalit Mohan||Non-performers unlikely to get party ticket for 2022 Himachal assembly polls||Tribune News ServiceDharamsala, June 27Ministers and MLAs of the ruling party came under fire from the national general secretary of the party, BL Santosh, during a two-day extended core group meeting of the BJP, which concluded here on Saturday.Sources told The Tribune that the national general secretary rapped the ministers for not being in touch with people and party workers at the ground level. He directed the ministers to submit the details of their visits to various constituencies across the state. The senior party leader expressed unhappiness over the fact that most ministers in the current government were not visiting the entire state.Kullu scuffle, physical abuse issue ill-timedThe sources said the ministers had been asked to inform the party high command about their extensive tours regularly. The ministers and MLAs were also warned that if they failed to live up to the expectations of party workers at the ground level, they might not get ticket in the Assembly elections scheduled for 2022.The RSS leaders, who are part of the BJP organisational set up, were asked to keep a watch on the performance of the ministers and MLAs and submit a report on their activities to the party high command.The sources said after reprimand from the national general secretary, most ministers had already started drafting their tour programmes across the state.The sources said the Kullu incident in which police officers clashed and even physically assaulted each other and allegations of physical abuse levelled against BJP MLA from Dharamsala, Vishal Nehria, by his wife on social media came as ill-timed for the state government.The extended core group meeting of the BJP in Dharamsala was said to be vital as the party wanted the state government and its functionaries to get into election mode. The BJP is gearing up for three byelections — in Fatehpur and Jubbal-Kotkhai Assembly constituencies and the Mandi parliamentary constituency — in the coming months.Though the party has officially stated that it would take a decision of candidates who would contest the byelections after the Election Commission announces dates, the sources said the names of probable candidates were discussed at the core group meeting.The ‘mission repeat’ in the 2022 Assembly elections was also being taken seriously by the party as current national president of BJP JP Nadda was from Himachal.Officially, the party has stated that it has decided to start training programmes for its workers all across Himachal Pradesh at district, subdivision and block levels from the month of October. The training would go on for a few months in which workers would be trained to go to the ground level and pass on the message regarding the work done by the Narendra Modi government in the last seven years and Jai Ram Thakur government in Himachal Pradesh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/non-performers-unlikely-to-get-party-ticket-for-2022-himachal-assembly-polls-274944
28-06-2021||Mandi||Madhya Pradesh tourist dies in Himachal's Sarchu||A tourist of Madhya Pradesh died at Army Hospital, Sarchu on Sunday.According to the police, Sunil Kumar (40) was coming to Lahaul from Leh side along with his family, when he felt uneasiness near Sarchu. He was rushed to Army Hospital, Sarchu. The cause of the death is suspected be high-altitude sickness. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/madhya-pradesh-tourist-dies-in-himachals-sarchu-274945
28-06-2021||Solan||BBN bankers told to step up security||The Baddi police have directed the managers of major banks in the Baddi-Barotiwala-Nalagarh (BBN) industrial area to step up safety measures and install quality CCTV cameras, security guards at ATM kiosks, anti-theft locks to deal with the robbers and miscreants.Sub-Divisional Police Office, Nalagarh, Vivek Chahal at a meeting also apprised the 25 bank managers about additional measures such as security guards’ alertness to check robberies in the banks and ATM kiosks. It was found that the ATMs of several banks not only lacked security guards during the night but also the machines were pretty easy to break. Even CCTV cameras were not functional at some places, which creates problems in tracing robbers.SP, Baddi, Rohit Malpani said that it had been found that banks were casual in undertaking security measures and time and again they were being informed to take all measures to foil robbery attempts.Several cases of ATM thefts and bank robberies have been reported in this industrial belt in the previous years. The pandemic, however, has brought some relief, as the movement of inter-state gangs often found involved in such crimes was significantly curtailed.The police had also convened meetings of mobile phone sellers and jewellers in the past few days and asked them to install quality security systems, besides employ guards for a cluster of 10 to 15 shops. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/bbn-bankers-told-to-step-up-security-274946
28-06-2021||---||Extend Industrial Development Scheme for two more years, Piyush Goyal urged||Solan, June 27In a bid to attract fresh investment, the Industries Minister has requested the Union Minister of Commerce and Industry Piyush Goyal to extent the Industrial Development Scheme (IDS) for two more years.The scheme, which was granted in April 2017, will expire on March 31, 2022. It provides capital investment subsidy and comprehensive insurance incentive to give impetus to industrial development in the hilly areas.The scheme provides other incentives like interest subvention, income tax reimbursement, transport subsidy, GST reimbursement and employment subvention to Jammu and Kashmir (J&K) while the state’s industry was bereft of these benefits.“A new Industrial Development Scheme, which entails capital investment subsidy, interest subsidy on working capital as well as on term loan and GST linked incentives, has been granted to J &K. It is valid till March 31, 2037,” said Industries Minister, Bikram Singh, who recently met the union minister in Delhi.“Our government has successfully organised Global Investors Meet 2019 where MoUs worth about Rs 96,000 were signed and the first ground-breaking of investment worth Rs 13,000 crore was performed within a month. “The momentum was, however, lost due to the pandemic but we are back on track again. A request has, therefore, been made to the Union minister to consider grant of these incentives to Himachal as well,” added Bikram Singh.He added that in order to translate the MoUs into reality, the extension of the IDS for two more years until 2024 was necessary. Eextending similar incentives to Himachal will help fetch fresh investment.Industries not only offer large-scale employment to the youth in the state but also contribute significantly to the state’s gross domestic product.The unavailability of manpower during the lockdown had significantly reduced the growth rate of manufacturing as per the economic survey report.The government was keen to revive industrial growth now to fetch employment and promote manufacturing.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/extend-industrial-development-scheme-for-two-more-years-piyush-goyal-urged-274947
28-06-2021||Our Correspondent||Delhi-Kullu travel time will be seven hours: Nitin Gadkari||Kullu, June 27Kullu Sadar MLA Sunder Singh Thakur met Union Road Transport and Highways Minister Nitin Gadkari at the Bhuntar airport today and discussed issues of Bhubu tunnel, Jalori tunnel, slow progress on Kiratpur-Ner Chowk-Kullu national highway, Bhuntar-Manikaran-Barshaini road, airport expansion, mono cable ropeway in Kullu city, parking issues, etc, with the union minister as he returned after his four-day sojourn with his family in Manali.Gopal Krishna Mahant, president, Kullu Municipal Council, and Kullu Zilla Parishad chairman Pankaj Parmar were also present. The Union minister asked the MLA to come to Delhi with a detailed report and meet him in July.Local MLA and education minister Govind Singh Thakur thanked the Union minister for announcing road projects worth Rs 15,000 crores for Himachal. Govind Thakur also expressed his gratitude to Gadkari for many other assurances as Gadkari promised that work would be undertaken to ensure that the travel time from Delhi to Kullu was reduced to seven hours within the next two years.Thakur said that the union minister stated that a DPR should be prepared for construction of 40-km left bank double lane road project from Kullu to Manali at the earliest. The Union minister assured to provide all possible help to the state government to strengthen the road connectivity in the state.Thakur said that priority would be given to construction of ropeways to connect pristine locations which will preserve the ecology and attract tourists as well. He said that Gadkari assured full cooperation for the construction of such alternate routes.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/delhi-kullu-travel-time-will-be-seven-hours-nitin-gadkari-274948
28-06-2021||Mandi||2 slip into gorge in Mandi, dead||Two youths of Mandi district were killed on Saturday, as they fell down the hill while camping in the area.Praveen Kumar (30), a native of Kun village, and Pawan Kumar, a native of Khalara village under Mehni panchayat in Mandi district, along with two other friends, were returning to their homes from Parashar Lake area. On their way, they decided to stay in a temporary tent in Kohli Ka Padhar area. Late last night, the victims came out of the tent, and slipped down into a deep gorge in the area.“After some time, the other two youths came out of the tent, looking for the victims. They later informed the police and villagers about the incident, who rushed to the spot to rescue them. Due to severe injuries, the victims died on the spot,” said a police officer.Mandi SP Shalini Agnihotri said the bodies of the victims had been handed over to their families after the post-mortem. The SP denied any foul play in the incident but said the police were probing all aspects of the incident. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/2-slip-into-gorge-in-mandi-dead-274950
28-06-2021||---||Farm laws: Himachal farmers seek President intervention||Shimla, June 27The Himachal Kisan Sabha has sought the intervention of the President to withdraw the three contentious farm laws and in providing legal guarantee on the MSP. Also, the sabha demanded the withdrawal of the Electricity Amendment Bill and the implementation of the Land Acquisition Bill 2013.The sabha sent a memorandum to the President through Governor Bandaru Dattatreya here today.It said that the farmers’ agitation was going on for the past seven months and more than 500 farmers had died but the government was still not ready to resolve the issue.The sabha also gave a memorandum to the Governor regarding the problems being faced by the farmers. It said because of the rise in the prices of petrol and diesel and fertilisers, the cost of production had gone up and the farmers were struggling to make profits.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/farm-laws-himachal-farmers-seek-president-intervention-274951
28-06-2021||Mandi||Tourist vehicles challaned for hooliganism at Sissu in Lahaul Spiti||The police have challaned three vehicles of tourists for rash driving and hooliganism at Sissu in tribal district Lahaul Spiti today.According to SP, Lahaul Spiti, Manav Verma, information was received about hooliganism at Sissu tourist village.He said that the police team has identified three vehicles and challans were issued under the MV Act.“The district police have enrolled persons under Anonymous Neighborhood Watch programme. These persons provide inputs about anti-social elements. On receiving information, a local police team is sent to the spot and the district check posts are alerted,” said SP. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/tourist-vehicles-challaned-for-hooliganism-at-sissu-in-lahaul-spiti-274952
28-06-2021||Shimla||128 new Covid cases, 2 deaths in Himachal||The state reported 128 new Covid cases and two deaths in the past 24 hours.A total of 2,01,665 persons have been tested for the infection so far. The active caseload stands at 1,754.One death each was reported in Kangra and Una district. Kangra remains the worst hit with 36 new cases, followed by Solan (14), Chamba (13), Shimla and Mandi (12 each), Una and Hamirpur (9 each), Kullu (5), Sirmaur (4), Bilaspur (2)and one each in Kinnaur and Lahaul-Spiti. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/128-new-covid-cases-2-deaths-in-himachal-274984
28-06-2021||---||24 slum children enrolled in Nalagarh schools||Solan, June 27As part of its drive, the Nalagarh administration yesterday enrolled 24 slum children in schools. “In the first phase, areas where slum dwellers reside were identified. Later, necessary documents were prepared such as their birth certificates to enroll them in nearby schools,” said SDM, Nalagarh, Mahinder Pal.He said panchayat representatives had been directed to identify slum dwellers and poor children, who were bereft of education. “As many as 550 children have been identified in Nalagarh,” he said. These children were given uniform and books, and funds for meals were being deposited in their bank accounts.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/24-slum-children-enrolled-in-nalagarh-schools-274988
28-06-2021||HPUTA submitted a memorandum to HPU VC stating that the university teachers got the first dose of vaccine in March/April and the second dose was due. However||HPUTA demands second jab for staff||Campaign to spread Covid awarenessThe ABVP claims its activists reached out to 1,141 villages and spread awareness about Covid-appropriate behaviour and vaccination among 58,500 people through its 'Mission Rakshak' campaign from June 15 to 25. During the campaign, the activists also gave study material to village students. ABVP's Vishal Verma said 1,702 activists were involved in the campaign. The ABVP said rural areas lacked medical facilities and the government needed to strengthen the healthcare network there.Five students placed in WiproAnkita Soni, Sachin, Sujal Deol, Akshit and Atul Chambyal, students of BCA final year at Dronacharya PG College, Rait, got placed in Wipro, with an opportunity to pursue MTech at BITS Pilani. Managing Director GS Pathania and the faculty congratulated the students.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/hputa-demands-second-jab-for-staff-275024
28-06-2021||Dipender Manta||Sluggish road widening work irks hoteliers of Kullu, Manali||Tribune News ServiceMandi, June 27The sluggish pace of the construction work on the Kiratpur-Manali road widening project has irked hoteliers of Kullu and Manali. This highway is the lifeline for the tourism industry of Kullu and Manali but due to the slow pace of the ongoing work on the highway project from Sundernagar to Bhunter, travelling on the road has become cumbersome. Its poor condition directly impacts the tourism industry because Kullu and Manali lacks adequate flights at the Bhunter airport to attract high-end tourists.The construction work had started in 2013 and was slated to be completed within three years. Hemraj Sharma, a hotelier in Manali, says, “Due to the poor condition of the Chandigarh-Manali highway, the tourism industry of Kullu and Manali is suffering badly for the past several years. This highway is the lifeline for the tourism industry, and the lone road to reach the popular tourist destination from the Chandigarh side. Ever since the road widening work started, travelling on it became risky for tourists, affecting the tourism industry directly.”Anup Thakur, president of the Hoteliers Association Manali, says, “The slow pace of construction work on the Kiratpur-Manali road is a cause for concern because it directly impact on the tourism industry of Kullu and Manali.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/sluggish-road-widening-work-irks-hoteliers-of-kullu-manali-275028
28-06-2021||Abhinav Vashisht||As cases fall, tourist count rises in Himachal||Kullu, June 27The tourist footfall at various destinations of the district is increasing following a steep reduction in Covid cases. The tourist influx also increased after the state government announced several relaxations in curfew restrictions.As the temperatures are rising in plains, tourists have started visiting Kullu and Manali. A large number of tourists from Punjab, Haryana and Delhi are visiting Manikaran, Kasol, Tirthan, Jibhi, Rohtang, Solang Nala and other popular destinations. They are also heading towards Lahaul and Spiti through the Atal Tunnel.As there is snow in abundance in the Rohtang region, the area is buzzing with tourists. Manali, too, is another preferred location for tourists because of its pleasant weather and scenic beauty.Sunita, a tourist from Delhi, said that she was overjoyed to be in Manali as the weather here was pleasant. Rahul, a tourist from Haryana, said his family was not able to move out and relax due to Covid but they came now to enjoy the hill environment.Stakeholders of the tourism industry, who have suffered heavy losses due to the pandemic, said they were hopeful that they would do good business. Hoteliers are relieved as occupancy in hotels and other hospitality units is improving. Around 1,000 out of 2,500 hospitality units in Manali have resumed operations.Security arrangements had been tightened in view of the increasing number of tourists. More than 150 additional police personnel and Home Guard jawans had been deployed in all tourist places of the district for the convenience of the visitors.Police and Rustom volunteers were ensuring compliance of Covid protocol in tourist hotspots. Monitoring was being done through drones in congested areas. The police appealed to all stakeholders to adhere to Covid norms and advise their guests, too, to follow Covid-appropriate behaviour.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/as-cases-fall-tourist-count-rises-in-himachal-275034
28-06-2021||Rajiv Mahajan||Two Covid widows struggle to feed kids||Nurpur, June 27During the second wave, Sonia’s husband Surinder Kumar (45), a resident of Raja Ka Talab, passed away due to Covid at the Tanda medical college on May 13.As if that was not enough, Surinder’s younger brother Kewal Krishan (42), too, succumbed to the virus on June 8, leaving behind his wife Rita Devi and two children Yuvraj (12) and Sonakshi (10).Already suffering hardships, Rita Devi and Sonia are now worried for the future of their kids as their husbands were the earning members in the family. Surinder Kumar is survived by a daughter aged 9.Victims of penuryA victim of penury and distress, Kewal Krishan (42) was a newspaper hawker and used to run a roadside dhaba at Raja ka Talab. He contracted the infection and was rushed to a Covid care centre at Badani, near Pathankot in a critical condition on May 13. His condition further deteriorated there and he was shifted to a private hospital. His kin and friends raised donations to the tune of Rs 5.25 lakh for his treatment. However, he died on June 8.His widow Rita Devi is also suffering from a rare elephantiasis disease and the chances of her recovery are low. She has no other source of income to sustain her two children, who are studying in a public school.Kewal Krishan’s elder brother Surinder Kumar was a panchayat secretary in the Fatehpur development block. He died of the infection on May 13.As per family sources, their father had died when they were young and their mother, who was blind, had struggled hard throughout her life for upbringing them amid adverse circumstances.Similarly, their children are likely to face same circumstances in the absence of any income source.Prithi Chand, pradhan of Raj ka Talab gram panchayat, said a resolution was passed at a panchayat meeting recently, urging the state government to extend financial help to the families.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/two-covid-widows-struggle-to-feed-kids-275045
28-06-2021||After a sharp criticism on social media for a photo session of the top brass of the state police with actor Anupam Kher without masks||Himachal Diary: Once bitten, twice shy||Officials’ favourite stationSolan is a hot favourite destination for officials which has seen four DCs and three SPs in the three-and-a-half-year tenure of the BJP government. There was a long list of aspirants for the DC’s post in the recent transfers and an equal number of officers await transfers for key posts. With three officials being from Rajasthan, those aspiring to secure a transfer now believe having a Rajasthan connection is perhaps the key to the industrial district. Whether it will work remains to be seen but those in the line have already begun exploring it.Cops leave govt red-facedAs if the casual attitude by IAS officers was not enough, now it is the top police brass which has left he government red-faced. The showdown between Kullu SP Gaurav Singh and CM security officer made headlines. “When the CM is so humble, why is he allowing his security staff to be so high-handedness,” quipped a minister. There have been occasions when his security has been brash even in the past. Social media was flooded with adverse comments while many cited incidents where former Chief Minister Virbhadra Singh’s security staff would take abuses from people with a smile.Dhoni’s Shimla surpriseResidents of a sleepy and quiet Shimla suburb were in for the surprise of their life when legendary cricketer Mahendra Singh Dhoni, foregoing luxurious hotels, was in their midst at Whispering Pines homestay in Kanlog recently. The locals were overwhelmed by the cricket icon’s simplicity, humility and down-to-earth nature. The former Indian captain mingled with his young and old fans and obliged them with his autograph and selfies. The Captain Cool seemed to enjoy every moment of his stay at the sprawling villa with his daughter Ziva, friends and relatives, making the two-day affair memorable for everyone.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-diary-once-bitten-twice-shy-275052
28-06-2021||Pangi (Chamba)||Open Saach Pass for heavy vehicles: Chamba DC||Chamba Deputy Commissioner DC Rana has directed officials of Pangi subdivision to restore the movement of heavy vehicles on the Saach Pass.The pass was cleared of snow and thrown open a few days ago. Presiding over a meeting to review the progress of development schemes at Killar yesterday, he asked the officials to promote famous and unexplored tourist spots in the Pangi valley under the “Chalo Chamba” campaign of the administration. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/open-saach-pass-for-heavy-vehicles-chamba-dc-275059
28-06-2021||Solan||Food issue of hospital staff resolved||Chief Medical Officer (CMO), Solan, Dr Rajan Uppal, said the issue pertaining to the quality of food for the inmates of the makeshift hospital at the Radha Swami Satsang Anji centre had been resolved as quality food was being prepared for the staff and patients.Dr Uppal said, “The food is being prepared in hygienic conditions and distributed to the staff and patients by the volunteers.”Ward sisters and staff nurses had raised the issue about the quality of food before the CMO following which their teams had stepped in. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/food-issue-of-hospital-staff-resolved-275062
28-06-2021||Solan||Book on drug abuse out||A book titled ‘Drug Addiction’ was released by Dr Rajinder Singh, former senior adviser (Psychiatry), armed forces, who also the manages the Akal Drug De-Addiction and Rehabilitation Centre, through video conferencing, yesterday, at Baru Sahib in Sirmaur district.The book covers the epidemiology and etiology of drug abuse and discusses its devastating consequences. He highlighted the misconception about mental disorders and stressed upon the need of incorporating spirituality into the treatment plan to fill the void that addicts try to complete with drugs or alcohol.Dr Rajinder Singh said, “This book is not only about overcoming addiction, but also about facing fears,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/book-on-drug-abuse-out-275065
28-06-2021||Shimla||184 new cases, six deaths in Himachal||As many as 184 Covid cases were reported in the state today, taking the tally to 201,547. Besides, six persons died of the virus in the past 24 hours. Two deaths each were recorded in Mandi and Kangra and one each in Chamba and Bilaspur.There were 37 cases in Shimla, 28 in Chamba, 25 each in Kangra and Kullu, 24 in Mandi,17 in Hamirpur, seven in Kinnaur, six in Solan, five each in Una and Sirmaur, three in Bilaspur and two in Lahaul and Spiti.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/184-new-cases-six-deaths-in-himachal-274637
