30-06-2021||To promote the pride and equal rights of Lesbian||Shoolini University celebrates ‘LGBTQ+ month’||The event was moderated by dean, students’ welfare, Poonam Nanda and the theme of the event was ‘Be Yourself’. The key speaker of the event was Dhananjay Chauhan, first transgender student of Panjab University.The focus was to boost the LGBTQ+ community and allow students to assert themselves. Chauhan talked about her difficult journey and discussed work done for the community.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/shoolini-university-celebrates-lgbtq-month-276253
30-06-2021||The NSUI and the Youth Congress have accused the government of doing a shoddy work with regard to vaccination of the college students on June 28 and 29. NSUI president Chhatar Singh Thakur said no arrangement was made for vaccination in several colleges||Vaccination drive shoddy: NSUI||Open university for students: SFIThe Students’ Federation of India (SFI) staged a dharna at Pink Petals Chowk, HPU, demanding the university should be opened for students at the earliest. The SFI alleged the university was not being opened because illegal recruitment of teaching faculty was going on and the administration feared that students would question it if the university was opened. The students’ body said the library was also shut for a long time, and it should be opened for students at the earliest.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/vaccination-drive-shoddy-nsui-276201
30-06-2021||The guidelines to open shops 9 am onwards are being flouted with impunity. Some shopkeepers are opening shops before the prescribed time||Guidelines flouted with impunity||Shashi, ShimlaPeople casual about Covid normsWith the second wave of Covid almost over, some people have become casual regarding following an appropriate behaviour. They move around without masks and do not refrain from smoking inside halls and rooms, putting others’ health at risk. Jitender, ShimlaWhat our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at:hpreadersfeedback @tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/guidelines-flouted-with-impunity-276199
30-06-2021||Pratibha Chauhan||Shimla development plan likely this year||Tribune News ServiceShimla, June 29The capital city’s wait for a development plan can finally end this year as consultations to finalise the document are to be held. The growth of the city is at present taking place on the basis of the interim development plan (IDP) of 1979.The processThe task of preparing the GIS-based Shimla development plan (SDP) for the planning area and suburbs, spread over 225 sq km, was assigned to an Ahmedabad-based consultant under AMRUT scheme in 2017. The deadline for the submission of the SDP was not met even before the Covid outbreak and the matter got further delayed due to the pandemic.“We will hold consultations with stakeholders over a series of meetings keeping in view restrictions the next month,” said Karam Chand, State Town Planner in the TCP Department. He added that the consultant had submitted a proposal and it was after consultations with various departments, the Shimla Municipal Corporation, the Mayor, councillors and political leaders that the draft SDP would be prepared.Once the consultant submits the draft DP, objections and suggestions will be invited. The objections and suggestions will be incorporated into the document, and the SDP will be placed before the Cabinet for approval.“Shimla must be the only state capital that is growing on the basis of a four-decade old plan though it is an internationally renowned tourist destination. It remained the summer capital of the British before Independence,” said an official.The city has been growing fast in an unregulated and haphazard manner, virtually turning into a concrete jungle. The preparation of the SDP becomes even more imperative in the light of judgments of the High Court and the National Green Tribunal (NGT) on the concretisation of the city. It was in December 2000 that a blanket ban was imposed on all new constructions in 17 demarcated green belts in the city to prevent denudation of the hills for urban sprawl.The NGT, restricting constructions in the Shimla MC area to not more than two-and-a-half floors, had directed various agencies such as the TCP Department to ensure regulated growth of the city. The government has moved the Supreme Court to seek relief in view of the restrictions imposed by the NGT.TCP officials had prepared a Draft Development Plan for the Shimla Planning Area in 2014 after holding consultations but the document kept gathering dust and finally becoming redundant in the absence of the Cabinet approval.The SDP is being prepared for the Shimla Planning Area, the Special Area Development Authorities (SADA) of Ghanatti, Kufri and Shoghi. The area comprises more than 200 mohals. Now, it remains to be seen whether the SDP will be in conformity with the NGT directives or it allows more construction activities.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/shimla-development-plan-likely-this-year-275968
30-06-2021||Rajesh Sharma||Electric rail engines to run on Amb-Daulatpur section||Una, June 29The Railway authorities have given the no-objection certificate (NOC) for running electric locomotives on the Amb-Andaura to Daulatpur Chowk broad gauge rail section, the work on which was completed recently.At present diesel engines run beyond nangalAt present, electric locomotives run trains till the Nangal railway station, after which these are replaced by diesel locomotives for the onward journey to Daulatpur Chowk.  - Sumit Sharma, North zone railways users consultative committeeSumit Sharma, a member of the North Zone Railways Users Consultative Committee, stated this here today after attending a meeting held to review the progress of various ongoing railway works in the district. Deputy Commissioner Raghav Sharma presided over the meeting that was held on the directions of Anurag Thakur, Union Minister of State for Finance and Corporate Affairs, he added.At present, electric locomotives run trains till the Nangal railway station, after which these are replaced by diesel locomotives for the onward journey to Daulatpur Chowk, the last destination in the district. “The Railways Chief Safety Commissioner has issued the requisite NOC for running electric locomotives on this track and soon, there will be no need to change locomotives at Nangal,” said Sharma.Meanwhile, as per an official communiqué, separate loop broad gauge lines have been proposed at the Una and Chintpurni Marg stations to enable the passing of a third train in case two trains are already stationed at two platforms. A 3.5 metre wide foot over-bridge has been proposed at the Chintpurni Marg station, while the construction work of a similar bridge at the Amb-Andaura station has been allocated to a contractor.The need to spruce up the existing facilities for passengers at Una, Churaru-Takarla, Amb-Andaura and Daulatpur Chowk stations was also discussed at the meeting. Modifications to plug gaps identified in the initial survey of the proposed Una to Hamirpur rail line also came up for discussion. The Deputy Commissioner directed the revenue officials of Una district to speed up land acquisition to extend the Una to Talwara rail line up to the state border.Sharma said the details of the outcome of the discussion would be taken up at the next meeting of the District Development Coordination and Monitoring Committee to be chaired by Anurag Thakur. Officers of the Railways Construction wing at Chandigarh, besides district revenue officers attended the meeting.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/electric-rail-engines-to-run-on-amb-daulatpur-section-275969
30-06-2021||---||15 inter-state Volvo buses to run from tomorrow: Himachal Transport Minister||Shimla, June 29As many as 317 buses will be pressed into inter-state services from July 1. Of these, 15 will be Volvo buses, four deluxe and 298 ordinary buses.Announcing this here today after presiding over a Board of Directors meeting of the HRTC, Transport Minister Bikram Singh said all Covid SOPs would be followed while operating the inter-state bus services.The minister said that 205 buses would be purchased by spending Rs 86.15 crore to maintain the fleet strength and ensure the safety of passengers. “Of these, 115 will be 47-seater ordinary buses, 30 will be 37-seater ordinary buses, 50 will be 3x2 seats AC buses and five 2x2 seats AC super luxury buses. Five Tempo Travellers will also be purchased for Bharmour,” he said.Bus depots at Dharampur and Jogindernagar in Mandi would be fully operationalised. Besides, the ex-post-facto approval was accorded to bus sub-depot at Janjehli in Mandi district. “A new bus stand will be made functional at Sansarpur in Kangra and bus stands will be constructed at Baijnath and Jassur of Kangra district on the PPP mode,” he said.The minister also asked the officers to utilise the funds from Smart City Mission in Shimla and Dharamsala to upgrade the facilities.It was also decided that the workshops at Dharamsala and Dhalli would be modernised under the smart city project.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/15-inter-state-volvo-buses-to-run-from-tomorrow-himachal-transport-minister-275970
30-06-2021||Chamba||Congress protests price rise in Chamba||The Congress organised a ‘Jan Aakrosh’ rally at Chamba town today in protest against the state government’s failure to control the rising prices of essential items.  Leaders and workers of all frontal organisations of the Congress, besides people from different walks of life  participated in the rally, which was led by District Congress Committee (DCC) president Neeraj Nayar. The Congress workers also staged a sit-in outside the Deputy Commissioner’s office.  Nayar said that the government had been unable to control the rising prices of essential items. “People need financial relief, besides safety from Covid. Unemployment is at its peak, anti-farmer laws are being made. There is an unbridled rise in inflation, but the government is busy making a strategy for the byelections in the state,” he added.  “The bureaucracy is dominating the government, echoes of the slap are being heard from Kullu to Dharamsala. There is a lack of discipline in the government but still the BJP is dreaming of Mission Repeat,” he added. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/congress-protests-price-rise-in-chamba-275971
30-06-2021||Shimla||No vaccination of 18-plus in Himachal today||The state government has cancelled the vaccination session for category B beneficiaries (18 years plus) tomorrow. According to a government spokesperson, only the category A beneficiaries (45 plus, health care workers, frontline workers and priority groups) will be vaccinated tomorrow.Rs 50 lakh releasedRs 50 lakh has been released to the dependants of Sushma, a midwife at the Public Health Centre at Naldehra who died of Covid. Dr Surekha Chopra, CMO, said. New India Assurance Limited had released the amount under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Package.The decision to temporarily discontinue the vaccination of category B beneficiaries have been taken to ensure better coverage of the category A beneficiaries, who have lagged behind over the past couple of weeks. The 18 years-plus beneficiaries have shown a lot of enthusiasm for vaccination and over 10 lakh of them have been vaccinated. “However, in the process, our coverage of above 45 years and prioritised groups have suffered. To bring back some sort of balance in the coverage, the government has decided to focus on the category A beneficiaries for a couple of days,” an official said. “For instance, if we have to reopen schools, we will need teaching and non-teaching staff to be vaccinated. So, we need to focus on prioritised groups and the elderly for a while,” he said.Besides, all people, who have to travel abroad for education or are part of Indian contingent for the Tokyo Olympic Games, can link their Covid-19 vaccination certificates to their passports on the COWIN portal. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/no-vaccination-of-18-plus-in-himachal-today-275972
30-06-2021||Nurpur||HPSEBL union seeks jobs for kin of deceased staff||Members of the Himachal Pradesh State Electricity Board Ltd (HPSEBL) Employees’ Union has criticised the board management for neglecting the dependents of deceased employees, who had a natural death.  Kuldeep Kharwara, state president of the union, said that there was a provision of 5 per cent reservation for the dependents of the employees, who had a natural death, for recruitment as Class III and IV employees in the board, but the management was not providing jobs to them. Kharwara said that 820 such files had been lying pending since 2006, causing hardships to the dependents of the deceased employees. He added that he urged the Chief Minister to intervene and direct the HPSEBL management to honour the provision, so that the dependents of the deceased employees could get justice. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/hpsebl-union-seeks-jobs-for-kin-of-deceased-staff-275973
30-06-2021||Shimla||MoU signed for ammunition production unit||An MoU worth Rs 5,000 crore was signed between the state government and SMPP Private India Ltd here today for setting up an ammunition manufacturing facility for tanks and artillery guns. The MoU was signed by Rakesh Prajapati, Director, Industries, on behalf of the state government and SMPPP Private Ltd Managing Director SC Kansal. The industrial project would provide direct and indirect employment to about 8,500 persons. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/mou-signed-for-ammunition-production-unit-275974
30-06-2021||---||Himachal CM Jai Ram Thakur: Swan, Mand area prone to illegal mining||Shimla, June 29Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur today directed the officers concerned to take stringent action against those involved in illegal mining in the state.Thakur, presiding over a meeting to review issues related to mining activities, said the Swan river in Una district and the Mand area in Kangra district were more prone to illegal mining.“To check illegal mining and the transportation of minerals, the state government has established check posts at Gagret, Pandoga, Bathri, Polian and Mehatpur in Una district,” he said. It was unfortunate that illegal mining was going on and violators were bypassing these check posts.The Chief Minister said that the government had decided not to allow mining lease within two kilometre of the limits of municipal corporations/committees, and one kilometre of nagar panchayats without an NOC from the corporation/committee concerned.He added that similarly, no mining lease was being granted within 200 metre of any water supply and irrigation scheme and within 200 metre to 500 metre upstream and downstream of a bridge.Thakur said that the government had also made penalty provisions for illegal mining more stringent. A provision of a fine up to Rs 5 lakh and imprisonment up to two years had been made for persons involved in illegal mining. He added that a penalty provision for illegal storage of minerals had been fixed at Rs 50,000, besides the market sale price of the total material.He directed the officers concerned to ensure a total check on illegal mining and at the same time, steps taken to allow scientific mining for the construction purpose as well as developmental works.Thakur said that the government would also consider creating more mining check posts in border areas of the state. Additional Chief Secretary, Industries, Ram Subhag Singh assured the Chief Minister that effective steps would be taken to check illegal mining and ensure systematic and scientific mining.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-cm-jai-ram-thakur-swan-mand-area-prone-to-illegal-mining-275975
30-06-2021||UNA||Panchayat secy caught taking bribe at Haroli||The Una Vigilance Bureau today arrested the panchayat secretary of Ispur in Haroli for taking a bribe of Rs 12,000. According to Sagar Chand, Additional SP, the bribe money was recovered from accused Vishnu Sharma.  He said they had received a complaint from Ravinder Kumar of Barnoh that he had applied for a licence to set up a sales outlet for masonry bricks, for which an NOC was required. He had submitted an application to the secretary, but he was demanding Rs 12,000.  A trap was laid and he was caught. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/panchayat-secy-caught-taking-bribe-at-haroli-275976
30-06-2021||Mandi||Mandi: Water level rises in Pandoh  reservoir, tourists alerted||The Pandoh dam authorities have alerted the district administration to advise visitors as well as local people to avoid going close to the Beas from the Pandoh dam downstream for the next few days. The water level in the dam has increased drastically, which may force the dam authorities to open the flood gates any time to release the excess water into the Beas. It will result in a sudden rise in the water level of the Beas, which may prove fatal to people present close to the river. Additional District Magistrate Shrawan Manta said  the water level in the reservoir was increasing due to increased inflow. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/mandi-water-level-rises-in-pandoh-reservoir-tourists-alerted-275977
30-06-2021||Shimla||167 new Covid cases, one death in Himachal Pradesh||As many as 167 Covid cases were reported in the state today, taking the tally to 2,01,980. Besides, one person died of the virus in Una.There were 44 cases in Mandi, 23 in Chamba, 19 in Una, 16 in Kangra, 14 in Hamirpur, 13 in Shimla, 11 in Bilaspur, nine in Sirmaur and seven in Solan. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/167-new-covid-cases-one-death-in-himachal-pradesh-275978
30-06-2021||Dinesh Kanwar||Hamirpur: Financial ‘favour’ was extended during NIT scam investigation||Hamirpur, June 29A financial embezzlement case has surfaced in the appointment scam pertaining to the National Institute of Technology, Hamirpur, that had led to the suspension of its director a few months ago.Then director was given clean chitIt has been learnt that the then NIT authorities had given an additional financial favour to a senior member of an investigation team appointed to probe into the scam.Many appointments were allegedly made after ignoring merit at the behest of the institute’s then Director Vinod Yadava. As the matter was exposed in the media, the Union Ministry of Education initiated investigation and later terminated the services of the director after irregularities were detected. The ministry gave the additional charge of the institute to Dr Lalit Awasthi, Director, NIT, Jalandhar.The Union Ministry of Education had initiated the first inquiry in January 2020 and sent a two-member committee to investigate the complaints against Vinod Yadava, who was given the clean chit. Unsatisfied by the investigation, the ministry constituted a one-member investigation team headed by Prof Anil D Sahasrabudhe, chairman of the All India Council of Technical Education.It was on the report of Sahasrabudhe that the ministry terminated Yadava’s services as the Director of the NIT. As per the investigation, which is still underway, documents (copies of which are in the possession of The Tribune) reveal that the NIT authorities had paid Rs 1.5 lakh, as per rules, to each member of the investigation team. However, an additional amount of Rs 19,500 was given to DK Singh, Deputy Secretary (Finance) of the Union Ministry of Education, on January 28, reveal documents.Interestingly, DK Singh returned the amount to the NIT yesterday (June 28). He mentioned in his email to the institute that his investigation team had visited the NIT, Hamirpur, just for half an hour and had then gone to Dharamsala. He said that he had returned Rs 19,500 to the NIT and had asked it to intimate the interest on the amount that he has to deposit in the NIT account.Yogesh Gupta, Registrar of the NIT, confirmed that the institute had received Rs 19,500 from DK Singh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/hamirpur-financial-favour-was-extended-during-nit-scam-investigation-275979
30-06-2021||---||Shimla Zila Parishad meet: Oppn walks out over relief to fruit growers||Shimla, June 29The Shimla Zila Parishad meeting witnessed an uproar today over the government’s alleged failure to provide relief to fruit growers, who suffered major losses due to untimely snowfall and a hailstorm in the past couple of months.losses due to snowThe agitated Congress and CPM members sat in the middle of the House, raised slogans against the government, particularly against Horticulture Minister Mahender Singh, and then staged a walkout.The Horticulture Department has assessed the losses suffered by the fruit growers, primarily apple growers, at over Rs 250 crore and submitted the report to the government. The minister has also given an assurance of help from the state government as well as the Centre. However, the apple growers have not received any relief so far that has angered the Zila Parishad members.“The government has also increased the prices of cartons, which is like rubbing salt into their wound,” said Kaushal Mungta, chairman of the Horticulture and Industry Committee of the Shimla Zila Parishad.“The minister had assured us that the prices of cartons would not be increased, yet the prices have gone up. The government is trying to befool people,” he said.Monita Chauhan, a zila parishad member from Rohru, said the lackadaisical attitude of the government had forced them to lodge a protest. “Our demands are simple. The growers should start getting compensation immediately. The hike in the prices of cartons should be rolled back,” she said.Zila Parishad vice-chairman Surender Retka said the loss estimates, prepared by the Horticulture Department, were way off the mark. “The losses in Shimla district alone are more than Rs 500 crore,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/shimla-zila-parishad-meet-oppn-walks-out-over-relief-to-fruit-growers-275980
30-06-2021||Our Correspondent||Delhi trekker dies on Shrikhand route in Himachal||KULLU, JUNE 29A trekker has died on the Shrikhand yatra route at Nirmand in the district. Ashutosh Garg, DC, Kullu, had banned the yatra due to Covid.Was part of a groupDSP Ravinder Negi said a group of six youths parked their car in Jaon village and left for the Shrikhand peak on June 25. Tarun (25) from Delhi fell while crossing a glacier in Parvati Bagh and succumbed to his injuries. He said a rescue team of the police and the administration left for the spot.The DSP said Ayush Kumar and Akshit of Rohru, Sunil Kumar of Chaupal in Shimla district, Arun of Anni and Jai and Tarun of Delhi started trekking on the yatra route without informing the administration or the police. Tarun fell during trekking and died. The rescue team would bring back the body by this evening.The yatra to the 18,000 feet Shrikhand Mahadev peak has been banned for the second consecutive year due to Covid. The yatra is held from July 15 to 30 and hundreds of pilgrims take to the 32-km trek, which takes 3 to 5 days to pay obeisance to 72-foot-high lingam of Lord Shiva.The DC said it would not be possible to conduct the yatra this year as well following the guidelines of the government and the State Disaster Management Authority.The DC appealed to people not to undertake the yatra as it might put their lives at risk. He said police check posts had been set up at Jaon and Singhgad to prevent anybody from undertaking the yatra. He added that action would be taken against violators.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/delhi-trekker-dies-on-shrikhand-route-in-himachal-275981
30-06-2021||Shimla||Haryana DGP calls on Himachal CM over drug menace||Haryana DGP Manoj Yadava called on Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur here today and apprised him about the joint efforts being undertaken to check drug trafficking and organised crimes.Yadava was accompanied by Himachal DGP Sanjay Kundu. They apprised the Chief Minister about the measures taken by the police forces of the two neighbouring states for inter-state cooperation to check crime and drug trafficking. They assured the Chief Minister of a highest level of cooperation to deal strictly with anti-social activities. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/haryana-dgp-calls-on-himachal-cm-over-drug-menace-275982
30-06-2021||Solan||Toll barriers auctioned in Nalagarh subdivision||The Excise and Taxation Department today registered an increase of 29 per cent in the annual auction price of   inter-state toll barriers in Nalagarh subdivision of the district held  under the chairmanship of SDM Mahinder Pal at Baddi.  Excise Collector Rajiv Dogra and observer TR Rana were also present during the auction where 15 parties placed their bids for two barriers of  Dherowal and Baddi. The Baddi barrier was auctioned for  14.11 crore to Jitendra Associates against the reserve price of Rs 9.60 crore, an increase of 47 per cent. The Dherowal barrier was auctioned for Rs 6.25 crore to Rana Enterprises against the reserve price of Rs 6.18 crore, registering an increase of 1 per cent, said the SDM. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/toll-barriers-auctioned-in-nalagarh-subdivision-275983
30-06-2021||Solan||Road accident at Shillai in Sirmaur: PM announces Rs 2L for accident victims’ kin||The death toll in the road accident at Shillai in Sirmaur district yesterday climbed to 11 with 22-year youth Akshay succumbing to his injuries at the PGI, Chandigarh, today. A pick-up van, carrying 12 persons, plunged into a gorge on the Timbi-Bakras road last evening. The Prime Minister’s Office  announced an ex gratia of Rs 2 lakh to kin of the deceased and Rs 50,000 to those injured.  A tweet by the PMO said, “Pained by the loss of lives due to an accident in Sirmaur. Condolences to the bereaved families and prayers with the injured. An ex gratia of Rs 2 lakh each from PMNRF would be provided to the next of the kin of the deceased and Rs 50,000  be given to the injured.” PM Modi. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/road-accident-at-shillai-in-sirmaur-pm-announces-rs-2l-for-accident-victims-kin-275985
