04 August 2021||Lucknow,||Not asked to move to Delhi: Yogi||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has put to rest speculation that he was asked to shift to Delhi, and thereby settled the question of leadership, for now, in the State BJP and the government as he heads into the 2022 Assembly election. Amid questions over his future after the image of the State government received a blow during the questionable handling of the COVID-19 second wave and the difference of opinion on the ‘CM face’ from some of his own colleagues, Mr. Adityanath had met Prime Minister Narendra Modi in Delhi in July. Since then, the top BJP leadership, including Mr. Modi, have publicly praised the Chief Minister and his work ethic. In an interview to The Hindu , Mr. Adityanath said he was not offered a role in Delhi during his visit there. “We met over issues related to the State. I met him (Modi) earlier too and frequently seek his advice on governance issues,” he said. Mr. Adityanath also dismissed the electoral challenges posed to his party’s social arithmetic by the ongoing farmer agitation in western Uttar Pradesh along with the alliance of the Samajwadi Party and the Rashtriya Lok Dal. He listed out the schemes implemented by the BJP government for farmers in the past seven years and labelled the farmers’ protest as politically motivated. “If this kisan andolan was connected to the interests of farmers, then possibly they could have had the support. This is politically motivated. And any such politically motivated campaign will not receive support of people and annadata kisan ,” he said. He also dismissed the credentials of the Opposition, in particular the BSP, in wooing the dominant Brahmin community. The BSP and the SP have constantly accused the BJP government, headed by Mr. Adityanath, a born-Thakur, of targeting the Brahmins. “Since when is the BSP a champion of Brahmin samaj (community)? Their old slogans reflect their attitudes,” Mr. Adityanath said. “Neither SP or BSP has the right to speak about social cohesion as they have advocated conflict between communities,” he said. The BJP currently has two allies in U.P. — the OBC-based Apna Dal and the Nishad Party. While Apna Dal chief Anupriya Patel was recently appeased with a berth in the Union Council of Ministers, Nishad Party president Sanjay Nishad has felt disgruntled and occasionally issued dissenting statements. With all eyes set on a possible Cabinet expansion or reshuffle in the State before the election, Mr. Adityanath claimed there was no problem with the BJP’s allies. “Issuing statements and the reality are different. Every political party has a right to run their campaign. How can we stop that? But our allies are working together with us,” he said. Since 2017, there has been a change in perception about U.P. and this along with the development work and “effective situation” of law and order would be the issues on which the BJP would seek votes in 2022, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/not-asked-to-move-to-delhi-yogi/article35712301.ece
04 August 2021||New Delhi,||Let’s unite voice of people, Rahul tells Oppn. leaders||Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday gave a call to Opposition leaders to “unite the majority voice of the people of India” that is represented by their parties. Accompanied by his party colleagues and Opposition leaders, Mr. Gandhi rode a bicycle to Parliament to protest against the rise in the prices of fuel and cooking gas. Just before the cycle protest, he hosted a breakfast meet for the leaders of 15 Opposition parties at the Constitution Club, close to Parliament. “We [the Opposition parties] represent 60% of the people, the majority of the people. When the government shuts us up, they are not humiliating us as members of Parliament but the majority voice of the people of India. The single most important thing in my view is: let’s unite this voice,” he told the Opposition MPs. “The more this voice unites, the more powerful it will become, more difficult it will become for the BJP and RSS to suppress this voice,” he asserted. The principles for the foundation of such unity should be worked out now, he added. Congress spokesperson and Rajya Sabha member Abhishek Singhvi called the meet “historic” and claimed that it was “a trailer for 2024 [Lok Sabha polls]”. He said, “This shows you the new resolve, new direction, new momentum and a new determination and grit.... We will proceed unitedly without fear and deterrence. Be it Pegasus, the terrible price rise, the farmers’ issue or any number of governance issues”. He, however, played down a question on who would be the face of the “united Opposition” by terming it “irrelevant” at this point in time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/lets-unite-voice-of-people-rahul-tells-oppn-leaders/article35712315.ece
04 August 2021||MANGALURU,||Liquor shops on Kerala border to be closed||Fearing that tipplers from neighbouring Kerala might contribute to the spike in COVID-19 cases in Dakshina Kannada, the district administration on Tuesday ordered the closure of all liquor shops within a 5-km distance of its border with Kerala till August 15. With Kerala enforcing a partial ban on liquor consumption, watering holes in Karnataka bordering that State do a roaring business with tipplers thronging them every day. Liquor is not allowed to be served in hotels with less than 5 star rating, while it is sold at beverage shops across Kerala. Dakshina Kannada Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra in his order on Tuesday said that all liquor shops, including toddy shops, located within a 5-km distance from Kerala border in Mangaluru, Bantwal, Puttur and Sullia taluks will have to remain closed for the specified period. The order also gives the names of shops that include 24 selling/serving Indian Made Liquor (IML) and five toddy shops. There are nine IML shops in Mangaluru taluk, seven each in Bantwal and Puttur and one in Sullia taluk, while five toddy shops are located in Puttur taluk. Dr. Rajendra noted that the district administration has been enforcing the State government directives to control the spread of pandemic periodically. Despite the enforcement, there has been an increase in the number of positive cases in the district forcing the administration to implement enhanced restrictions, including mandatory COVID-19 test negative certificates for people coming from Kerala. With people consuming alcohol in neighbouring Kasargod district of Kerala entirely dependent on liquor shops across the border in Karnataka, there was every possibility of an increase in COVID-19 positive cases in Karnataka and hence, the order, Dr. Rajendra said.  Ban order to be effective within a 5-km area from the Kerala border in Dakshina Kannada||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/liquor-shops-on-kerala-border-to-be-closed/article35712738.ece
04 August 2021||BENGALURU,||BJP leadership decision on ministerial list today||The final decision of BJP central leaders on the Karnataka ministerial list, which Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai discussed with them over the last two days in Delhi, will be announced on Wednesday morning. Addressing reporters in New Delhi late on Tuesday night, Mr. Bommai said, “We are expecting good news [clearance of the list] on Wednesday. If I get the information early, swearing-in ceremony can be held either by tomorrow afternoon or evening.” He is returning to Bengaluru early on Wednesday. He explained that a final round of consultation was held with the party central leaders on the composition of his Ministry on Tuesday. “Party national president J.P. Nadda had sought some clarifications. I have furnished them too. Now, he will announce his decision on Wednesday,” Mr. Bommai said. “Only two or three issues need to be decided,” he added. He refused to indicate the number of legislators who would be sworn in, though he said the ministerial expansion was expected to be taken up in two phases. He also noted that there were divergent views on creation of Deputy Chief Minister posts. Several former Ministers, including B.C. Patil, Murugesh Nirani, and K.S. Eshwarappa, are learnt to have been alerted by the Chief Minister about their inclusion. Mr. Patil put out a social media post saying that he would be taking oath as Minister on Wednesday at 2.15 p.m. Referring to this, sources in the BJP said all the probables were being the alerted by the Chief Minister to be ready.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bjp-leadership-decision-on-ministerial-list-today/article35712345.ece
04 August 2021||Belagavi,||Belagavi Police to issue transit passes for inter-State travel||Belagavi District Police will issue transit passes to those who regularly cross the Karnataka Maharashtra border for work. Additional Director-General of Police Umesh Kumar told the District Police to issue passes to those who have to cross the border daily or who frequently cross the border in a week, for work. He observed that the district administration was already issuing passes to some who were engaged in emergency services or whose livelihood was dependent on cross border travel. However, they will have to apply for passes following some conditions, including undergoing RT-PCR tests and vaccination. He was speaking to officers after a visit to the border check-post in Kugnoli near Nippani. “It is true that we have enforced new and strict guidelines for inter-State travel, after the recent surge of fresh cases in the border States of Maharashtra and Kerala. But some exemptions can be given to emergency supplies, medical emergencies and regular employment. They will be allowed based on certain conditions,’’ he said. He asked heads of all related departments to ensure vaccination of all employees who work at border check-posts or are expected to cross the border. Superintendent of Police Laxman Nimbargi said that the inter-State border stretched for 195 km, covering 75 villages. The area lies in the jurisdiction of 22 police stations. Deputy Commissioner M.G. Hiremath spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/belagavi-police-to-issue-transit-passes-for-inter-state-travel/article35712548.ece
04 August 2021||KADAPA,||Viveka murder case: CBI arrests key witness in Goa||In a major breakthrough in the sensational former Member of Parliament Y.S. Vivekananda Reddy murder case, the Central Bureau of Investigation apprehended an important witness, Sunil Yadav, in Goa on Monday night. Mr. Yadav, who is learnt to have had a long-term association with the Viveka family, was grilled a number of times by the CBI team that had camped in Kadapa district for over a month. After this, he had approached the Andhra Pradesh High Court and sought protection from arrest by the CBI. The CBI also filed a counter in the High Court stating that the investigation was progressing in tune with the norms, and held that the petitioner was trying to mislead the officials. The CBI also reportedly submitted to the court that there was enough evidence against Mr. Yadav. After moving court, Mr. Yadav and his family members reportedly went undergound and remained inaccessible to the police. Vivekananda Reddy, paternal uncle of Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy, was found dead in the bathroom of his Pulivendula house on March 15, 2019, just ahead of the general elections. Though initially believed to be death caused by heart attack, the police later recognised it as a case of murder. There was little breakthrough over the years in spite of a lot of action by the CBI. The probe picked up momentum over the last few weeks after the officials started questioning Mr. Reddy’s former driver Dastagiri. Police produced Mr. Yadav and his family members in a local court in Goa and obtained a transit warrant to bring them to Kadapa. He is expected to be produced in a Kadapa court on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cbi-arrests-key-witness-in-viveka-murder-case/article35712271.ece
04 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||More than 99% students pass CBSE Class 10 exam||More than 99% of the Central Board of Secondary Examination (CBSE) students have passed Class 10, according to the results released on Tuesday. Last year, 91.46% passed the exam. In fact, six States — Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Nagaland, Mizoram, Meghalaya and Goa — and the Union Territories of Puducherry and Lakshadweep recorded a 100% pass this year. All Kendriya Vidyalayas across the country also had a 100 percentage pass. The exam, originally scheduled to be held in May and June, was cancelled due to the second wave of the COVID-19 pandemic. The marks were calculated on the basis of internal assessments, including unit tests, mid-terms and pre-board exams, and are not really comparable with the results of previous years. No toppers now Hence, no toppers have been declared now, as the board decided not to issue any merit list or merit certificates. However, the number of high scorers has increased, with almost 2.6 lakh students (12%) scoring above 90%. Out of the 20.97 lakh students, for whom results have been declared, 20.77 lakh have passed, resulting in a 99.04 pass percentage. The results are still being processed for 16,639 students. Examinations will be held separately for 36,841 private candidates, as well as students who are not satisfied with the results they have been assigned under the assessment policy using internal assessments. Students can download their results and academic documents, including marksheets, passing, migration and skills certificates, through the academic repository of the CBSE, Parinam Manjusha, which is integrated with DigiLocker. This year, for the first time, the CBSE is also giving such digital access to schools and to foreign students.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/more-than-99-students-pass-cbse-class-10-exam/article35712313.ece
04 August 2021||MYSURU,||Karnataka had better control over COVID-19 cases: Study||Even though there is widespread concern over the recent rise in COVID-19 cases in Karnataka progressing into a full-blown third wave if appropriate containment measures are not taken, a report by Jeevan Raksha, a public private initiative that studies COVID-19 trends in the country, has said that the pandemic was in better control in Karnataka than several other States during the 28-day period between July 3 and 31. Sanjeev Mysore, convener of Jeevan Raksha, said India added 11 lakh new COVID-19 cases during the 28-day period under study, of which 74% of cases came from Kerala, Maharashtra, Odisha, Karnataka, and Tamil Nadu. While Kerala contributed 38% (4.29 lakh), Maharashtra contributed 19% (2.18 lakh). Karnataka added 53,045 cases during the period, accounting for the least share of 4.7%. He said the Moving Growth Rate (MGR) of COVID-19 cases during the 28-day period has been 2% in Karnataka compared to 13% in Kerala, 8% in Odisha, 4% in Maharashtra, and 3% in Tamil Nadu, besides 4% in entire India. Karnataka appears to have performed better in bringing down the number of active cases. While the decline of active cases in Karnataka had recorded a negative MGR of minus 51% during the 28-day period. The corresponding figures are minus 47% for Tamil Nadu, minus 23% for Maharashtra, minus 42% for Odisha, and plus 37% for Kerala, besides minus 31% for entire India. “If Karnataka sustains the same level of performance in August and September and ensures that the total active cases is maintained at the current level, the third wave can be averted,” Mr. Sanjeev said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/karnataka-had-better-control-over-covid-19-cases-study/article35712344.ece
04 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||Second wave still raging in country: Centre||The second wave of the COVID-19 pandemic is “still raging” in the country, Lav Aggarwal, Joint Secretary, Union Health Ministry, said on Tuesday. Himachal Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir, Lakshadweep, Tamil Nadu, Mizoram, Karnataka, Puducherry and Kerala have registered a rise in the Reproduction Number (R), which was a cause for concern, he said at a press conference here. Reproduction Number is the average number of new infections generated by one infected individual during the entire infectious period. R>1 denotes a spreading infection. The R for India is 1.2. “If it has gone over 1, it shows it is a significant problem and some States have registered an increasing trend of over 1,” Mr. Aggarwal said. Only Andhra Pradesh and Maharashtra are showing a declining trend and in States such as Bengal, Nagaland, Haryana, Goa, Delhi and Jharkhand, the R-factor is at 1. The Ministry said 44 districts had reported a high case positivity and 18 districts had shown an increasing new cases trend in the past four weeks. “Currently, we have Kerala (10 districts), Manipur (9), Mizoram (6), Nagaland, Arunachal Pradesh and Meghalaya (4 each) among others that remain a cause for concern.” “Also 49.85% of the total cases in the last week were reported from Kerala. Malappuram, Thrissur, Kozhikode, Ernakulam, Kottayam, Alappuzha, Kasargod, Pathanamthitta, Wayanad and Idukki districts in Kerala are showing a worrying trend,” said Mr. Aggarwal. An overall declining trend had been observed across India in weekly positivity since the week ending 10th May . “Weekly positivity has been less than 2% for the first time in the past 3 months,” he said. The pandemic was far from over and globally, too, there was a rise in cases, NITI Aayog member (Health) V.K. Paul said. The Delta variant was a dominant problem. “COVID-appropriate behaviour and vaccination are vital and we urge the vulnerable population to avail themselves of the vaccination facility as soon as possible. This definitely contributes to the reduction of severity and mortality.” He said the government continued to be in talks with Moderna and Pfizer for bringing in more vaccines and India was all set to enhance its production capacity by next month. Work was on-going in terms of bringing in COVID-19 vaccination for children also. “While work on ensuring increased vaccine capacity is on-going, data has shown that India has to adopt a cautious approach to the virus which doesn’t seem to have tired. Though overall we have registered a reduced positivity trend, there are districts which continue to be a cause of concern. Now States like Himachal Pradesh, where case positivity was steady or declining, are showing districts with high positivity. This clearly indicates that we cannot let our guard down,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/second-wave-still-raging-in-country-centre/article35712311.ece
04 August 2021||Chennai,||At least 3 times ‘excess deaths’ in Maharashtra||The number of “excess deaths” registered by the Civil Registration System (CRS) in Maharashtra ever since the COVID-19 pandemic hit (from April 2020 to May 2021) was an estimated 2,12,589, which is 2.8 times the official reported figure of 75,877 COVID-19 deaths for the same period. The figures were arrived at from data on deaths registered month-wise in the online CRS from January 2018 to May 2021 in Maharashtra, which is accessed by The Hindu . As with the other States, not all excess deaths could be related to COVID-19, but a bulk of them will be, during the pandemic period. The online death registrations data accessed by The Hindu showed a total of 6,67,900 and 6,93,800 deaths in 2018 and 2019 respectively, which corresponded to 63.9% and 66.6% of the numbers released by the CRS’ annual report on vital statistics in 2019. Inconsistent data Six districts — Pune, Satara, Sangli, Yavatmal, Sindhudurg and Gondiya — with a combined officially recorded COVID-19 toll of 21,110 deaths between April 2020 and May 2021, were not considered for this analysis as the month-wise CRS registration data accessed was inconsistent between 2018 and 2019 for them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/at-least-3-times-excess-deaths-in-maharashtra/article35712317.ece
04 August 2021||GUNTUR,||State to build 4,530 digital libraries at Rs. 140 cr.||With the concept of work from home induced by COVID-19 catching up, Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has directed the officials to take measures to strengthen the “work from home”, concept and said the State government has been taking steps to provide high speed internet in villages for the last two years. During a review meeting held on IT department and Digital libraries at his camp office here on Tuesday, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said digital libraries at villages should be useful to graduate students along with primary and secondary education, adding the that study material related to common entrance tests should be available in them. The Chief Minister directed the officials to initiate measures to provide uninterrupted internet facilities to Village Secretariats and Rytu Bharosa Kendras (RBKs). Action plan Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said that digital libraries would be set up in all the village panchayats across the State and directed the officials concerned to prepare an action plan for the construction of 4,530 digital libraries which would start in the first phase on August 15 at a cost of Rs. 140 crore. The officials informed teh Chief Minister that they had prepared the plan with a target of completing the setting up of digital libraries by December. “Every library should have three desktops, UPS, desktop barcode printer, scanner, laser printer, software, anti-virus software, unlimited bandwidth internet along with minimum facilities and data centres for storage,’’ said Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy. He said infrastructure facilities, including three desktop tables, system chairs, visitor chairs, tubelights, fans, iron racks, newspapers and magazines should be provided in the digital libraries. Minister for Industries and Information Technology Mekapati Goutham Reddy, Elections and Communications Principal Secretary G Jaya Lakshmi, Energy Secretary Nagulapalli Srikanth, Panchayat Raj and Rural Development Commissioner Girija Shankar, APSFL MD M Madhusudan Reddy, Andhra Pradesh Technical Services MD M Nanda Kishore and other officials were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-to-build-4530-digital-libraries-at-rs-140-cr/article35712304.ece
04 August 2021||HUBBALLI,||Tests mandatory for people coming from Kerala, Maharashtra||In the wake of steady rise in the number of COVID-19 positive cases in the neighbouring States of Maharashtra and Kerala, the district administration has ordered mandatory tests for people from these two States visiting the district. Deputy Commissioner of Dharwad Nitesh Patil issued an order in this connection on Tuesday. In the order, the Deputy Commissioner said that passengers who have visited Kerala and Maharashtra and are visiting Dharwad district should compulsorily have RT-PCR test negative report with them for entry. As per the rule, the test reports should not be 72 hours older irrespective of people’s vaccination status. The Deputy Commissioner clarified that the rule was applicable to all passengers reaching the district by flight, bus, train and personal transport. Mr. Patil said that flight service providers should issue boarding passes only to those passengers carrying RT-PCR test negative certificates. This apart, it is mandatory for students and public visiting the district for education, business and other reasons to undergo RT-PCR test once in 15 days and produce the negative test report, he said. With regard to emergency situations, including death in family or medical treatment, swabs will be collected on arrival of passengers in the district. And, based on the the RT-PCR test report, further action will be taken, Mr. Patil said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tests-mandatory-for-people-coming-from-kerala-maharashtra/article35712550.ece
04 August 2021||MANGALURU,||University postpones odd semester degree exams||Mangalore University has postponed its on-going odd semester degree examinations until further orders, according to P.L. Dharma, Registrar (Evaluation) of the university. Accordingly, the evaluation of answer scripts which began on Tuesday has also been postponed until further orders, he said in a statement. It is following an instruction to the university from Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra to prevent the spread of COVID-19. In a letter to the university on Tuesday, the Deputy Commissioner said that the administration will have to take some stern measures in view of public interest to prevent the spread of COVID-19. He said that many students from Kerala will have to come to Dakshina Kannada to write their examinations. The administration has imposed strict measures on the borders to check the unnecessary movement of people from Kerala to Karnataka. Hence, it will create problems for students too and there will also be a possibility of the infection spreading. Meanwhile, the university has been forced to postpone its odd semester examinations of the academic year 2020-21 for the third time. It postponed the examinations first to April 12 from April 8 due to the KSRTC strike. The examinations had begun on April 1. It had to postpone it for the second time due to the lockdown imposed in late April. Later, the examinations had resumed on August 2.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/university-postpones-odd-semester-degree-exams/article35712739.ece
04 August 2021||CHENNAI,||HC scraps law banning online games with stakes||The Madras High Court on Tuesday struck down part II of the Tamil Nadu Gaming and Police Laws (Amendment) Act of 2021, through which the legislature had imposed a blanket ban on rummy, poker and all other games played online for a wager, bet, money or other stake irrespective of it being a game of skill or a game of chance. Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy held that the government had prohibited games of skill merely on the basis of “anecdotal” reference to a few suicides and subjective perception of addiction to online games with stakes. “In the absence of any scientific or empirical study, the impugned legislation may be seen to have been born out of a sense of morality and a bid to play to the galleries in election season in a societal ethos where smoking and drinking are regarded as less immoral than when indulged in before elders… That the Bill faced no opposition in the House has more to do with the optics,” the judges said.  The first Division Bench held that the ban falls foul of the constitutional right of individuals, under Article 19(1)(g), to exploit their skills. However, it hastened to add: “Nothing herein will prevent an appropriate legislation conforming to the constitutional sense of propriety being brought in the field of betting and gambling by the State.” Though the State government had heavily relied upon the 276th report of the Law Commission to justify the ban imposed by it on all forms of online games played with stakes, the judges pointed out that the report itself had stressed only on regulation and not prohibition. They said the ban must be regarded as something done by the legislature capriciously and irrationally. The judgment was passed while allowing a batch of writ petitions filed by a host of private companies offering online games. The petitioner companies were represented by senior counsel Abhishek Manu Singhvi, A.K. Ganguli, Mohan Parasaran, C. Aryama Sundaram and P.S. Raman who questioned the rationale behind banning games of skill. The judges agreed with the counsel that the Supreme Court had categorically ruled that rummy was a game of skill. They said that there would be hardly any difference in playing rummy physically or online. However, the law in question had not taken any of such issues into consideration before going about prohibiting all games, they added. “All that can be said is that the Amending Act is so unequivocally audacious that it rules out any element of choice that an individual may exercise. The impugned statute is invalid in its every pore, such that no part of it can be salvaged or permitted to be retained… The unwavering mantra of the impugned legislation is prohibition and not regulation,” the Bench said. It went on to state: “There is no doubt that the activity of gambling and the inextricable element of betting involved therewith has a deleterious impact on certain individuals and can even be ruinous. So much is accepted. The immediate question that arises is whether it was necessary to go the distance that the Amending Act has charted out to completely stultify and negate skill altogether.” Authoring the verdict, the Chief Justice also said: “If, prima facie, the impugned legislation is seen to impose restrictions or altogether curb the exercise of skill in a particular domain, the onus is on the State to justify not only the need therefor but also the extent thereof. No attempt has been made in such regard apart from the anecdotal reference to some suicides and the subjective perception of the evil of addiction.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hc-scraps-law-banning-online-games-with-stakes/article35712387.ece
04 August 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Award for local bodies to be instituted||An award will be instituted for local bodies based on their achievements in creating an investment-friendly climate in their regions. The awards will be decided based on the number of industrial units in their area, the number of jobs created and the increase in revenue for the local bodies from such industrial units, said Industries Minister P.Rajeeve and Minister for Local Self Governments M.V.Govindan in an online meeting on Tuesday with grama panchayat secretaries and panchayat deputy secretaries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/award-for-local-bodies-to-be-instituted/article35712626.ece
04 August 2021||Bengaluru,||CM to arrive from Delhi today||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai will arrive in Bengaluru on Wednesday after hectic consultations with the BJP central leadership in New Delhi to finalise the list of those who are to join his Ministry. Speaking to reporters late on Tuesday night, Mr. Bommai said he was expecting the final list of names by Wednesday morning, and if it came in time, swearing-in would also be held on the same day. Mr. Bommai cancelled his flight booking for return journey to Bengaluru twice on Tuesday night as the consultations with the central leaders remained inconclusive. He has been in Delhi for the last three days, holding consultations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cm-to-arrive-from-delhi-today/article35712837.ece
04 August 2021||Bengaluru,||HC notice to Yediyurappa||The former Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa will now have to respond to the High Court of Karnataka, which on Tuesday ordered issue of notice to him on a petition questioning a special court’s directive of refusing to order probe against him in the absence of sanction for his prosecution on a complaint of accepting bribe. Notice to Vijayendra The High Court also ordered notice to his son B.Y. Vijayendra and others on a petition filed by social activist Abraham T.J., who has been knocking on the doors of legal forums complaining about alleged corruption by the former Chief Minister and his family members.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hc-notice-to-yediyurappa/article35712838.ece
04 August 2021||August 04 2021 00:00 IST,||What’s left||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/whats-left/article35712308.ece
04 August 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||State witnesses soaring temperatures||The State continued to witnessed high temperatures on Tuesday as the westerly winds prevailed over it. Visakhapatnam and Tuni experienced heatwave like conditions as the departure from maximum temperature was 5° Celsius. According to India Meteorological Department, the maximum temperature recorded at Visakhapatnam was 37.6 °C, five degrees more than the normal maximum . Similarly, Tuni recorded a maximum temperature of 37.5 °C . Nellore, Ongole and Kavali recorded more than 37 °C with a departure of two degrees from normal. Vijayawada, Amaravati, Bapatla and Tirupati recorded between 36°C and 37°C. while Machilipatnam recorded 35°C to 36°C .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-witnesses-soaring-temperatures/article35712302.ece
04 August 2021||Pune,||Record 99.63% students in State clear HSC exams||In the results to the Higher School Certificate or Class 12 exams announced on Tuesday, Maharashtra notched a record cumulative pass percentage figure of 99.63 in a pandemic-ridden educational year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/record-9963-students-in-state-clear-hsc-exams/article35712759.ece
04 August 2021||Bengaluru,||Custodial death violence: Five arrested for attack||A day after a protest by African nationals against the custodial death of a citizen of Congo ended in violence and lathi-charge in front of J.C. Nagar police station, five were arrested on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/custodial-death-violence-five-arrested-for-attack/article35712346.ece
04 August 2021||Mumbai,||Govt. clears Rs. 11,500 crore package for flood-hit areas||The Maharashtra Cabinet on Tuesday cleared a Rs. 11,500 crore package for the flood-hit areas in Konkan and western Maharashtra. The package will be used for relief, reconstruction, and execution of long-term plans.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/govt-clears-rs-11500-crore-package-for-flood-hit-areas/article35712761.ece
04 August 2021||CHENNAI,||COVID-19 infections dip to 1,908 in Tamil Nadu||The number of people testing positive for COVID-19 declined for the second day in a row in Tamil Nadu, with 1,908 infections on Tuesday. The State also recorded 29 fatalities. Chennai recorded a marginal rise in daily cases as 203 people tested positive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tamil-nadu-registers-1908-new-cases/article35712388.ece
04 August 2021||GUWAHATI,||Mizoram advises people to curtail consumption||The Mizoram government has advised its people to cut down on domestic consumption in anticipation of a commodities crisis because of a ‘blockade’ in Assam over the border row.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/mizoram-advises-people-to-curtail-consumption/article35712671.ece
04 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||Second COVID wave still raging in country: govt.||The second wave of COVID-19 is “still raging” in the country, said Lav Aggarwal, Joint Secretary, Union Health Ministry. Several States have registered a rise in the Reproduction Number, which is a cause for concern, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/second-covid-wave-still-raging-in-country-govt/article35712672.ece
04 August 2021||BENGALURU,||Yadgir, Raichur, Bidar do not report new cases||As many as 13 districts reported no fatalities on Tuesday, while Yadgir, Raichur and Bidar districts did not report any fresh cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/yadgir-raichur-bidar-do-not-report-new-cases/article35712552.ece
04 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||Second COVID wave still raging in country: govt.||The second wave of COVID-19 is “still raging” in the country, said Lav Aggarwal, Joint Secretary, Union Health Ministry. Himachal Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir, Lakshadweep, Tamil Nadu, Mizoram, Karnataka, Puducherry and Kerala have registered a rise in the Reproduction Number, which is a cause for concern, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/second-covid-wave-still-raging-in-country-govt/article35712461.ece
04 August 2021||Hassan,||Malnad now better prepared for landslips||Memory of heavy rains and landslips in Malnad districts – particularly Chikkamagaluru and Hassan – in August 2019 has resulted in the government machinery being prepared to face the possible repeat of such a situation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/malnad-now-better-prepared-for-landslips/article35712839.ece
04 August 2021||New Delhi,||Amid din, Rajya Sabha clears Insolvency Bill||The Rajya Sabha passed the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (Amendment) Bill, 2021, moved by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman by a voice vote. The Bill was passed in 40 minutes, with five Speakers supporting it and two Opposition members — CPI(M)’s John Brittas and CPI’s Binoy Viswam — opposing it. It was supported by Vijaysai Reddy of the YSR Congress, the Biju Janata Dal’s (BJD) Amar Patnaik, the Telangana Rashtra Samithi’s (TRS) Banda Prakash, the Telugu Desam Party’s (TDP) Ravindra Kumar and the All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam’s (AIADMK) M. Thambidurai. The Bill was cleared by the Lok Sabha last week. Neither the speeches by the members nor the statement made by Ms. Sitharaman was clearly audible due to protests from the Opposition parties. “You may have a disagreement, you may protest. However, to disrupt a member who is speaking and surround him in a threatening fashion is absolutely unacceptable,” Ms. Sitharaman said.   The Left members utilised the opportunity to speak on the Bill to raise the Pegasus issue. Mr. Brittas said democracy was being systematically attacked. “This Bill is to destroy the economy of this country. Already this government has destroyed democracy here.” Mr. Viswam said the Bill would lead to the loot of public money, which would be utilised to buy the Pegasus spyware. Two adjournments Earlier in the day, the House proceedings were adjourned twice because of Opposition protests. The first adjournment came within nine minutes of convening of the House at 11 a.m and the second one at 12.40 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/amid-din-rajya-sabha-passes-insolvency-bill/article35712121.ece
04 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Improve social security for workers’||Direct transfer of money into bank accounts of informal workers and an urban employment guarantee scheme were among the recommendations of the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Labour in its report on the impact of the pandemic on rising unemployment. The report, which was presented in the Lok Sabha and tabled in the Rajya Sabha on Tuesday, said, “The pandemic has devastated the labour market, denting the employment scenario and threatening the survival of millions of workers and their families.” The panel, which is chaired by Bhartruhari Mahtab, called on the government to improve social security measures for workers. Citing the Periodic Labour Force Survey (PLFS), the report said 90% of workers were in the informal sector, which is 419 million of the 465 million workers. The PLFS quarterly bulletin for April-June 2020 showed the unemployment rate in urban areas for those above 15 years at 20.8%, an increase from 9.1% in January-March 2020. The committee noted that the PLFS data for years prior to the pandemic were available and the real impact of COVID-19 would only be seen when the PLFS for 2019-2020 and 2020-2021 are available. “Although no survey data are available as yet on the impact of the second wave which has undisputedly been more severe than the first, anecdotal evidence as well as the situation experienced during the first wave suggest that there would have been significant income losses particularly in the informal sector, pushing the vulnerables deeper into crisis,” the report said. The panel said it was of the “studied opinion that the COVID-19 crisis in India has come in the backdrop of pre-existing high and rising unemployment”. “Therefore, a comprehensive plan and roadmap are required to address the deteriorating condition of employment much aggravated by the pandemic, and widening disparities in the job market in the organised sector… Offering another round of income support to the poor to compensate for loss of jobs/employment incurred due to the two lockdowns imposed would go a long way in mitigating their woes,” it said. Among the suggestions were strengthening of social security measures and the possibility of putting “money in the bank accounts of the informal workers during adverse conditions like COVID-19”. The panel noted that like in most countries, in India too the pandemic had made matters worse for women, the young, self-employed, migrants and worker with low and medium skills. “The government therefore, should strive to support a recovery that is robust, broad based and women centric and based on social dialogues with all the stakeholders concerned so as to promote and ensure seamless transition,” it said. The panel said universal healthcare should be made a legal obligation of the government and the budgetary allocation for MGNREGA should be increased. It said an urban jobs guarantee scheme on the lines of the MGNREGA should be implemented. Efforts noted The committee noted the efforts of the government to address workers’ woes in the past year. The state Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Boards had disbursed Rs. 5,618 crore to the bank accounts of 1.83 workers during the first wave and Rs. 1,704.3 crore was disbursed 1.18 crore workers in the second wave. The panel flagged the issue of lack of a study by the Labour Ministry to gauge the impact of its advisories on employers’ recruitment and termination policies. The committee pulled up the Ministry for the delay in developing a national database of unorganised workers, which the Labour and Employment Secretary told the panel would now be completed by August 15.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/improve-social-security-for-workers/article35712138.ece
04 August 2021||Patna,||Assertive Nitish seeks to paper over JD(U) faultlines||Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar, who this week joined the Opposition in demanding a probe into the Pegasus snooping row and a caste-based census in the State, has appeared combative against the BJP, an alliance partner at the Centre and in the State. While Mr. Kumar’s demands have led to raised eyebrows and some consternation in the BJP, political observers trace the change to recent developments in his party, the Janata Dal (United). They point out that soon after his former party president and close aide, R.C.P. Singh, took oath as the Minister of Steel after the reshuffle of the Union Council of Ministers, Mr. Kumar replaced Mr. Singh from the party post and started making statements on issues challenging the Centre. Political sources in Bihar said Mr. R.C.P. Singh took oath as Minister without the approval of his party leader, Mr. Kumar, who had insisted on his earlier demand for two or more Cabinet berths at the Centre. In May 2019, Mr. Kumar had refused to join Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s Cabinet, stating that his party wanted to have “proportional representation, instead of a symbolic one”. In the Cabinet reshuffle this year again, Mr. Kumar wanted at least two of his close aides — Mr. R.C.P. Singh and Rajiv Ranjan Singh alias Lalan Singh — included in the Cabinet, said party sources. But only Mr. R.C.P. Singh was offered a berth and he readily accepted the offer, which apparently did not go down well with Mr. Kumar. “R.C.P. Singh is the party’s national president and it is his decision to join the Cabinet. In 2019, Chief Minister Nitish Kumar was party president and it was his decision at that time not to join the Union Cabinet,” said Mr. Lalan Singh, who is the party’s MP from Munger. Soon after the Cabinet reshuffle, he replaced Mr. R.C.P. Singh as the party’s national president. Earlier, from 2005 to 2009, Mr. Lalan Singh, who comes from the upper caste Bhumihar community, was party president and his bitter relations with Mr. R.C.P. Singh was an open secret in the State’s political corridors. Both leaders command considerable support within the JD(U). Apparently, Mr. Kumar moved quickly to replace Mr. R.C.P. Singh as party chief to nip dissent within the party. “Mr. Kumar, in fact, did this to do a balancing act to ward off any intra-party rivalries as it was common knowledge that Lalan Singh, too, wanted to become Minister at the Centre. But, in a masterstroke, the BJP decimated Mr. Kumar, its alliance partner, by inducting only R.C.P. Singh. This apparently hurt Mr. Kumar, who, of late, has started taking a stand on issues in tune with the Opposition’s voice,” a senior Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) leader and an old associate of Mr. Kumar told The Hindu . “The BJP might have made R.C.P. Singh a Minister in the Cabinet at the Centre to embarrass Nitish Kumar. So, he, of late, has been in a combative mood against the BJP,” a senior JD(U) leader said. “The BJP might have some unexpected and sudden plan with R.C.P. Singh in Bihar,” Ajay Kumar, a political analyst, added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/assertive-nitish-seeks-to-paper-over-jdu-faultlines/article35712112.ece
04 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Steep decline in cross-border firing’||A steep decline in cross-border firing by Pakistan was recorded in Jammu and Kashmir till June, compared to the number of ceasefire violations reported in 2020, according to the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA). In a written reply to questions from Lok Sabha members Asaduddin Owaisi and Krishna Pal Singh Yadav, Minister of State for Home Affairs Nityanand Rai said 664 ceasefire violations were reported till June. While 2,140 were recorded in 2018, the total figure stood at 3,479 in 2019 and 5,133 in 2020. The comparative figures shared by the MHA showed a drastic reduction in cross-border firing. In January and February, 380 and 278 incidents were reported. Last year, the figures stood at 394 and 389. However, no such incident was reported in March last, while 454 instances were recorded in the corresponding period last year. In April too, there was only one incident as against 412 in the previous April, while three were reported in May compared to 398 in the same month last year. It was two in June compared to 423 in the same month of 2020. ‘Effective retaliation’ “Immediate and effective retaliation by the Indian Army and the Border Security Force personnel is carried out during instances of unprovoked firings and ceasefire violations by Pakistan at the Line of Control (LoC) and the International Border (IB),” said the written reply.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/steep-decline-in-cross-border-firing/article35712141.ece
04 August 2021||August 04 2021 00:00 IST,||‘If anyone has broken the law, my govt. has come down heavily on them’||As Uttar Pradesh heads to an Assembly election in 2022, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath details his government’s achievements in social welfare as well as improved law and order, insisting that controversial laws were necessary for good governance. Excerpts:  What are the achievements that you want to mark out as we near the end of your term? Today Uttar Pradesh is among the States aspiring to reach high levels of development. Otherwise one would hear only of riots, law and order problems, corruption — the perception was such that no good person wanted to come here. Under earlier governments, there was no coordination between the Centre and the State over welfare programmes, especially after 2014. The Swachch Bharat Mission saw only 44 lakh toilets being built in its first 2.5 years; in the next 1.5 years, we built 2.61 crore toilets. The result was that we found in 38 janpad s, there was a dip in the incidence of encephalitis. What you call law and order involved encounters, that have led to communities such as Brahmins and Muslims feeling targeted... Also, the indiscriminate use of laws that have led to incarceration of journalists like Siddique Kappan... First of all let’s differentiate between all the things you have just said. State police have taken steps according to the law to establish order. The Deputy Superintendent of Police who died in Kanpur, was he not a Brahmin? The other policemen in that team in Kanpur who were killed, do they not have children who grieve for their fathers? Justice has to be equal for all and we cannot look at it in the prism of caste, community. When we are in government, we must be ready to do justice for the law abiding citizen. We haven’t imposed NSA in wrong cases, and we have provided the basis why we have done so in certain cases, both in the courts and in the advisory boards. In most cases, these have been upheld. And you made contentious laws like the one on attachment of property in case of damage to public property... These have been challenged for violation of fundamental rights... Every person has the right to go to court, I cannot stop them. The thinking behind these acts, however, has been justified, that there should be rule of law and it is important that every citizen respects the law. In the name of the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) when there was a conspiracy to riot in the State, we had to bring the ordinance on property damage and take action. But this is seen as a heavy-handed approach to law and order and to deal with protests... Our work is to govern and provide welfare goods to everyone without any discrimination and to get everyone treated equal before the law. If anyone has broken the law, then the government has come down heavily on them, and the common man has seen action against law breakers. Under the Gangsters Act, we have confiscated property up to Rs. 1,600 crore of big mafia members. This is necessary to rein in those who think they can break the law with impunity. The world saw the spectre of floating corpses in river Ganga… There are some things that are attached to tradition which were there under Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) and Samajwadi Party (SP) rule as well. Under Hindu traditions, there are three ways of performing piacular rites — ground burial, cremation or water burial. There is a particular timeframe where agni sanskar (cremation) cannot take place; so people try for water burials or burials on the banks of the Ganga. After the implementation of the Namami Gangey programme, we had tried to stop these water burials. During the second wave, attempts were made to restart these burials in the sand and water, and as we were alerted, we stopped them. During the second wave, we witnessed the days when hospitals did not have beds and there was no oxygen available… One should not exaggerate something unless they have authentic information. From day 1, I have been involved with the COVID management. On a normal day, in a 500-bed hospital, the persons getting oxygen would be barely 10-12. In the second wave, the spread was so sudden, that a situation of panic was created. In many places, people reserved beds for themselves in hospitals, making their staff occupy the beds. Those people who created panic are no less responsible. But your own MLAs raised an alarm… When you create a panic situation among the public, and the public starts making noise, these people (MLAs) are under compulsion to speak in the same tone. The fact is that patients from one half of Delhi were in hospitals here (in Uttar Pradesh). The oxygen of Uttar Pradesh in G.B. Nagar and Ghaziabad was diverted to Delhi on the direction of the Delhi High Court. Even then we did not deny them. The Central government provided us oxygen from other places. Were you offered a position in Delhi when you met Prime Minister Modi recently? No, I was not. We met over issues related to the State. I met him earlier too and frequently seek his advice on governance issues. The BSP is telling Brahmins that you are against them... Since when is the BSP a champion of Brahmins? Their old slogans reflect their attitudes. Neither SP or BSP has the right to speak about social cohesion as they have advocated conflict between communities. They are trying to hunt for their lost social base, which has come to the BJP. The protesting farmers in west Uttar Pradesh might be threatening your Hindu unity plank... The work done by the Central government led by Modi ji in the last seven years for farmers was not been done after Independence. Be it crop insurance, irrigation works, real Minimum Support Price or the Kisan Samman Nidhi. Before 2017, there was no procurement in Uttar Pradesh. From 2007-2017, sugarcane payouts were only Rs. 95,000 crore. After our government came, we have made payments of Rs. 1.4 lakh crore. If this kisan andolan was connected to the interests of farmers, then possibly they could have had the support. This is a politically motivated campaign that will not succeed. In the recent panchayat elections, barring Baghpat, the BJP won all seats in west Uttar Pradesh. Are you primarily religious or political? The first part of my personality is dharm, which for me is not worship and rituals but also a duty. It inspires me to work in the interest of the country and society. (For full interview, visit https://bit.ly/ YogiAdityanathInterview )  Neither SP or BSP has the right to speak about social cohesion as they have advocated conflict between communities||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/if-anyone-has-broken-the-law-my-govt-has-come-down-heavily-on-them/article35712125.ece
04 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘COVID-19 in children occurs mostly for a short duration’||Most children who develop symptoms of COVID-19 get better after six days and the number who experience symptoms beyond four weeks is low, according to a new study conducted in the U.K. and published on Tuesday in The Lancet Child and Adolescent Health . The study was carried out by researchers from King’s College, London; University College, London; Newcastle University; and the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, among others. The researchers used data collected through a mobile application, which includes information from more than 2,50,000 U.K. children aged five to 17 years. The team focused on 1,734 children whose reports were collected between September 1, 2020 and February 22, 2021. The study found that most children were ill for an average of six days. The most common symptoms were headache (62.2%) and fatigue (55%). Most children recovered within four weeks, with a minority (4.4% or 77 out of 1,734) experiencing symptoms after a month. Those who took longer than a month to recover showed up to six symptoms during the first week of illness. The median symptom burden in these children was six symptoms during the first week of illness. However, after day 28, the median symptom burden was low, at two symptoms. The most common symptoms experienced by these 77 children over their entire illness were fatigue, headache, loss of smell and sore throat. However, headache was more common early in illness, while loss of sense of smell tended to occur later and to persist longer. Of the 1,379 children who developed symptoms at least two months before the end of the study period, fewer than 2% experienced symptoms for longer than eight weeks (1.8%, 25/1,379).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/covid-19-in-children-occurs-mostly-for-a-short-duration/article35712143.ece
04 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||Australia keen on India joining war games||Australia is keen that India join its biggest war games ‘Exercise Talisman Sabre’ in 2023 and a formal invite could be extended during Australian Defence Minister Peter Dutton’s visit to India, which is likely in the next couple of months, according to official sources. Meanwhile, the Quad group of countries, comprising India, Australia, Japan and the U.S., are set to hold the annual Malabar naval exercise 2021 off the coast of Guam towards August-end. Australia was included in the Malabar 2020. Mr. Dutton said a few days ago that he would like to see India participate in the biennial Exercise Talisman Sabre. There is no formal invitation for Talisman Sabre at this stage, but Mr. Dutton is very keen that India join the exercise and may possibly be visiting New Delhi in the next month or two, an official source said. According to the Australian Defence Ministry, Talisman Sabre 2021, which just concluded, was the largest bilateral combined training activity between the Australian Defence Force and the U.S. military and saw the participation of approximately 17,000 military personnel from seven nations on land, air and sea. The other countries include Canada, Japan, New Zealand, South Korea and U.K. Overseas deployment Four frontline warships from the Navy’s Eastern Fleet are scheduled to depart on an overseas deployment of over two months to South East Asia, the South China Sea and Western Pacific during which they will conduct a series of exercises and interactions. “The deployment of the Indian Navy ships seeks to underscore the operational reach, peaceful presence and solidarity with friendly countries towards ensuring good order in the maritime domain and to strengthen existing bonds between India and countries of the Indo-Pacific,” a Navy statement said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/australia-keen-on-india-joining-war-games/article35712128.ece
04 August 2021||Chennai,||Excess deaths in 29 Maharashtra districts could be 2.8 to 4.1 times official COVID-19 toll||A district-wise look at excess deaths registered by the Civil Registration System (CRS) in Maharashtra ever since the COVID-19 pandemic hit (adjusted figures for districts with inconsistent data) showed that their multiples over the COVID-19 toll were fairly low in urban (2.54) as compared to semi-urban (4.02), semi-rural (4.61) and rural districts (4.63). Mumbai (37,260), Thane (33,944), Nashik (30,563) and Nagpur (25,664) had the highest number of estimated excess deaths (adjusted for data coverage), but Mumbai’s excess deaths were only 2.54 times the official COVID-19 toll. On the other hand, the rural districts of Dhule (20.14), Hingoli (11) and Buldana (10.2) had the highest excess deaths’ multiple. Conservative estimate Considering only close to 60% of deaths were available in the online data for the baseline years 2018 and 2019 for calculating excess deaths, the estimate of 2,12,589 is a conservative one. Deaths registered for districts such as Mumbai, Thane, Akola, Amravati and Nandurbar were more than 90% of those recorded in the annual report, while those for Ratnagiri, Raigarh, Kolhapur, Hingoli, Buldana and Washim were less than 40%. If the excess deaths calculated were adjusted based on the percentage availability of data for 2018 and 2019 (by dividing them by the average of the percentage availability for these years) and re-calculated for the State (without the six omitted districts), the estimate increased to 3,10,727 deaths corresponding to a multiple of 4.1 over the official death toll of 75,877. In sum, the estimated excess deaths in the pandemic period for 29 districts in Maharashtra could be in a range of 2.8 to 4.1 times the official COVID-19 death toll in the State. The overall COVID-19 death toll for all 35 districts as of May 31, 2021 was 95,344, which has since increased to 1,32,948 as of August 1. Similar to what was observed in other States, the excess deaths multiple (unadjusted) was 2.4 times between April and December 2020, and this went up to 3.42 times in 2021. This was largely due to a spurt in mortality in the month of April 2021, when a high of 1,17,723 deaths were registered online. Unlike other States, deaths peaked in April rather than in May 2021 for Maharashtra, indicating the fact that the second wave raged early in the State. That Maharashtra was the epicentre of the second wave, largely characterised by the spread of the highly infectious Delta variant of the novel coronavirus, according to an INSACOG report in May 2021, is also borne out by the fact that deaths in April and May 2021 were three times the average number of deaths registered in these months in 2018 and 2019 (the pre-pandemic period). Only Haryana (2.65 times) came close as the multiple was higher than M.P. and Punjab (1.97 times), Himachal Pradesh (1.8), Karnataka (1.69), Tamil Nadu (1.65), West Bengal (1.51), Kerala (1.21), among States that The Hindu has analysed so far. The excess deaths’ multiple over COVID-19 death toll between 2.8 to 4.1 times for the State (without six districts in the analysis) is comparable to those for southern States such as Karnataka (4.3), Tamil Nadu (6.4 adjusted to 4.4 if CRS COVID-19 tally is considered), besides the northern State of Punjab (3.3), but is lower than that for Madhya Pradesh (23.8) and Andhra Pradesh (17.9), West Bengal (11.1 without five districts) and Haryana (7.3) if the same baseline is considered (deaths registered in 2018 and 2019). Only Himachal Pradesh (1.9) and Kerala (0.42 based on the reconciled COVID-19 tally) had much lower multiples. The total number of excess deaths for these States (using the same baseline) for the period April 2020 to May 2021 was 12,21,049, which is 6.27 times the official COVID-19 tally for the same period (1,94,818 deaths). Note, we took the higher end multiple of 4.1 for Maharashtra here. Murad Banaji, a mathematician who has been tracking COVID-19 numbers and has analysed excess deaths for Mumbai, told The Hindu , “The data confirms that Maharashtra has been hit badly by the pandemic. But there are no major surprises. The scale of excess mortality is roughly as expected from the level of spread of the virus and COVID-19 fatality rates. And this is precisely the story coming out of civil registration data from many other States too.” “The data suggests that differences between States’ official COVID-19 death counts often reflect better or worse surveillance as much as the epidemic itself. In fact, Maharashtra has probably tracked its COVID-19 deaths better than many States. Although excess deaths could be three to four times the recorded COVID-19 deaths, this is much better than the national average. Interestingly, district-level data shows that there are no major differences in rural and urban death surveillance,” he added. Pradeep Awate, Maharashtra’s State Surveillance Officer, said Maharashtra has always followed the principle of transparency in case of collecting data regarding COVID-19 deaths. “If we undermine or hide the real numbers, we will fail to prepare for and counter the pandemic,” said Dr. Awate, while speaking to The Hindu.   (Data compiled and aggregated by Pratap Vardhan. With inputs from Alok Deshpande in Mumbai. Graphics support by Vignesh Radhakrishnan)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/excess-deaths-lower-in-urban-districts-of-maharashtra/article35712119.ece
04 August 2021||GUWAHATI,||Mizoram advises people to curtail domestic consumption||The Mizoram government has advised its people to cut down on domestic consumption in anticipation of a commodities crisis because of a ‘blockade’ in Assam over the border row. Locals in southern Assam’s Barak Valley have indefinitely blocked the roads leading to Mizoram following the July 26 border clash in which six Assam policemen and a civilian were gunned down allegedly by Mizoram police and armed civilians. Miscreants in Assam had also uprooted a section of the only railway track to Mizoram’s Bairabi. Though Assam Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma and his Mizoram counterpart Zoramthanga have sought to ease the tension along the 146.6-km border through discussions, locals are reportedly preventing truckers to carry essentials on NH 306 to Mizoram. “The blockade is on and the railway line is damaged. We anticipate difficulties in getting essential and non-essential commodities in the coming days. As such, we have requested the people of the State not to hoard essential items and curtail domestic consumption,” said Director of Mizoram’s Food, Civil Supplies and Consumer Affairs Department, Ramdinliani. The department has issued an appeal that read: “If we curtail our consumption by a bit, there will be enough for all for a longer time.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mizoram-advises-people-to-curtail-domestic-consumption/article35712133.ece
04 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||Governor’s pardon power overrides 433A: SC||The Supreme Court on Tuesday held that the Governor of a State can pardon prisoners, including those on death row, even before they have served a minimum 14 years of prison sentence. In fact, the Governor’s power to pardon overrides a provision in the Code of Criminal Procedure — Section 433A — which mandates that a prisoner’s sentence can be remitted only after 14 years of jail, a Bench of Justices Hemant Gupta and A.S. Bopanna observed in a judgment. “Section 433A of the Code cannot and does not in any way affect the constitutional power conferred on the President/Governor to grant pardon under Articles 72 or 161 of the Constitution... If the prisoner has not undergone 14 years or more of actual imprisonment, the Governor has a power to grant pardon... de hors the restrictions imposed under Section 433A... Such power is in exercise of the power of the sovereign, though the Governor is bound to act on the aid and advice of the State Government,” the court observed. In fact, the court noted that the sovereign power of a Governor to pardon a prisoner under Article 161 is actually exercised by the State government and not the Governor on his own. “The advice of the appropriate government binds the Head of the State,” Justice Gupta observed in the judgment which referred to the Supreme Court’s Constitution Bench judgment in the Rajiv Gandhi assassination case on the power of remission. “The action of commutation and release can thus be pursuant to a governmental decision and the order may be issued even without the Governor’s approval. However, under the Rules of Business and as a matter of constitutional courtesy, it may seek approval of the Governor, if such release is under Article 161 of the Constitution,” the court noted. The Bench was considering the feasibility of remission policies in Haryana.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/governors-pardon-power-overrides-433a-sc/article35712298.ece
04 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||Govt. issues instructions for I-Day||The Union Home Ministry on Tuesday issued instructions to the States and Union Territories for following necessary preventive measures while organising the Independence Day celebrations on August 15 in view of the COVID-19 pandemic. “It would be appropriate that the theme of ‘Aatmanirbhar Bharat’ is suitably spread and publicised amongst the masses through various activities/messages in the functions and on social media during Independence Day celebrations,” said the Ministry letter to the authorities concerned. ‘Follow measures’ The Ministry said the Independence Day would be celebrated in a manner befitting the occasion, but it was imperative to follow measures like social distancing, wearing masks, proper sanitisation, protecting vulnerable persons and adhering to the Health Ministry’s guidelines. All programmes should be organised in a way that large congregations were avoided and technology was used in the best possible manner. The events could be web-cast, it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/govt-issues-instructions-for-i-day/article35712126.ece
04 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||Army chief stresses need for revolution in bureaucratic affairs||Army chief General Manoj Naravane on Tuesday said the procurement process had not kept pace with the requirements of the time. Procedural lacunae had crept into the acquisition process due to the “overbearing nature of our rules and regulations leading a zero error syndrome”, he noted and stressed the need for a “revolution in bureaucratic affairs”. “The needs of information era warfare cannot be hamstrung by the procedures of the industrial age. The need of the hour is to see a metamorphosis here too, perhaps even doing away with the L1 [lowest bidder] vendor altogether. For real transformation to take place, we require a revolution in bureaucratic affairs,” he stated during a webinar by the United Service Institution of India. The Army had brought about major structural changes by aligning both the revenue and capital routes of procurement under the Deputy Chief of Army Staff (Capability Development and Sustenance), he asserted. The Shimla-based Army Training Command had restructured the training curriculum of various courses. They were working towards domain specialisation in niche areas. “There is focus on providing cross-domain exposure and multi-skilling for optimal employment,” he pointed out.  Gen. Naravane also highlighted the need to concurrently develop the multi-domain competencies for effective integration.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/army-chief-stresses-need-for-revolution-in-bureaucratic-affairs/article35712127.ece
04 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||For doctors, no work should go unpaid: SC||The Supreme Court on Tuesday held that the government cannot plead financial stress to avoid paying doctors their salaries or arrears. The State’s credo towards its doctors should be “no work should go unpaid” and not “no work, no pay”, a Bench of Justices L. Nageswara Rao and Hrishikesh Roy said in a judgment. The case concerned North Delhi Municipal Corporation’s reluctance to pay salary arrears to AYUSH doctors after their superannuation age was enhanced from 60 to 65 years. “These doctors have been providing service to countless patients, without remuneration or benefits. Their services are utilised by the employer in government establishments, without demur... The State cannot be allowed to plead financial burden to deny salary for the legally serving doctors,” Justice Roy, who authored the verdict, observed. Any discrimination between AYUSH doctors and their allopathic counterparts would be violative of the former’s fundamental rights to equality and dignity. The remarks came after the Corporation argued that the enhancement in service age was applicable to only allopathic medicine practitioners under the Central Health Scheme (CHS) and not doctors who treat with alternative medicine. But the court disagreed. The mode of treatment by itself under the prevalent scheme of things does not qualify as an intelligible differentia, it noted. Justice Roy said distinguishing doctors because of their fields of medicine amounted to “unreasonable classification and discrimination”. The court also highlighted an order of AYUSH Ministry of November 2017 which had extended the age of superannuation to 65 years. “We have no hesitation in holding that the respondent — doctors [AYUSH doctors] are entitled to their full salary arrears and the same is ordered to be disbursed, within eight weeks from today. Belated payment beyond the stipulated period will carry interest, at the rate of 6% from the date of this order until the date of payment,” it ordered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/for-doctors-no-work-should-go-unpaid-sc/article35712145.ece
04 August 2021||August 04 2021 00:00 IST,||At least 3 times ‘excess deaths’ in Maharashtra||These figures correspond to 63.9% and 66.6% of the numbers released by the CRS’ annual report on vital statistics in 2019. Six districts — Pune, Satara, Sangli, Yavatmal, Sindhudurg and Gondiya — with a combined officially recorded COVID-19 toll of 21,110 deaths between April 2020 and May 2021, were not considered for this analysis as the month-wise CRS registration data accessed was inconsistent between 2018 and 2019 for them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/at-least-3-times-excess-deaths-in-maharashtra/article35712463.ece
04 August 2021||August 04 2021 00:00 IST,||At least 3 times ‘excess deaths’ in Maharashtra||These figures correspond to 63.9% and 66.6% of the numbers released by the CRS’ annual report on vital statistics in 2019. Six districts — Pune, Satara, Sangli, Yavatmal, Sindhudurg and Gondiya — with a combined officially recorded COVID-19 toll of 21,110 deaths between April 2020 and May 2021, were not considered for this analysis as the month-wise CRS registration data accessed was inconsistent between 2018 and 2019 for them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/at-least-3-times-excess-deaths-in-maharashtra/article35712675.ece
04 August 2021||August 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Not asked to move to Delhi: Yogi Adityanath||The BJP currently has two allies in U.P. — the OBC-based Apna Dal and the Nishad Party. While Apna Dal chief Anupriya Patel was recently appeased with a berth in the Union Council of Ministers, Nishad Party president Sanjay Nishad has felt disgruntled and occasionally issued dissenting statements. With all eyes set on a possible Cabinet expansion or reshuffle in the State before the election, Mr. Adityanath claimed there was no problem with the BJP’s allies. “Issuing statements and the reality are different. Every political party has a right to run their campaign. How can we stop that? But our allies are working together with us,” he said. Since 2017, there has been a change in perception about U.P. and this along with the development work and “effective situation” of law and order would be the issues on which the BJP would seek votes in 2022, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/not-asked-to-move-to-delhi-yogi-adityanath/article35712108.ece
04 August 2021||New Delhi,||Work out an amicable solution, urges Naidu||With continued protests disrupting the proceedings of both Houses of Parliament, Rajya Sabha Chairman M. Venkaiah Naidu has urged both the Union government and the Opposition to collectively resolve the stalemate. According to sources, Mr. Naidu held a meeting with Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, Home Minister Amit Shah, Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi and Leader of the House Piyush Goyal on Monday evening. Mr. Naidu also discussed the issue with the Leader of the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha, Mallikarjun Kharge, in Parliament on Tuesday after the House was adjourned for the first time soon after 11 a.m. The sources said Mr. Naidu has urged both the Opposition and the government to sit together and work out an amicable solution. ‘All attempts failed’ A Cabinet Minister speaking off the record said all attempts at reaching out to the Opposition parties have failed. “They are not clear on what they want. The Opposition is just a group of disparate leaders who don’t know how to go about working a solution,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/work-out-amicable-solution-naidu-urges-govt-opposition/article35712110.ece
04 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||No bifurcation plan for T.N. or other States: govt.||The Union Home Ministry on Tuesday informed the Lok Sabha that no proposal for the bifurcation of any State, including Tamil Nadu, was currently under consideration. Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) MPs T. R. Paarivendhar and S. Ramalingam had asked the Ministry whether the Union government had any proposal to bifurcate any State in the country, including Tamil Nadu. They also asked whether the Ministry had received such a demand from any individual or organisation. ‘Wide ramifications’ A written response from Minister of State for Home Affairs Nityanand Rai stated, “Demands and representations are received from time to time from various individuals and organisations for creation of new States. Creation of a new State has wide ramifications and direct bearing on the federal polity of our country. The government moves on the matter of formation of new States after taking into consideration all relevant factors. Presently, no such proposal is under consideration.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/no-bifurcation-plan-for-tn-or-other-states-govt/article35712115.ece
04 August 2021||New Delhi,||Lok Sabha passes two key Bills without debate||The Lok Sabha on Tuesday passed two key Bills without a debate, as the House once again witnessed protests by the Opposition over the Pegasus snooping controversy and farmers’ issues. The Essential Defence Services Bill, 2021, and The Tribunals Reforms Bill, 2021, were passed separately by voice vote before the House was adjourned for the day as Opposition continued with their sloganeering. When the proceedings started at 11 a.m., Speaker Om Birla pointed out that important issues related to the farmers were being discussed and urged the protesting members to go back to their seats. Question Hour went on for nearly 40 minutes. Expressing his displeasure at the members “insulting” parliamentary traditions, Mr. Birla then adjourned the House until noon. The House was adjourned one more time when it reassembled at noon as members did not heed the request of Biju Janata Dal (BJD) member Bhartruhari Mahtab, who was in the Chair. As the House reconvened at 2 p.m., Mr. Birla asked Minister of State for Defence Ajay Bhatt to move the Essential Defence Services Bill, 2021, which seeks to prohibit any agitation and strike by anyone engaged in essential defence services. Once the Defence Services Bill was passed, the House was adjourned until 4 p.m. On reconvening, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman moved the Tribunals Reforms Bill, 2021, for passage. The Bill seeks to abolish tribunals or authorities under various laws by amending the Cinematograph Act, 1952, the Copyrights, Act, 1957, the Customs Act, 1962, the Patents Act, 1970, the Airport Authority of India Act, 1994, the Trade Marks Act, 1999, and the Geographical Indications of Goods (Registration and Protection) Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/lok-sabha-passes-two-key-bills-without-debate/article35712116.ece
04 August 2021||August 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Second wave still raging in country, says Centre||“Also 49.85% of the total cases in the last week were reported from Kerala. Malappuram, Thrissur, Kozhikode, Ernakulam, Kottayam, Alappuzha, Kasargod, Pathanamthitta, Wayanad and Idukki districts in Kerala are showing a worrying trend,” said Mr. Aggarwal. An overall declining trend had been observed across India in weekly positivity since the week ending 10th May. “Weekly positivity has been less than 2% for the first time in the past 3 months,” he said. The pandemic was far from over and globally, too, there was a rise in cases, NITI Aayog member (Health) V.K. Paul said. The Delta variant was a dominant problem. “COVID-appropriate behaviour and vaccination are vital and we urge the vulnerable population to avail themselves of the vaccination facility as soon as possible. This definitely contributes to the reduction of severity and mortality.” He said the government continued to be in talks with Moderna and Pfizer for bringing in more vaccines and India was all set to enhance its production capacity by next month. Work was on-going in terms of bringing in COVID-19 vaccination for children also. “While work on ensuring increased vaccine capacity is on-going, data has shown that India has to adopt a cautious approach to the virus which doesn’t seem to have tired. Though overall we have registered a reduced positivity trend, there are districts which continue to be a cause of concern. Now States like Himachal Pradesh, where case positivity was steady or declining, are showing districts with high positivity. This clearly indicates that we cannot let our guard down,” he added.  COVID-appropriate behaviour and vaccination are vital and we urge the vulnerable population to avail themselves of the vaccination facility as soon as possible. V.K. Paul, NITI Aayog member (Health)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/second-wave-still-raging-in-country-says-govt/article35712122.ece
04 August 2021||August 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Let’s unite voice of people, Rahul tells Oppn. leaders||Congress spokesperson and Rajya Sabha member Abhishek Singhvi called the meet “historic” and claimed that it was “a trailer for 2024 [Lok Sabha polls]”. He said, “This shows you the new resolve, new direction, new momentum and a new determination and grit.... We will proceed unitedly without fear and deterrence. Be it Pegasus, the terrible price rise, the farmers’ issue or any number of governance issues”. He, however, played down a question on who would be the face of the “united Opposition” by terming it “irrelevant” at this point in time. Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam’s Kanimozhi, Nationalist Congress Party’s Supriya Sule and Praful Patel, Trinamool Congress’s Saugato Roy, Kalyan Banerjee and Mahua Moitra, Shiv Sena's Sanjay Raut and Priyanka Chaturvedi, Samajwadi Party’s Ram Gopal Yadav and Rashtriya Janata Dal’s Manoj Jha were among those present. The Bahujan Samaj Party was a notable absentee. A subtle message? The Congress is clearly sending a subtle message that it continues to occupy the pole position when it comes to taking on the Narendra Modi government. Mr. Gandhi said on Twitter, “Neither our faces are important nor our names. What is essential is that we are the people’s representatives. Behind every face lies crores of faces who are troubled by price rise and inflation. Are these the ‘ acche din’ [good days]”. After the monsoon session of Parliament got under way on July 19, the Congress has once again strongly raised the issue of repeated hikes in prices of petrol, diesel and cooking gas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/lets-unite-voice-of-people-rahul-tells-oppn-leaders/article35712123.ece
04 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||Editors Guild moves SC for probe into snooping||The Editors Guild of India on Tuesday moved the Supreme Court seeking a special investigation team (SIT) probe into the Union government’s role in the Pegasus snooping row. It has stated that the “indiscriminate use” of top-end surveillance technology against journalists destroys free speech and “poisons the heart of democracy”. The Guild pointed out that freedom of the Press is a hard-won right essential to democracy. “Freedom of the Press relies on non-interference by the government and its agencies in the reporting of journalists, including their ability to securely and confidentially speaking with sources, investigate abuse of power and corruption, expose governmental incompetence, and speak with those in the Opposition,” the petition, filed through advocate Lzafeer Ahamed B.F., said. The petition follows the one filed by senior journalists N. Ram and Sashi Kumar, challenging the government to come clean about the Pegasus allegations. Rajya Sabha member John Brittas and Supreme Court lawyer M.L. Sharma have separately moved the court. Journalists Paranjoy Guha Thakurta, SNM Abdi, Prem Shankar Jha, Rupesh Kumar Singh and Ipsa Shataksi, reported to be victims of Pegasus surveillance, had also moved the court, saying they were subjected to “deeply intrusive surveillance”. A Bench, led by Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana, is scheduled to hear the Pegasus row petitions on August 5. On Tuesday, the Guild said a court-monitored probe should look into “every aspect of the use of Pegasus by the government against Indian citizens, especially journalists”. Questions and attempts to garner the truth from the government have reached a dead-end. In fact, the government had “stonewalled” efforts to seek accountability, the petition said. The government had “deliberately avoided” public debate on the issue. It had only provided some “obfuscated answers” to straight questions about its alleged role in the snooping, it added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/editors-guild-moves-sc-for-probe-into-snooping/article35712129.ece
04 August 2021||Srinagar,||Pakistani militant killed in Bandipora encounter||A Pakistani militant was killed, and two people, including a policeman, were injured in two separate militancy incidents in Kashmir on Tuesday. “Foreign Lashkar-e-Taiba terrorist Babar Ali, who escaped from the Shokbaba encounter on 24 July, was killed in an encounter at the Chandajji forest area of Bandipora on Tuesday,” Inspector-General of Police Vijay Kumar said. Ali, according to the police, was a part of a group of militants that infiltrated from the Gurez Sector of Bandipora recently. Its three members were killed on July 24. Sharik Altaf, who exfiltrated in 2018, was among them. “Ali, who managed to escape from the encounter site, was continuously tracked. A joint operation was launched by the police, 26 Assam Rifles and the CRPF on Tuesday to neutralise him,” Mr. Kumar said. “Ali was a resident of Ugada district of Punjab in Pakistan,” he added. The police said incriminating materials, arms and ammunition, including an AK-rifle, two magazines and 40 AK-rounds, were recovered from the encounter site. Two persons, including a policeman, were injured when militants attacked a police patrol in the Khanyar area of Srinagar. “The policeman has bullet injuries in the stomach and was shifted to a hospital,” the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pakistani-militant-killed-in-bandipora-encounter/article35712130.ece
04 August 2021||JAMMU,||Army helicopter crashes into dam in Kathua||Two Army Aviation pilots went missing after a Rudra helicopter crashed into the Ranjit Sagar dam in Kathua district of Jammu and Kashmir on Tuesday. Official sources said the advanced light helicopter took off on a routine sortie from Pathankot’s Mamun Cantonment around 10.20 a.m. and crashed into the dam, around 30 kilometres away from the cantonment. “Specialised divers of the National Disaster Relief Force were looking for the two pilots,” officials said. Cause not revealed The officials did not divulge the cause of the crash. However, preliminary reports suggested that the helicopter developed a snag after it took off and was flying low. “Some of the floating material of the chopper have been recovered,” the police said. In January last, the pilot of an Army helicopter died after it crashed in Kathua district’s Lakhanpur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/army-helicopter-crashes-into-dam-in-kathua/article35712146.ece
04 August 2021||August 04 2021 00:00 IST,||More than 99% students pass CBSE Class 10 exam||However, the number of high scorers has increased, with almost 2.6 lakh students (12%) scoring above 90%. Out of the 20.97 lakh students, for whom results have been declared, 20.77 lakh have passed, resulting in a 99.04 pass percentage. The results are still being processed for 16,639 students. Examinations will be held separately for 36,841 private candidates, as well as students who are not satisfied with the results they have been assigned under the assessment policy using internal assessments. Students can download their results and academic documents, including marksheets, passing, migration and skills certificates, through the academic repository of the CBSE, Parinam Manjusha, which is integrated with DigiLocker. This year, for the first time, the CBSE is also giving such digital access to schools and to foreign students.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/more-than-99-students-pass-cbse-class-10-exam/article35712462.ece
04 August 2021||August 04 2021 00:00 IST,||More than 99% students pass CBSE Class 10 exam||However, the number of high scorers has increased, with almost 2.6 lakh students (12%) scoring above 90%. Out of the 20.97 lakh students, for whom results have been declared, 20.77 lakh have passed, resulting in a 99.04 pass percentage. The results are still being processed for 16,639 students. Examinations will be held separately for 36,841 private candidates, as well as students who are not satisfied with the results they have been assigned under the assessment policy using internal assessments. Students can download their results and academic documents, including marksheets, passing, migration and skills certificates, through the academic repository of the CBSE, Parinam Manjusha, which is integrated with DigiLocker. This year, for the first time, the CBSE is also giving such digital access to schools and to foreign students.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/more-than-99-students-pass-cbse-class-10-exam/article35712673.ece
04 August 2021||August 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Agency and enjoyment||Sastras are meant to benefit the jivatmas caught in samsara. In every birth the jivatma is compelled to act and this entails his experiencing the fruits of his action. So whatever birth the jivatma takes, he automatically becomes the doer and the enjoyer. Among the many sutras in the Brahmasutra that discuss the identity of the soul, the sutra 'Karta Sastrarthavatvat,' establishes that agency and enjoyment are for the soul, though this is not its nature, pointed out Sri Mani Dravid Sastrigal in a discourse. All the Vedic injunctions and dharmas prescribed for the jivatma are for the individual deha dharma. These instil the knowledge to do certain acts and refrain from certain others. If the jivatma has to experience karma phala, he needs the sarira, indriyas and manas. Sarira means the sthula and the sukshma sarira with which the jivatma interacts with the external world. The actions are done by the sthula and sukshma sarira, or by the mind or by using the sense organs. For instance when one speaks he uses the organ of speech. All punya and papa are owing to these sadanas. With all these he is the karta. According to Sankhya theory, doership rests only with the Buddhi and not the soul. This is opposed by Vedanta theorists who point out that Buddhi belongs to the inanimate category. The soul, in association with the body, brings about the possibility of action and also the enjoyment thereof. But the soul remains unaffected, though it becomes both the agent and enjoyer owing to association with the body. The famous verse in Katopanishad compares the senses to horses; the objects of enjoyment to the paths they range over, while the Self associated with the body comprising the senses and the mind is shown to be the enjoyer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/agency-and-enjoyment/article35712131.ece
04 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Oppn.’s action an insult to Constitution’||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday said at a BJP Parliamentary Party meeting that the Union government was ready for debate, but the Opposition’s conduct in the ongoing monsoon session of Parliament was an insult to the Constitution, according to some who attended the meeting. Addressing presspersons after the meeting, Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi said the Prime Minister reiterated that the government was ready for discussion. “We have been saying, and Prime Minister also said today, that we are ready for discussion. But there is an attempt to create an atmosphere that Bills are of the government and other issues are of the Opposition. That is not correct. Bills also belong [to the Opposition] …Bills belong to the people of India, it is for the welfare of the people,” he said.  Without naming Trinamool Congress MP Derek O’ Brien, Mr. Joshi referred to his tweet on Monday that compared the government passing 12 Bills at an average of under seven minutes to “making papri chaat ”. It was ironic that those who did not run the West Bengal Assembly session for two days were raising the issue of democracy and traditions in Delhi. It was these people who were ruining democracy and insulting Indians by not allowing Parliament to function, he observed, referring to the Opposition MPs’ disruption of Parliament over the Pegasus issue, among others. “The Prime Minister has also categorically said there should be meaningful debate,” Mr. Joshi said.  ( With inputs from PTI )||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/opposition-conduct-an-insult-to-constitution-pm-tells-bjp-mps/article35712114.ece
04 August 2021||New Delhi,||Average of 7 minutes spent on each Bill||Twelve Bills were passed in the first 10 days of the monsoon session, with an average of seven minutes spent on each Bill. All the Bills were passed amid din, with neither the comments from the Minister or clarifications sought by members audible to others. All the Bills were passed by voice vote. The Opposition said division asked by them on important Bills were ignored by the Chair in both Houses of Parliament. A tweet detailing the speed of passing these Bills by Trinamool Congress leader Derek O’Brien has created a huge uproar. The BJP has demanded an apology from him. Mr. O’Brien gave a detailed chart of the Bills passed up to July 30. He said, “In the first 10 days, Modi-Shah rushed through and passed 12 Bills at an average time of UNDER SEVEN MINUTES per Bill. Passing legislation or making papri chaat !” Even on Tuesday, the Bills were hurried through. In the Lok Sabha, the Essential Defence Services Bill, Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) MP Danish Ali said, was passed in less than 10 minutes. “What is painful is that they are passing Bills that have wider implications without pausing to hear the objections,” Mr. Ali said. Trinamool MP Kakoli Ghosh Dastidar pointed out that the Opposition demand on the Tribunal Reforms Bill, 2021, was similarly ignored. The Deputy Leader of the Congress in the Lok Sabha, Gaurav Gogoi, said the government was treating Parliament like a Cabinet meeting. “The BJP should not mistake Parliament for a Cabinet meeting of this government. When they are not allowing the Opposition to speak on the Bill, they are not allowing 60% of the voters who voted for these parties,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/average-of-7-minutes-spent-on-each-bill/article35712117.ece
04 August 2021||KOLKATA,||HC reserves verdict in poll violence case||The Calcutta High Court on Tuesday reserved its verdict in a case concerning the post-poll violence in the State. A five-judge bench of the High Court headed by Acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal has been hearing a number of PILs in this connection. Senior Counsel for the State government Abhishek Manu Singhvi had alleged bias on the part of three members of the NHRC committee and overarching antagonism against State executives.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hc-reserves-verdict-in-poll-violence-case/article35712132.ece
04 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||CBI initiates probe into supply of High Security Registration Plates to Meghalaya allegedly at exorbitant rates||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has registered a case to probe an alleged scam in the supply of High Security Registration Plates (HSRPs) to Meghalaya by a Mumbai-based private company. The HSRP scheme for all the vehicles was introduced in 2001. The State governments were permitted to call tenders for approving rates for supply of the plates.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cbi-initiates-probe-into-supply-of-high-security-registration-plates-to-meghalaya-allegedly-at-exorbitant-rates/article35712139.ece
04 August 2021||New Delhi/Agartala,||Two BSF personnel killed in Tripura ambush||Two Border Security Force (BSF) personnel were killed on Tuesday when their patrol was ambushed by National Liberation Front of Tripura (NLFT) militants along the India-Bangladesh border in Tripura. The border guarding force said the ambush took place around 6.30 a.m. in the Dhalai district of the State. Among those killed is sub-inspector of the force.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/two-bsf-personnel-killed-in-tripura-ambush/article35712147.ece
04 August 2021||Kolkata,||WB govt. to release 63 life convicts to decongest prisons||In an attempt to decongest its prisons, the West Bengal government has decided to release 63 life convicts. However, civil rights activists have raised questions on why no political prisoners are being released. Those being released include 61 male convicts aged over 60 and 2 female convicts aged over 55.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/wb-govt-to-release-63-life-convicts-to-decongest-prisons/article35712262.ece
04 August 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||MTC: no longer prime mover of people||The past one-and-a-half years have redefined many aspects of life, thanks to the pandemic. The changes have been more pronounced in the public transport sector. The restriction on commutes and lack of access to public transport has indeed changed the way people use public transport. Or, has it? The people of Chennai have traditionally relied on the Metropolitan Transport Corporation Chennai (MTC) for its superb network and last mile connectivity. The MTC, along with the suburban train services in the city, had been serving residents with affordable public transport over the years. While the people shunned taxis for their exorbitant fare, commuters stayed away from autorickshaws whose drivers had become notorious for demanding fancy fares. This changed with the advent of taxi aggregators and the MTC increasing bus fares. Autorickshaw drivers were forced to mend their ways by reducing fares close to what was fixed by the State government. This was more so after the lockdown. People’s dependence on public transpor — both MTC and suburban trains — gradually declined, thanks to travel restrictions and bus services becoming irregular. Despite the State government under M.K. Stalin announcing several steps, including free travel on ordinary buses for women, transgenders and persons with disabilities, increasing the operation of white board buses and commissioning new routes, residents have shown preference for private transport during the pandemic. Taxi aggregators Ola and Uber have been improving travel options to meet the market requirement, where convenience, affordability and safety have become the crucial factors. Uber recently rolled out a unique rental option providing multi-hour and multi-stop choices to commuters, giving the experience of owning their own car. All these steps have resulted in the public transport system losing patronage. In contrast, MTC has been accused of decreasing the number of bus services on several routes and operating only deluxe services. But Transport Minister R.S. Rajakannappan, at a press meet at the Secretariat on Tuesday, refuted the charge that the MTC had indirectly increased the fares by operating only deluxe buses and had reduced the number of regular buses. He said 1,275 buses were being operated as ordinary services benefiting women commuters, each of whom saved a minimum of Rs. 1,000 to Rs. 2,000 a month. Social activist V. Rama Rao said Nanganallur and Pallavanthangal, though they had suburban train facility, lacked adequate bus services to other places in the city. After several representations were made, the MTC introduced a few bus routes and increased the services a few years ago. However, the bus services had been curtailed after the lockdown. The MTC has been losing patronage gradually to other operators, including Metro Rail. One of the important reasons for this is that its night services had become irregular. Data for the three years on the performance of the MTC reflects waning popularity of its services. Dwindling fortunes A senior official said at present MTC enjoys occupancy of slightly over 36% while in the first wave it performed better at 41%. The occupancy before the pandemic was more than 60% (in 2019-20), while it had an all-time high occupancy of nearly 75% in 2017-18. Similarly, the MTC enjoyed the status of being the prime mover of the public in the city by having a ridership of nearly 42 lakh commuters a day in 2017-18. This figure crashed to 8 lakh commuters a day. During the first wave, it was 11.5 lakh passengers a day and before the COVID-19 pandemic in 2019-20, the figure was 31 lakh passengers a day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mtc-no-longer-prime-mover-of-people/article35712409.ece
04 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Fresh COVID-19 infections dip to 1,908||The number of people testing positive for COVID-19 dropped to 1,908 in Tamil Nadu on Tuesday. While cases continued to dip in districts such as Coimbatore, Chennai recorded a marginal rise as 203 more people tested positive. The fresh cases declined for the second day in a row in the State, even as the count continued to fluctuate in a number of districts. In Coimbatore, cases fell to 208 from 219 on Monday. Erode recorded a small rise from 168 to 181 cases. Chengalpattu and Thanjavur saw a decline from the previous day. — while 122 people tested positive in the former, there were 118 cases in the latter. Salem recorded a dip from 82 to 75 infections. In Cuddalore, cases marginally rose to 79, as against 60 the previous day. There were 85 cases in Tiruppur and 68 in Tiruchi. Those testing positive included two returnees from Malaysia. The State’s tally stood at 25,65,452. Fatalities in State Twenty-nine deaths were recorded — 23 in government hospitals and six in private facilities. This took the toll to 34,159. Twenty-two districts reported no fatalities due to COVID-19. There were five deaths in Tiruppur and four each in Coimbatore and Salem. Chennai reported one death. Of the 29 deaths, four were deferred reconciled reports from Salem and Tiruppur. A total of 2,047 people were discharged after treatment, taking the total figure to 25,11,076. There are 20,217 people currently under treatment in the State. This includes 2,043 people in Coimbatore and 1,802 in Chennai. Another private laboratory — the National Lab (Molecular division) in Madurai — was approved for COVID-19 testing. There are 281 testing facilities in the State — 69 in the government sector and 212 private facilities. As many as 2,25,196 people were vaccinated on Tuesday, taking the total coverage in government centres to 2,20,56,379. Of the 2,25,196 people, 1,32,763 were in the 18-44 age group. Inoculation was held in 2,251 sessions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fresh-covid-19-infections-dip-to-1908/article35712402.ece
04 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Korattur check dam nearing completion||Another source will be added before this northeast monsoon to bolster storage at the Chembarambakkam reservoir, one of the major sources of water for Chennai. Nearly 80% of the reconstruction of the British-era Korattur check dam across the clean stretch of the Cooum in Tiruvallur district has been completed. Built in 1879, the check dam with regulator was damaged during the 2015 floods. Officials of the Water Resources Department said the check dam had been designed to discharge 30,000 cusecs (cubic feet per second) of flood water, taking into account the heavy flow in the river six years ago. The 4 m tall structure across the river (140 m wide), can store 10 million cubic feet of water. It would retain flow in the river for 3 km upstream for an additional three months after the monsoon. This would not only help in recharging the groundwater, but also meet the drinking water and irrigation needs of the surrounding villages such as Jamin Korattur, Gudapakkam and Puduchatram. With a sandy layer of 30 feet depth, groundwater percolation would be effective in the locality. The offtake regulator, with 12 shutters, is being renovated to transfer surplus water from the river to the Chembarambakkam reservoir. About 3,600 cusecs of water can be released through the regulator. Excess water from the Cooum can diverted to the reservoir through the 7 km-long New Bangaru Channel. Besides its own catchment areas in the Adyar sub basin and the transfer of Krishna water from Poondi reservoir, the Chembarambakkam reservoir would get Cooum water through this arrangement, the officials said. Water can also be diverted to the Thiruninravur tank as a supply channel is linked to the waterbody. On Tuesday, a team of officials inspected the site where the fourth storage structure in the river is being rebuilt. The remaining work includes building the body wall of the structure and the flood protection wall. Savudu or coarse soil from Thiruninravur tank is being brought to form the river embankment for a height of 6 m and a length of nearly 1.7 km. The Rs. 32 crore project was taken up earlier this year with funding from NABARD (National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development). There was a delay in executing the project due to issues in finding financial assistance. The work is expected to be completed by September-end, officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/korattur-check-dam-nearing-completion/article35712415.ece
04 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||T.N. delegation to visit Namibia soon||A 50-member delegation, including 30 from Tamil Nadu, will soon head to Namibia to explore business and trade opportunities. The India Africa Trade Council (IATC) in collaboration with the India Namibia Trade Forum (INTF), opened the Namibia Trade Commission Office at Ashok Nagar, Chennai, on Tuesday. “Business opportunities in Namibia exist in the areas of agro-processing and green schemes, pharmaceuticals, food processing, solar energy, information technology, gems and jewellery, tertiary education, tourism and the manufacturing sector,” said Gabriel P. Sinimbo, High Commissioner of the Republic of Namibia.  Win-win situation “One of the most viable and sustainable ways to bring about a win-win situation between India and Namibia is through increased investments from India and by entering into joint venture partnerships between Namibian and Indian entrepreneurs,” he said. The current bilateral trade between India and Namibia is just over $100 million, according to the statistical information from the Ministry of Commerce and Industry, Government of India. “Our diamonds and semi-precious stones are exported through London to India and we want to change this so that these commodities could be directly exported to India,” the High Commissioner said. Welcoming Indian firms to invest in Namibia, he said, “The African Continental Free Trade Area Agreement came into effect on January 1, 2021. The trade agreement will allow goods and services to move freely among the 55 member states of the African Union (AU), which will boost intra-African trade and create a market-size of 1.3 billion consumers and a combined GDP of more than $3.4 trillion. With this in place and other mentioned regional free trade agreements, Namibia will have access to a bigger African continental market.” Indian companies that have invested in Namibia include Vedanta Resources and the Indian GPT Group of companies in a joint venture with Transnamib for the production of concrete sleepers. Other Indian companies have invested in energy, agriculture (irrigation), healthcare, diamond cutting and polishing and retailing businesses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tn-delegation-to-visit-namibia-soon/article35712436.ece
04 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||It was up to AIADMK to attend centenary celebrations, says Duraimurugan||A day after the AIADMK boycotted the centenary celebrations of the State Legislature, the DMK said it was up to the principal Opposition party to decide to do so. Addressing the media at the Secretariat on Tuesday, Water Resources Minister Duraimurugan said that, on the advice of the Chief Minister, he personally called the Leader of the Opposition (Edappadi K. Palaniswami) and invited him to the event. The Chief Minister had also asked Mr. Duraimurugan to tell the Leader of the Opposition that he would be seated along with the President, the Governor and the Chief Minister during the event. “I conveyed these details to him when I invited him. He said he would consult his party members and tell me. But he informed not me but the Assembly Secretary that they would not take part in the function,” Mr. Duraimurugan, who is also the Leader of the House, said. The Minister noted that it was being said that the AIADMK chose not to take part in the function (during which the portrait of former Chief Minister M. Karunanidhi was unveiled) because the DMK earlier chose not to take part in the unveiling of a portrait of former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa. “But they invited us just like they invited everyone else. We did not take part because we were not being treated with respect. But we will give them due respect,” he said. When asked about BJP State president K. Annamalai attending the event, the Minister said he welcomed his participation and appreciated his gesture. Senior AIADMK leader D. Jayakumar, when asked about the party’s allies taking part in the function, said, “Constituent parties in an alliance would differ on their principles. It was up to them whether to take part in the function.” Distortion of history When asked why the AIADMK boycotted the event, Mr. Jayakumar (also a former Speaker), reiterated his contention that the first Assembly was set up in Tamil Nadu only in 1952. “Only with that calculation, we celebrated 60 years of the Assembly [in 2012]. So what was it in 1921? It was only the State Legislative Council and not the Assembly. They have distorted history. Our argument is 1952 should be taken as the reference point,” he said.  I personally called the Leader of the Opposition (Edappadi K. Palaniswami) and invited him to the event||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/it-was-up-to-aiadmk-to-attend-centenary-celebrations-says-duraimurugan/article35712397.ece
04 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||DMK insists on 50% quota for OBCs in AIQ medical seats||The Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) on Tuesday vehemently opposed the Centre’s move to provide only 27% reservation to Other Backward Class (OBC) candidates in the seats surrendered by State government-run medical colleges to the all-India quota (AIQ) every year. Appearing before the first Division Bench of Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy, senior counsel P. Wilson, representing the DMK, insisted that the OBCs must be provided 50% reservation in the medical seats surrendered by State institutions. The argument was made during the hearing of a contempt of court petition preferred by the political party against top central bureaucrats for having reportedly failed to implement in letter and spirit a judgment passed by a Bench led by former Chief Justice A.P. Sahi on July 27, 2020. Mr. Wilson claimed the judgment had made it clear that the 69% reservation policy followed in Tamil Nadu, with OBCs getting a major chunk of 50% and the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes getting 18% and 1% respectively, must be followed by the Centre while filling the AIQ seats. However, in violation of the court order, the Centre had now decided to follow its reservation policy of 27% for OBCs, 15% for the Scheduled Castes and 7.5% for the Scheduled Tribes while filling the AIQ seats, he complained and urged the court to order implementation of the State reservation policy. On the other hand, Additional Solicitor General R. Sankaranarayanan claimed that the July 27, 2020, order had actually ordered the constitution of a high-level committee to decide the modalities for implementation of the OBC quota in AIQ seats. Accordingly, a committee was constituted and one of its two recommendations were accepted, he said. However, when the judges pointed out that the previous first Division Bench appeared to have accepted that the State reservation policy could be implemented for AIQ seats, the ASG took time till August 9 for obtaining further instructions from the Centre.  In violation of the court order, the Centre has now decided to follow its reservation policy of 27% for OBCs, 15% for scheduled castes and 7.5% for scheduled tribes while filling the AIQ seats||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmk-insists-on-50-quota-for-obcs-in-aiq-medical-seats/article35712432.ece
04 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Rumblings back in T.N. Congress||Three months after the Congress put up an impressive show in the Assembly election, winning 18 of the 25 seats it contested, internal dissent is back in the Tamil Nadu Congress Committee. According to an All-India Congress Committee (AICC) member, a contingent from the TNCC met Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, urging him to effect changes in the Tamil Nadu unit. “They raised the issue of ticket distribution, especially related to the sons of senior leaders being favoured over younger aspirants. There may be some developments in the next couple of weeks,” said the AICC member. While the TNCC improved its strike rate both in the last Parliamentary and Assembly polls under K.S. Alagiri's leadership, a section of the party unit is unhappy with him after tickets were given to the kin of leaders. During ticket distribution, Lok Sabha MPs S. Jothimani and Vishnu Prasad and a few others had raised serious objections. Mr. Prasad even held protests in the TNCC headquarters, Sathyamurthy Bhavan. A section of the leaders is seeking to rake this up now to demand a change in leadership at the State level. A senior member of the AICC, however, said there was nothing that warranted a change in the State leadership at the moment. “They have just won under Mr. Alagiri’s leadership. There are, however, some factions that want a change... it will not go far. There is nothing on the horizon at the moment,” the leader said. A senior TNCC leader dismissed talk of change and said plans were afoot for the next six to 12 months with Mr. Alagiri as the president. ‘Just rumours’ “We did very well in the Assembly election. These are all just rumours started by ‘dotcoms’ that want to create something out of thin air,” he said. However, many in the TNCC admit that the party leadership in New Delhi is unhappy with several party tickets being given to sons of prominent leaders in Tamil Nadu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rumblings-back-in-tn-congress/article35712437.ece
04 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||After Vijay, it’s Dhanush’s turn now||A fortnight after the Madras High Court came down heavily on actor C. Joseph Vijay for having filed a writ petition in 2012 seeking entry tax exemption for his Rolls Royce Ghost imported from England, another similar writ petition filed by actor Dhanush in 2015, seeking exemption of entry tax for his imported car, got listed before the court on Tuesday. Justice S.M. Subramaniam directed the Registry to list Mr. Dhanush’s case along with another writ petition filed by Billroth Hospitals, also seeking entry tax exemption, for passing orders on Thursday. When the case was called, no one represented the actor though the name of advocate S. Govindaraman had been mentioned as the counsel on record. The judge perused the case bundles, and directed the Court Officer to list both the cases ‘For Orders’ on Thursday. Mr. Dhanush had approached the court after a Regional Transport Officer had insisted upon a no objection certificate from the Commercial Tax Department before registering the car. The commercial tax Department, in turn, insisted upon payment of Rs. 60.66 lakh towards entry tax as a pre-condition to issuing the NOC. Passing interim orders on his writ petition on October 26, 2015, Justice N. Kirubakaran directed the RTO to register the actor’s car on the condition that he should deposit 50% of the tax amount within two weeks. He paid Rs. 30.33 lakh on November 18, 2015. When this was brought to the notice of Justice M. Duraiswamy in April, 2016, he directed the RTO to register the vehicle.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dhanush-seeks-entry-tax-exemption/article35712431.ece
04 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||What is the positive pay system for high-value cheques?||Banks have been informing customers about making the positive pay system — a process of reconfirming the key details of high-value cheques — mandatory.   The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) had issued guidelines for banks to implement it from January 1, 2021, to safeguard against cheque frauds. Here is all you need to know:  What is the positive pay system? The positive pay System, developed by the National Payments Corporation of India, is a process of reconfirming the key details of large-value cheques. Under this, the person issuing a high-value cheque submits certain essential details of it, like date, name of the beneficiary and the payee amount, to the drawee bank. The details can be submitted through electronic means such as SMS, a mobile app, internet banking or an ATM. The details are cross checked while issuing the cheque and any discrepancy is flagged. What is the limit on the amount under the system? The RBI has urged banks to enable the facility for account holders issuing cheques for Rs. 50,000 and above. It has also said that while availing of the facility is at the discretion of the account holder, banks may consider making it mandatory in case of cheque values of Rs. 5 lakh and above. Why is the system important for customers? Some banks have been telling customers that if the details of large-value cheques are not pre-registered, they will be returned unpaid. For hassle-free clearance, on issuance of a high-value cheque, customers should ensure that the details are provided within the time-frame prescribed by the banks. The RBI has said only cheques registered under the positive pay system will be accepted under the dispute resolution mechanism. Customers will get an SMS on whether the cheque is accepted or rejected for any reason. What are the details that must be submitted? The account number, cheque number, cheque date, amount, transaction code, beneficiary name and the MICR code are the details that must be given. How can the details be submitted? The details can be submitted through the respective bank’s website, internet banking or mobile banking. In case a customer does not use electronic banking services, they can submit the details by visiting bank branches.  The account number, cheque number, date of cheque, amount, transaction code, beneficiary name and the MICR code are the details that must be given||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/what-is-the-positive-pay-system-for-high-value-cheques/article35712394.ece
04 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||79 lakh doses of vaccines allocated to T.N. for August||A total of 79 lakh doses of COVID-19 vaccines have been allocated to Tamil Nadu for August. Of these, 17 lakh doses would go to the private sector, while the rest would be used by the State government, Health Minister Ma. Subramanian said. “So far, the government has received a total of 2,25,33,760 doses of vaccines, of which 2,18,31,183 doses have been administered. As of Monday night, we had 12,45,957 doses in hand. Private hospitals have received a total of 19,47,380 doses, of which 15,80,885 have been administered. The private sector has 3,66,495 doses in hand. In total, the government and private sectors have administered 2,34,12,068 doses,” he told reporters on the sidelines of the World Breastfeeding Week celebrations at the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital on Tuesday. Noting that there was no scarcity of vaccines, he said the State had already received two consignments from the Centre’s pool for the month. “We received 3,73,000 doses of Covaxin yesterday evening. This will be for people who have already taken the first dose and are waiting for the second dose. We are prioritising such people,” he added. Phase-III survey Referring to the phase-III serosurvey, he said Chennai had a seroprevalence of 82%, while Virudhunagar had a seropositivity of 84%. “Many districts have seroprevalence of 60% to 70%. We have decided to send additional vaccines to districts with low seroprevalence. The seropositivity was 37% in Erode, 43% in Coimbatore and 46% in Tiruppur,” he added. He said the views and advice provided by medical experts, IIT-Madras and the All India Institute of Medical Sciences were taken into consideration without going into a debate on whether there would be a third wave of COVID-19. “We are taking measures to prevent a third wave, and if it occurs, we are prepared to handle it,” he said. On genomic sequencing to identify coronavirus variants, he said the State regularly sent samples lifted from cluster areas to InStem, Bengaluru, for whole genome sequencing. “In the case where 40 children tested positive for COVID-19 in Uthiramerur, we sent samples for genome sequencing, and 32 samples returned positive for the Delta variant. Only 10 persons have tested positive for the Delta plus variant till date,” he said. The Health Department was working towards starting genome sequencing to identify variants, while an existing laboratory at the Tamil Nadu Dr. MGR Medical University was being upgraded, he said. “Travellers from Kerala will need an RT-PCR test report from August 5,” he said. To a query on bringing in such checks for travellers from Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka, he said cases had dropped in those States.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/79-lakh-doses-of-vaccines-allocated-to-tn-for-august/article35712399.ece
04 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CM to launch initiative to take medicines to people’s doorstep||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin will on Thursday launch ‘ Makkalai thedi maruthuvam ’, an initiative to take healthcare services to the doorstep of the people, in Samanapalli, Krishnagiri district, said Health Minister Ma. Subramanian. Speaking to reporters on the sidelines of the World Breastfeeding Week celebrations at the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital (RGGGH) on Tuesday, the Minister said for the first time, an initiative to screen everyone was being undertaken in the State. “Through this, we will not only provide the required medication at the doorsteps of the people, but also take medical services to their homes,” he said. During the launch, the Chief Minister will take a look at the distribution of medication to the houses of those diagnosed with diabetes and hypertension, and those requiring physiotherapy, being carried out by nurses. Breastfeeding rooms As a part of the World Breastfeeding Week, a breastfeeding room was opened at RGGGH. The Minister said though maternity hospitals had separate breastfeeding rooms, this was the first time that such a facility was set up at a government general hospital. “Like at RGGGH, breastfeeding rooms will soon be opened in all government medical college hospitals and district hospitals in the State,” he added. He said breast milk banks were already functioning in 24 places in the State — 17 government medical college hospitals and seven district hospitals. “This year, milk banks will be opened at 12 more places — seven government medical college hospitals and five district hospitals. The banks will be set up at a cost of Rs. 12 lakh each with the Union government’s contribution in funding,” he said. Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Minister P.K. Sekar Babu, Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan and RGGGH dean E. Theranirajan were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-to-launch-initiative-to-take-healthcare-to-peoples-doorstep/article35712392.ece
04 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||93-year-old woman undergoes surgery for gall bladder inflammation||A 93-year-old woman recently underwent a complex laparoscopy at Fortis Malar Hospital in Adyar here for cholecystitis, an inflammation of the gall bladder. The hospital, in a release, said the nonagenarian underwent treatment for gallstones three years ago. However, she developed complications later. After deferring a visit due to the fear of COVID-19, she was brought to the hospital with severe abdominal pain and vomiting. Tests showed that she had acute cholecystitis, and the gall bladder was filled with pus. Kapali Neelamekam, senior surgeon, gastro and minimal access surgery, said the procedure was successful despite the complexities involved, and the patient was discharged within 48 hours of the surgery.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/93-year-old-woman-undergoes-surgery-for-gall-bladder-inflammation/article35712418.ece
04 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Probe charges against Ennore plant, says NGT||The Ennore thermal power plant is expected to strictly comply with the conditions imposed on it for the disposal of fly ash, the southern bench of the National Green Tribunal said. It should also take necessary steps to see that the fly ash is generated in a scientific manner, the bench added. The tribunal further said the power plant should ensure that ash slurries being conveyed through the pipes do not result in spillage and affect nearby waterbodies. It made these observations while initiating a suo motu case against the power plant following media reports that it was deviating from its approved alignment and that there were leaks in the pipes meant for transferring the ash slurry from the plant. The bench ordered that a joint committee be appointed to look into the complaint. The committee, it said, should comprise the Tiruvallur Collector, a senior officer from the Ministry of Environment, Forests and Climate Change, officers from the Central Pollution Control Board, the Public Works Department and the Water Resources Organisation, the Tamil Nadu Coastal Zone Management Authority and the Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/probe-charges-against-ennore-plant-says-ngt/article35712421.ece
04 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Women commuters feel let down||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin has announced free travel for women in ordinary buses of the Metropolitan Transport Corporation Chennai (MTC) but a section of commuters complain that the transport utility has been running only deluxe and express buses on some “good collection” routes. Several women who commute long distances every day were delighted when the State government announced free ride on buses. However, when the MTC resumed services after the lockdown, they found that ordinary bus services had been stopped on several routes. R. Padmavathi of Kelambakkam, who works at a private hospital in Perungudi, said route no. 570 (Kelambakkam to Koyambedu) is the only bus service available for residents and all the services are either deluxe or express. She rued that for a few days till the lockdown for the second wave of COVID-19 was announced, the MTC operated ordinary services. However, these have been stopped. She has been forced to buy the Rs. 1,000 monthly pass. Similarly, commuters complained about non-operation of ordinary buses on routes 65C (Ambattur Industrial Estate to Pakkam), F70 (Guindy to Pattabiram), 77A (Vappampetu to Koyambedu), 21G (Tambaram to Broadway), 5A (Tambaram to T. Nagar), V51 (Tambaram to T. Nagar) and D70 (Velachery to Ambattur Industrial Estate). Consumer activist T. Sadagopan said while Transport Minister R.S. Rajakannappan had claimed that more than 1,250 buses were operated as ordinary services, commuters were yet to see them on all routes. More so on routes that catered largely to working class bound to factories and daily jobs, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/women-commuters-feel-let-down/article35712406.ece
04 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Restore Kosasthalaiyar’||Worried over the finding of arsenic, cadmium, copper and chromium in the sand samples lifted from Kosasthalaiyar river, fishermen of Ennore have demanded that steps be taken to stop further encroachment of the river bed, and that the river be restored to good health. Fishermen said that industrial pollution, coal ash leak and dumping of toxic material harmed fish. “Dumping contaminated sand in this section of the river is like poisoning their food,” said R.L. Srinivasan, a fisherman from Kattukuppam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/restore-kosasthalaiyar/article35712413.ece
04 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||POCSO case accused Siva Shankaran moves High Court||Godman C.N. Siva Shankaran alias Siva Shankar Baba, 73, of Chennai has moved the Madras High Court seeking bail in two of the three cases booked against him under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act of 2012. He claimed he was not involved in the management of a private residential school, at Kelambakkam near Chennai, whose former students had lodged complaints against him. The petitioner claimed that he had only delivered guest lectures on spirituality and Tamil language in the school on being invited by its management. When his two bail petitions were listed before Justice M. Dhandapani on Tuesday, the judge directed a government counsel to produce by August 11 the statements of witnesses recorded by the police under Section 161 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (Cr.P.C.) The judge told senior counsel Mohan Parasaran, representing the accused, that he generally takes a call on granting bail in POCSO Act cases only after perusing the witness statements recorded by the police and therefore would want to follow the same procedure in this case too. The judge said the prosecution could also file its counter affidavit to the bail petitions, if it wishes, in the meantime. In his petition, he claimed to have been delivering only guest lectures at a school whose former students had chosen to lodge complaints against him after many years of the alleged incidents. He said one of the complainants was a 21-year-old Bharatnatyam dancer who had accused him of having forcibly hugged and kissed her. He claimed the complaint had been lodged to gain “cheap popularity.” The petitioner also sought bail on health grounds stating that he was a heart patient who was suffering from various other ailments too.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pocso-case-accused-siva-shankaran-moves-hc/article35712423.ece
04 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CM issues orders to help Maraimalai Adigal’s kin||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin has issued orders to help the son and grandson of Tamil scholar Maraimalai Adigal, who led the Thanithamizh Iyakkam and authored several research books in Tamil literature. On knowing that the scholar’s youngest son Marai Pachaiyappan and grandson P. Sivakumar were in need of financial help, Mr. Stalin issued orders to help them, an official release stated. The CM issued orders to waive the pending maintenance charge to be paid by Mr. Pachaiyappan for Tamil Nadu Housing Board dwelling and exempted him from paying the charge till his lifetime, it said. Considering it a special case, Mr. Stalin also issued orders to regularise the appointment of P. Sivakumar, who had been working with the International Institute of Tamil Studies on consolidated pay, it added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-issues-orders-to-help-maraimalai-adigals-kin/article35712427.ece
04 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Burglars drill a hole in roof, steal cash from shop||The police are searching for thieves who took away Rs. 2 lakh from a grocery shop. David, a grocer for more than 40 years in K.K. Nagar, went to open his shop on Monday and found it burgled. An office-bearer of the traders’ association, Mr. David called the police, who found that the burglars got into the shop after drilling a hole on the roof and took away Rs. 2 lakh. The shop had no CCTV camera. A case has been registered at the K.K. Nagar police station. The police are looking at CCTV footage from nearby shops.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/burglars-drill-a-hole-in-roof-steal-cash-from-shop/article35712403.ece
04 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||NIA nabs key suspect in Ramalingam murder case||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Monday arrested Rahman Sadiq, 41, alleged key conspirator in the Ramalingam murder case, in Thanjavur. The suspect, later declared a proclaimed offender, was wanted in the sensational murder of the Pattali Makkal Katchi functionary on the night of February 5, 2019 in Thirubhuvanam in the district. According to the NIA, Ramalingam was opposing the “Dawah” work of the Popular Front of India in Thanjavur district of which Sadiq was the administrator. The case was initially registered by the Thiruvidaimaruthur police on charges that a conspiracy was hatched to murder Ramalingam since he resisted the “Dawah” work of PFI activists who were converting Hindus to Islam. The killing was aimed at creating terror in the minds of a particular section of people and trigger enmity between different religious communities, the agency contended. The NIA took over the probe and filed a chargesheet on August 2, 2019, against 18 persons, all activists or leaders of the PFI or the Socialist Democratic Party of India (SDPI), in the Special Court for NIA cases here. Besides the IPC, the suspects were booked under the provisions of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act. According to the agency, after conspiring to eliminate Ramalingam, Sadiq and the other co-conspirators had arranged weapons, vehicles and hideouts for executing the plan. He was instrumental in recruiting the assailants. After the murder, Sadiq had been hiding at various places in Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh for last two years before he was apprehended, the agency said in a press release. The NIA had announced a reward of Rs. 5 lakh to any person sharing information leading to the arrest of Sadiq.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nia-nabs-key-suspect-in-ramalingam-murder/article35712420.ece
04 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Karnataka CM’s statement not acceptable: Minister||Minister for Water Resources Duraimurugan on Tuesday said the statement of the new Chief Minister of Karnataka, Basavaraj Bommai, that the neighbouring State was determined to construct a dam at Mekedatu, was not acceptable. “The judgment of the Supreme Court and the order of the Cauvery Water Disputes Tribunal should be honoured. The statement of the Karnataka Chief Minister that they would not accept the court judgment is not acceptable,” Mr. Duraimurugan told reporters at the Secretariat. Former Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M. Karunanidhi was a friend of his then Karnataka counterpart S.R. Bommai, who was also the father of the incumbent Karnataka Chief Minister, Mr. Duraimurugan pointed out. “I hope he [Basavaraj Bommai], too, will cherish the friendship like his father.” Replying to a query whether the tribunal on the Markandeya river issue would be set up, the Minister said the Central government was informed when the dam was being constructed across the river. Meeting with Minister Mr. Duraimurugan also recalled his recent meeting with the Union Minister for Jal Shakti, when the issue of setting up the body was discussed. On talks between Tamil Nadu and Kerala over inter-State water disputes, Mr. Duraimurugan said the next meeting was to take place in Kerala, and the Secretaries of the Public Works Departments of both States would finalise the dates. On whether Krishna water would be brought in by laying pipes, the Minister said the banks of the channels could be strengthened with concrete slabs. “The Minister from the district, the PWD Secretary and the District Collector have been instructed to hold talks with farmers. If the scheme is not implemented, funds to the tune of Rs. 1,300 crore will not be utilised,” he pointed out. The Minister said Chief Minister M.K. Stalin was working round-the-clock to control the spread of COVID-19, and this could be termed the biggest achievement of the new government, which is set to complete 100 days in office.. “The five schemes the Chief Minister signed orders for, on the day of assuming office, are also significant. We have implemented them. We are continuously implementing many more schemes,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bommais-statement-on-mekedatu-unacceptable/article35712425.ece
04 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Corpn. warns bulk waste generators||The Greater Chennai Coporation has advised bulk waste generators to set up waste management facilities on their premises or engage a service provider. According to a release, the corporation has identified 1,722 bulk waste generators. Just 288 of them had set up compost facilities in situ , and segregate waste. A fine of Rs. 5,000 will be levied on bulk waste generators who dump waste in public spaces, it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corpn-warns-bulk-waste-generators/article35712404.ece
04 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Fishermen press for cooperative bank||With the State Budget round the corner, fishermen have urged the government to ensure that their long-pending demands are met, especially that of a cooperative fisheries bank on the lines of the cooperative agricultural bank. “The pandemic has broken our back. We have no money. Many boat owners have let their boats on voyages for want of cash for repair. We are spending more on voyages than what we earn. And there is nobody to lend to us. The banks won't, they need collateral. Our homes do not have any pattas, thus rendering us technically propertyless,” said Varadhan, a community leader. No credit line Owners of boats and those in the allied industries have been demanding a cooperative bank. “Without an influx of capital, you cannot expect the industry to get back on its feet. Boat owners, both small and large, need support now like never before. We do not want freebies, we want the banks to help. There was a move to provide loans through Kisan Credit Cards but that failed to take off,” said M.D. Dayalan, who runs a fish net shop. He said that personally he was unable to avail a loan under the Mudra scheme at a nationalised bank. “I have never defaulted on repayment of loan amounts. But the bank refuses to give me a fresh loan citing some reason or the other,” he said. K. Bharathi of the South Indian Fishermen Welfare Association, said there was a need for improving facilities in fishing harbours. “There is no emergency medical aid in any of the harbours. Lighting, internal roads, drinking water and toilets have to be improved. At the Kasimedu fishing harbour, the boat owners are unable to export fish as the European Union has not approved of the conditions here. There has been a long-pending demand from fishermen to take over the the harbour from the Chennai Port Trust,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fishermen-press-for-cooperative-bank/article35712405.ece
04 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||T.N. sees 100% pass in Class X CBSE results||Tamil Nadu on Tuesday registered a pass percentage of 100% in the Class X results of students from Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) schools. Following the cancellation of board exams owing to COVID-19, results were calculated taking into consideration the students’ marks from pre-board exams, unit tests, half-yearly exams and internal assessments, held through the 2020-21 academic year. Classes and assessments took place online for a major part of the year, even as schools in the State reopened for a brief period earlier this year for senior students. The Chennai region, which includes Tamil Nadu and some other neighbouring States, recorded a pass percentage of 99.94%. “The results were as expected, with no major surprises. Students have done well, and we have seven students who have scored centums in mathematics,” said Asha Nathan, principal, Chennai Public School. K. Manoharan, principal, SBOA school, said many got centums in maths, French, science and social science. For the current batch of Class X students, the assessment pattern will be different from the previous years, following the board’s announcement of dividing the year into two terms, and having board exams in different formats at the end of each term and continuous recording of internal assessment scores. “The exam at the end of the first term will have multiple choice questions, and we are gearing up to prepare students for the same. The board too has already started releasing question banks for a few subjects,” Ms. Asha said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tn-sees-100-pass-in-class-x-cbse-results/article35712400.ece
04 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Freedom from hernia’ drive launched||Chennai Gastro Care has launched a “Freedom from hernia” campaign, to be continued through the year, to raise awareness about common abdominal issues. The decision follows a rise in abdominal emergencies, including cancers of the abdominal organs, during the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic. Chennai Gastro Care will offer consultations. For details, call 9940024638.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/freedom-from-hernia-drive-launched/article35712412.ece
04 August 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||T.N. BJP’s protest against Mekedatu is a double act, says Kamal Haasan||The Tamil Nadu BJP’s proposed protest against the Karnataka government on the Mekedatu dam issue is a double act, Makkal Needhi Maiam president Kamal Haasan said at a press meet in Coimbatore on Tuesday. “As an actor who essayed double roles in around 25 films, I can easily spot it when somebody plays a double action role. And this is one,” he said. The Tamil Nadu and Karnataka units of the BJP were puppets in the hands of the Central government, he charged. The BJP was growing to be a huge corporate company like the East India Company, Mr. Haasan claimed when asked about talks of a demand for a separate Kongu Nadu state. “It [Kongu Nadu demand] is not a political slogan. It’s not the people's demand as well. It is coming from a company, the North Indian Company- BJP, which, like the East India Company, is trying to privatise resources,” he alleged and added that people would not supporting such a move. The BJP was attempting to destroy all justice- rendering institutions leaving people with no option to get justice, he said in response to a question on the government of India and government of Tamil Nadu ignoring Coimbatore in vaccine distribution and development projects. The protests in Parliament on the alleged Pegasus snooping issue are a reflection of people’s reaction to the issue. The State had no business snooping on people’s lives and there should be no surveillance government in the country, he said. ‘Not enough’ On the DMK government’s handling of the COVID-19 pandemic, the MNM president said that though it was doing its best, it wasn’t enough. “The government can do more and it must do more. The MNM is here to remind the government,” he said. In response to a question on the State government’s plan to build a library after demolishing premises constructed in memory of John Pennycuick, architect of the Mullaperiyar dam, in Madurai, he said it would be better if the government left it untouched.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tn-bjps-protest-is-a-double-act-kamal/article35712422.ece
04 August 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Power loom wage talks on August 11||The next round of wage talks for job working power loom weavers will be held on August 11 in Tiruppur. The wage agreement between the power loom job working units and the master weavers was signed in 2014 and the job working units claim that they are paid less than the agreed wages now.  Hike in wages Hence, the units are demanding a revised agreement with 60 % hike in wages from the 2014 agreement. The Labour Department officials conducted two rounds of talks here and the master weavers did not participate in the meetings. “We met the Joint Commissioner of Labour on Monday. He said that a couple of rounds of talks can be held and if there is no progress, the issue will be taken up with the District Collectors,” said E. Bhoopathy, treasurer of Coimbatore Tiruppur districts job working power loom units association, who took part in the talks. Representatives of job working units in Avinashi, Palladam, and Somanur participated in the meeting on Monday. Employment Tiruppur and Coimbatore districts had 2.5 lakh power looms, 90 % of which were job working units. The units provided employment totally to 2.5 lakh families, including indirect employment. The job working units produced approximately 1.5 crore metres of fabric a day, worth Rs. 40 crore. The two districts had about 500 master weavers, said the job working units.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/power-loom-wage-talks-on-august-11/article35712439.ece
04 August 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Officials told to take early decision on pending files||Revenue Department officials in Coimbatore should take an early decision on pending files related to name transfer on title deeds, encroachment removal, land use conversion, land lease and other issues, Revenue and Disaster Management Secretary Kumar Jayant said at a meeting he held at the Coimbatore Collectorate on Tuesday. Field inspection A release issued by the administration said the Secretary also asked the officials to clear at the earliest the petitions submitted under the Ungal Thoguthiyil Mudhalamaichar scheme, after due field inspection. Mr. Jayant also directed the officials to ensure that only eligible persons received benefits under various government schemes such as old age pension, differently abled assistance, widow assistance, etc., the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/officials-told-to-take-early-decision-on-pending-files/article35712443.ece
04 August 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Corporation Commissioner turns meme creator||“We need more Mariyammas and Bakkiyams to control #COVID19,” goes a tweet from the Coimbatore Corporation. The image below is a screen grab from the latest Tamil movie Sarpatta Parambarai . The top half of the screen grab shows the protagonist’s wife warning him of not stepping out of the house. The bottom half of the grab shows the protagonist’s mother chiding him for leaving the house to watch a match (boxing).  COVID-19 awareness week Corporation Commissioner Raja Gopal Sunkara said he created the meme. “As the Corporation is observing the COVID-19 awareness week, I thought I should chip in and created this meme.” Mr. Sunkara said he went back to watch the movie, searched for the right scene for about 10 minutes and then created the meme. The Corporation had been getting entries for the meme contest ever since it began observing the COVID-19 awareness week and by the end of the week, it would select a winner. The Corporation was also focussing on all the urban primary health centres in the city to check which one of those vaccinated the maximum of antenatal and postnatal women in their jurisdiction, as the civic body had given them a special mandate to vaccinate such women.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corporation-commissioner-turns-meme-creator/article35712459.ece
04 August 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Consumer body seeks SMS-based booking for vaccination||Citizens' Voice Coimbatore, a consumer welfare organisation, wants the government to introduce an SMS-based system for people to book slots for COVID-19 vaccination. This will help avoid large crowds at vaccination camps organised by the government, it said. In an appeal to the Chief Minister and the Health Minister, the organisation said even people from rural areas could get their slots booked from their homes through this system.  Helpline centre According to the consumer body, a helpline centre or war room could be set up in every district to which people could send their Aadhaar number and area pincode for booking time slots. The helpline centre or war room could allot the slots for people at their nearest vaccination centre, based on the pincode and the availability of vaccine doses. A call centre could also be set up in every district to help people who were not comfortable with the SMS system. The call centre staff could initiate a system-generated booking and send the details of booking as SMS. The government would not incur much capital and maintenance cost on these facilities, C.M. Jayaraman and V.A. Shanmugam, president and secretary of the consumer body, said in the appeal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/consumer-body-seeks-sms-based-booking-for-vaccination/article35712445.ece
04 August 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Man held for stealing saris worth Rs. 5.8 lakh||A history-sheeter who stole 58 saris worth Rs. 5.8 lakh from the Khadi Kraft shop near the Avinashi road flyover recently had sold them for less than Rs. 10,000, said the police who arrested him on Tuesday. The police found that G. Murugan (41) from Erimedu near Puliyakulam stole the saris on July 30 and sold 47 saris to Mohammed Jalil (55) of Selvapuram for just Rs. 6,000, while each sari was worth Rs. 10,000. Of the remaining 11 saris, he gave one to an autorickshaw driver whom he had hired after the theft and sold four to persons known to him for Rs. 500 to Rs. 1,000. Six saris were recovered from him. Murugan came to know about the actual cost of saris from newspapers after the burglary, the police said. He landed in police custody while planning to demand more money from Jalil. The police also arrested Jalil and recovered 47 saris from him. As per the complaint lodged by the shop in-charge, Rs. 55,000 was also stolen along with the saris on Friday. Murugan also attempted to break open a hundial of the Thandu Mariamman temple on Avinashi Road the same night.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-held-for-stealing-saris-worth-rs-58-lakh/article35712446.ece
04 August 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Traders seek modifications in lockdown restrictions||Wholesale grocery shops and vegetable traders in the markets have asked for modifications in the restrictions that came into force on Tuesday in the district to control the spread of COVID-19. The wholesale grocery merchants here said the shops were permitted to function from 6 a.m. to 5 p.m. There was no distinction between wholesale and retail traders and only milk selling outlets and medicine shops were permitted to function after 5 p.m. At the vegetable markets, the traders have been asked to open only for wholesale business. Further, only alternate shops can remain open on a day. “We have only 30 % sales now. If a shop is closed with a stock of vegetables, it will be opened after one day and we have no option but to throw out the remaining vegetables. The authorities concerned can either close the markets for a week or so or open for five continuous days a week,” said a trader.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/traders-seek-modifications-in-lockdown-restrictions/article35712449.ece
04 August 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Two held for robbery||Coimbatore city police on Tuesday arrested two youngsters who were involved in at least five chain-snatching and a robbery in the city limits. N. Vijay (24) from Vadavalli, and R. Manikandan (19) from R.S. Puram were arrested. The police recovered 27.5 sovereigns of chains from them. The Thudiyalur police arrested the two in May this year in connection with four chain-snatching cases and recovered 26 sovereigns of chains, a car and two motorcycles. They were released on conditional bail a few days ago. According to the police, the two robbed M. Suresh (37) of Vinayakapuram of Rs. 2,000 at knife point on Avinashi Road on Tuesday. A police team arrested them. They told the police that they had snatched 27.5 sovereigns of chains from five women since this January, before getting arrested in May.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-held-for-robbery/article35712441.ece
04 August 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||BU extends last date for submitting applications||Bharathiar University has extended the last date for submitting applications for post graduate courses till August 16. A release said the University decided to extend the application for post graduate courses for the 2021-22 academic year to provide an opportunity to students who awaited their UG results and those from outside the State. Those interesting in applying for post graduate courses could do so online and find details athttps://admissions.b-u. ac.in/||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bu-extends-last-date-for-submitting-applications/article35712438.ece
04 August 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Man, woman found dead||A man and a woman aged between 60 and 70 were found dead at Mullangandu near Alandurai on Tuesday. The Alandurai police said the bodies were found near the Forest Department checkpost at Mullangadu. The identities of the deceased were yet to be ascertained. As per the preliminary investigation done by the police, the two had died of poisoning.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-woman-found-dead/article35712444.ece
04 August 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Four deaths, 208 new COVID-19 cases in Coimbatore||A total of 208 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Coimbatore district on Tuesday. The Health Department said that 169 persons recovered from the disease on Tuesday and the district had 2,043 active cases. Four more persons from the district died of COVID-19 on Saturday, Sunday and Monday, taking the official toll to 2,182. According to the Department, the district had a test positivity rate of 2.1 % on Monday when 10,215 swab samples were subjected to tests and 219 persons tested positive. Tiruppur district reported five new COVID-19 deaths and 85 fresh cases on Tuesday, taking the overall tally to 88,072. The five deaths reported by the Health Department were the highest among the districts on Tuesday, as the district’s toll went up to 846. A total of 891 patients were active cases and 124 persons were reported to have recovered from COVID-19 in Tiruppur district on Tuesday. In the Nilgiris, 40 people tested positive for COVID -19 on Tuesday. With the latest infections, the total number of confirmed cases in the district stands at 30,657. The number of deaths from COVID-19 in the district stood at 180 in the Nilgiris on Tuesday, while 514 people are under treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/four-deaths-208-new-covid-19-cases-in-coimbatore/article35712456.ece
04 August 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Air India launches bonded trucking service||Air India has launched Customs bonded trucking facility here on Tuesday. According to a release, Air India will carry its Customs cleared cargo through TTL Aviation, its bonded trucking partner, to other gateway ports such as Mumbai, Hyderabad, and Bengaluru to be taken to the final destination. The operation is backed by Air India’s LMS online digital process. This service will facilitate movement of larger sized cargo of industrial goods from Coimbatore. At present, only cargo upto 150 kg as a single piece is airlifted from here. With the bonded trucking service, the shipper can get the cargo cleared at the Coimbatore airport for international destinations. The larger cargo will be moved to destinations from where larger aircraft operate after Customs clearance here, according to the release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/air-india-launches-bonded-trucking-service/article35712440.ece
04 August 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Pension Adalat||The Employees Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO) will organise PF Near You and Pension Adalat virtually on August 10. The meeting will be held for trade unions and employees from 11 a.m. to noon, for employers from noon to 1 p.m. and for pensioners from 2.30 p.m. to 3.30 p.m. Those who want to take part should share details such as UAN number, PF account number, email ID and phone number to ro.coimbatore@epfindia. gov.in before August 9.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pension-adalat/article35712453.ece
04 August 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Power shutdown||Power supply will be disrupted from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. on August 5 in Aero Nagar and Kadampady.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/power-shutdown/article35712448.ece
04 August 2021||CUDDALORE,TAMIL NADU||Genome of salt-secreting mangrove species identified||A group of researchers from the Department of Genetic Engineering, SRM Institute of Science and Technology, Chennai; Centre for Advanced Studies in Marine Biology, Faculty of Marine Sciences, Annamalai University; and the Institute of Life Sciences, Bhubaneswar, have identified a reference-grade whole genome sequence of a highly salt-tolerant and salt-secreting mangrove species, Avicennia marina . Mangroves are important resources for the coastal region and are of great ecological and economic value. They form a link between marine and terrestrial ecosystems, protect shorelines, and provide habitat for a diverse array of terrestrial organisms. The team of researchers sequenced nearly 99% of the genome of the species and aligned them to 31 chromosomes of the species. The findings have been published in the latest issue ofNature Communications Biology. The study was supported by the Department of Biotechnology, Government of India. This will play a key role in developing drought and salt-tolerant food crops for the 7,500 km-long Indian coastline. According to Ayyaru Gopalakrishnan, assistant professor, Faculty of Marine Sciences, Annamalai University, “Avicennia marinaconstitutes a major part of the mangrove forests of India. It is a salt-secreting and extraordinarily salt-tolerant mangrove species that grows optimally in 75% seawater and tolerates more than 250% seawater.” “It is a rare plant species, which can excrete 40% of the salt through the salt glands in the leaves, besides its extraordinary capacity to exclude salt entry to the roots.” First author of this study Purushothaman Natarajan noted that they had employed the latest genome sequencing and assembling technologies and identified 31,477 protein-coding genes, consisting of 3,246 salinity-responsive genes and characterized 614 of them for salinity tolerance genes. This particular study is important because global agriculture productivity is being affected chronically due to the unavailability of water and salinisation of arable land, which account for about 40% of the total cultivable area. “We are in the process of developing searchable data to make the mangrove genome data available to the world research community,” said senior author of this study Dr. Parani Madasamy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/genome-of-salt-secreting-mangrove-species-identified/article35712907.ece
04 August 2021||DEVAKOTTAI,TAMIL NADU||Student kills aunt||A college student allegedly stabbed his aunt to death with a knife here on Tuesday. Devakottai Taluk Police said that Selvaraj of Thachavayal near here was working in Bangalore. His family had a dispute with his brother Sekar and family members over sharing a property. On Tuesday, Balaji, 19, son of Sekar, attacked Meenakshi, 54, wife of Selvaraj, with a knife in which she died. He surrendered before Devakottai Taluk police. The body was sent to hospital for a post-mortem. There were instances of fight between the two families living in close proximity, preliminary inquiries revealed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/student-kills-aunt/article35712515.ece
04 August 2021||DINDIGUL,TAMIL NADU||‘Help us to keep cases under control’||Collector S. Visagan on Tuesday urged traders to help the administration in keeping the COVID-19 pandemic under control. Addressing the office-bearers from the merchant community in the presence of officials from the Health Department, he said that the number of active cases undergoing treatment was 192 as on August 2. The objective was to ensure that there are no cases. Ramanathapuram Collector J. U. Chandrakala and senior officers distributed pamphlets to the people in the market and the bus stand on Tuesday as a part of the third day of the week-long awareness campaign to contain the pandemic. She urged shopkeepers at the bazaar area to sensitize people to the pandemic. The district, which had 132 active cases as on Monday, has 10 only cases on Tuesday. Sivaganga Collector P. Madhusudan Reddy and a team from the Health Department convened a meeting to review the pandemic situation and intensify tests. The number of active cases in the district was 286 till August 2 and steps had to be taken to bring down the number further. The need to use masks and impose of fine against those who violates the standard operating procedure were explained to the people during a campaign.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/help-us-to-keep-cases-under-control/article35712524.ece
04 August 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Aadi Perukku celebrations remain a low-key affair in Erode district||With the district administration banning congregations for Aadi Perukku at temples, River Cauvery and at parks, the festival turned out to be a low-key affair here on Tuesday. Due to the rise in COVID-19 cases and as a precautionary measure, Collector H. Krishnanunni announced that congregations, bathing at river and offering prayers would not be allowed during the Aadi Perukku . Usually, people in large numbers gather at Sangameswarar temple at Kooduthurai in Bhavani and at Magudeswarar Padithurai at Kodumudi and take bath and offer prayers. But, police erected barricades around the temples and prevented devotees from entering. Also, information boards on the ban were also placed outside the temples. Police personnel were posted at all the major temples and at various roads that lead to River Cauvery and Kalingarayan Canal at Karungalpalayam. Police also patrolled along the river and the canal to prevent people from entering and taking bath. Also, visitors to Karnampalayam anicut at Malayampalayam, Kodiveri anicut at Kadathur and Bhavanisagar Dam were banned and police personnel were posted at the entrance. However, people offered prayers at small temples and also took bath in River Cauvery by entering dangerous spots across the district. Since 10,000 cusecs are being discharged in the river, police at a few places warned the public to venture out of the river. Celebrations across the district remained a muted affair as people stayed indoors. Last year, due to a lockdown on Aadi Perukku , the congregation was banned by the district administration.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aadi-perukku-celebrations-remain-a-low-key-affair-in-erode-district/article35712535.ece
04 August 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Erode district reports 181 cases, one death||Erode district on Tuesday reported 181 new cases taking the total cases to 94,217. While 130 persons were discharged, 1,612 persons continue to be under treatment. One person died rising the toll to 634. Salem district reported 75 positive cases and four deaths on Tuesday. According to health officials, 68 cases are indigenous and 26 cases were reported in Salem Corporation limits. Seven patients have returned from other districts like Cuddalore, Namakkal and Kalakuruchi. In Namakkal, 49 cases were reported. As per bulletin, all cases were indigenous. Krishnagiri district recorded 25 cases. While 23 persons were discharged, the total number of cases in the district stood at 314 as of Tuesday. A total of 41,446 cases were reported in the district. Dharmapuri district reported 24 cases. While 29 persons were discharged, the total number of cases in the district was 349. As of date, a total 26,188 cases were reported in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/erode-district-reports-181-cases-one-death/article35712536.ece
04 August 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Tributes paid to Dheeran Chinnamalai||The 216th death anniversary of freedom fighter Dheeran Chinnamalai was observed with members of various political parties paying tributes at the Mani Mandapam at Odanilai near Arachalur here on Tuesday. Minister for Housing and Urban Development S. Muthusamy in the presence of Collector H. Krishnanunni, Anthiyur MLA A.G. Venkatachalam and Tamil Nadu Cable TV Corporation chairman Kurinji N. Sivakumar, garlanded the statue of the Kongu Chieftain who fought against the British and was later hanged at Sankari Forest in Salem district on the day of Aadi Perukku on July 31, 1805. Former Chief Minister and AIADMK co-coordinator Edappadi K. Palaniswami garlanded the statue. .  Staff Reporter from Salem adds:  In Salem, the death anniversary of the Dheeran Chinamalai was observed at Sankari Fort. Ministers R.Sakkarapani, M. Mathiventhan, DMK MLA R. Rajendran, Namakkal MP AKPChinraj, District Collector S.Karmegham and Superintendent of Police M.Sree Abhinav also paid tributes to the portrait of Dheeran Chinamalai. Speaking to reporters, Mr. Sakkarapani said that steps would be taken to install a life size statue of the freedom fighter and develop Sankari Fort. Mr. Edappadi K. Palaniswami along with former Minister P. Thangamani also paid tributes to the freedom fighter at Sankari Fort. BJP State president K. Annamalai, who also paid tributes to the freedom fighter, said he would request Union Minister for the development of the Fort.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tributes-paid-to-dheeran-chinnamalai/article35712539.ece
04 August 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Extend MGNREGS works to town panchayats: CPI||Communist Party of India (CPI) has urged the Central and State governments to extend works under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS) to town panchayats so that livelihood of many families is ensured. A resolution in this connection was passed at the party’s meeting held at Moolakinaru in Ariyappampalayam panchayat. Farming They said that the population of their panchayat is over 15,706 and most of them depend on farm activities. Since their income is not stable and permanent, they wanted jobs under the scheme which is currently executed only in village panchayats and not in municipalities and town panchayats. “Extending the scheme to town panchayats will ensure regular income to the farmers and others”, the resolution said. Another resolution demanded a primary health centre at Periyur as people have to travel five km to reach the nearest medical facility. Anganwadi centre A resolution called for establishing an anganwadi centre at Alagiri Colony as there are over 30 children in the area.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/extend-mgnregs-works-to-town-panchayats-cpi/article35712545.ece
04 August 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Special teams formed to nab accused in murder case||Four special teams have been formed to nab those involved in the alleged murder of a 45-year-old man in the city on Monday night. The deceased Madhi alias Madhivanan of VIP Nagar at Karungalpalayam was attacked by a four-member gang outside an e-seva centre at Ramamurthy Nagar at Krishnampalayam leading to his death. Karungalpalayam police sent the body to Government Erode Medical College and Hospital at Perundurai. Police said that he was earlier with Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam as the district joint secretary and joined AIADMK. Inquiries revealed that the victim was involved in the murder of a history-shetter Pragalathan a few years ago and the case is in the court. Police said that Pragalathan gang could have been involved in the crime. Sources said that surveillance camera footage shows the movement of the accused. Meanwhile, a postmortem was conducted and the body was handed over to the relatives on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/special-teams-formed-to-nab-accused-in-murder-case/article35712537.ece
04 August 2021||Krishnagiri,TAMIL NADU||Krishnagiri Collector warns against sale of gutkha||Collector V. Jayachandra Bhanu Reddy has warned of action against clandestine sales or dealing in contraband substances here. Speaking at an event organised by the Department of Food Safety for hotels and traders, the Collector underlined the ban on gutkha and pan masala prevalent in the State and warned of action against violators. Any form of dealing with the banned substances, including transport, possession, sales shall invite punitive action against violators, according to the Collector. Earlier, the Collector administered an oath to representatives of hotels,eateries and civil society volunteers on food safety and adherence to the ban on substances that led to substance abuse. Later, the department of food safety also felicitated hotels for best practices that include hygiene and quality in food service. The hygiene rating certificate was given to eight persons and representatives of eateries and restaurants from Hosur and three representatives were issued with FOSTAC training certificate for training in food supervision and monitoring. He also inspected the special stall to create awareness on anaemia by an NGO. 700 kg of gutka seized The Salem district police seized 700 kg of gutka near Sankari here during the late hours of Monday. According to the police, based on a tip off, police personnel conducted vehicle checks near Sankari and intercepted a truck. They seized the gutka products from the vehicle and nabbed the driver. On inquiry, it was found that the truck was heading towards Kumbakonam. Sankari police have registered a case and are investigating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/krishnagiri-collector-warns-against-sale-of-gutkha/article35712532.ece
04 August 2021||Krishnagiri,TAMIL NADU||Applications invited from BC, MBC for loans||Tamil Nadu Backward Classes Development Corporation has invited applications from backward castes, most backward castes and denotified communities for loans under various categories for the ongoing fiscal of 2021-22. According to an administration release, the Corporation has called for eligible applicants to avail general term loan, small loan scheme, SHG loan, and livestock loans. The individual applicants should be between 18 and 60 years of age and the applicant’s annual family income should not exceed Rs. 3 lakh. For SHG loan, the self-help group should have been in existence for not less than six months and been subjected to review by Magalir Thittam. For further details, contact Office of Backward Classes Welfare at the Collectorate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/applications-invited-from-bc-mbc-for-loans/article35712544.ece
04 August 2021||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Applications invited from farmers for inland fishing||Applications are invited from farmers under the National Agriculture Extension Project for inland fishing on their farms in the district. Under the project, a farmer is entailed for a subsidy of 40% of the total project cost of Rs. 7 lakh for setting up a new farm pond for fishing on a hectare of land. Farmers interested in availing themselves of the subsidy may apply through the fisheries office here before August 20. For details, contact: Phone – 04343-235745.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/applications-invited-from-farmers-for-inland-fishing/article35712533.ece
04 August 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Cannot redact name from judgment copy: High Court||Dismissing the plea of a man, acquitted of all charges, seeking to redact his name from the judgment copy, the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has observed that in the absence of a statutory backing, the court could not issue such a direction. Justice N. Anand Venkatesh observed that it would be appropriate to await the enactment of the Data Protection Act and Rules which might provide an objective criterion while dealing with the plea for redacting names of accused persons acquitted from criminal proceedings. There must be a proper policy formulated in this regard by means of specific rules. Some basic criteria or parameters must be fixed, failing which such an exercise would lead to utter confusion. The criminal justice system prevalent in the country was far from satisfactory. The court in various cases involving heinous crimes had helplessly passed orders and judgments of acquittal due to slipshod investigation, dishonest witnesses and lack of effective witness protection scheme, the judge said. He observed that the criminal justice system was yet to reach such a standard where courts could venture to pass orders for redacting names. If such uniform standards were not followed across the country, the constitutional courts would be riding an unruly horse which would prove to be counterproductive. The country did not have a system like that of the USA where through a court order there could be complete destruction of the entire records of an acquitted person. Such persons could start their life ‘tabula rasa’ (on a clean slate) and lead a normal life with the rights provided by the Constitution, including the right to fill as ‘nil’ in the employment application column for criminal records. The entire personal information got expunged/destroyed and sealed from the public domain, the judge said. The judge observed that if the system was looking for identifying an effective right for a person acquitted in a criminal proceeding, it must be a consummate relief. There was no use in just erasing the name of the person in the final judgment or order. In fact, it might prove to be counterproductive for a person to get their name erased from the judgment to prove their innocence, when there could be other materials available in the public domain which pertained to damning their name when the criminal proceedings actually commenced. The judge acknowledged the contribution made by advocates in providing various perspectives during a five-hour hearing last week that helped in deciding the sensitive issue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cannot-redact-name-from-judgment-copy-high-court/article35712731.ece
04 August 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Can’t redact name of acquitted person from judgment copy: HC||Dismissing the plea of a man acquitted of all charges seeking to redact his name from the court judgment copy, the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court observed that in the absence of statutory backing, the court could not issue such directions. Justice N. Anand Venkatesh said it would be appropriate to await the enactment of the Data Protection Act and Rules, which may provide an objective criterion while dealing with the plea of redaction of names of accused persons acquitted from criminal proceedings. There must be a proper policy formulated in this regard by means of specific rules. Some basic criteria or parameters must be fixed, failing which such an exercise will lead to utter confusion. The criminal justice system prevalent in the country is far from satisfactory, he said, adding that the court, in various cases involving heinous crimes, had helplessly passed orders and judgments of acquittal due to slipshod investigation, dishonest witnesses and the lack of an effective witness protection scheme. The judge said the criminal justice system was yet to reach a standard where courts could pass orders for the redaction of names. If such uniform standards are not followed across the country, constitutional courts will be riding an unruly horse that will prove to be counterproductive to the existing system, he said. The country does not have a system like that of the United States, where entire records of an acquitted person can be completely destroyed through a court order. Such persons can start their life ‘ tabula rasa ’ (on a clean slate) and lead a normal life with the rights provided by the Constitution, including the right to fill as ‘nil’ in the employment application column for criminal records, he said. The entire personal information gets expunged/destroyed and sealed from the public domain, the judge said. Further, the judge said that if the system was looking for identifying an effective right for a person acquitted in a criminal proceeding, it must be a consummate relief. There is no use in just erasing the name of the person in the final judgment or order. In fact, it may prove to be counterproductive for a person to get their name erased from the judgment to prove their innocence, when there could be other materials available in the public domain that pertain to damning their name when the criminal proceedings actually commenced. The judge acknowledged the contribution made by advocates in providing various perspectives during a marathon five-hour hearing last week that helped decide the sensitive issue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cant-redact-name-of-acquitted-person-from-judgment-copy-hc/article35712430.ece
04 August 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Silver coin of Mauryan period establishes trading in Keeladi||A punch-marked silver coin that was dug out during the seventh phase of excavation at Keeladi last week has yet again sent a wave of excitement among archaeologists as they are further able to collate and establish trading activity of the civilisation believed to have flourished on the banks of river Vaigai more than 2500 years ago. The finding of a single punched-mark silver coin so far is stated to be unique. However, a similar semi-circular silver coin was excavated earlier at a depth of 162 cm, during the fourth phase of excavation at Keeladi. The two coins suggest commercial activities belonging to the middle of the 4th century BCE, according to the director of Keeladi excavations, R Sivanandam. The latest coin was found at the base of layer three of YP44/1 quadrant, almost touching the ground and was covered in thick green sediment. "Only after the coin was treated and we learnt the material is silver with figurines on one side and minor marks on the other, we were amazed about its importance," said Ajay Kumar, the Archaeology Officer at site. The designs on the coin, according to Mr.Sivanandam, who is also the Deputy Director, Department of Archaeology, are of the sun, moon, a bull, taurine, and another animal that resembles a dog on one side and a semi-circle with two small geometric L-shaped marks on the obverse . "It is a proof that trading was with North India where such coins were in use in the 6th Century BCE," he said and added, "these evidences are opening up the entire working system of the country in those times." The coin measuring 2.1x 1.7x0.1 and weighing 2.20 gms, was found at a depth of 146 cm. The shape which is partly oval with rectangular edges on two sides, looks like a magnified drop. It indicates the time period of the Mauryan Empire. The chronology of punch-marked coins also vary from region to region. Copper coins with markings were found at Kodumanal and Alagankulam during past excavations as well. "Each finding and information helps to bridge the connection between the north and the south in the gangetic valley," Mr.Sivanandam told The Hindu . According to C Santhalingam, retired Archaeology Officer, the excavation of beads, copper objects, northern black polished ware, semi-precious stones and punch mark coins here indicated that skilled persons were importing raw materials, may be from Gujarat and Afghanistan, and a flourishing making and cutting industry for jewels and other artifacts existed here. "Any trading activity establishes an urban civilisation, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/silver-coin-of-mauryan-period-establishes-trading-in-keeladi/article35712732.ece
04 August 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Silver coin found at Keeladi reveals economic activities of settlement||A punch-marked silver coin that was dug out during the seventh phase of excavation at Keeladi last week has sent a wave of excitement among archaeologists, as they are further able to collate and establish trading activity of the civilisation believed to have flourished on the banks of Vaigai river more than 2,500 years ago. The finding of a single punched-mark silver coin so far is stated to be unique. However, a similar semi-circular silver coin was excavated earlier, at a depth of 162 cm, during the fourth phase of excavation at Keeladi. The two coins suggest commercial activities belonging to the middle of the 4th century BCE, according to the director of Keeladi excavations, R. Sivanandam. The latest coin was found at the base of layer three of the YP44/1 quadrant, almost touching the ground and was covered in thick green sediment. “Only after the coin was treated and we learnt the material is silver with figurines on one side and minor marks on the other, we came to know of its importance,” said Ajay Kumar, the archaeology officer at the site. The designs on the coin, according to Mr. Sivanandam, who is also the Deputy Director, Department of Archaeology, are of the sun, moon, a bull, taurine, and another animal that resembles a dog on one side and a semi-circle with two small geometric L-shaped marks on the obverse. “It is proof that there was trading with north India, where such coins were in use in the 6th Century BCE,” he said and added, “The evidence is opening up the entire working system of the country in those times.” The coin measuring 2.1 x 1.7 x 0.1 cm and weighing 2.2 g, was found at a depth of 146 cm. The shape, which is partly oval with rectangular edges on two sides, looks like a magnified drop. It indicates the time period of the Mauryan Empire. “Each finding and information helps bridge the connection between the north and the south in the Gangetic valley,” Mr. Sivanandam told The Hindu . According to C. Santhalingam, retired archaeology officer, the excavation of beads, copper objects, northern black polished ware, semi-precious stones and punch-mark coins indicate that skilled people were importing raw materials, maybe from Gujarat and Afghanistan, and a flourishing making and cutting industry for jewels and other artefacts existed here.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/silver-coin-found-at-keeladi-reveals-economic-activities-of-settlement/article35712434.ece
04 August 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Collector inaugurates integrated vaccine centre at VMCH||Madurai Collector S. Aneesh Shekhar inaugurated an integrated vaccine centre at the Velammal Medical College Hospital here on Tuesday. Explaining the salient features, Hospital Chairman M.V. Muthuramalingam and senior doctors said that it would be a one-stop centre for patients from birth to senior citizens. It is not just a vaccine for the covid-19 virus, but for all categories of persons. For instance, many countries insisted on the travellers to take vaccines as mandatory and duly authorised certificates had to be produced by the travelling public. For such people, the vaccine centre at the Velammal would offer counselling and administer the doses. Similarly, for adolescents, there are special category vaccines. For patients, who had undergone liver transplant, immunosuppressive drugs would be prescribed. Hence, for all such requirements, the Velammal had opened the facility here. Soon, the hospital would set up a cold freezer for storing the different types of vaccines. The doctors also said that for economically weaker sections, concession was available. The hospital has been giving vaccine doses for covid-19 so far. Since, there has been a short supply currently, they have not been administering them. However, in about a week or so, Sputnik vaccines too would be available, they added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/collector-inaugurates-integrated-vaccine-centre-at-vmch/article35712735.ece
04 August 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Light engine trial run today||A light engine trial run on the newly-laid Andipatti-Theni broadgauge line will be held on Wednesday. The gauge conversion works in the section of Madurai – Bodinayakanoor broadgauge project has been completed and the statutory inspection by Commissioner of Railway Safety, Bangalore is expected soon. It is planned to conduct engine trial run at a speed of 80 kmph to 100 kmph on this section between 11 a.m. and 1 p.m. on Wednesday. People living in the vicinity of the new line are cautioned not to approach or cross the new line during the engine speed trial run.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/trial-run-of-engine/article35712519.ece
04 August 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Key accused in illegal sand quarrying case seeks advance bail||The main accused in the Tirunelveli illegal sand quarrying case, Manuvel George, has moved the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court seeking anticipatory bail. Earlier, the court took a serious view and transferred the investigation to the CB-CID. Justice B. Pugalendhi posted the case for hearing on August 6. The High Court said that the accused Manuvel George, a resident of Kerala, was accused of illegal sand quarrying and also took note of the fact that he was levied a penalty of Rs. 9.5 crore for the offence by the authorities. A Division Bench of the High Court had observed that the main accused in the case Manuvel George with the connivance of local revenue and police officials had been transporting sand and exploiting it for commercial purposes. In his petition, Manuvel George had stated that he had appropriate permission from the authorities to conduct and carry out mineral storage. He said that he would abide by the conditions of the court and not tamper with evidence. He said he was innocent and sought anticipatory bail.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/key-accused-in-illegal-sand-quarrying-case-seeks-anticipatory-bail/article35712521.ece
04 August 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Don’t frame chargesheet against Ranjith: HC||Taking note of the fact that the investigation was progressing in the case against Tamil film director Pa. Ranjith for his remarks on King Raja Raja Chola, the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court directed the Thanjavur police not to frame a chargesheet in the case. Hearing the petition filed by Mr. Ranjith seeking to quash the FIR registered by Thiruppanandal police, Justice G. Ilangovan directed the State to file a counter affidavit. In his petition filed in 2019, Mr. Ranjith said he was a guest at the meeting organised by Neelapuligal Movement. He delivered a speech on the historical truth about land issues during Raja Raja Chola’s period. He said the crux of the speech was on how to erase casteism by openly speaking to the members of other communities. The speech was also with regard to how people in the delta region had become landless, he said. The intention was not to hurt the sentiments of any community, but was only to lend voice for the marginalised people. He said the police did not conduct a preliminary investigation before registering the FIR. The court adjourned the hearing till August 31.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dont-frame-chargesheet-against-ranjith-says-hc/article35712496.ece
04 August 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Don’t frame chargesheet against Pa. Ranjith: HC||Taking note of the fact that investigation was in progress in the case against Tamil film director Pa. Ranjith for his remarks on Tamil King Raja Raja Cholan, the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court directed the Thanjavur police not to frame a chargesheet in the case. Hearing a petition filed by the film director seeking to quash the FIR registered by Thiruppanandal police in Thanjavur district, Justice G. Ilangovan directed the State to file a counter affidavit and not to frame a chargesheet till the disposal of the petition. In his petition filed in 2019, Mr. Ranjith said that he was a guest at the meeting organised by the Neelapuligal Movement. He delivered a speech on the historical truth about the land issues during King Raja Raja Cholan’s period. He said that the crux of the speech was on how to erase casteism by openly speaking to the members of other communities to create a casteless society. The speech was also with regard to how people in the delta region had become landless, Mr. Ranjith said. The intention was not to hurt the sentiments of the people of any community, but was only to speak in favour of the marginalised people. He said the police did not conduct a preliminary investigation before registering the FIR and sought to quash it. The court adjourned the hearing till August 31.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dont-frame-chargesheet-against-pa-ranjith-hc/article35712426.ece
04 August 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||An evening of stories for kids||Surya Preethy, who runs the Turning Point book store in the city, is back to host ‘Oru Oorula — My India My Pride 2.0’. It will be spread over three weekends — on August 7-8/ 14-15 and 21-22. Two dozen known story tellers from across the country, including Geetha Ramanujam, Jeeva Raghunathan, Vikram Sridhar, Arthi Anand, Sarita Nair, Prakrati Agrawal, Kshamatha Chepuri, will fill the evenings with interesting stories. There will be registration fees under different categories. Those who register will receive the zoom link to join the sessions from 6 pm. For details, dial 7010445612.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/an-evening-of-stories-for-kids/article35712728.ece
04 August 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Inspection conducted||Following a High Court directive, officials from the Transport Department and the Madurai City Traffic Police here conducted joint vehicular checks at different locations. The RTO (Madurai North) Selvam and Singarvelu (South) said that riders of vehicles without rear-view mirrors were told to install them immediately. About 300 vehicles were found to have been without the mirror and all the two-wheelers and three-wheeler riders, including a few share autorickshaw drivers, were given the last warning. During the drive, the traffic police also impounded two auto rickshaws for not possessing valid documents.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/inspection-conducted/article35712733.ece
04 August 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Diamond ring restored to owner||Madurai city police have recovered a diamond ring that was lost by A. Mohit Ajit of Ramanathapuram in the city on July 31, and restored to the owner. A police statement said that Ajith had bought the ring for his marriage engagement at a shop in Anna Nagar and went to a textile shop on West Masi Street for further shopping. However, he found that the ring was missing. After he lodged a complaint with the Tideer Nagar police, the police traced with the help of CCTV footage that the Rs. 40,000-worth ring had fallen down from the owner and an autorickshaw driver had taken it.   A security audit of Madurai Airport and Meenakshi Sundareswarar Temple was held by officials from National Security Group. They reviewed security at the two vital installations with the Commissioner of Police, Prem Anand Sinha. Officials from the temple and airport, fire and rescue services and Central Industrial Security Force took part.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/diamond-ring-restored-to-owner/article35712729.ece
04 August 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Water level||Water level in Papanasam dam on Tuesday stood at 107.30 feet (permissible level is 143 ft.) with an inflow of 282.41 cusecs and a discharge of 1,304.75 cusecs. The level in Manimuthar dam was 72.20 ft. (118 ft.) with an inflow of 33 cusecs and a discharge of 150 cusecs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level/article35712959.ece
04 August 2021||NAGAPATTINAM,TAMIL NADU||Plea to pilgrims||The district administration has requested pilgrims f to desist from coming onpadayatrato Velankanni shrine, Nagore dargah and other places in view of the pandemic. Collector A. Arun Thamburaj convened a meeting of traders in Velankanni Special Grade Town Panchayat on Tuesday to enlist their cooperation to contain the pandemic. He took stock of the measures in place at spots of public confluence including bus stand and railway station. A.M.A. Prabakar, Rector, Shrine Basilica, Velankanni, also took part in the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/plea-to-pilgrims/article35712497.ece
04 August 2021||NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||Teams formed to monitor COVID-19 norms violations||The district administration has formed 32 teams to monitor adherence to COVID-19 safety protocols issued by the State government here. In a release, District Collector Shreya P. Singh said the district had been divided into 32 firkas and a team with inter-department officials had been formed for each firka. Ms. Singh said each team included officials from revenue, police and rural development departments and would monitor public places for at least an hour on a day for adherence to COVID-19 safety protocols. The team would check whether people were wearing masks in public places, and physical distancing was practised in markets, larger showrooms, buses and grocery shops. The public should not venture out of their houses without masks and the officials should ensure hand sanitation facilities were available outside business places. Ms. Singh told the officials to impose fine on offenders and advised the public to extend co-operation for the COVID-19 containment measures.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/teams-formed-to-monitor-covid-19-norms-violations/article35712540.ece
04 August 2021||NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||Man drowns in Cauvery||A 29-year-old man drowned in Cauvery river near Jedarpalayam here on Tuesday. According to the police, the deceased was identified as Deepak Kumar (29). He got married only a month ago. Deepak Kumar came to Jedarpalayam along with his family to offer prayers on the banks of Cauvery river for Aadi Perukku . After the pujas, Deepak’s sister ventured into the waters for the holy dip. As there was strong flow of water, she got pushed to the deeper area. Deepak got into the waters to save his sister and drowned. The Jedarpalayam police rushed to the spot and recovered Deepak’s body.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-drowns-in-cauvery/article35712542.ece
04 August 2021||Namakkal,TAMIL NADU||Organisations garland statue of Valvil Ori||Representatives of various organisations garlanded the statue of Valvil Ori at Semmedu in Kolli Hills here on Tuesday to commemorate the ancient ruler. Valvil Ori was an ancient ruler who ruled Kolli Hills and was skilled in archery. The State government every year used to organise Valvil Ori festival at Kolli Hills. Tourists would flock the hill station to see the floral arrangements set up as part of flower show and to attend the cultural events. Various sporting events including archery contest were held as part of the festival here. The festival is usually held on August 2 and 3. The festival was cancelled this year due to COVID-19 pandemic. However, the district administration granted permission for organisations to garland the statue of Valvil Ori at Semmedu and no other events were held as part of the festival.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/organisations-garland-statue-of-valvil-ori/article35712543.ece
04 August 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Will work in tandem with elected representatives: L-G||Lt. Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan on Tuesday said she would extend all support to the government to make the Union Territory a great destination. “I do not believe in power. The Lt. Governor will work in tandem with the elected representatives. That is why I asked to remove the special chair put on the podium for the Lt. Governor. Instead, I prefer to sit in the same kind of chair reserved for the Chief Minister and the Ministers,” she said. She was speaking while participating in a drive to mark the planting of 75,000 saplings on the occasion of ‘Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav’ to commemorate 75 years of Independence at Manapet village. “We all should work together without any differences to make Puducherry developed,” she said. Speaking on the occasion, Chief Minister N. Rangasamy said the Lt. Governor had been encouraging the government for all its right decisions. “I have full faith in the Lt. Governor and that she will continue to extend support for all the good decisions of the government,” he said. In the last five years, development of the Union Territory got derailed due to the power struggle between the previous Lt. Governor and the Congress government, he added. As promised during the Assembly poll, the Chief Minister said the government would fill all the existing vacancies in various departments. A rough estimate showed that there were around 10,000 vacancies, he added. “Filling of vacancies is very important to run the government machinery and to provide jobs. Now, the frequent complaint of heads of department is that they do not have the manpower to carry out works,” Mr. Rangasamy said. Pointing out the availability of land at Manapet, the Chief Minister said the village had a huge tourism potential. “We will develop Manapet as a major tourism destination with private participation. The support of villages is must in developing the tourism sector,” he added. The Chief Minister also promised to revive the Murthikuppam fish landing facility. Earlier, the Lt Governor, Ministers, elected representatives and senior officials planted saplings near the Forest Department watchtower at Manapet. The event was organised by the Department of Forests and Wildlife, and Information and Publicity.  We will develop Manapet as a major tourism destination with private participation N. Rangasamy Chief Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/will-work-in-tandem-with-elected-representatives-l-g/article35712898.ece
04 August 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Puducherry reports 73 new COVID-19 cases, no deaths||For the third straight day, the Union Territory did not register any COVID-19 death even as 73 new cases were reported against 132 recoveries on Tuesday. The cumulative toll remained at 1,795 — Puducherry 1,422, Karaikal 230, Yanam 105 and Mahe 38. Puducherry accounted for 50 of the new cases, detected through 5,664 tests, followed by Karaikal (11), Yanam (8) and Mahe (4). The test positivity rate was 1.29%, case fatality rate 1.48% and recovery rate 97.79%. The active cases stood at 885 with 168 in hospitals and 717 in home isolation. The Union Territory has reported an aggregate of 1,21,132 cases against 1,18,452 patients recovered. Meanwhile, 4,164 people took the jab against COVID-19 in the Union Territory in the last 24 hours. The vaccinated population aggregated to 7,14,372, comprising 37,862 healthcare workers, 22,972 frontline personnel and 5,08,337 residents.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/puducherry-reports-73-new-covid-19-cases-no-deaths/article35712904.ece
04 August 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Tobacco-free zone marked around Indira Gandhi dental institute in Kirumampakkam||The State Tobacco Control Cell under the Health Department organised a ‘Yellow Line Campaign’ to demarcate a circular area around an educational campus as a tobacco-free zone as part of various interventions to bring down tobacco use. Taking a cue from the Tobacco Free Educational Institution guidelines (ToFEI) by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, the campaign was organised at the Indira Gandhi Institute of Dental Sciences, Kirumampakkam. A 100 yard circle was marked to sensitise shopkeepers to avoid selling any kind of tobacco products as per the Cigarettes and Other Tobacco Products Act (COTPA) (Prohibition of Advertisement and Regulation of Trade and Commerce, Production, Supply and Distribution) Act, 2003. The National Tobacco Control Programme (NTCP) under the Department of Health and Family Welfare Services and the National Health Mission is under implementation in the Union Territory in a phased manner since 2014-15. The programme aims to create awareness of the harmful effects of tobacco consumption, reduce the production and supply of tobacco products and ensure effective implementation of the provisions under the COTPA. The goal is also to help people quit tobacco, facilitate implementation of strategies for prevention and control of tobacco advocated by the WHO Framework Convention of Tobacco Control. S. Govindarajan, State nodal officer – NTCP/State tobacco officer; Varadharajan, inspector of police, Kirumampakkam police station; and Saravanakumar, principal, Indira Gandhi Institute of Dental Sciences, inaugurated the campaign. The students of the Indira Gandhi Institute of Dental Sciences distributed pamphlets and sign boards to shopkeepers near the institute, and emphasised the need to avoid selling tobacco products within 100 yards of educational institutions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tobacco-free-zone-marked-around-indira-gandhi-dental-institute-in-kirumampakkam/article35712902.ece
04 August 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Centre should intervene to prevent construction of Mekedatu dam: MP||Member of Parliament V. Vaithilingam on Tuesday urged the Centre to intervene to prevent the Karnataka government from constructing the Mekedatu dam. Raising the issue in the Lok Sabha under Rule 377 on Monday, the MP said the construction of the dam would adversely impact the farmers of Karaikal. The dam could store up to 67 tmc of water on the Karnataka side. This would hinder the flow of water to Tamil Nadu and Puducherry. Shortage of Cauvery water would destroy farming in the delta region, Mr. Vaithilingam said. The Karnataka government was also planning to construct a dam across Markandeya river, a major source of water to Thenpennai river. The river was a major source of irrigation in several villages in Puducherry, he said. The Centre should immediately intervene to stop the construction of the dams, he demanded.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/centre-should-intervene-to-prevent-construction-of-mekedatu-dam-mp/article35712899.ece
04 August 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||BJP launches signature campaign||The local unit of the Bharatiya Janata Party on Tuesday launched a signature campaign to compliment the Union government for implementing 27% reservation for OBCs and 10% quota for EWS in medical courses under the all-India quota. BJP president and former legislator V. Saminathan inaugurated the campaign on Jawaharlal Nehru Street. Home Minister A. Namassivayam, Minister for Civil Supplies A.K. Sai J. Saravana Kumar and party legislators participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bjp-launches-signature-campaign/article35712908.ece
04 August 2021||Rajapalayam,TAMIL NADU||Three held for cellphone robbery||The Dhalavaipuram police have arrested three persons, who robbed a minor boy of a new mobile phone and recovered the device. Three motorbike-borne youth intercepted E. Arjun, a class XI boy, while he was going on a bicycle near Asaiyamani junction on July 29. They snatched his brand new mobile phone and escaped from the spot. A complaint was lodged with the Dhalavaipuram police. A special team, led by Inspector N. Deiveegapandian started a probe. “Our men got a vital clue through a CCTV footage. They could only confirm the colour of the motorbike used in the robbery,” the Superintendent of Police, M. Manohar said. The police conducted a thorough search of similar vehicles in and around the crime spot and zeroed in on a particular vehicle and traced the accused. While a minor boy had taken his father’s bike, two of his friends had joined him in the robbery. “The youths wanted to make quick money to meet their personal expenses,” the SP said. Stating that the boy who lost the phone was very much upset as his father, a mason, had bought the phone after much difficulty, the SP said that the police team helped to find the phone within 24 hours. “Since the boy badly wanted the phone for his online classes, I have instructed the police officials to restore it to him at the earliest after taking permission from the court,” Mr. Manohar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-held-for-cellphone-robbery/article35712516.ece
04 August 2021||RAMANATHAPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Police chase crowd, 1 dies||Jothinathan, 45, of Paduvanendal near Kadalai taluk, died when the police chased a crowd watching rooster fight in a dry public tank on Tuesday. In view of Aadi 18 Peprukku festival, villagers organised a rooster fight. A team from the Kadaladi police station rushed to the spot. On seeing them, the crowd ran helter skelter. In the melee, Jothinathan fell on the ground and turned unconscious. Villagers rushed him to the nearby hospital where he was declared brought dead. So, the villagers resorted to a road roko. Tahsildar Sekar and DSP John Britto came to the spot and held discussion. The villagers claimed that Jothinathan died after police beat him up. The body was sent for postmortem.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-chase-crowd-1-dies/article35712517.ece
04 August 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Clash between two groups, 13 arrested||The Salem City police registered a case in connection with a clash that occurred between youths from two different communities near Kandhampatti here during the late hours of Monday. According to the police, on Monday night, Kumar from Kandhampatti was consuming liquor along with his friends at Draupadiamman temple grounds. Ashok Kumar and Shakthivel from another community were passing by that way. A quarrel occurred between Kumar and the duo and Ashok Kumar was allegedly attacked in the scuffle. Ashok Kumar got admitted at the Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital. Following the scuffle, a group of youth in support of Ashok Kumar attacked a residence near Kandhampatti Mariamman temple and damaged a few two-wheelers, the police said. Deputy Police Commissioners R. Vedharathinam and N. Mohanraj visited the spot and conducted inquiries. About 13 persons had been arrested in connection with the case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/clash-between-two-groups-13-arrested/article35712541.ece
04 August 2021||Srivilliputtur,TAMIL NADU||Aadipooram festival begins||The annual Aadipooram festival at Andal Temple began here on Tuesday with the hoisting of temple flag. With the COVID restrictions leading to ban on entry of devotees since August 1, all the rituals were held without the presence of devotees. Temple Fitperson K. Ravichandran, Executive Officer A. Elangovan, other staff and priests alone were present. The 10-day festival marks the birth star ‘Pooram’ of Tamil month ‘Aadi’ of the presiding deity Andal. Aadipooram falls on August 11 when special pujas and deeparathanas will be held. The highlight of the festival would be the car festival that draws thousands of devotees from various parts of the State. Usually, the district administration would declare a public holiday for the car festival. However, sources said that Lord Rengamannar and Goddess Andal would be taken around in the gold chariot within the temple premises.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aadipooram-festival-begins/article35712527.ece
04 August 2021||THENI,TAMIL NADU||Fine imposed||Collector K.V. Muralidharan has directed the Transport Department to take action against those bus operators, who did not cooperate with the government in fighting the pandemic. He inspected the Kottur stretch and found a private bus crew not adhering to the COVID-19 standard operating procedure. The permit for the bus was cancelled and fine imposed for violating the Disaster Management Act, among other MV Act, officials said. Transport department officials found some crew without masks. Fine on 32 buses was imposed and a show cause notice was issued seeking explanation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fine-imposed/article35712518.ece
04 August 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Awareness campaign on next wave of COVID-19 begins||With the official machinery gearing up to face the ‘third wave’ of COVID-19, the Corporation authorities here have started an awareness campaign on Tuesday. Corporation officials led by Commissioner T. Charushree organised the campaign in the east zone. They distributed facce masks to the public when they came out without the safety gear. The District Police, in association with the Thoothukudi Corporation and Thoothukudi Central Traders’ Association, also organised a COVID-19 awareness and medical screening camp. Superintendent of Police S. Jayakumar and Ms. Charushree participated in the function and distributed essential commodities to 60 van and autorickshaw drivers. On behalf of the District Social Welfare Department, an awareness programme was organised at Ambedkar Nagar and near Periyar statue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/awareness-campaign-on-next-wave-of-covid-19-begins/article35712951.ece
04 August 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Aged woman murdered in Thoothukudi||In a suspected case of murder for gain, an aged woman was murdered in her house near Eral on Tuesday. Police said that fruit stall owner Duraipandi, 85, of Vaazhavallaan Melur and his wife D. Muthukili, 75, were living in their house on the main road. Their five daughters and three sons had settled down in Chennai and Tirupur with their families. While Duraipandi was sleeping in the bedroom in the front portion of the house on Monday night, Muthukili was reportedly sleeping in another bedroom on the rear side of the house. Muthukili used to get up early in the morning to draw ‘kolam’ in front of the house. As did not wake up even after 8 a.m. on Tuesday, Duraipandi went to her bedroom and found her lying in a pool of blood with grievous head injury. Since her bangles and gold chains were missing, police suspect it to be a murder for gain. Though a sniffer dog was brought to the scene of crime, no credible evidence could be collected. Assistant Director of Forensic Science Kala Lakshmi lifted fingerprints from the spot. The body of Muthukili was sent to Thoothukudi Medical College Hospital for a post-mortem. Eral police have registered a case and are investigating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aged-woman-murdered-in-thoothukudi/article35712952.ece
04 August 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Tiruvarur-Karaikudi DEMU service on the beaten track again||The Diesel Electric Multiple Unit service on the Tiruvarur-Karaikudi broad gauge section is back on the track. The train will run from Wednesday, but as unreserved special with express fare. What is more, travelling gatekeepers aboard the train will hop in and hop out as usual to close and open the railway gates along the route. Reason: the BG section has 72 level crossing gates, but only 14 are manned by regular gatekeepers. As before, the DEMU rake will not have toilets, seriously inconveniencing passengers, especially senior citizens. A distance of 150 km in six hours. The only silver lining is the reduced number of stoppages — from 18 to nine. In a nutshell, nothing appears to have changed for more than a year when the DEMU services was suspended due to COVID-19 pandemic. No wonder, rail travellers are not enthused. In fact, rail users’ associations in the region blame the railway administration’s apathy towards the BG section for the situation. For instance, Abdul Razak of Adhiramapattinam Rail Users Association points to the prolonged delay in appointment of permanent gatekeepers and introduction of regular express trains to Chennai from Karaikudi. This despite the fact that the railway administration has invested nearly Rs. 1,000 crore for converting the stretch from metre gauge to broad gauge. Adds N. Jayaraman of Pattukottai Taluk Railway Passengers Welfare Association: “We have been seeking deployment of permanent gatekeepers for all gates following gauge conversion and operation of regular express trains to Chennai from Karaikudi and a passenger service from Mayiladuthurai to Karaikudi via Pattukottai and Peravurani and Aranthangi.” The Pattukottai Taluk Railway Passengers Welfare Association contends that travellers from Pattukottai, Peravurani, Adhiramapattinam,and Aranthangi have been suffering for nearly a decade now in the absence of introduction of regular express train services on the BG section. They have to either go to Thanjavur, Mannargudi or Ariyalur to board an express train to Chennai. But the railway administration has announced the DEMU service again, which involves a journey stretching for six hours. “It will not serve any purpose for travellers,” Mr. Jayaraman adds. Further, operating the DEMU service as unreserved special with express fare will deter many travellers, he points out. He suggests that the railways attach at least one DEMU coach with toilet. The journey To recap, the BG stretch covers parts of Tiruvarur, Thanjavur, Pudukottai and Sivaganga districts. The unreserved special with express fare will run one service each in the up and down direction. It will leave Tiruvarur at 8.15 a.m. and reach Karaikudi at 2.15 p.m. In the return direction, it will leave Karaikudi at 2.30 p.m. and arrive at Tiruvarur at 8.30 p.m. The train will have nine stoppages including Thiruthuraipoondi, Adhiramapattinam, Pattukotttai, Peravurani, Aranthangi and Periyakottai. The halt stations of Mangudi, Mavur road, Ammanur, Alattambadi, Manali, Muthupet, Ottankadu, Valaramanickam and Kandanur Puduvayal have been temporarily kept in abeyance, Southern Railway said in a press release on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tiruvarur-karaikudi-demu-service-on-the-beaten-track-again/article35712504.ece
04 August 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||In Tiruchi, quiet flows the Cauvery on Aadi Perukku||This year too, the Aadi Perukku celebrations turned out to be a low key affair in Tiruchi on Tuesday. The district administration had imposed a ban on congregation of public to perform rituals and take a holy dip in the Cauvery in view of the gradual rise in COVID-19 cases. The Amma Mandapam bathing ghat at Srirangam, where locals usually turn up in large numbers on Aadi Perukku, wore a deserted look on Tuesday. City police barricaded the mandapam and the pathway leading to the bathing ghat as a preventive measure to prevent the public from entering the spot. Barricades were also erected in front of pathways and other bathing ghats along the Cauvery. A team of police personnel was deployed in front of Amma Mandapam to ensure that residents did not congregate there. A few who came in the morning to Odathurai and Thillai Nayagam bathing ghats to perform rituals were advised to leave in view of the ban. However, some of them went to other places near the Cauvery to perform rituals where there was no police presence. Police sources said teams were deployed at Vathalai, Mukkombu, Thiruparaithurai bathing ghat, Mutharasanallur and Kambarasampettai bathing ghats along the Cauvery and the Coleroon. A few newly wed couples and others who came to the bathing ghats in Jeeyapuram sub division were politely advised about the ban, the sources added. On Aadi Perukku, people offer worship to the Cauvery and perform special pujas at various bathing ghats as a mark of thanksgiving to the river which ensures their prosperity. Meanwhile, BJP cadre staged road roko in the morning in front of Amma Mandapam bathing ghat demanding that the public be allowed to perform rituals. They later dispersed following talks with the police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/in-tiruchi-quiet-flows-the-cauvery-on-aadi-perukku/article35712506.ece
04 August 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Pachamalai still out of bounds for tourists||Youth from Tiruchi district who travel to Pachamalai hills during the weekends to relax are a unhappy lot as the Forest Department is yet to allow visitors to the various falls on the hills, trekking or staying at the eco-tourism cottages at Top Sengattupatti. While other places such as Kodaikanal have reopened to tourists, why Pachamalai is still out of bounds, the youth ask. Pachamalai is a preferred weekend getaway for those wanting to beat the heat in Tiruchi and with the lockdown being partially lifted, many who had been looking forward to spending time there are disappointed. M. Sharath, a techie in the city and his group of friends had decided to travel to Pachamalai last weekend. However, they returned home disappointed as the attractions were yet to open. “We do not have many such places in Tiruchi. We drove all the way up to be told that none of the falls were opened. When Kodaikanal and Nilgiris can handle large number of tourists, why can't Pachamalai?" he asked. Like him, many are looking forward to travelling as they have been restricted to their homes during the lockdown. “Every summer, we travel to Pachamalai, stay at the cottages and spend at least two days here. However, over the last two summers, we have not been able to go there,” another visitor said. Along with a few waterfalls, Top Sengattupatti also has a eco-tourism project by the Forest Department with tree-top houses, including two dormitories, one for boys and one for girls. A restaurant, an Interpretation Centre are also part of the project. Speaking to The Hindu , a forester on duty at Top Sengattupatti said that they were yet to get clearance to reopen. “There are some picnickers who travel to the top of the hills, visit the villages and return. The lockdown norms continue to be in force in the biological park and as an eco-tourism project, Pachamalai comes under it,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pachamalai-still-out-of-bounds-for-tourists/article35712511.ece
04 August 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||MSME sector in Tiruchi region worried over possible third wave||Talks doing the round about possible tightening of lockdown to contain the third wave of COVID-19 has unnerved the MSME sector in Tiruchi region. Several MSME units that are on the verge of slipping into Non-Performing Assets (NPA) categorisation by banks will wilt under the adverse circumstances, says R. Ilango, president of Tiruchi District Tiny and Small Scale Industries' Association. “We are still reeling under the impact of the first two phases of strict lockdown. We earnestly hope that the government permits functioning of the units where workers are fully vaccinated,” Mr. Ilango said. A good number of units had ensured vaccination of their employees. Though there was hesitation among the workers initially, they have come around to realising that vaccination is the only way out to sustain thier livelihood, he said. The banks have not been liberal in handling the financially-battered units that have been undertaking conversion works for BHEL for which orders had dwindled due to absence of level-playing field in the international bidding of thermal projects. The sops announced by the Centre has provided some financial cushioning, since they are in the form of soft loans. But debt-servicing requirements have been enlarged further, the promoters of industry units rue. On its part, the BHEL has been persistently pursuing with the Central Government its request for bailing out the MSME units in Tiruchi region. Recently, BHELSIA president Rajappa Rajkumar called on L. Murugan, Minister of State for Fisheries, Animal Husbandry and Dairying, Information & Broadcasting, and requested him to take necessary steps to save MSME units in Tamil Nadu, especially the Tiruchi engineering units depending on BHEL, from collapse. Mr. Murugan had promised to liaise with the ministries concerned for settling the long- pending issues, including the necessity for releasing pending thermal power plant orders to BHEL for survival of the vendors.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/msme-sector-in-tiruchi-region-worried-over-possible-third-wave/article35712499.ece
04 August 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Animal birth control unit reactivated||After being inoperative for long, the Animal Birth Control (ABC) Centre at Konakkarai in the city has become operational. The unit, which was opened in 2018, remained idle for several months. It drew criticism from residents, particularly those who were affected by stray dog menace. The ABC centre has five pre-operative and five post-operative wards. It can sterilise about 30 dogs a day. But lack of manpower, particularly veterinarians, is said to be the main reason behind the inaction. The civic body initially engaged veterinarians of Animal Husbandry Department for carrying out sterilisation. But the doctors could not fully concentrate as they were primarily attached with the Ddpartment. To make the facility operational, the Corporation has now engaged a private veterinarian for the sterilisation drive. The ABC unit has been made operational now. Instructions have been given to health officials to take steps to capture stray dogs in Tiruverumbur in the first phase. All standard procedures in capturing the stray dogs and sterilisation process will be followed, P.M.N. Mujibur Rahuman, Commissioner, Tiruchi Corporation, toldThe Hindu. About 20 dogs will be sterilised daily. After the operation and post-operative treatment, they be released in the areas where they are captured. The drive is aimed at checking the exponential growth in the stray dog population. All areas where dog menace is reported in the city will be covered in the drive. The health officials will keep a close watch on the issue. Steps have been taken to fully utilise the ABC unit. It has been decided to engage a retired veterinarian and the post will be filled in a few days, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/animal-birth-control-unit-reactivated/article35712501.ece
04 August 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Association of University Teachers postpones protest||Citing the invitation of the government for talks on Wednesday, Association of University Teachers (AUT) has postponed the protest it had planned to conduct on August 5, demanding settlement of salary dues for guest lecturers in the 10 government colleges in the jurisdiction of Bharathidasan University that were earlier constituent units of the varsity. The issue of non-payment of salaries for the guest lecturers will be raised during the meeting with Chief Minister M.K. Stalin in the presence of Higher Education Minister K. Ponmudi, Higher Education Secretary, and Director of Collegiate Education, to discuss matters pertaining to college fee, and admissions, K. Raja, Secretary of AUT Zone - V - Tiruchi, said in a press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/association-of-university-teachers-postpones-protest/article35712498.ece
04 August 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Shortage of teaching faculty hits private engineering colleges||The absence of inspections by the AICTE and Anna University, in view of the prolonged impact of the pandemic, has emboldened a number of private engineering colleges to force their truncated strength of teaching faculty to handle subjects unrelated to their area of qualification. Having eased out staff in substantial numbers over the last year, citing financial crunch due to the pandemic, managements of private engineering colleges have failed to restore the strength of their teaching staff ahead of the next academic year, since the need for handling practical classes does not arise in online education, a senior professor of Anna University said. The decline in the quality of teachers is bound to reflect poorly on the National Board of Accreditation (NBA), which is a signatory to Washington Accord that implies recognition of accredited programmes by other signatories. The colleges are indeed in a fix, since going by the announcement made by the AICTE in 2019, approval will not be extended to programmes of technical institutes that fail to get a quality assurance certificate and accreditation from the NBA, a functionary of a private engineering college management in Tiruchi said. Some engineering colleges are apparently in the process of appointing faculty for monthly salaries as low as Rs. 5,000, despite the AICTE specifying decent remuneration, a teacher of a private engineering college in Tiruchi said, requesting anonymity. Even “reputed” private engineering colleges do not pay more than Rs. 25,000 a month to teaching faculty, he said. The Madras High Court had, based on a petition filed by K.M. Karthik, a Tiruchi-based activist, directed the AICTE to file a detailed report on fixing minimum wage for teachers of private institutions. But college managements say they have not received any communication on salaries for teaching faculty from the AICTE. With the government permitting colleges to collect 75% fees initially, existing teachers fervently hope that the managements will pay their salaries on time. They stress the need for the AICTE to play a pro-active role in ensuring the adequacy of teaching strength and sufficient salary. “The decline in student strength in colleges is a cause for the grim situation. Nevertheless, the managements will have to pay the teachers reasonable salaries on their own volition,” M. Chidambaram, former director of NIT-Tiruchi, said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/shortage-of-teaching-faculty-hits-private-engineering-colleges/article35712398.ece
04 August 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||373 fresh cases, 3 deaths||The central districts registered 373 fresh cases of COVID-19 and the death of three patients on Tuesday. Barring Thanjavur, all other districts in the region registered less than 100 cases. In Thanjavur, 129 patients tested positive for the virus. In Tiruchi district, 68 patients tested positive. While the day’s caseload was 39 in Nagapattinam, it was 27 in Mayiladuthurai, 32 in Tiruvarur and 22 in Karur. Perambalur recorded 10 new cases, while Ariyalur and Pudukottai registered 17 and 29 fresh cases. Pudukottai, Thanjavur and Tiruvarur recorded the death of one patient each . Vaccine camps Special camps to administer the second dose of Covaxin will be held at Kalaiarangam Mahal and Thevar Hall in Tiruchi on Wednesday. The camps will begin at 9.30 a.m., a Corporation press release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/373-fresh-cases-3-deaths/article35712503.ece
04 August 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||IEI to hold online classes||The Institution of Engineers (India), Tiruchi Local Centre, will conduct online coaching classes for Section A examination of the Institution of Engineers. The classes will be conducted on week days and those interested are required to register their names at the following link:https://forms.gle/yUs9HW C1HXPRG5RBA The classes will be held on fundamentals of design and manufacturing; materials science and engineering; computing and informatics; and society and environment. Participants have to pay a fee of Rs. 1,000 per subject. The classes will start from August 8, A. Anand, honorary secretary, IEI, Tiruchi Centre, said in a press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/iei-to-hold-online-classes/article35712509.ece
04 August 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Toll plaza planned at Maranthai on Tirunelveli-Tenkasi highway||The 45.60-km Tirunelveli - Tenkasi highway, which is being widened into a four-lane road on an outlay of Rs. 430.71 crore, will be a pay-and-use thoroughfare as a toll plaza has been planned at Maranthai. Though the State government gave its approval for the project on May 29, 2015, work started only in February last. The widening work between Pettai on Tirunelveli outskirts and Alangulam (22.70 km)and Alangulam- Azad Nagar bridge on the Tenkasi outskirts (22.90 km) is going with a target to complete it by August 2022. It will have 79 culverts and two major bridges. It will be 35 metre wide in rural areas and 25 to 28 metres in urban areas. The major bridges will come up at Alangulam (200 metres long) and at Pavoorchathiram, rail overbridge (990 metres). The firm which has been awarded the contract will maintain the road for five years and trees will be planted on the roadside as a few hundred trees have been felled for the project. Slow pace Though the project has to be completed within the next 13 months, the quantum of work completed so far is very less. Only 8% of the work has been completed between Pettai and Alangulam and 2% between Alangulam and Tenkasi. The widening of one of the busiest roads in southern Tamil Nadu is a welcome move but the decision to collect toll for using it has irked road users. “Thousands of vehicles use this road which connects neighbouring Kerala, Courtallam and Tenkasi with Tirunelveli and the port town of Thoothukudi. As people in Tirunelveli and Tenkasi districts are closely linked to each other in terms of education, healthcare, employment etc., a large number of travellers use this road. Hundred trucks carry tiles, bricks, vegetables, cement, timber, gas, coal etc., from Thoothukudi seaport to Kerala and vice versa. So, widening of this road is the government’s duty for which it should not collect toll,” says farmer T. Mariappan of Vaithilingapuram near Aavudaiyanoor, who obtained the details under Right to Information Act from the Department of Highways. Farmers and traders of both the districts have decided to meet MLAs and MPs of Tirunelveli and Thoothukudi districts to press their demand on toll waiver.  Project highlights As the road links Thoothukudi port with Kerala, traffic is heavy Two major bridges will come up at Alangulam and Pavoorchathiram Concessionaire will maintain the road for five years||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/toll-plaza-planned-at-maranthai-on-tirunelveli-tenkasi-highway/article35712957.ece
04 August 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Tight measures in place to prevent illicit sand mining||In a bid to put an end to illegal quarrying of sand, stone, soil and beach mineral from the district to neighbouring Kanniyakumari and Kerala, where they are sold at a premium, Collector V.Vishnu has tightened surveillance along roads leading to these destinations while intensifying monitoring by the revenue personnel, right from the Village Administrative Officers. The District-level Taskforce Committee on Mining of Minerals and the Sand-mining Coordination Committee that met here on Tuesday discussed measures to be taken to stop illicit mining. Superintendent of Police N. Manivannan, District Revenue Officer A. Perumal, Sub-Collector of Cheranmahadevi Siva Krishnamurthy participated in the meeting and discussed the strategies to be followed. Direction to tahsildars The Collector has directed all the tahsildars to convene taluk-level committees twice a month to discuss complaints against illicit quarrying. The action-taken report should be submitted at the district-level meeting. “Village Administrative Officers should immediately alert their higher-ups - Revenue Inspectors, Tahsildars, police and the Department of Mines - about illegal quarrying or stocking of minerals, in areas under their jurisdiction. The sand and minerals being mined in Tirunelveli district should be transported with valid permit to Kanniyakumari district only via Anjugramam and Kavalkinaru check posts. Vehicles that use other than these two routes would be seized and cases registered. Whenever sand or stone-laden vehicles cross these check posts, police personnel or officials deployed at these points will check the permit for type of mineral, quantity, permit date, hologram etc., and punch it so that it cannot be used again for transporting illegally quarried sand and minerals. If any violation is found, criminal action will be initiated against drivers and owners of the vehicles, which will also lead to seizureure of the vehicles, Mr. Vishnu said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tight-measures-in-place-to-prevent-illicit-sand-mining/article35712955.ece
04 August 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Over 400 women take part in physical tests||Over 400 women candidates participated in physical tests conducted here on Tuesday. Following certificate and physical endurance tests held last week for recruiting Grade II police constables, warders and firemen, physical tests such as 100 metres, 200 metres running, shot put and throwing cricket ball were held on Tuesday for those who cleared the first phase of tests. Of the 1,320 women, who were selected for the second phase tests, 488 appeared for the tests on Tuesday. The COVID-19 norms were strictly followed at the test venue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/over-400-women-take-part-in-physical-tests/article35712961.ece
04 August 2021||TIRUPATTUR,TAMIL NADU||Drought-hit Chinna Gounder villagers to get relief soon||Chinna Gounder village in Jolarpet is a drought-hit area. Women in this village have to trek at least 6 km to fetch a few pots of water every day from Mariyamman Koil Vattam, a neighbouring village. Luckily for them, their ordeal will end soon as the work on the first overhead tank (OHT) in the village is nearing completion. Along with Vaithikaran Vattam, Chinna Gounder village forms part of Pooneri panchayat in Jolarpet. The village has around 3,000 people, who are mostly farmers and agricultural workers. “With such new OHTs, we want to achieve the provision of at least 55 litres of water per person per day in these villages. Local water sources like borewells are being created to ensure regular supply of water to these new OHTs,” said V. Kathikeyan, junior engineer, Rural Development wing of the Tirupattur district administration. On Monday, along with a team of engineers from the Rural Development department, Amar Kushwaha, District Collector, Tirupattur, inspected the on-going works, which are being constructed under the Centrally-sponsored Jal Jeevan Mission. At present, 20 such OHTs are being built in water-starved villages in Jolarpet, including Chinna Veppampattu, Mandalavadi, Chetteri, Yelagiri and Katteri. The capacity of the new OHT varies between 10,000 l and 30,000 l depending on the population of each village. Many villages in the district, especially in the hilly areas, get water through pipelines for two hours every day. These pipelines were laid under the Hogenakkal drinking water supply scheme executed a decade ago for drought-hit districts like Dharmapuri, Krishnagiri and Vellore. However, irregular water supply, especially to tail-end areas, forced residents in these villages walk several miles to fetch water to meet their domestic needs. The OHTs, which will start functioning in the next few weeks, are expected to bring relief to them.  With such new OHTs, we want to achieve the provision of at least 55 litres of water per person per day||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/drought-hit-chinna-gounder-villagers-to-get-relief-soon/article35712895.ece
04 August 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Tiruppur GMCH gets human milk bank||A human milk bank with a capacity of 1,000 litres was inaugurated at the Government Medical College Hospital (GMCH) in Tiruppur on Monday. The milk bank, which was set up in collaboration with Rotary Avinashi East and NGO Achintya, was inaugurated by the hospital’s Dean-cum-Special Officer R. Murugesan. Breastfeeding Week President of Rotary Avinashi East Vichitra Senthilkumar said the inauguration was done to mark the World Breastfeeding Week observed from August 1 to 7. Rotary Avinashi East sponsored the equipment and will look after the logistics to safely transport breast milk from donors to the hospital, she said. “We are planning to conduct awareness programmes to encourage donation of human milk,” Ms. Vichitra said, adding that such awareness events will be held at the primary health centres in Udumalpet and Avinashi in Tiruppur district to encourage lactating mothers from rural areas to donate milk. Priya Visuvasam, nodal officer for the Special Newborn Care Unit at GMCH, Tiruppur, said the human milk bank will help in streamlining the supply for babies that were preterm, abandoned or whose mothers could not breastfeed due to medical issues in the hospital. “As of now, we require about 500 ml to one litre [human] milk per day,” she noted, adding that the donated human milk will be stored for up to six months using the equipment at the milk bank.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tiruppur-gmch-gets-human-milk-bank/article35712451.ece
04 August 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Water released from Thirumoorthy dam||Minister for Information and Publicity M.P. Saminathan on Tuesday raised the shutters of Thirumoorthy dam near Udumalpet in Tiruppur district to release water to irrigate over 90,000 acres in Tiruppur and Coimbatore districts. According to a press release, the State government has ordered the release of water for the benefit of 94,068 acres of agricultural land under the fourth zone ayacut of Palar basin in the Parambikulam-Aliyar Project (PAP). As per the order, water not exceeding 9,500 mcft, including conveyance losses, will be released for 135 days from Tuesday in five rounds with adequate gaps in between. Apart from this, the State government had ordered the release of water not exceeding 700 mcft for the 2,786 acres of agricultural land that comes under the old ayacut of Dhali canal from Tuesday till May 31, 2022. As per this, water was released from Thirumoorthy dam to Parambikulam main canal at the rate of 250 cusecs on Tuesday, which will be gradually increased to 912 cusecs, the press release said. While the 2,786 acres of old ayacut was present in Udumalpet block in Tiruppur district, the 94,068 acres was spread across Udumalpet, Madathukulam, Tiruppur, Palladam, Dharapuram and Kangeyam blocks in Tiruppur district along with Pollachi and Sulur blocks in Coimbatore district. ‘Use water judiciously’ Mr. Saminathan requested the farmers to use the water judiciously, according to the release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-released-from-thirumoorthy-dam/article35712454.ece
04 August 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Gangs clash at Palladam, seven arrested||The Palladam police on Tuesday arrested seven members of two gangs who were allegedly involved in a clash near Mahalakshmi Nagar at Palladam in Tiruppur district. Police said that on Monday afternoon, Manikandan (27), who was allegedly in an inebriated state, approached a group of five men who were consuming liquor, and asked whether they had banned tobacco products. One of the five men, Kanagaraj (35), allegedly assaulted him in response. Following this, Manikandan brought three of his accomplices – Karnan (28), Kathir and Prabu – to the spot and a clash ensued between the two gangs. In the meanwhile, Prabu started his car to hit one of the men from the opposite gang, but instead hit a bystander named Sankaralingam, who was later admitted to Government Hospital in Palladam for treatment, the police said. The Palladam police registered a case under Section 307 (Attempt to murder) of the Indian Penal Code and arrested Kanagaraj, Saravanan (24), Sakthivel (25), Mahesh (25) and Vicky (22) along with Manikandan and Karnan. They were remanded in judicial custody on Tuesday. Kathir and Prabu were absconding and efforts to nab them are on, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gangs-clash-at-palladam-seven-arrested/article35712455.ece
04 August 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||President arrives in the Nilgiris||President Ram Nath Kovind arrived in the Nilgiris on Tuesday morning. Mr. Kovind, who arrived at Theetukkal in a helicopter, was welcomed by Governor Banwarilal Purohit, Industries Minister Thangam Thennarasu, Forest Minister and Coonoor MLA K. Ramachandran and the Nilgiris Collector J. Innocent Divya. As part of security protocol, roads leading to the town were blocked off for almost 30 minutes, as the police cleared the way for the President’s convoy to reach the Raj Bhavan in Udhagamandalam. Security was stepped up across the district and police personnel were posted at all major intersections and public places. Mr. Kovind is scheduled to visit the Defence Services Staff College in Wellington on Wednesday. On Tuesday, he toured the Government Botanical Garden (GBG) in Udhagamandalam, located close to the Raj Bhavan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/president-arrives-in-the-nilgiris/article35712390.ece
04 August 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Man murdered by mother, step-father||A 25-year-old man was allegedly murdered by his mother and step-father in Coonoor on Monday night. The deceased was identified as C. Risoria (25), a resident of Aravankadu. Risoria, who worked as a daily wage labourer, was allegedly an alcoholic and would get into fights and arguments with his mother C. Indira (42), and step-father R. Rajendran (47). On Monday night, Rajendran allegedly attacked Risoria with a machete during one of the arguments and killed him. Indira was an accomplice to the crime. The Aravankadu police registered a case of murder and arrested Rajendran and Indira.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-murdered-by-mother-step-father/article35712457.ece
04 August 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Vellore district reports 27 new cases||The total number of COVID-19 cases in Vellore reached 48,136 with 27 new cases reported on August 3. While a total 46,716 have been discharged, the active cases in the district stand at 325. The district’s death toll is 1,095. In Ranipet, 13 cases were reported positive, and the total stood at 42,013. In Tirupattur district, 19 new cases were reported on Tuesday, and the total stood at 28,310. In Tiruvannamalai district, the number of new cases was 35, taking the total to 52,175. Out of this, 50,965 have been discharged, and the number of active cases is 572.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vellore-district-reports-27-new-cases/article35712905.ece
04 August 2021||VILLUPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Special DGP summoned by Villupuram court||The chief judicial magistrate (CJM) court in Villupuram on Tuesday summoned Special Director General of Police Rajesh Das (currently under suspension) to appear before it on August 9 to face trial in the case pertaining to the sexual harassment of a woman Superintendent of Police. The Madras High Court had on Monday directed the Villupuram CJM to conclude by December 20 the trial against the Special DGP on charges of sexually harassing the woman SP in February this year and also against Superintendent of Police D. Kannan (since suspended) on the charge of waylaying the latter when she was on the way to lodge a complaint. 400-page chargesheet The summons for the Special DGP come barely four days after the Crime Branch-Criminal Investigation Department (CB-CID) filed a 400-page chargesheet in a local court here. In February 27, the CB-CID registered an FIR against the former Special DGP under Sections 354 A (sexual harassment), 341 (punishment for wrongful restraint), and 506 (1) criminal intimidation of the Indian Penal Code, and Section 4 of the Tamil Nadu Prohibition of Harassment of Women Act, 2002. The then Chengalpattu Superintendent of Police was also named in the FIR for stopping the woman police officer while she was proceeding to Chennai to lodge a complaint against the senior officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/special-dgp-summoned-by-court-in-villupuram/article35712428.ece
04 August 2021||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||No entry for devotees in temples||The district administration has banned entry of devotees in all places of worship till August 11. The Aadipooram festival at Andal Temple too will be confined within the temple premises. In a press release, Collector J. Meghanath Reddy said the administration has taken the decision under the provisions of Disaster Management Act with an objective to keep the COVID-19 infection under control. He said that no sacrifice of animals, fulfillment of vow, festival at temples, car-pulling event, prayer meetings at churches and mosques and religious processions are banned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-entry-for-devotees-in-temples/article35712528.ece
04 August 2021||August 04 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Plea to retain five villages in old ward of Radhapuram union||A group of residents from five villages under Radhapuram panchayat union submitted a petition at the Collectorate on Tuesday in protest against attaching their hamlets with ward 7 after delimitation. They said that Kariyakulam, Ganapathi Nagar, Chemmankulam, Subramaniaperi and Thiagarajapuram of ward 8 had been merged with ward 7. “These villages house important facilities such as taluk office, block development office, veterinary hospital and government hospital, and annexing with ward 7 will cause needless difficulties to the residents. Hence these villages should be retained in the ward 8 itself,” the petitioners said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/plea-to-retain-five-villages-in-old-ward-of-radhapuram-union/article35712954.ece
04 August 2021||August 04 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||HC scraps law banning online games with stakes||“In the absence of any scientific or empirical study, the impugned legislation may be seen to have been born out of a sense of morality and a bid to play to the galleries in election season in a societal ethos where smoking and drinking are regarded as less immoral than when indulged in before elders… That the Bill faced no opposition in the House has more to do with the optics,” the judges said. The first Division Bench held that the ban falls foul of the constitutional right of individuals, under Article 19(1)(g), to exploit their skills. However, it hastened to add, “Nothing herein will prevent an appropriate legislation conforming to the constitutional sense of propriety being brought in the field of betting and gambling by the State.” Though the State government relied heavily on the 276th report of the Law Commission to justify the ban imposed by it on all forms of online games played with stakes, the judges pointed out that the report itself had stressed only on regulation and not prohibition. The judgment was passed while allowing a batch of writ petitions filed by private firms offering online games. The petitioners were represented by senior counsel Abhishek Manu Singhvi, A.K. Ganguli, Mohan Parasaran, C. Aryama Sundaram and P.S. Raman, who questioned the rationale behind banning games of skill. The judges agreed with the counsel that the Supreme Court ruled that rummy was a game of skill.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-scraps-law-banning-online-games-with-stakes/article35712395.ece
04 August 2021||August 04 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Tiruchi Today||General  Decent Working Conditions-Network: District level workshop on Legal protection of children and young women, A.Thameemunisa, District Social Welfare Officer, chief guest, Hotel Ajantha, 10 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tiruchi-today/article35712947.ece
04 August 2021||August 04 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||coimbatore today||Coimbatore Orthopaedic Society: Bone and Joint Day celebrations, 10 a.m.  Hindusthan Institute of Technology: Conference on ‘Electronics and Sustainable Communication Systems’, 10 a.m.; Webinar on ‘LoRa for Smart City IoT Developments’, 10 a.m.  Jansons Institute of Technology: Webinar on Universal Human Values, 10 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-today/article35712452.ece
04 August 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Grants meant for border villages remain unused||Karnataka Border Development Authority chairman C. Somashekar has expressed concern that funds released by the State government for various development works in Belagavi and border villages have remained largely unutilised. The State government has released Rs. 14 crore for various works in the border areas since 2010. But officials of various departments have been negligent. A large part of the funds are not utilised. Officials have sent utilisation certificates of only a part of the funds released, he remarked in a meeting with senior officials in Belagavi on Monday. If the utilisation certificates are not received by the State government in a month, further grants will stop, he said. The authority is the nodal agency for the development of border areas and to monitor fund flow for border districts. Accounts of works taken up in Border Bhavan and Culture Bhavan and other projects are still pending. Work on some projects, including Kannada Bhavan, are pending too. They should be completed soon, he said. He asked officers to appoint teachers in border schools and hire temporary teachers if needed. He asked officers to visit border villages once in a week to listen to their grievances.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/grants-meant-for-border-villages-remain-unused/article35712558.ece
04 August 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Railway safety inspection in Alnavar-Londa section||Commissioner of Railway Safety A.K. Rai conducted statutory inspection of newly electrified Alnavar-Londa section on Sunday. Electrification of 33.16 route km section of Alnavar-Londa is a part of the Hosapete-Hubballi-Londa-Vasco da Gama project. It is being executed by Rail Vikas Nigam Ltd. (RVNL). Mr. Rai inspected the electrified section and checked various safety parameters. He inspected the OHE Depot at Alnavar, Sub-sectioning and Paralleling Posts (SSPs) at Tavaragatti and Devarayi, foot overbridges, level crossing gates, bridges and curves in the section. He also inspected Tavaragatti, Devarayi, Shivathan and Londa stations. A speed trial with an electric loco was conducted from Londa to Alnavar during the inspection. Hubballi Divisional Railway Manager Arvind Malkhede, Principal Chief Electrical Engineer Manoj Mahajan, Chief Project Manager (Railway Electrification), RVNL, M. Ramakrishna, General Manager, RVNL, Dinesh Jain, Joint General Manager, RVNL, H. Vijay Kumar and other officers were present. Electrification is expected to improve mobility of trains on South Western Railway and strengthen rail network in the State. In addition to reduction in pollution, efficiency of railways will improve due to shift from fossil fuel to electricity, said a release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/railway-safety-inspection-in-alnavar-londa-section/article35712556.ece
04 August 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Worker killed in drunken brawl||A construction worker was killed in a drunken brawl in Belagavi on Monday. Mahadev Jadhav of Wadagaon in the old city was hacked to death on Monday morning. The police suspected that the fight was over a trivial matter. However, arrests are yet to be made. A team of officers from Wadagaon Police Station visited the spot to look for CCTV footage and talk to possible eyewitnesses. The body was sent for post-mortem. The victim’s relatives suspected that Suraj Sandeep Kedariche killed Mahadev Jadhav over a pending loan. Mahadev Jadhav had given a loan of Rs. 2,000 to Suraj Kedariche. When Mahadev Jadhav went to seek repayment, Suraj Kedariche attacked him with a radium cutter, investigators said. “We have clues and investigation is on,” Deputy Commissioner of Police Vikram Amathe said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/worker-killed-in-drunken-brawl/article35712559.ece
04 August 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Youth held on murder charge||Raibag Police have arrested a 19-year-old youth on the charge of killing a minor girl for allegedly refusing his overtures. Amir Jamadar, an unemployed school dropout, stabbed the girl when she was returning from school in Haroorgeri Town two days ago. She was an SSLC student and was walking home alone after consulting her teachers in school. The girl died in a hospital on Monday. The accused was picked within a few hours thereafter. Preliminary inquiry has revealed that the accused had been following the girl for several days. He also spoke to her once or twice, after stopping her on the road. But she refused his overtures, the police said. A case has been registered in the Raibag Police Station.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/youth-held-on-murder-charge/article35712563.ece
04 August 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Ministerial list awaits final approval||The list of Karnataka legislators to be sworn in as Ministers remained in the final stages of getting approval from the BJP high command till late on Tuesday night. Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai was still holding consultations with the party’s central leaders in New Delhi at the time of this report going to press. In fact, he cancelled his flight booking for the return journey to Bengaluru twice on Tuesday night, as the consultations with the central leaders went on. Sources in the BJP said that the Cabinet expansion may take place only on Thursday. Earlier in the day, Mr. Bommai, who has been camping in New Delhi for the past three days, held consultations with Union Home Minister Amit Shah and party national president J.P. Nadda. The time taken for finalisation of names has triggered speculation that efforts may be on to do something drastic with respect to the composition of the Ministry, such as dropping some seniors. Unlike the previous Cabinet led by B.S. Yediyurappa, the party high command is said to be keen that the Bommai-led Ministry should have a balance in terms of regional and community representation. Though the compulsion to give ministerial representation to a sizeable chunk of legislators who came from other parties has made it difficult to ensure regional representation, the party’s central leaders are said to be concerned that ignoring it may affect the BJP’s prospects in the next Assembly elections. The high command, which ensured a smooth transition of power in the State, is believed to be leaving nothing to chance on the formation of the new Ministry. This is evident from the time taken by multiple top leaders to analyse the list of probables, observed a State leader. There is curiosity about the creation of posts of Deputy Chief Minister. While the initial indication was that the party might create three or four posts of Deputy CM to accommodate prominent senior leaders, it is being said now that there is also the possibility of not having any, given the huge number of contenders. Meanwhile, lobbying by ministerial aspirants continued, both in Delhi and Bengaluru. While more than a dozen senior legislators, including former Ministers, were camping in Delhi to meet the central leaders, several ministerial aspirants made a beeline to the residence of Mr. Yediyurappa in Bengaluru along with their supporters. Supporters of some aspirants even resorted to staging protests in their constituencies to bring pressure on the party leadership.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ministerial-list-awaits-final-approval/article35712848.ece
04 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||99.96% students clear CBSE Class X exam||As many as 99.96% CBSE students from Karnataka cleared Class X. The Bengaluru region bagged the second spot. Last year, the pass percentage in the Bengaluru region in the Class X examination was 98.23%. The first spot was bagged by the Trivandrum region, where 99.99% of the students had cleared the exam. A statement issued by CBSE stated that 62,503 of the total 62,529 students in Karnataka cleared the exam. As many as 34,838 of 34,856 boys and 27,665 girls of the total 27,673, cleared. The pass percentage for boys was 99.95%, which was marginally lower than the pass percentage of girls at 99.97%. Students were graded based on the scores obtained in Class X in the unit tests, mid-term examinations and the pre-board examinations. While schools in the city are elated with the scores, many students who are toppers in their schools feel that their marks would have been higher if the board examinations were conducted. Many school managements also pointed out that they had to moderate the marks of students. Shrutika D., a Class X student, said that she was extremely disappointed with the scores as the marks were moderated. “I feel I would have scored better marks if the examinations were conducted. However, I will opt not to write the examination again as my Class XI preparation has already begun. It will be difficult to break the flow and study for Class X again.” Dakshayini Kanna, principal, Harvest International School, said that many of their students who had scored high marks had told her that they would have had a better chance of obtaining higher marks and centums had they appeared for the board-based examination. “However, we are happy with the results and have told the students that their scores are similar to the marks they may have scored if the examination was conducted. We also feel that the results collated are in line with the National Education Policy, which aims to move away from a one-time board examination.” Jyothi Menon, Head of School, Ekya School, ITPL, said that although it has been a tough year, students overcame those hurdles very well. She said that there was a significant increase in the number of students who scored above 90%. Manju Balasubramaniam, principal, Delhi Public School – North, said that the results did not come as a surprise to the students as it was an extremely transparent process and they were made aware of how the results would be calculated.  I feel I would have scored better marks if the examinations were conducted. However, I will opt not to write the examination again as my Class XI preparation has already begun. It will be difficult to break the flow and study for Class X again. Shrutika D. a Class X student   We are happy with the results and have told the students that their scores are similar to the marks they may have scored if the examination was conducted. We also feel that the results collated are in line with the National Education Policy, which aims to move away from a one-time board examination. Dakshayini Kanna principal, Harvest International School||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/9996-students-clear-cbse-class-x-exam/article35712356.ece
04 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Ministerial list drawn up with eye on polls’||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bomma, after the final round of meetings with central BJP leaders on Cabinet expansion, dismissed the speculation that all the seniors would be kept out of his ministerial team. “We need both experience and enthusiasm,” he told reporters on Tuesday, while hinting that his team would have both seniors as well as youngsters. He is learnt to have alerted senior leader K.S. Eshwarappa about his name being there on the list of legislators set to take oath as Ministers. The Chief Minister said the team was being finalised keeping in mind the 2023 Assembly elections. “Also, the immediate need is to deliver good governance. The team is being chosen accordingly,” he said. On Vijayendra To a query on whether his predecessor B.S. Yediyurappa’s son B.Y. Vijayendra would be part of the Ministry, Mr. Bommai said the party high command would take a call on the issue by speaking to Mr. Yediyurappa, if need be. The time taken for finalisation of names by the party high command had triggered speculation that efforts may be on to do something “drastic” on the Cabinet composition. Unlike the previous Cabinet led by B.S. Yediyurappa, the partyhigh command is said to be keen that the Bommai Ministry should have a balance in terms of regional and community representation. Though the compulsion to give ministerial representation to a sizeable chunk of legislators who came from other parties has made it difficult to ensure regional representation, the party’s central leaders are said to be concerned that ignoring it may affect the BJP’s prospects in the 2023 polls. The high command, which ensured a smooth transition of power in the State, is leaving nothing to chance on the formation of the new Ministry, observed a State leader.  There is curiosity about the creation of posts of Deputy Chief Minister. While the initial indication was that the party might create three or four posts to accommodate seniors, it is being said now that there is also the possibility of not having any, given the multiple contenders. Meanwhile, lobbying by ministerial aspirants had continued till the very end, both in Delhi and Bengaluru. While over a dozen senior legislators were camping in Delhi, many made a beeline to the residence of Mr. Yediyurappa in Bengaluru. Supporters of some aspirants even resorted to staging protests in their constituencies tobring pressure.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ministerial-list-drawn-up-with-eye-on-polls/article35712378.ece
04 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||DKS to hold talks with central leaders on new DCC heads||Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee president D.K. Shivakumar will hold discussions with central leaders of the party in New Delhi on Wednesday to finalise a list of candidates to be appointed as presidents of the District Congress Committees (DCCs) and other party outfits in the State. The appointment of new presidents is significant since they act as links on the field, particularly for the forthcoming zilla and taluk panchyat elections. The KPCC has initiated the process of changing the existing office-bearers of DCCs and frontal organisations such as Kisan Congress and Mahila Congress by holding divisional-level meetings with senior leaders of the party in the past two weeks. Randeep Singh Surjewala,  All India Congress Committee general secretary in charge of Karnataka, and senior State Congress leaders held a meeting with legislators, former legislators, and party office-bearers in Tumakuru, Mangaluru, Hubballi, and Mysuru. Sources in the Congress said that Mr. Shivakumar would meet central party leaders such as Mr. Surjewala and AICC general secretary K.C. Venugopal in Delhi on Wednesday and finalise the nominees for DCC president posts. The way forward A few days ago, Mr. Shivakumar and Congress Legislature Party leader Siddaramaiah met former Congress president Rahul Gandhi and held discussions on the way forward for the party in the State amid allegations against the ruling BJP dispensation. The elections to ZPs and TPs will be held before the end of this calendar year and a reshuffle of office-bearers at the district level is expected help to strengthen the party, leaders said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/dks-to-hold-talks-with-central-leaders-on-new-dcc-heads/article35712381.ece
04 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Yadgir, Raichur, Bidar do not report any new COVID-19 cases||Karnataka on Tuesday recorded 1,674 COVID-19 cases, taking the tally to 29,09,958. As many as 38 deaths were recorded on the day. Bengaluru Urban district reported the highest number at 477 cases and seven deaths followed by Dakshina Kannada logged 307 cases and eight fatalities, the highest among other districts. Thirteen districts reported no fatalities, according to the Health Department bulletin, while Yadgir, Raichur, and Bidar districts did not report any fresh cases. The day also saw 1,376 discharges, taking the total number of recoveries to 28,49,003. That leaves 24,280 active cases in Karnataka. On Tuesday, 1,21,021 tests were conducted, adding to a total of 3.90 crore so far. A total of 1,05,378 people were vaccinated, taking the overall number to 3.16 crore. The positivity rate in Karnataka stood at 1.38% and the fatality rate at 2.27% o Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/yadgir-raichur-bidar-do-not-report-any-new-case/article35712360.ece
04 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Tight vigil during night curfew’||The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) and the city police have teamed up to heighten the surveillance during night curfew. The police will keep a tight vigil on people venturing out between 10 p.m. and 5 a.m. without valid reasons. BBMP Chief Commissioner Gaurav Gupta said, “Though the COVID-19 cases are low in our State, considering the rising number of cases in neighbouring States, there is a need for stringent enforcement of existing rules to contain the spread of the virus. We held a meeting on enforcement of rules in which DCPs of the city police commissionerate and zonal joint commissioners of the BBMP have taken part. They will take all the required measures at the local level.” He also said restrictions imposed by the government on allowing only two passengers to travel in autorickshaws and taxis would continue. On institutional quarantine for people coming from Kerala and Maharashtra without negative RT-PCR reports, he said people who would opt for institutional quarantine in identified hotels have to pay for their stay. However, those who agree to stay in facilities provided by the BBMP will not be charged. He said that RT-PCR reports are usually received in 24 hours of giving the swab for tests. Though the BBMP is insisting on institutional quarantine for people coming from Kerala and Maharashtra at railway stations and check-posts, people have been seen arguing with health officials and refusing for swab tests. When asked if the BBMP has proposed to the government on imposing weekend curfew in the city, Mr. Gupta said, “At present, in the city, around 450 cases are getting reported per day and 20 to 30 patients are getting admitted to hospitals through BBMP referrals. Going by the current trend, we do not see the need for imposing weekend curfew. However, existing containment rules will be strictly enforced and depending on the situation in the coming days, further measures will be taken. We are also holding meetings with experts to review the situation,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/tight-vigil-during-night-curfew/article35712366.ece
04 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Admissions to UG courses postponed||Admissions to undergraduate courses in the State will be delayed as the Department of Collegiate Education (DCE) has put off online admissions indefinitely. As per an earlier order issued by the department, all government, aided, and private unaided colleges were asked to start the admission process from August 4 using the Unified University and College Management System. But on Tuesday, the department issued an order stating that the admission process was put off. According to officials, the decision was taken because there were technical glitches in the software.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/admissions-to-ug-courses-postponed/article35712375.ece
04 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Bommai will be controlled remotely, says Khandre||Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee working president Eshwar Khandre on Tuesday ridiculed Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai, saying that he would be “sandwiched” between two remote controls and that he would be unable to deliver good administration. He was apparently referring former Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa as one of the remote controls and the BJP high command as the other. Speaking to a private television channel, he alleged that since the inception of the BJP government two years ago through ‘Operation Kamala’, the people of the State have been suffering from maladministration, corruption, flood havoc, and COVID-19. Mr. Khandre claimed that the change of Chief Minister would not alter the administration in Karnataka, because he would rush to the party high command for every decision in the State. “There is no political stability in the government and the delay in formation of Cabinet will impede the developmental trajectory of the State,” Mr. Khandre said. More than 100 MLAs have been aspiring to become Ministers in the Bommai-led government when people in 11 districts have been affected by heavy downpour and floods, he said. “With many experts predicting a possible third wave of COVID-19 in the coming months, the absence of a government is clearly visible on the ground,” he argued. The Congress leader also claimed that the Yediyurappa government had neglected the Kalyana Karnataka region, and since Mr. Bommai hailed from North Karnataka he should focus on implementing the pending projects in the region.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bommai-will-be-controlled-remotely-says-khandre/article35712379.ece
04 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||SWR to issue monthly season tickets||After suspending the issuing of season tickets (monthly passes) for close to 1.5 years, the Bengaluru division of South Western Railway (SWR) will start issuing season tickets from August 4. The season tickets through UTS on mobile will be enabled with effect from August 8. An SWR official said season ticket holders are not permitted to board reserved coaches and that officials in-charge of counters have been asked to display details of express trains with unreserved facilities. Divisional Railway Manager Ashok Kumar Verma said for the benefit of passengers, the validity of the monthly season tickets issued prior to the lockdown has been extended.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/swr-to-issue-monthly-season-tickets/article35712349.ece
04 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Former bank manager arrested for stealing 9.5 kg of gold valuables||An employee of Canara Bank’s Honniganahalli branch in Ramanagaram was arrested by the Sathanoor police on Tuesday for allegedly stealing and replacing 9.5 kg of gold valuables with fake articles. He sold the stolen valuables to a Mandya-based jeweller . The fraud came to light this July when the Ramakanth Rao, assistant general manager of the bank, auctioned some of the pawned gold valuables as part of a recovery drive and came to know that they were fake. Suspecting the role of the valuer appointed by the bank, Mr. Rao filed a complaint with the police on July 16. Based on the complaint, the police picked up the valuer for questioning and after a detailed probe, the police gave him a clean chit and summoned the manager, Ananthnag, 32, for questioning. A detailed questioning not only led him to confess to the crime, but also led the police to arrest his partner-in-crime, Rajnish Jain, a 42-year-old jeweller from Mandya, who was buying the gold from Ananthnag. Based on his information, the police seized 4.7 kg of gold valuables out of the total 9.5 kg stolen, worth Rs. 2.12 crore, along with Rs. 23 lakh in cash from him. The police also seized 9.5 kg of fake gold valuables which he had replaced with the genuine gold valuables and two cars used by the accused. The accused had constructed a palatial house in Peenya out of the money got from selling the pawned gold. They had targeted the gold valuables of 352 customers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/former-bank-manager-arrested-for-stealing-95-kg-of-gold-valuables/article35712364.ece
04 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Dangling cables: HC asks BBMP to give public notice||The High Court of Karnataka on Tuesday asked the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike to consider issuing a public notice giving a month’s time to all the Internet service providers and cable operators to remove dangling cables across the city. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice N.S. Sanjay Gowda issued the direction while hearing a PIL petition, filed by N.P. Amrutesh, a city-based advocate, through which the court has been monitoring action taken by the BBMP against dangling unauthorised wires of cable TV operators, Internet service providers and others. As the petitioner has provided the names of private Internet service providers and an association of cable TV operators in the city, the Bench directed them to be impleaded as parties to the petition. Online classes However, counsel appearing for BBMP expressed difficulty to remove Internet cables instantaneously while pointing out about the extensive of use of the Internet by students for classes are being conducted through online mode. Meanwhile, the Bench directed the BBMP to continue its ongoing measure of removing unauthorised and dangling cables.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/dangling-cables-hc-asks-bbmp-to-give-public-notice/article35712365.ece
04 August 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||100% pass at THiS institutions||Schools part of The Hindu in School (THiS) programme recorded 100% pass results in the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) Class 10 exams with many students securing distinctions. Presidency School, Kasturinagar, achieved 100% with 67 of 158 students scoring 90% and above. Prithika Manikandan secured 98.2% and emerged topper. In BGS National Public School, Hulimavu, all 283 students passed and 144 students secured 90% and above. Sahana Markande and Vriddhi Agrawal by both securing 98.83% stood first. JSS Public School, Banashankari, achieved 100% with 80 of 111 students getting distinctions. Chethana T.V. and M. Yashas Subramanya both secured 98.6% to emerge toppers. All 130 at Kendriya Vidyalaya RWF, Yelahanka, passed and 89 secured distinctions. Meena D. and Vishal Kumar Gowda both by securing 97.2% were the toppers. Maithry Vidyanikethan, Ramamurthy Nagar, recorded 100% pass with 25 of 89 students scoring 90% and above. In Christ Academy (CBSE), Begur-Koppa Road, all 33 students passed and 18 students scored 90% and above. Kavin David topped with 97.8%. The Smart School, Machohalli, too boasted 100% pass with 43 of 102 students securing distinctions. Vishruth V. Srivatsa at 97.67% was topper. DPS Bangalore North recorded 100% pass with 503 of 541 securing distinctions. Ahana Ghosh and Meghana Mahesh both by securing 98.8% emerged toppers. In Army Public School ASC C&C, all 114 passed and 72 secured distinctions. Karan Raj secured 97.4% and stood first. All 141 students at CMR National Public School, HRBR Layout, passed and 77 students secured distinctions. Nysa Charan Pahari with 98.2% was the topper.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/100-pass-at-this-institutions/article35712355.ece
04 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||C.R. Rao Gold Medal award||The Indian Econometric Society (TIES) Trust has selected two renowned economic scholars for the Prof. C.R. Rao Centenary Gold Medal award. The awardees are Jagdish Bhagwati, University Professor of Economics, Law, and International Relations at Columbia University and Director of the Raj Center on Indian Economic Policies, and C. Rangarajan, former chairman, Economic Advisory Council to the Prime Minister, and former Reserve Bank Governor. The award consists of a gold medal and citation. The medal is presented once in two years to an Indian or Indian-origin scholar for lifetime contributions to the fields of theoretical and applied aspects of quantitative economics and official statistics, a press release stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cr-rao-gold-medal-award/article35712376.ece
04 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Rowdy booked||The Shivajinagar police booked a rowdy under the Goonda Act, 1985, on Tuesday and remanded him to judicial custody. Syed Naseer, 31, is a habitual offender involved in over 11 criminal cases. Though on bail, he continued to be involved in antisocial activities, disturbing law and order and creating fear psychosis among people. The police prepared a detailed report and submitted it to the police commissioner seeking directions. Then they arrested Naseer and remanded him to judicial custody without bail for at least a year . The Bengaluru district police also conducted a rowdy parade and carried out surprise checks on their houses on Tuesday. They warned them against getting involved in anti-social activities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rowdy-booked/article35712354.ece
04 August 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Power shutdown||There will be no power supply on Wednesday between 10 a.m. and 4 p.m. owing to shifting/conversion works, and re-routing of existing HT/LT lines. According to a BESCOM release, the areas affected are: F3 and F5 Prakruthi Urban Villa Layout, Panathur Dinne, Vagdevi Layout, Papaiah Reddy Layout, Panathur Main Road, Kadubisanahalli, Muireddy Layout, Outer Ringer Road, Croma Road and surrounding areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/power-shutdown/article35712352.ece
04 August 2021||Chennai,KARNATAKA||Karnataka CM’s statement not acceptable, says Duraimurugan||Tamil Nadu Minister for Water Resources Duraimurugan on Tuesday said the statement of Chief Minister of Karnataka Basavaraj Bommai that they were determined to construct a dam at Mekedatu was not acceptable. “The judgment of the Supreme Court and order of Cauvery Water Disputes Tribunal should be honoured. The statement is not acceptable,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/karnataka-cms-statement-not-acceptable-says-duraimurugan/article35712369.ece
04 August 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Malnad now better prepared for landslips||The memory of heavy rains and landslips in Malnad districts – particularly Chikkamagaluru and Hassan – in August 2019 has resulted in the government machinery being prepared to face the possible repeat of such a situation. Senior officers held a series of meetings to constitute village-level committees and arrange necessary materials to handle the situation. Chikkamagaluru Deputy Commissioner K.N. Ramesh, on August 1, held a videoconference with taluk level officers on preparedness. The administration has identified vulnerable places and officers had been designated to each place. Care centres have been identified across the district to shelter affected persons. GP committees The district administration has identified 47 gram panchayats, vulnerable to floods, and constituted a disaster management committee in each panchayat. Each panchayat has early warning teams, evacuation and rescue teams, and damage assessment teams. The members of the committee had undergone training in Mysuru on relief works. A few committees had already completed familiarisation exercises with the State Disaster Response Force (SDRF). SDRF teams have been stationed at Balehonnur in N.R. Pura taluk and in Kalasa. Chikkamagaluru Superintendent of Police Akshay M. Hakay has appealed to the public to call up the police helpline 112 in case of any emergency. Swimmers on call The officers have identified 70 expert swimmers and their names would be displayed prominently in villages so that people can contact them in case of an emergency. Similarly, a list of people who own earthmovers has been prepared. The officers have identified 64 vehicles for emergency use in the district. At a meeting held recently, Hassan DC R. Girish told officers to keep the men and machinery ready. During the heavy rains last week, six houses in Sakleshpur were damaged and several localities were flooded. The then ministers R. Ashok and K. Goplaiah had visited the rain-hit areas. 2019 devastation The heavy rainfall that lashed the Malnad region in August 2019 is unforgettable because of the magnitude of the damage it caused. Hundreds of families were rendered homeless. Scores of people were stuck in their homes surrounded by water. The emergency response teams reached the spot only after the water level came down and took people to safer places. The affected people were put up in temporary shelters for several months. Agriculture was severely affected as landslides damaged plantations. People who lost their homes received financial assistance from the Karnataka government to build houses in safe places. The rehabilitation plan proposed for those who lost their plantations attracted criticism. Taken by surprise All that damage was caused due to heavy rains in a short span of time. Interestingly, until the end of July 2019, the rainfall in the southwest monsoon was normal. As of July 31, 2019, the rainfall recorded in the Malnad region was 25% less than the normal expected in the month. However, by the end of August 2019, the region had received 121% excess rainfall. This year, as of August 2, the region received 13% less than the normal rainfall during the south-west monsoon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/malnad-now-better-prepared-for-landslips/article35712359.ece
04 August 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Probe begins into death of peacocks||The Forest Department has taken up investigation into the death of three peacocks at Chikka Gandasi village in Arsikere taluk. The incident came to light on Sunday, when the local people found the dead peacocks and informed the Forest officials. K.N.Basavaraj, Deputy Conservator of Forests, told The Hindu that the birds were found in an agriculture field close to a waterbody. “The dead birds were collected and a post-mortem was conducted. The samples have been sent to the forensic laboratory for further examination”, the officer said. It is suspected that the birds died three-four days before the incident came to light. “The carcasses were already in a decomposed state. As it was difficult to ascertain the cause of death by mere post-mortem, we have sent the samples for forensic examination”, he said. The Forest Department has booked a case and so far nobody has been arrested.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/probe-begins-into-death-of-peacocks/article35712842.ece
04 August 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Portions of two national highways cave in||Following heavy rainfall, some stretches of National Highway 766C that connects Byndoor and Ranibennur, and National Highway 169 that connects Thirthahalli and Malpe have caved in, prompting the Shivamogga district administration to impose restriction on movement of vehicles. A communiqué issued by the district administration on Tuesday said a part of NH 766C caved in near Nagar near Hosanagar. Similarly, a part of NH 169 caved near Bharatipura Cross. Shivamogga Deputy Commissioner K.B.Shivakumar has issued orders prohibiting the movement of heavy vehicles on these stretches temporarily. The administration has also suggested alternative routes for heavy vehicles. The heavy vehicles that used to travel to Kundapura via Shivamogga, can take Shivamogga – Sagar – Honnavara (NH 69). There is one more alternative route to travel to Kundapura from Shivamogga : Shivamogga – Hosanagar – Hulikal Ghat – Siddapura. The heavy vehicles headed to Udupi and Mangaluru from Shivamogga can take Shivamogga – Koppa – Karkala – Mangaluru (SH 57, 65 and NH 69). One more alternative route to reach Mangaluru from Shivamogga is Shivamogga – N.R.Pura – Koppa – Sringeri – Karkala.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/portions-of-two-national-highways-cave-in/article35712841.ece
04 August 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||BRTS Awards given away for short videos category||Managing Director of Hubballi-Dharwad Bus Rapid Transit System (HD-BRTS) Krishna Bajpai on Monday gave away cash prizes to winners of a short video contest on HD-BRTS project. Under the contest, HD-BRTS had invited entries on short videos that would give a comprehensive picture of the whole dedicated bus corridor project. The contest had received a total of 66 registrations of which finally 27 participants submitted their videos. An expert committee comprising senior professionals and officials chose journalist Shivakumar Bukka as the winner, photojournalist Vinayak Bakale and Mahananda B. Gosai for the second and third prizes. On Monday, Mr. Bajpai gave away cheques for Rs. 1.5 lakh to Mr. Shivakumar, Rs. 1 lakh to Mr. Vinayak Bakale and Rs. 50,000 to Ms. Mahananda Gosai. Consolation prizes Five others, Harshavardhan Malagi, Nandish S. Kammar, Amrut Ulligaddi, Ganesh P. Naik and Shambuling S.K., were given consolation prizes of Rs. 10,000 each. Addressing a gathering, Mr. Krishna Bajpai said that already the Street for People programme was conducted on a pilot basis at Navanagar in-between Hubballi and Dharwad and HD-BRTS has plans to conduct similar programmes at select places in the coming days. He also appealed to the participants and general public of the twin cities to actively participate in the programmes of HD-BRTS whose sole objective is to encourage public transportation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/brts-awards-given-away-for-short-videos-category/article35712561.ece
04 August 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||‘Education only tool to bring reforms’||Additional Commissioner of Public Instruction Major (Retd.) Siddalingayya Hiremath has said that education is the only tool to which could bring about reforms in society and also ensure overall personality development of students. He was inaugurating a programme organised to distribute Vidyasetu books to students of Classes VIII, IX and X by Rotary Club of Seven Hills in Dharwad on Monday. Mr. Hiremath said that however due to the pandemic, the education sector has been affected badly and in a way, the whole process has been paused by lockdown and restrictions. Mr. Hiremath appreciated the initiative taken by Rotary Club of Seven Hills which distributed Mathematics, Science and English books to students and help them continue their studies. Several companies, including Tata Hitachi and RK Foundation, and other social activists have been donating for the cause of the poor and now, Rotary Club has joined the initiative. Schools which with over 500 students will be given all educational material, he said. Director of Public Instruction Mamata Naik said that new formulas are being implemented to overcome challenges in the learning process and Vidyasetu is a book developed by expert teachers which will help in bridging the gap in teaching during the pandemic. President of Rotary Club of Seven Hills Pallavi Deshpande, Deputy Director of Public Instruction Mohankumar Hanchate, Block Education Officer Girish Padaki and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/education-only-tool-to-bring-reforms/article35712562.ece
04 August 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Stress laid on need for value-based education||The former Secretary of Public Works Department J.C. Tallur has emphasised the need for educational institutions to impart value-based education for ensuring overall personality development of students. Delivering a special talk on “Education in India and Morality” organised as part of Dr. D.C. Pavate Foundation Lecture at Senate Hall in Karnatak University on Tuesday, Mr. Tallur said that today’s education is more focussed on earning a livelihood and not on knowledge enhancement. He said that from the days of the British era, several commissions have been formed to improve educational standards. However, none of these commissions has laid focus on moral education, he said. Mr. Tallur said that eminent personalities, including Mahatma Gandhi, were always for incorporating moral values in education. However, their suggestions have so far not been fully incorporated in the education system. Spirituality and morality should be taught to children to facilitate their overall personality development, he said. Vice-Chancellor of Karnatak University K.B. Gudasi said that the education system of the British era stressed on making one ready for a job. He said that now a comprehensive change has been introduced in the education system through the new National Education Policy. Under the new policy, students have freedom to choose a subject of their interest and focus more on research and development, he said. Prof. Gudasi added that the new education policy will bring in drastic change in the education sector and make India more strong and vibrant.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/stress-laid-on-need-for-value-based-education/article35712565.ece
04 August 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Tahsildar post: revised seniority list sought for promotion||Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee spokesperson and MLA for Chittapur Priyank Kharge demanded that the government drop the seniority list prepared by the Revenue Department for promoting Shirestedar/ Deputy Tahsildars for the promotion to Grade-2 Tahsildar posts. In a letter to the Principal Secretary of Revenue Department recently, Mr. Priyank Kharge pointed out the objections raised by the Shirestedars in Kalyana Karnataka and the letter written by the Regional Commissioner of Kalaburagi Division to the government and demanded the government to cancel the list and publish the new one adding the eligible candidates who were dropped in the first list. “Shirastedars from Kalyana Karnataka had submitted a memorandum to me complaining that there were many senior and eligible officers were not included in the seniority list published by the government for promoting them to Grade-2 Tahsildars in Kalyana Karnataka region as per the provisions of Article 371(J) of the Constitution. Besides, the Regional Commissioner of the Kalaburagi division has written to the government requesting the government to look into the objections. I, therefore, request the government to verify the seniority list prepared by the government and take measures to ensure that eligible employees get the promotion as per the rules,” Mr. Priyank Kharge said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/tahsildar-post-revised-seniority-list-sought-for-promotion/article35712567.ece
04 August 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Worker from Rajasthan rescued in Bidar||In a noble gesture, Bidar Deputy Commissioner R. Ramachandran helped a 30-year-old migrant worker from Ajmer district in Rajasthan to reunite with her family. On Monday, the Deputy Commissioner noticed her wandering on the main streets in the city and directed the District Child Protection Unit (DCPU) to rescue the migrant worker and her two children. DCPU officer Gowrishankar said that the migrant worker Shanti, her son Rohit (10) and two-and-a-half-year old daughter Paru have now been shifted to Bal Mandir. The woman, on counselling, revealed that she worked as labour in Bengaluru for years. She came to Bidar on Monday morning after her relative, Hariram, promised her getting a good job. Shanti felt helpless after Hariram failed to respond to her call. The District Child Welfare Committee has lodged a complaint and informed its counterpart in Ajmer. On Tuesday evening, the Bidar Police will take the woman and her children to Ajmer, where the District CWC will help the woman reunite with her family members. Mr. Ramachadran said that the district authority has made all arrangements for her travel to her native place.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/worker-from-rajasthan-rescued-in-bidar/article35712564.ece
04 August 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Kasaragod district admn. opens test centre at Talapady||After the closure of the COVID-19 test centre by the Dakshina Kannada district administration on the Karnataka-side of Talapady village, the Kasaragod (Kerala) district administration opened a test centre on the Kerala side of the village on Tuesday for travellers entering Karnataka. Kasaragod district administration has assigned the task of swab collection to a private firm, Spice Health. Swabs will be taken to the laboratory in the Government Hospital, Kasaragod, where the tests will be done. “An SMS having a link to the test result will be sent within 24 hours of swab collection,” said a representative of Spice Health. Kasaragod District Collector Bhandari Swagat Raveerchand on Monday stated that a test centre will be opened in the border area to facilitate tests for entry of people into Dakshina Kannada. Karnataka has made production of RT-PCR negative certificate of not older than 72 hours for entry into Dakshina Kannada and other districts bordering Kerala and Maharashtra mandatory. There is regular stream of people visiting the test centre located on the first floor of the building near the Kerala check-post in Talapady. “This serves me well to meet the requirement of Karnataka,” said Mohammed Nazeer, an autorickshaw driver, who goes on trips between Talapady, Nethilapadavu and Taudugoli that has a couple of Karnataka check-posts. Till around 1 p.m., the personnel at the centre had collected throat and nasal swab samples of nearly 150 people. Checking intensified The Dakshina Kannada administration on Tuesday intensified checking for RT-PCR negative certificates at Talapady and six other check-posts in the Mangaluru Police Commissionerate limits and at Salethoor and 11 other check-posts in Dakshina Kannada police limits. Apart from additional police personnel and Home Guards, Health and Education department personnel have been drafted for continuous checking of records at the check-posts. While more personnel are deployed at the Talapady and Salethoor check-posts, eight personnel each are posted at the check-posts in the interior roads. While exempting production of RT-PCR negative certificate for those with health emergency and for students attending examinations, all others were asked to return if they did not have RT-PCR negative certificate and also those carrying only Rapid Antigen Test reports. Checking was intensified for passengers coming from Kerala and Maharashtra at the Mangaluru Central and Mangaluru Junction railway stations. “Those without test negative certificate are being brought to the quarantine centre where swabs are collected. We are providing results within 12 hours of swab collection. If passengers are found positive, they are being sent to COVID Care Centres,” said District COVID nodal officer H. Ashok. Protests continue Meanwhile, protests continued at Talapady check-post demanding reopening of the RT-PCR test facility by the Dakshina Kannada administration. Activists, including the former Varkady Gram Panchayat president Harshad Varkady, Communist Party of India district secretariat member K.R. Jayananda and Majeshwara Gram Panchayat chairman Saifullah Tangal, briefly blocked movement of vehicles towards Kasaragod on the National Highway 66 on the Kerala side of Talapady village on Tuesday. The Manjeshwar Police dispersed the protestors and registered a case against them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kasaragod-district-admn-opens-test-centre-at-talapady/article35712752.ece
04 August 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Health dept. asked to compulsorily shift patients to care centres from tomorrow||Patients found infected with COVID-19 will be compulsorily shifted to COVID Care Centres in Udupi district from Thursday. Chief Executive Officer of Udupi Zilla Panchayat Y. Naveen Bhat gave an instruction to the Health Department officials at a meeting in Udupi on Tuesday. The instruction applies to the new positive cases being reported from Thursday. In case a patient needs an exemption from being shifted to COVID Care Centres, the District Health and Family Welfare Officer and the respective Taluk Health Officers will take a decision case by case, Mr. Bhat said. The measure, he said, is to prevent the spread of the disease to primary contacts and others in homes as the number of new cases in the district too is on the rise. Hence, there is a need to break the chain. Mr. Bhat asked the Health Department to depute enough doctors and nurses to COVID Care Centres and collect more than 5,000 samples daily and test them. All gram panchayats will be instructed to cooperate, he said. He asked the health officials to inspect passengers who arrive by trains for COVID-19 test negative certificates. The tests should have been conducted 72 hours prior to travelling, he said. In case of passengers not carrying the certificates, their swab samples should be collected at the railway stations, he said. Mr. Bhat asked the officials to compulsorily seal down accommodations of COVID-19 patients and if there are more than five cases in an area, it should be declared a containment zone, he said. There is a need for reserving 1,000 beds for treating new patients, he said. Additional Deputy Commissioner A. Sadashiva Prabhu instructed officials to open checking centres in Udupi, Kundapur and Baindoor railway stations. They should function round the clock, he said. COVID care centres in Udupi, Kundapur and Baindoor taluks should be thrown open on Thursday, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/health-dept-asked-to-compulsorily-shift-patients-to-care-centres-from-tomorrow/article35712747.ece
04 August 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Govt. ensures coordination with neighbouring States to reduce inconvenience to people||The State government is coordinating with authorities in neighbouring Kerala and Maharashtra to reduce inconvenience to people in the border areas because of restrictions to prevent the spread of COVID-19, said Additional Director-General of Police (Law and Order) Pratap Reddy. Talking to reporters after reviewing arrangements at the Talapady border check-post near here, Mr. Reddy said that RT-PCR test negative certificate is not being insisted on from people heading to Dakshina Kannada on medical emergencies. Similarly, degree students who are attending examinations in Dakshina Kannada are also being allowed to proceed after their hall tickets are checked. “RT-PCR test negative certificate is being sought only to prevent unnecessary travel between the border districts. This restriction will not come up during health emergency and for writing examinations,” he said. He added that the Kasaragod district administration has been asked to contact Dakshina Kannada war room and police control room for help in emergency cases. This arrangement is in place in Belagavi, Mysuru and other border districts too, Mr. Reddy said. He said that restriction on allowing only those with RT-PCR test negative certificate will be in place till the test positivity rate in Maharashtra and Kerala comes down. Those entering the border districts through trains, buses and by air are being tested. They are quarantined till the arrival of their test reports and those who test positive are being accommodated in COVID-19 Care Centres. Ruling out opening test centres at border check-posts by the State, Mr. Reddy said that the respective State governments should make arrangements for people in the border areas. Those governments should make their people aware of the need to carry COVID-19 test negative certificate to enter Karnataka. Mr. Reddy said that inter-State coordination is working fine from the level of the Deputy Commissioners, the Superintendents of Police and to Secretaries. After reviewing the arrangements at Talapady, Mr. Reddy met a few residents of Manjeshwar who were demanding reopening of the test centre. Mr. Reddy then visited the border check-post in Salethoor. He was accompanied by Police Commissioner N. Shashi Kumar, Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra and Superintendent of Police Rishikesh Sonawane.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/govt-ensures-coordination-with-neighbouring-states-to-reduce-inconvenience-to-people/article35712750.ece
04 August 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Power cut tomorrow||There will be no power supply from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. on Thursday in Krishnapura, Bala, Chelyar, Madya, Mangalapete, Mary Hill, Yeyyadi, Haripadavu, Kuntalpady, Bondel, Perlaguri, Krishnanagar, Padushedde, Padavinangady, Pachchanady, Vamanjoor, MSEZ Colony, Preethinagar, Pragatinagar, Nityanagar and Thokuru.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/power-cut-tomorrow/article35712753.ece
04 August 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Reintroduce passenger train to Subrahmanya, Railways urged||With the State government relaxing norms after the COVID-19 second wave, rail patrons in Dakshina Kannada have urged the Ministry of Railways to reintroduce the Subrahmanya Road/Kabaka Puttur-Mangaluru Central Passenger with immediate effect. While one round trip of this train was operated between Subrahmanya Road-Mangaluru-Subrahmanya Road, another round trip was operated till and from Kabaka Puttur before the lockdown. Patrons have now have demanded operation of both the services till and from Subrahmanya Road for the benefit of daily commuters and pilgrims as well. MP Nalin Kumar Kateel wrote to the General Manager of South Western Railway on July 27 saying that he has been receiving representation from the general public to resume the cancelled services. People are put to great hardship as the services remain cancelled, the MP told South Western Railway. Kukke Shree Subrahmanya-Mangalore Railway Commuters Forum, Puttur, has, in its representation to the Railway Ministry, said that while the train belonged to Southern Western Railway’s Mysuru Division, it is being operated with a locomotive from Southern Railway’s Palakkad Division. The last service of the train should end at Subrahmanya Road where it has to halt and commence operation early next morning, said forum convener Sudarshan Puttur. He noted that the last service of the train used to be till Subrahmanya Road during the meter gauge era. Subsequently, the service was terminated at Kabaka Puttur when the line was upgraded to broad gauge, he said. Rail fan G.K. Bhat said that the service should start from Subrahmanya Road at 6.30 a.m. to reach Mangaluru Central at 8.30 a.m. In the return trip, it should leave Mangaluru at 11.30 a.m. to reach Subrahmanya Road at 1.30 p.m. Its next trip should start at 2.30 p.m. to reach Mangaluru at 4.30 p.m. and the last return trip from Mangaluru has to commence at 5.30 p.m. to reach Subrahmanya Road at 7.30 p.m., he said. With hundreds of people from Subrahmanya and Puttur region visiting Mangaluru, this service with the suggested timetable will be of greater help to them, Mr. Bhat as well as Mr. Puttur said. The services will also benefit tourists who are visiting Mangaluru and also want to reach Kukke Subrahmanya, they said.  Proposed timetable for Mangaluru-Subrahmanya Road-Mangaluru Passenger train  Mangaluru-Subrahmanya service   Station   Subrahmanya-Mangaluru service  9.30 am and 5.30 pm (D) Mangaluru Central 8.30 am and 4.30 pm (A) 11.30 am and 7.30 pm (A) Subrahmanya Road 6.30 am and 2.30 pm (D) D: Departure A: Arrival||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/reintroduce-passenger-train-to-subrahmanya-railways-urged/article35712755.ece
04 August 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||K.G. Shenoy passes away||Karkala Govinda Shenoy, retired chief manager of Syndicate Bank and who was associated with the automobile industry, passed away in Mangaluru on Tuesday due to age-related illness. He was 86. K.G. Shenoy, as he was known, is survived by his wife Tara Shenoy, daughters Sangeetha Pai and Preethi Nayak and son Damodar Shenoy. His eldest Manjunath Shenoy predeceased him, said a release. The cremation was organised at the Boloor crematorium here in the evening. Born on September 23, 1934 at Agumbe in Shivamogga district, Shenoy retired from Syndicate Bank as chief manager in 1990. He had a lifelong association with the automobile industry in the region. His father Manjunath Shenoy alias Appu Rao was the founder of The Motor Gadi Transport Services (MGTS). Shenoy joined Arvind Motors as a sales manager after his retirement and later associated himself with Maroor Agencies as its honorary advisor from 1999. He was associated with DK Automobile and Tyre Dealers Association since 1992 as vice-president and later as patron. He spearheaded the work on the Auto Bhavan building of the association at Maroli that was completed in 2011. Being instrumental in the formation of the Federation of Karnataka Automobile and Allied Industries Associations in 1999, he was its president from 2003 to 2005.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kg-shenoy-passes-away/article35712746.ece
04 August 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Cong. will protest seeking free vaccination’||The Congress will hold a agitation if the State government fails to arrange, by August 15, an appropriate quantity of COVID-19 vaccine for the second dose in Dakshina Kannada, said District Congress president and MLC K. Harish Kumar here recently. Talking to reporters, Mr. Kumar said that the supply to Dakshina Kannada was reduced drastically in the last few days. As against the demand for 37,000 doses, the district was getting only 1,000 doses. “We met Deputy Commissioner last week and he admitted to a shortage of supply,” he said. When vaccination was the only way to curtail the spread of COVID-19, the district cannot afford a shortage of vaccine. The district was reporting an average of 300 new cases every day since last few days. Mr. Kumar said the State government has tied the hands of Congress legislators by not allowing them to make use of the local area development funds to procure vaccine and administer it to the needy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cong-will-protest-seeking-free-vaccination/article35712566.ece
04 August 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||IMA firm on demand||The Indian Medical Association is firm on its demand for the removal of provisions in the National Medical Commission (NMC) Act that allows ayurveda and other Indian Systems of Medicine (ISM) practitioners to prescribe allopathy treatment, said State IMA president M. Venkatachalapathy here on Thursday. Talking to reporters, Dr. Venkatachalapathy said Sections 32 and 50 of the Act allows “untrained” AYUSH practitioners to prescribe allopathy treatment. Section 32 relates to grant of limited licence to community health providers to prescribe medicines in primary and preventive healthcare, while Section 50 relates to enhancing interface between Homoeopathy, Indian Systems of Medicine, and modern medicine. Dr. Venkatachalapathy said the Union government should allow modern medicine practitioners to practice their skills and allow the same to be done by ayurveda, homoeopathy, Unani, and Sidda practitioners. “They should not allow mixopathy (mixing of therapies), which does not serve patients well,” he said. The IMA, he said, was strongly opposed to a recent decision by the Central Council of Indian Medicine to grant MS (General Surgery) degree to students who complete the Shalyatantra ayurveda postgraduate course. It was also opposed to the proposed move by the NMC asking MBBS students to work for few days in AYUSH clinics during their compulsory one-year housemanship. Expressing concern over the increased attacks on doctors, Dr. Venkatachalapathy said the State government was yet to act on IMA’s demand to consider the act of assaulting a doctor as a non-bailable offence. Assault of a doctor was presently a bailable offence under the Karnataka Prohibition of Violence against Medicare Services Personnel and Damage to Property in Medicare Service Institutions Act. “The government is yet to make necessary changes to the Act and protect doctors, who are striving hard to give the best treatment,” he said. The IMA was also asking the government to cap the amount of compensation granted by Consumer Forums in cases of medico negligence.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ima-firm-on-demand/article35712569.ece
04 August 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||20 districts show marginal week-on-week rise in cases||As many as 20 districts have shown an increase in COVID-19 cases, although marginal, during the week ending August 1 compared to the previous week. According to the State COVID-19 War Room, the total cases in Karnataka increased from 9,583 during the previous week to 10,885 during the week ending August 2, representing a 113.6% rise. The tally of cases had shown a decline week-on-week for about three weeks even after the State government relaxed more curbs from August 5. The weekly cases reduced from 12,820 four weeks ago to 10,412 three weeks ago to 9,583 during the previous week. The increase during the week ending August 2 comes amid concern over the surge in Kerala and the fears of a third wave. The 20 districts showing a rise in cases are: Bidar, Ballari, Kolar, Uttara Kannada, Dakshina Kannada, Bagalkot, Udupi, Ramanagaram, Kodagu, Gadag, Hassan, Dharwad, Kalaburagi, Raichur, Chikkamagaluru, Davangere, Bengaluru Urban, Chitradurga, Mysuru, and Chamarajanagar. While Yadgir showed no change in the number of weekly cases, the nine districts of the State, which had shown a decline in cases during the current week include Haveri, Chickballapur, Vijayapura, Belagavi, Bengaluru Rural, Tumakuru, Shivamogga, Koppal, and Mandya. Mudassir Aziz Khan, epidemiologist and Head of Community Medicine, Mysore Medical College and Research Institute (MMC and RI), attributed the “slight increase” to opening of public places, tourist places, weddings etc. He emphasised the need for stricter surveillance and increase in testing and tracing the contacts of the infected persons, besides heightening vigilance at the inter-State borders and screening at airports too. “District-wise and local containment with public co-operation and local administration is the key,” he said. Meanwhile, Satyanarayana Mysore, HOD and Consultant – Pulmonology and Lung Transplant Physician, Manipal Hospitals, Bengaluru, said the increase despite the recent sero survey by ICMR showing antibody presence in almost 70% of samples in Karnataka as well as instances of infection among the vaccinated could be indications of the “early footsteps towards the third wave.” If the third wave is to be blunted and a lockdown avoided to protect the economy, Dr. Satyanarayana emphasised the need for increasing testing and surveillance and provide early treatment to prevent transmission. Confirming a marginal increase in the number of patients visiting the hospital for treatment of COVID-19 symptoms during the last week of July, Consultant Pulmonologist at Columbia Asia in Mysuru Lakshmi Narasimhan also did not rule out the possibility of the small rise building up into a wave if restrictions on gatherings and other COVID-19 appropriate behavior are not enforced. “Many experts agree that there will be a wave. It is only the timing and severity that is debatable,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/20-districts-show-marginal-week-on-week-rise-in-cases/article35712363.ece
04 August 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Filling up of dams hinges on monsoon revival||Two months after the onset of south-west monsoon, the cumulative storage in the reservoirs in the Cauvery basin in the State is higher than what they were last year though none of the dams are full. The two major reservoirs – KRS and Hemavathi – tend to attain their full reservoir levels (FRL) during the second week of August and hence hopes are pinned on the revival of the monsoon which has abated in the catchment areas of the Cauvery and the Hemavathi. But what is of concern to the people of Kodagu and other regions that form the catchment area of the Cauvery is the pattern of rainfall in recent years. While the onset of monsoon tends to be on time in the first week of June, it abates and there is below normal rains during July. However, there is widespread and intense rains during the first two weeks of August resulting in calamity with landslides leading to loss of lives and property. This has been the pattern since the last 3 years. Hence the residents of Kodagu are wary of any intensification or revival of monsoon and are deeply worried about the “August rains’’. Meanwhile, the water levels in both the dams are higher and the gross storage is also more than what it was during the corresponding period last year. The water level in the KRS as on Tuesday was 115.35 ft. against the FRL of 124.80 ft. The water level was 105.64 ft. on the same day last year. The gross storage was 37.49 thousand million cubic feet (tmc ft.) against the capacity of 49.45 tmc ft while the storage was 27.60 tmc ft on the same day last year. The intermittent rainfall in Kodagu has ensured a steady inflow into the KRS which was at the rate of 7,479 cusecs on Tuesday. Above average According to the Karnataka State Natural Disaster Monitoring Centre (KSNDMC), the KRS reservoir level has increased by 10.02 ft. in 7 days during the week ending July 29. The present level is almost 11.3 ft. more than the average levels of the last 10 years and 6.88 ft. more compared to last year (as on July 29). The highest inflow into the KRS during the 7 days under consideration was on July 25 when the rate of inflow reached 41,084 cusecs. The water level at Hemavathi was 2,918.44 ft. against the FRL of 2,922 ft. The gross storage was 34.57 tmc ft. against the capacity of 37.10 tmc ft where as the storage was only 18.22 tmc ft. on the same day last year. The water level in the Hemavathi increased by 8.67 ft. during the week ending July 29 and the present level is 19.22 ft. more than the average levels of the last 10 years, according to the KSNDMC. The reservoir level was also 22.91 ft more than what it was during the same period last year. Kabini, Harangi Kabini and Harangi – being relatively smaller dams – tend to get filled up early. The water level at Kabini was 2,280.25 ft. against the FRL of 2,284 ft. and at Harangi it was 2,856.68 ft. against the FRL of 2,859 ft.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/filling-up-of-dams-hinges-on-monsoon-revival/article35712845.ece
04 August 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Crackdown on illegal mining||The Mandya district administration has cracked down on quarrying and revoked licences of 11 units for not procuring environmental clearance. The decision comes close on the heels of Mandya MP Sumalatha Ambareesh pleading for a high-level probe into illegal quarrying in the district besides raising her concern on the safety of KRS dam owing to mining. At a meeting of the District Task Force (mining) convened on July 28, the authorities revoked the licences with effect from July 31. With respect to 7 crusher units in Babybetta Kavalu in Pandavpura taluk, the authorities cited the Karnataka Regulation of Stone Crusher Act 2011 as per which such units cannot be permitted to operate within 100 metres of the main road As per the PWD Department and the technical committee which submitted a report, the crusher units were within 100 metres of the district main road. The district administration said that it has invoked the relevant section of the law to revoke licences of 22 other crushing unit as well. A mobile squad has been constituted and will operate in Pandavapura, Srirangapatna and Nagamangala taluks of Mandya district. It will comprise personnel drawn from revenue, forest, panchayat raj, police and department of mines and geology and it will monitor illegal quarrying and transportation of materials. The district administration has created 11 new checkposts across Mandya to keep an eye on illegal transportation of materials from quarries and mines. The authorities have also identified a few areas in the district as “hot spots’’ of illegal mining and quarrying and this is based on the complaints being received from the public of the respective area. Hence these areas have been declared as sensitive and there will be extra vigil by the task force. The villages coming in for extra vigil include Ragimuddenahalli, Anekuppe, K.Honalagere, Shimsha river bank, Channanakere, Jakkanahalli, Kalenahalli, Gowdanahalli, Ganamguru, Hangarahalli, Mudagadore, Siddapura, Babbybettakavalu, Chinnakurali, Kamanayakanahalli, Shambunahalli, Narahalli, Sangahalli, Gangasamudra, Devarahosuru, Kanthapura, Akkihebbalu, the Hemavathi river bank and Agasanapura.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/crackdown-on-illegal-mining/article35712843.ece
04 August 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Kerala workers shuttling daily by foot to Kodagu estates||Amidst the growing fears of an impending third wave of the COVID-19 pandemic, it has now come to light that workers from Kerala bordering Kutta village in Kodagu were being employed in coffee estates and are shuttling daily by foot for work. The State government has made it mandatory for those coming into the State from Kerala to carry an RT-PCR negative report not older than 72 hours irrespective of whether the travellers were vaccinated – either first or both doses of vaccine. When former Speaker and Virajpet MLA K.G. Bopaiah visited the checkpost at Kutta on Tuesday to oversee the COVID-19 surveillance at the border over a spike in cases in the neighbouring State, he came to know about workers belonging to a Kerala village bordering Kodagu coming daily to Kutta by foot to work in the estates. Mr. Bopaiah advised the coffee estate owners to provide accommodation to the workers after complying with the guidelines in case they have emergency works in their plantations and would like to employ workers from Kerala. As per the district administration’s order, persons from Kerala travelling daily to Kodagu must carry out COVID-19 test once in 15 days and always carry the RT-PCR negative report with them. It is not clear whether the employers were cross-checking the details while engaging them in their estates. “The task force set up in each gram panchayat must look into all various aspects for controlling COVID-19 in the border villages. It must work on preventing daily commuting of workers from Kerala to the border estates. This can help prevent the COVID-19 spread,” he opined. Directive The staff roped in from various departments for work at the checkposts in Karike, Kutta, Makutta and Sampaje in Kodagu have been told to ensure that no vehicle enters the State without the travellers producing valid RT-PCR negative report not older than 72 hours. The district officials have been told to continue with the guidelines issued based on the test positivity rate which is currently below 5 per cent. If the TPR crosses 5 per cent, stricter measures were needed. About 40-50 vehicles from Kerala cross the border at Kutta daily.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kerala-workers-shuttling-daily-by-foot-to-kodagu-estates/article35712846.ece
04 August 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||New frog species discovered in Western Ghats||Researchers from the University of Delhi have named a newly-discovered frog species after former vice chancellor and renowned plant genetist Prof. Deepak Pental. The species was discovered from the Western Ghats biodiversity hotspot. The discovery was made during a comprehensive study on a considerably large, common, yet a confusing group of Indian frogs — genus Minervarya (common name: Minervaryan frogs). The study was carried out over a period of nearly 10 years, according to Prof. S.D. Biju, Head of the Department of Environmental Studies, and Dr. Sonali Garg, a post-doctoral researcher at the University of Delhi. The newly-discovered species, named Minervarya Pentali, is endemic to the southern Western Ghats.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/new-frog-species-discovered-in-western-ghats/article35712756.ece
04 August 2021||August 04 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||New frog species in Western Ghats||The newly discovered species, named Minervarya Pentali , is endemic to the southern Western Ghats. “We discovered it on wayside vegetation at multiple localities in Kerala and Tamil Nadu while surveying amphibians during the monsoon season. This species is also among the smallest known Minervaryan frogs, which is probably one of the reasons it was overlooked until now,” says Dr. Garg, the lead author of the study. “It is a great privilege to name a frog species after Prof. Deepak Pental in appreciation of his tremendous support and encouragement for setting up of Systematics Lab at University of Delhi, where research leading to the discovery and description of nearly one-fourth of all known Indian amphibians has been carried out,” said Prof. Biju. The new species — belonging to the family Dicroglossidae — was identified based on multiple criteria, such as external morphology, DNA and calling pattern. The study also resolved the identity and taxonomic status of all known members of the genus from peninsular India, in addition to clarifying the geographical ranges of species, and providing numerous new distribution records based on morphologically and genetically identified samples from a vast region, according to the researchers. The researchers have called for special conservation efforts for the region, which is known for its rich biodiversity. According to Prof. Biju and Dr. Garg, the amphibian diversity in this region is particularly remarkable as more than half of nearly 230 species of all known Indian species (~450 species) are found in the Western Ghats. Besides, over 90% of these are endemic to this region, which means they are not found anywhere else in the world. The researchers said discoveries of such new species not only re-emphasise the uniqueness and endemism in Western Ghats’ amphibians, but also add to the growing inventory of this region’s diverse amphibian fauna. The new species was discovered from wayside vegetation, very much inside and around towns and cities. Habitat loss, modification, and other anthropogenic threats can lead to a population decline or complete wiping out of this newly discovered species, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/new-frog-species-in-western-ghats/article35712370.ece
04 August 2021||August 04 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Spruced up||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/spruced-up/article35712373.ece
04 August 2021||August 04 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Gearing up||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/gearing-up/article35712351.ece
04 August 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Doctors decry attack on colleague at Kainakary||Protests have been mounting among the medical staff in the district over the delay on the part of the police in arresting two persons accused of assaulting a government doctor at Kainakary in Kuttanad. Sarathchandra Bose, medical officer at the Kuppapuram Primary Health Centre (PHC) at Kainakary, was allegedly attacked by three Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)] activists on July 24 following an argument over the distribution of COVID-19 vaccines. Based on a complaint filed by the doctor, the Nedumudi police registered a case against Kainakary grama panchayat president M.C. Prasad, CPI(M) local committee secretary Raghuvaran and party activist Vishak Vijay under non-bailable sections. Although the police arrested Visakh Vijay last week, the other accused are yet to be arrested. On Tuesday, the functioning of government hospitals in the district was hit as doctors of the health services under the aegis of the Kerala Government Medical Officers Association (KGMOA) boycotted outpatients services in protest against the delay in arresting the accused. The strike affected COVID-19 vaccination, swab collection, testing, and other outpatient services. However, emergency treatment, labour room, COVID-19 treatment, and inpatient services were not affected. It is the second time in recent months, the medicos are on a protest path over violence against them. On May 14, a junior consultant surgeon at the Government District Hospital, Mavelikara, was allegedly assaulted by a civil police officer. A delay in arresting the accused had led to protests. More than a month after the incident, the Kerala High Court granted the accused anticipatory bail in June. Medicos alleged that the police, like in the Mavelikara incident, were delaying the arrest of the accused in order to help the duo get bail from the court. KGMOA district office-bearers said the protest would be intensified and the future course of action would be taken at its general body meeting. The police said the accused were absconding and a hunt was on to nab them. ‘Allegations baseless’ Meanwhile, the CPI(M) local leadership has come to the support of the accused and termed the allegations baseless. They alleged that Dr. Bose had indulged in vaccine hoarding and demanded action against him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/doctors-decry-attack-on-colleague-at-kainakary/article35712703.ece
04 August 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||164 Onam markets to open in Alappuzha||As many as 164 Onam markets will be opened in the district under the aegis of the Agriculture Department for providing vegetables at reasonable rates during Onam. The markets will function from August 17 to 20. Officials said here on Tuesday the outlets would help keep vegetable prices under control during the festival period. Of the total 165 markets, the Agriculture Department would run 108, Kerala State Horticultural Products Development Corporation (Horticorp) (45), and Vegetable and Fruit Promotion Council Keralam (11). “Vegetables will be procured directly from farmers through Krishi Bhavans by paying 10% above the market price. While elephant foot yam, banana, ginger, and other local varieties will be procured from farmers in the district, onion, potato, and so on will be purchased from other districts through Horticorp. The public can buy vegetables from Onam outlets at prices 30% less than the market rate,” said an official.  In June, the Agriculture Department distributed 15 lakh vegetable seedlings and four lakh vegetable seed kits through Krishi Bhavans with an eye on Onam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/164-onam-markets-to-open-in-alappuzha/article35712694.ece
04 August 2021||Chennai,KERALA||Fresh infections dip to 1,908 in Tamil Nadu||The number of people testing positive for COVID-19 dropped to 1,908 in Tamil Nadu on Tuesday. While cases continued to dip in districts such as Coimbatore, Chennai recorded a marginal rise as 203 more people tested positive. The fresh cases declined for the second day in a row in the State, even as the count continued to fluctuate in a number of districts. In Coimbatore, cases fell to 208 from 219 on Monday. Erode recorded a small rise from 168 to 181 cases. Chengalpattu and Thanjavur saw a decline from the previous day — while 122 people tested positive in the former, there were 118 cases in the latter. Salem recorded a dip from 82 to 75 infections. Twenty-nine deaths were also recorded. This took the toll to 34,159. A total of 2,047 people were discharged after treatment, taking the total figure to 25,11,076. It was a day of record testing in Kerala at 1,99,456 samples and it led to the detection of 23,676 cases on Tuesday. In Andhra COVID-19 claimed 18 lives in Andhra Pradesh on Tuesday and there were 1,546 new infections taking the cumulative tally to 19,71,554. The death toll rose to 13,428. The TPR of 69,606 samples was 2.22%, the lowest in the past 129 days. Chittoor reported four new deaths, Krishna three, Anantapur, East Godavari, Guntur and Nellore two each, Prakasam, Srikakulam and Visakhapatnam one death each. No district reported more than 300 new infections. There were 609 new infections in Telangana on Tuesday, with 1,08,921 samples tested. The fresh cases included 81 from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation region. The infection tally rose to 6,46,606. Four more COVID patients died during the day, taking the overall death toll to 3,811. The State had 8,777 active cases. Non-COVID services were resumed at Gandhi Hospital, and 268 patients turned up for consultation as out-patients, and 28 emergency cases in the non-COVID category were admitted. The government tertiary care hospital had been turned into a COVID-only facility in the third week of April this year when the second wave of the pandemic was intensifying. 38 deaths in Karnataka Karnataka on Tuesday logged 1,674 fresh cases, taking the tally to 29.09 lakh, while 38 deaths took the toll to 36,650. The TPR stood at 1.38%. Bengaluru Urban district reported 477 cases.  (With inputs from Thiruvananthapuram, Hyderabad, Vijayawada bureaus and PTI)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fresh-infections-dip-to-1908-in-tamil-nadu/article35712660.ece
04 August 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||CPI to probe lapses of leaders||The Communist Party of India (CPI) has formed a commission to inquire into the complaints that a section of party workers had worked against the party’s candidate in the Peerumade Assembly constituency Vazhoor Soman during the election campaign. Though Mr. Soman won the elections, his vote share in some areas was below the party’s expectations. The three-member commission comprising Prince Mathew, T.N. Murukan and S. Abhilash will inquire into the lapses on the part of former MLA E.S. Bijimol, Jose Philip and two others whose names have been mentioned in the complaints. The probe is on the basis of a report submitted by the CPI control commission. Sources in the party said that a group of senior leaders tried to defeat Mr. Soman and did not actively cooperate in electioneering. A CPI leader said that some senior leaders tried to split the vote on communal basis and spread the message that there was little chance for Mr. Soman to win. However, Mr. Soman’s long association with the plantation workers helped him overcome the negative campaigning. The commission will submit its report within a month. In Devikulam The Communist Party of India (Marxist) had also formed a committee to inquire into the allegations that former MLA S. Rajendran did not actively take part in the election campaign in Devikulam for party’s candidate A. Raja, who also eventually won the seat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cpi-to-probe-lapses-of-leaders/article35712697.ece
04 August 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||Karunapuram panchayat chief ousted in no-confidence motion||A no-confidence motion against the president of the Left Democratic Front (LDF)-ruled Karunapuram grama panchayat brought by the United Democratic Front was passed with the support of an Independent Bharat Dharma Jana Sena (BDJS) member on Tuesday. The no-confidence motion was passed with nine votes against eight. In the grama panchayat where the LDF and the UDF have equal number of members, P.R. Binu, the lone BDJS member, voted in favour of the motion. The UDF members introduced the no-trust motion alleging that president Vincy Vavachan and vice president K.T. Sali were taking decisions on their own and no development work had been undertaken. A no-confidence motion against the vice-president will be taken up on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/karunapuram-panchayat-chief-ousted-in-no-confidence-motion/article35712698.ece
04 August 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||9 Wayanad tribal students clear CLAT||As many as nine tribal students in Wayanad have cracked the Common Law Admission Test (CLAT). “I want to be a good lawyer after completion of my course,” says Mridula, 16, of the Varachamkunnu Kattunayakkan tribal hamlet at Chundakkolly, near Pambra, in the district. Along with Mridula, six other candidates of the Kattunayakkan community, a particularly vulnerable tribal group, have cleared CLAT. “I am dreaming of the highest office of the judicial system of the country to bring marginalised sections such as my community to the mainstream. My senior K.K. Radhika cracked CLAT last year, which inspired me to appear for the test,” she says. Mridula, the eldest daughter of Suma, a worker under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme, secured 258th rank in CLAT in the Scheduled Tribe category. She has now secured admission at the National University of Advanced Legal Studies, Kochi. DLSA training The District Legal Services Authority (DLSA) provided three-month training for 27 tribal students, including 23 girls, to appear for the test. Eight students among them, R.G. Ayana, P. Sreekutty, A. Ammu, K.K. Anagha, M.K. Adithya, M. R. Akhil, R. Rahul, and Divya Vijayan, have passed the test and are awaiting allotment in various national law universities, K. Rajesh, sub-judge, Wayanad, said. The training programme was conducted at the Model Residential School for tribal children at Kaniyampetta adhering to the COVID-19 protocol, Mr. Rajesh, also the secretary of the DLSA, said. The faculty of the Central University of Kerala, Thiruvalla campus, Lloyd Law College, Noida, and Law College, Kozhikode, besides volunteers of the Increase in Diversity Increase in Accessibility, an NGO, and LLB students of the NUALS, Kochi, gave lessons via videoconferencing. “The low representation of tribespeople in the country’s legal system prompted the DLSA to train the students for CLAT,” Mr. Rajesh said The Integrated Tribal Development Project, Wayanad, supported the programme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/9-wayanad-tribal-students-clear-clat/article35712720.ece
04 August 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||Police get 4-day custody of Muttil case accused||The police were on Tuesday given four-day custody of the three brothers arrested in connection with the rosewood tree-felling case at Muttil. The police had sought five-day custody of the accused, Roji Augustine of Moonganiyil at Vazhavatta in the district and his brothers, Jose Kutty Augustine and Anto Augustine. But, the Sulthan Bathery Judicial First Class Magistrate Court granted custody of four days. When the police mentioned the criminal background of the accused, the court allowed the use of handcuffs, if necessary. After interrogation, the trio would be taken to various sites in the district for collecting evidence, V.V. Benny, Deputy Superintendent of Police, Sulthan Bathery, told The Hindu .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/police-get-4-day-custody-of-muttil-case-accused/article35712628.ece
04 August 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||102 kg of ganja seized||The police seized 102 kg of ganja from a a house and arrested a man at Kolagappara in the district on Tuesday night. The anti-narcotic cell arrested Krishnankutty, 51, of Vattathimoola Ooraly tribal colony at Koalagappara following a tip-off.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/102-kg-of-ganja-seized/article35712638.ece
04 August 2021||KANNUR,KERALA||Remand prisoner dead||Karunakaran, 40, whom the Kasaragod excise had taken into custody and who was remanded at the Kanhangad jail, died at the Kannur Government Medical College Hospital (KGMCH) on Tuesday evening. He was arrested on July 19 on the charge of smuggling liquor. According to the police, he was shifted to the hospital after his health condition deteriorated in the jail. He was losing consciousness and also suffered fits. He was taken to the Kannur district hospital before being referred to the KGMCH and was on a ventilator for over a week. The inquest was carried out in the presence of the Hosdurg First Class Magistrate.  Meanwhile, Karunakaran’s brother Srinivasa alleged that his brother had no health problems before he was arrested. The police should investigate the cause of death, he said. Excise inspector Jijil Kumar said Karunakaran was not assaulted in custody and he was produced in court on the same day of his arrest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/remand-prisoner-dead/article35712637.ece
04 August 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Concern over children addicted to online games||On Monday, a school psycho-social counsellor received a panic-stricken call from the mother of a teenager at Paravur. Her 13-year-old son was so addicted to online games that he was found to have acquainted absolute strangers and even threatened parents who stopped him from playing game. “Worse still, he was even shamelessly asking money from passers-by to play game. We have referred him for professional psychiatric intervention,” said Mahitha Vipinachandran, the counsellor. Free Fire, Call of Duty, PUBG are some of the violent online games that have a large number of students addicted, leaving child welfare agencies concerned. With online education in vogue, restricting access to gadgets has also become near impossible. “The online game addiction has hit alarming proportions prompting the Women and Child Development Department to launch a campaign, ‘Njangalilla (We don’t want online games), with the help of school psycho-social counsellors,” said Sini K.S., District Child Protection Officer. All the 68 school counsellors are being trained for running the campaign in schools besides covering the 23 Integrated Child Development Scheme circles. “The first phase of the awareness campaign targeting students will begin this Monday followed by a session for parents on how to save their wards from game addiction,” said Ms. Vipinachandran. In the later stages, sessions will be designed to assess the extent of addiction through a survey followed by a module to keep children away from online games through peer influence. Right Tracks The Railway Childline Ernakulam in association with Welfare Services Ernakulam is also running an online sensitisation programme, Right Tracks, to counter game addiction. The programme has already been run in 15 schools covering over 1,300 students. “Though we have multiple topics, cyber safety has emerged as the most sought after one by schools on account of online game addiction. The demand is such that we are now planning to run the programme beyond 20 schools as we initially planned,” said Shano Jose, coordinator, Railway Childline Ernakulam. Coping with stress and emotion, creative and critical thinking, self awareness, and substance abuse are the other topics of the programme. Childline has even been receiving calls on physical abuse engendered by game addiction. “There was this incident in which the mother of a teenager got so worked up with her son’s devotion to the game that her impulsive strike left him with a fractured shoulder,” said Childline sources. Cyber cell officials said addicted children would be so engrossed in games that they would be simply ignorant of their surroundings and even their everyday conversations will be peppered with the game lingo. “There are many instances where parents lost money since children will be often using their gadgets with credit or debit card credentials already saved on them, making payments easier. One parent lost over Rs. 2 lakh in this manner,” said a cyber cell official. Since the culprits are their own children, most parents prefer not to register cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/concern-over-children-addicted-to-online-games/article35712644.ece
04 August 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Sewage outlets into two canals in city to be closed in six months||The sewage outlets into the Thevara-Perandoor and Edappally canals from households and commercial establishments will be closed in six months to check the alarming levels of faecal contamination in both the waterbodies The decision to close all the sewage outlets was recommended by a joint committee comprising officials of the district administration, Kochi Corporation, State Pollution Control Board and Greater Cochin Development Authority in a case related to the alarming levels of faecal contamination in both the canals. The Southern Bench of the National Green Tribunal had taken suo motu notice of the report titled ‘Faecal contamination high in Perandoor, Edappally canals’ published in The Hindu on January 28. The report had revealed that the total coliform count, indicating faecal contamination, had exceeded the maximum permissible limits by 160 and 96 times respectively in the canals owing to unauthorised sewage dumping. The tribunal had asked the implementing authorities to come up with short-term and long-term measures to resolve the issue. The Kochi Corporation has launched a sanitation survey involving its health inspectors and officers to identify the sewage outlets into the canals. The teams will find out the sanitation issues in the slums along the canals. The rapid survey will be held in wards 32, 33, 34, 55, 56, 58, 59, 60, 63, 64, 65, 69, 70, 71, 72, and 73 along the Thevara-Perandoor canal while the wards covered along the Edappally canal include 36, 37, 41, 42, 46, 47, 48, 49 and 50. The possibilities of constructing a new decentralised sewage treatment plant along the canal bank will be identified. It will be implemented along with the other ongoing major projects in the city, including the Integrated Urban Regeneration and Water Transport System (IURWTS) scheme proposed by the government for restoration of six major canals including Edappally canal, Thevara-Perandoor canal, Chilavannoor canal, Thevara canal, Market canal and Konthuruthy canal. A preliminary report submitted by the joint committee after visiting a section of the Thevara-Perandoor canal stated that they could not spot the outlets owing to the high flood level at the Thevara canal-Kochi lake mouth portion. Several outlets were seen open into the canal in Indira Nagar near Panampilly Nagar. This included storm drainage as well. The exact number of outlets will be clear after the sanitation survey. The joint inspection of the canal stretches will continue in the coming days, it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sewage-outlets-into-two-canals-in-city-to-be-closed-in-six-months/article35712655.ece
04 August 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Good show by schools in Ernakulam||Schools in Ernakulam recorded an impressive performance in the Class X results published by the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) on Tuesday. Majority of the schools secured 100% pass. The board had opted for an alternative assessment pattern after the offline exams were cancelled this time in view of the pandemic situation. Rajagiri Public School, Kalamassery, won 156 distinctions. Thirty-seven students bagged A1 in all subjects. Rajagiri Christu Jayanthi Public School, Kakkanad, won 164 distinctions. Thirty-three students received A1 in all subjects. Global Public School, Thiruvaniyoor, bagged 100 distinctions. Eleven students won A1 in all subjects. Vidyodaya School, Thevakkal, bagged 144 distinctions. Twenty-seven students won A1 in all subjects. Gregorian Public School, Maradu, won 111 distinctions. Eleven students bagged A1 in all subjects. The number of distinctions, and students who won A1 in all subjects in schools under Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan, Kochi Kendra, are the following: Bhavan’s Vidya Mandir, Elamakkara (182, 39); Bhavan’s Vidya Mandir, Girinagar (146, 32); Bhavan’s Vidya Mandir, Eroor (135, 24); Bhavan’s Adarsha Vidyalaya, Kakkanad (147, 23); Bhavan’s Varuna Vidyalaya, Thrikkakara (76, 29); Bhavan’s Munshi Vidyashram, Thiruvankulam (99, 20); and Bhavan’s Newsprint Vidyalaya, Velloor (90, 12). Toc H Public School, Vyttila, won 136 distinctions. Twenty-four students bagged A1 in all subjects. Assisi Vidyaniketan Public School, Kakkanad, won 168 distinctions. Thirty-six students bagged A1 in all subjects. Chinmaya Vidyalaya, Vaduthala, bagged 145 distinctions. Thirty-two students won A1 in all subjects. Chinmaya Vidyalaya, Thripunithura, won 140 distinctions. Thirty-two students bagged A1 in all subjects. Chinmaya Vidyalaya, Kannamaly, won 89 distinctions. Thirteen students bagged A1 in all subjects. Delta Study, Fort Kochi, won 49 distinctions. Seven students bagged A1 in all subjects. Greets Public School, Kaloor, bagged 57 distinctions. Sixteen students secured A1 in all subjects. St. Paul’s International School, Kalamassery, won 49 distinctions. Six students won A1 in all subjects. SBOA Public School, South Chittoor, won 95 distinctions. Five students received A1 in all subjects. Sree Narayana Public School, Poothotta, bagged 66 distinctions. Six students won A1 in all subjects. Cochin Public School, Thrikkakara, won 20 distinctions. Two students won A1 in all subjects. Seventy per cent of the students in Sri Sri Ravishankar Vidya Mandir, Kochi, won distinctions. Seven students bagged A1 in all subjects. NSS Higher Secondary School, Thripunithura, won 59 distinctions. Seven students won A1 in all subjects. Seventeen students of Pragati Academy, Perumbavoor, won A1 in all subjects. Seventy-five per cent of students in Nava Nirman School, Vazhakkala, won distinctions. Nalanda Public School, Thammanam, won 43 distinctions. Seven students bagged A1 in all subjects. Cochin Refineries School, Thiruvaniyoor, won 77 distinctions. Eleven students secured A1 in all subjects. A total of 80 students of Mar Thoma Public School secured distinction while five got A1 in all subjects. Choice School, Thripunithura, won 177 distinctions. Eighteen students secured A1 in all subjects.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/good-show-by-schools-in-ernakulam/article35712649.ece
04 August 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||State to formulate liquid waste management policy||The government has decided to formulate a liquid waste management policy to curb pollution of waterbodies owing to the illegal discharge of untreated waste into them. A high-level meeting convened by Chief Secretary V.P. Joy on July 27 pointed out that the government had initiated steps to come out with a draft policy on liquid waste management to address pollution from liquid waste, including sewage. The meeting was held to discuss the follow-up action being taken on the directives issued by the National Green Tribunal against the non-compliance of rules pertaining to waste management in the State. The draft policy will have provisions to check the menace of pollution of waterbodies caused by the illegal discharge of wastewater into rivers, lakes, and canals. The draft will be finalised based on the inputs given by various departments including local self governments, water resources and environment departments, according to senior officials associated with the project. The meeting observed that local protests were hampering the efforts to set up sewage treatment plants using modern technology, including vacuum suction. It was referring to the opposition against the state-of-the-art sewage treatment project proposed in West Kochi. The government will ask the civic bodies concerned to initiate legal action against vested interests trying to impede developmental and environmentally relevant projects like setting up sewage treatment plants. The government has decided to identify revenue land across the State to install sewage/septage treatment facilities. It was also decided to accord top priority to implementing such projects in the land owned by the government. The Southern Bench of the National Green Tribunal had asked the Chief Secretary in June to prepare a detailed action plan to resolve the issue of pollution of waterbodies. The authorities have to assess the damage caused to the environment and fix the environment compensation on those responsible for the pollution. The penalty would be used to restore the natural resources in its original condition. The government was told to come up with short-term and long-term measures with lesser timeline to solve the issue in an effective manner.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/state-to-formulate-liquid-waste-management-policy/article35712651.ece
04 August 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Nelliyode, who immortalised Kali, has left the stage||Nelliyode Vasudevan Namboothiri, who died the other day aged 82, was a consummate Kathakali artiste. Soft-spoken and humble, the characters he brought on the Kathakali stage breathed fire. He was a sought-after performer across Kerala to enact the characters wearing the chuvanna thaadi (red beard) such as Bali, Sugreevan, Dussasanan, Jarasandhan and Bakan. New dimension Nelliyode, as he was known in the Kathakali circuit, gave a new dimension to the portrayal of the deceitful Kali ( karutha thaadi or black beard) in Nalacharitham with a detailed depiction of the 12 years he waited on a tree weathering the rain, sunshine, and bone-chilling cold to finally possess Nala at the right time. “He set the performance structure of Kali, which became a benchmark of sorts,” recalls P. Venugopalan, Malayalam lexicon editor and writer. Among the favourite disciples of the iconic Kathakali maestro Vazhenkada Kunju Nair, Nelliyode reached Thiruvananthapuram from his native Cheranalloor in Ernakulam in the 1970s to teach Kathakali at Attakkulangara Government High School after a programme to introduce school students to Kathakali was initiated by the then Director of Public Instruction Ramachandran Nair. While the programme was short-lived, Nelliyode stayed back in Thiruvananthapuram, teaching and performing across Kerala and outside. Erudite and with a sound footing in ancient Sanskrit texts and the epics, he was able to render Narayaneeyam , Sreeramodantham and Sreekrishnavilasam to Malayalam. A phenomenal memory helped him by heart most of Kalidasa which enriched his performances. Along with the fierce chuvanna thaadi characters, he regularly performed kari (black, demonic) characters such as Simhika, Poothana, Nakrathundi and Hidimbi. “The irony is that he would perform the fiercest characters and the most saintly ones [that of Kuchelan, to cite one] with the same characteristic ease,” says Dr. Venugopalan. In fact, he was sage-like himself and this dichotomy was what Kavalam Naraya Panicker explored in his play Kalivesham.  Nelliyode wrote the performance text ( attakkatha ) of Rasakreeda and when Dr. Venugopalan brought Cervantes’s Don Quixote into Kathakali, the protagonist Quixote (Alonso Quijano) was played by Nelliyode with elan. It was performed under the auspices of the Casa de la India, an Indo-Spanish foundation , in Spain to rousing reception, recalls Dr. Venugopalan. Tall and scrawny with a peculiar visage, Nelliyode was best suited to play the character of Quixote-Quijano. While the performance in Spain in connection with the 400 years of Don Quixote was without any make-up, there was minimal make-up on him when the play was staged in India. Akademi award Nelliyode won the Kendra Sangeet Natak Akademi and the Kerala Sangeetha Nataka Akademi awards and the State Kathakali Puraskaram among several other honours. He battled cancer for a brief period before succumbing to it. The body was cremated at Vandoor in Malappuram. He is survived by his wife and two children.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/nelliyode-has-left-the-stage/article35712640.ece
04 August 2021||Kochi,KERALA||KSRTC asked to issue legible tickets to passengers||The Ernakulam District Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission has directed the Kerala State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) to issue quality and legible tickets to passengers. The Commission also ordered the public sector transportation major to refund the ticket fare to a passenger who missed the trip despite booking the ticket in advance. The order was issued on a petition filed by Russel Joy, a resident of Aluva. The petitioner complained that despite booking the ticket in the Bengaluru-Ernakulam KSRTC multi-axle Volvo bus, he couldn’t make the trip as the bus departed earlier. He alleged that the schedule of the service had not been clearly mentioned in the ticket. The Commission observed that the ticket issued by the KSRTC was illegible and that the issue of such a low-quality ticket amounted to deficiency of service. The Commission also ordered KSRTC to refund the ticket fare of Rs. 931 in a month.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ksrtc-asked-to-issue-legible-tickets-to-passengers/article35712653.ece
04 August 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Two more held in murder case||The Palluruthy police have arrested two more persons, including the key accused, in the murder of a person whose body was found in a highly decomposed state last week. The arrested were identified as Biju, 43, and his friend and second accused Lalju, 38, both residents of Kumbalanghi. Their arrests were in connection with the murder of Antony Lasser, 39, of Kumbalanghi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/two-more-held-in-murder-case/article35712645.ece
04 August 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Demand for reference library gains momentum||The demand for a space in the city to set up a reference library by making use of the collection of books of literary critic M.K. Sanoo is gaining momentum. The request put forward by the M.K. Sanoo Foundation for the space has reached the Kochi Corporation. “Though the Revenue authorities had identified a 3.5-cent holding near the Ernakulam Public Library, the paper work for handing over the land has not been completed,” M.S. Ranjith, son of Prof. Sanoo, said. The Kochi Corporation is unlikely to take a decision on the subject as it has received only a sketchy proposal, said J. Sanilmon, chairman of the Town Planning Standing Committee of the corporation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/demand-for-reference-library-gains-momentum/article35712642.ece
04 August 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Man held for fake overseas recruitment||The Central police arrested a man for allegedly cheating job aspirants of lakhs of rupees through a fake overseas recruitment drive as COVID volunteers to Europe through his recruitment firm on Diwan’s Road. The arrested man was identified as Thajudheen aka Dileep, 49, of Nedumangad. C.H. Nagaraju, District Police Chief (Kochi City), had received a tip-off about a fake overseas recruitment drive being held in the city taking advantage of the pandemic. A probe conducted by the police led to the arrest. The accused had operated a premier office and had given the staff impressive sounding names to lure job aspirants. The number of an office staffer with the fake name Manthra was publicised. He used to lure potential victims by publicising through online platforms vacancies for COVID duty in England and The Netherlands at a salary of Rs. 3 lakh per month.  The operation was conducted by Ernakulam Central Assistant Commissioner K. Laljy. A team led by Central Inspector S. Vijayasankar and comprising sub inspectors Premkumar, Joseph, and Gopi, assistant sub inspectors Shaji and Dheeraj, and senior civil police officers Aneesh, Isahak, Renjith, Ignatius, Rajesh, and Aby Surendran made the arrest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/man-held-for-fake-overseas-recruitment/article35712646.ece
04 August 2021||Kochi,KERALA||IOAGPL mulls CNG station at Puthuvype||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said that Indian Oil-Adani Gas Private Ltd (IOAGPL) has plans to set up a CNG station at Puthuvype here as the Petronet LNG terminal is located in the region. The company has targeted the commissioning of CNG stations in Perumbavoor, North Paravur, Willingdon Island and Marine Drive in this fiscal. A survey will be held in Puthuvype as part of setting up a CNG station, he said in reply to a submission of K.N. Unnikrishnan, MLA, on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ioagpl-mulls-cng-station-at-puthuvype/article35712650.ece
04 August 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||2,702 test positive in Ernakulam||Around 2,702 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Ernakulam on Tuesday. Nearly 2,651 persons got infected through local contact. The source of infection in 32 cases has not been ascertained. The test positivity rate was 9.32%. The regions in which the positive cases were higher than 40 included Thrikkakara (85), Thripunithura (68), Karumaloor (670, Keezhmad (58), Maradu (480, Kadungalloor (46), Mazhuvannoor (46), Alangad (43), Udayamperoor (43), Palluruthy (43), Pallipuram (42), Vengola (42), Vyttila (42), and Ezhikkara (41). Some of the regions that reported fewer than five cases were Elanji, Manjapra, Edakattuvayal, Karuvelippadi, Kaloorkad, Ayappankavu, Palakuzha, and Ramamangalam, according to an official release. Around 28,998 COVID-19 tests were conducted on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/2702-test-positive-in-ernakulam/article35712652.ece
04 August 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||HC rejects bail plea of driver||The Kerala High Court has dismissed the bail petition of an accused in the case relating to the stealing of 20,386 litres of spirit while transporting it from Madhya Pradesh to Travancore Sugars and Chemicals Ltd (TSCL), Thiruvalla. Dismissing the bail plea of Sijo Thomas of Idukki, the second accused in the case, the court observed that allegations were very serious and the petitioner could not be released on bail at this stage. The prosecution charge was that the petitioner was one of the drivers who had transported spirit from Madhya Pradesh to the TSCL.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hc-rejects-bail-plea-of-driver/article35712699.ece
04 August 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Rank lists: HC restrains CEE||The Kerala High Court has directed the Commissioner for Entrance Examinations (CEE) to refrain from publishing the rank lists for professional courses without further orders from the court. Justice P.B. Suresh Kumar issued the order on a petition filed by the Kerala CBSE School Managements Association and two students seeking a directive to the State government to give admission to the professional courses for academic year 2021 on the basis of the marks secured by the candidates in the entrance examinations conducted by the CEE.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rank-lists-hc-restrains-cee/article35712712.ece
04 August 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||HC disapproves of obsession with govt. jobs||A Division Bench of the Kerala High Court on Tuesday disapproved of the obsession of the youth in the State for obtaining government jobs and observed that such an attitude existed only in the State. The Bench, led by Justice Alexander Thomas, made the oral observation while hearing a case relating to the production of experience certificate. The court orally observed that around 75% of the State government's revenue was spent for disbursing salary and other benefits. The COVID-19 pandemic situation had affected the GDP and that the financial position of the country was not so good, it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hc-disapproves-of-obsession-with-govt-jobs/article35712713.ece
04 August 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Kollam library to be modernised||Projects targeting the comprehensive development of the Kollam Public Library will be devised, District Collector B.Abdul Nasar said here on Tuesday. The library, which had been lying shut since the outbreak of COVID-19, was reopened on Monday. The Collector, also the chairman of its governing body, visited the library on Tuesday to assess its facilities and newly added provisions to ensure COVID-19 protocol compliance. The necessary maintenance and modernisation of the library will be carried out with the help of people's representatives and Mr.Nasar has sought projects that can be completed using the MP/MLA fund. He has also directed officials to submit a report on the same at the earliest. The finance committee of the library has been asked to take immediate steps to clear liabilities. “The governing body has expressed their willingness to arrange interest-free loans for emergency expenses. Upgrading the library as per changing times is very important. Various possibilities will be explored since it's also a cultural complex in Kollam,” he said. Internal issues, along with the dip in income and funding, had affected the library and reportedly more than Rs. 20 lakh is required for clearing the salary bills of the staff alone. None of them had been receiving their salaries since the first lockdown. While new books worth Rs. 4 lakh have been added to the collection, the library has also started accepting new membership applications. Seating arrangements have been made as per social-distancing norms and the details of all persons entering the library will be recorded. At present only the reading room is functional and the reference section is expected to admit members shortly. Since the majority of the members are students, the authorities are considering a change in timings to avoid crowds. The library will be functioning on all weekdays from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. and all COVID-19 guidelines will be followed. The Kollam Corporation had disinfected the library and premises to ensure safety of members and staff.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kollam-library-to-be-modernised/article35712696.ece
04 August 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Kollam registers 1,836 new cases||The district reported 1,836 new cases of COVID-19 and 1,199 recoveries on Tuesday. While 1,332 patients contracted the virus through contact, others include two NRIs and six health-care workers. At present, the district has 32,485 persons under observation and 1,674 persons completed home quarantine on Tuesday. Alappuzha reported 1,261 cases on the day. It also recorded three COVID-19 deaths. The test positivity rate for the day stood at 10.97%. Of the fresh cases, 1,250 people contracted the disease through local transmission, while the source of infection of nine others remains unknown. Two health workers also tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. Meanwhile, 730 people who were undergoing treatment for the disease in the district recovered. The active caseload is 10,102. 1,241 in Kottayam Kottayam continued to witness a sharp rise in fresh COVID-19 cases with 1,241 persons testing positive on the day. Of the fresh cases, 1,014 persons, including three health workers, contracted the virus through local transmission. The test positivity rate (TPR) also stood on the higher side at 12.01%. With 110 cases, Kottayam municipality reported the highest number of cases, followed by Kanjirappally, which recorded 39 cases . As many as 877 persons recovered from the disease during the day, bringing down the total active cases to 7,395. Meanwhile, 37,655 persons remain in quarantine for suspected symptoms of the disease. 584 in Pathanamthitta In Pathanamthitta, 584 persons tested positive. Of this, all but two contracted the virus through local transmission. The contact source of five cases was yet to be ascertained. The TPR for the day was 8.9%. With 26 cases, Konni reported the highest number of cases, followed by Kallooppara and Kunnamthanam, which reported 20 cases each. With 417 recoveries, Pathanamthitta currently has 5,357 active cases.  (With inputs from Alappuzha, Kottayam and Pathanamthitta bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kollam-registers-1836-new-cases/article35712707.ece
04 August 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Appointment of veterinary surgeons||An interview for appointing veterinary surgeons as part of the Kollam district panchayat’s Animal Birth Control (ABC) programme will be held at the District Animal Husbandry Office on August 10. The appointment will be on contract basis. Those who have registered themselves with the veterinary council may apply. Experienced candidates will be given preference. For further details, those interested may contact: 0474-2793464.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/appointment-of-veterinary-surgeons/article35712705.ece
04 August 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Protest in Kottayam over twins’ death||The Kottayam town on Tuesday witnessed some tense moments following attempts by a group of people, carrying the bodies of twin brothers who had committed suicide the other day, to stage a protest in front of a cooperative bank office. The episode began to unfold in the afternoon when workers of the United Democratic Front and relatives of the deceased attempted to take the dead bodies to the Kottayam Urban Cooperative Bank (KUCB) office at Manippuzha after the post-mortem examination at the Government Medical College Hospital, Kottayam. The protesters were led by district panchayat member P.K. Vysakh, Pallom block panchayat member Siby John and Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee secretary Nattakom Suresh. As the protesters entered the four-lane road at Manippuzha, a police team led by Deputy Superintendent J. Santosh Kumar intercepted them. They then staged a blockade on MC Road, leading to traffic disruptions along the busy stretch. Talks held As the issue threatened to snowball into a major conflict, Kottayam tahsildar Littimol Thomas reached the spot and held discussions with the leaders. The stand-off ended after the tahsildar promised to assuage the concerns of the victims’ relatives. The bodies were later taken to a masjid at Thazhathangadi for burial. The twin brothers, Nizar Khan and Nazir Khan, were found dead at their house on Monday. Preliminary investigations attributed the suicides to financial stress experienced by the duo, who had been left jobless following COVID-19. The twins had availed themselves of a loan of Rs. 13 lakh from the KUCB’s Manipuzha branch and defaulted on its repayment for two years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/protest-in-kottayam-over-twins-death/article35712701.ece
04 August 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||First youth coop. society comes up in Kottayam||The first ever youth cooperative society in Kerala , which aims to generate employment opportunities for the educated youth, has been registered under the Department of Cooperation. The institution, Kottayam Youth Entrepreneurial Cooperative Society, is headquartered in Kottayam with its scope of operations extending across Kottayam and Changanassery taluks. At a brief function here on Tuesday, Kottayam Cooperative Society Joint Registrar N. Ajith Kumar handed over the Registration Certificate to K.R. Ajay, chief promoter of the new society. The society will focus on infrastructure construction with a view to creating maximum employment opportunities by coordinating educated and skilled youth. The plan to establish such youth societies was included in the Governor’s policy address and the State government’s 100-day action plan. Each society will have a minimum share capital of Rs. 1.75 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/first-youth-coop-society-comes-up-in-kottayam/article35712690.ece
04 August 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Hygiene Protocol to come into effect by August-end||The Hygiene Protocol of the Kozhikode Corporation, one of the key projects of the new council, will soon be a reality. Health standing committee chairperson S. Jayasree said the protocol would be in effect by the end of the month. The expert committee consisting of several former officials, environmentalists, and representatives of non-governmental organisations had prepared a draft of the project just a month after it was announced. “But we could not do anything about it as it was the time the second wave of COVID-19 hit and the whole health wing was busy dealing with it,” said Ms. Jayasree. The draft was recently approved by the health standing committee. A seminar will be held by the second week of August to facilitate a discussion on the draft by experts from various fields. The suggestions made by the experts will be incorporated into the draft with the help of the committee that prepared it before it is tabled in the Corporation Council. Having been conferred the hygiene status in 2020, ensuring hygiene and sanitation has become the biggest challenge for the Kozhikode Corporation, especially amid the pandemic. Deputy Mayor C.P. Musafir Ahamed, during the budget session in February, had said that the Hygiene Protocol would be announced by the end of the year. A 20-point task plan has been formulated to facilitate the protocol. The collection of solid waste by Haritha Karma Sena (HKS) is a major factor in maintaining the hygiene status of the city. Strengthening HKS The Corporation plans to strengthen the HKS with the cooperation of commercial establishments as well as residents’ associations. Regular medical check-up and ensuring availability of masks, gloves, and uniforms for the HKS are also part of the plan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hygiene-protocol-to-come-into-effect-by-august-end/article35712631.ece
04 August 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Varsity revokes order on calendar change||The University of Calicut has revoked its order abruptly changing the academic calendar of second semester undergraduate and postgraduate courses. According to a new order by the university on Monday, the second semester will end only on August 31. The third semester classes for undergraduate, postgraduate, B.Ed. and M.Ed. courses will begin on September 1. The order is applicable to the departments on the university campus as well as various university-approved study centres. The latest order is believed to have been issued in the wake of the objections raised by a section of teachers. Arun Karippal, a Senate member, had also written to the Vice-Chancellor against the move. On July 29, the university had issued an order calling for completion of second semester classes in undergraduate courses without entrance examination on August 2 and those with entrance examination on August 18. Classes for second semester B.Ed. and M.Ed. courses should have ended on August 16. Postgraduate courses with and without entrance examination were asked to end their second semester classes on August 18. Classes for third semester undergraduate courses were asked to commence on August 3 and those for other courses mentioned earlier on August 31. As per the original academic calendar, the second semester classes for undergraduate and postgraduate courses were supposed to end only on September 27. The Confederation of Kerala College Teachers, an organisation affiliated to the Indian Union Muslim League, had protested against the move. Mr. Karippal had claimed that both the students and the teachers had been under stress because they were supposed to complete all the formalities of normal classes, such as assignments, seminars and internal assessment, in online mode as well. Undergraduate students were being asked to enter the third semester though the exams for the first and second semesters were not over.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/varsity-revokes-order-on-change-in-academic-calendar/article35712629.ece
04 August 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Active caseload crosses 25,000 in Kozhikode||As many as 2,416 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kozhikode district on Tuesday, taking the active caseload to 25,329. According to the District Medical Officer, 2,397 of the fresh cases were due to local transmission of the infection and the source of 12 others was not known. Kozhikode Corporation accounted for 375 locally acquired infections, Kunnamangalam 83, Koyilandy 73, Omassery 66, Kakkodi 69, Chathamangalam 67, Peruvayal 64, Feroke and Payyoli 56, and Thalakkulathur 55. As many as 18,611 samples were tested and the daily test positivity rate is 13.21%. A total of 1,864 people recovered from the infection on the day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/active-caseload-crosses-25000-in-kozhikode/article35712633.ece
04 August 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Construct compound wall for campus, say medicos||The students’ union of Government Medical College, Kozhikode, has urged P.A. Mohamed Riyas, Minister for Public Works and Tourism, to take steps to complete the construction of a compound wall for the campus. In a letter to the Minister, union chairman Shawn M. Thomas said on Tuesday that the students and residents of the staff quarters had been facing serious issues due to the lack of the compound wall. He said the campus had become a hotspot of anti-socials, bike thieves and trespassers. In just a month, six instances of attempt to assault women had been reported. Five motorcycles were stolen from the parking slot of the men’s hostel. The residents of girls’ hostels had been facing instances of exhibitionism. Despite lodging complaints with the police and local authorities, dumping of waste in the campus continued. The area lacked proper streetlights as well.  Meanwhile, Mr. Riyas handed over seven ventilator machines, donated by the Kozhikode District Panchayat, to the medical college authorities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/construct-compound-wall-for-campus-say-medicos/article35712635.ece
04 August 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Consumerfed launches new online service||The Kerala State Cooperative Consumers’ Federation (Consumerfed) has entered the online market of home appliances. The service, offered with the support of a home appliances distributor, will be available in Kozhikode and Wayanad districts in the first phase. Mayor Beena Philip launched the service on Monday at the Consumerfed office in Kozhikode while Federation chairman M. Mehaboob presided over.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/consumerfed-launches-new-online-service/article35712632.ece
04 August 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Good show by Kozhikode in CBSE exam||Schools affiliated to the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) have claimed to score 100% pass when results of Class X exams were declared on Tuesday evening. According to sources in the Malabar Sahodaya Complex, a conglomeration of CBSE schools, all the 3,173 students registered in 51 schools have become eligible for higher studies. Harikrishnan from Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan School, Perumthiruthi, became the top scorer by bagging 499 out of 500 marks. Almost all schools affiliated to Vadakara Sahodaya had registered 100% pass, said sources.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/good-show-by-kozhikode-in-cbse-exam/article35712636.ece
04 August 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||UG results||The University of Calicut is planning to announce the results of sixth semester undergraduate courses before the Onam holidays. A release said on Tuesday that the staff of Pareeksha Bhavan were working without taking offs so that the results were out by August 16. Holidays The holidays start on August 19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ug-results/article35712627.ece
04 August 2021||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||Students for cancelling Plus One exam||Higher secondary students under the banner of the Plus One Students’ Collective staged a stand-up protest in front of the collectorate here on Tuesday, demanding that the government cancel the Plus One examination proposed to be held in September. “Through online studies, Plus One students have got hardly 10% of the knowledge that ought to have been acquired from the classes. Therefore, conducting the examination in September will be a mere farce,” said P.K. Prabhash, State secretary of the All India Democratic Students Organisation. He inaugurated the dharna. The collective district coordinator Aleena S. said higher secondary was a stepping stone to the world of higher education. “The government appears to be oblivious of that fact. Many students have not got books. There were no teachers for several subjects last year. Even when students say they do not understand anything through online classes, the government and the Higher Secondary Board fail to give them any attention,” said Mr. Prabhash and Ms. Aleena.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/students-for-cancelling-plus-one-exam/article35712634.ece
04 August 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Subway project at East Fort may be scrapped||With the work on the foot overbridge at East Fort taking off and with concerns of possible flooding being raised, the subway project planned at the same location under the Thiruvananthapuram city Corporation's Smart City projects is likely to be cancelled. The subway, with a proposed cost of around Rs. 30 crore, was mooted to reduce the congestion at the East Fort junction and to ensure a safe passage for pedestrians to the Chala market side.  Long-standing demand A foot overbridge or subway has been a long-standing demand from the public, as the area has witnessed deaths of pedestrians in road accidents in recent years. The stone-laying ceremony for a foot overbridge here was conducted more than two years ago. However, the project got delayed due to the Archaeology Department objecting to the structure owing to its proximity to the Fort Wall. The project is being executed under a public-private partnership between the city Corporation and a private company. Two other foot overbridges were similarly constructed in front of Cotton Hill Government Girls' Higher Secondary School at Vazhuthacaud and St. Mary's Higher Secondary School at Pattom. The company was set to bear the cost of construction and maintenance of the foot overbridge. It would have generated revenue from advertisement rights on the overbridge. Need questioned However, with the foot overbridge construction taking off, questions have been raised about the need for a subway at the same location. The detailed project report (DPR) of the proposed subway has already been prepared. But, right from the beginning, experts have pointed at the chances of the subway getting flooded frequently due to its location at a flood-prone area near the city's canal system. "The DPR for the subway was made under the assumption that the foot overbridge project would not take off. But now that the work for the overbridge has begun, there is confusion over the need for a subway too in the same location. In the upcoming Smart City Thiruvananthapuram Limited (SCTL) board meeting, the proposal to drop the project will be discussed. The consultant who prepared the DPR will probably have to be compensated. There have been instances of projects being dropped under Smart City in other cities too. At any point when there is a feeling that a project might not be viable, it is better to drop it," said a source from the SCTL. Meanwhile, Corporation officials said that the civic body wanted the work on the overbridge to be completed before Onam. However, at the current pace, it could overshoot that schedule.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/subway-project-at-east-fort-may-be-scrapped/article35712943.ece
04 August 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Govt. to unveil altered lockdown plan today||The government will possibly unveil the State’s updated roadmap to bridle the resurgent COVID-19 pandemic and resuscitate the declining economy on Wednesday. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, who reviewed the pandemic situation here on Tuesday, is expected to make a statement in the Assembly under Rule 300 to showcase the State’s new plan of action. By one account, Health Minister Veena George might join Mr. Vijayan. The details of the closed-door meeting remained largely secret. Top officials attended the conference. It took place against the backdrop of an unrelentingly high average test positivity rate, complaints about vaccine shortage, the resurgence of the disease in Malappuram, and the spectre of a third wave. Nevertheless, the meeting triggered intense speculation that the government would further ease the restrictions on trade, life, mobility, and outdoor activities ahead of Onam. Traders expressed optimism that the government would allow the retail and service sectors to function on weekdays and Saturdays and were hopeful that the government would limit weekend lockdown to Sunday or lift it for good. Norms may change The decision to impose strict lockdown restrictions in local bodies might henceforth hinge on the actual number of patients in the locality rather than the test positivity rate. Traders, hoteliers, street food vendors, and restaurateurs hope for extended business timings to mitigate crowding. They have also sought lifting of the night curfew. Textile shops, jewellery, beauty parlours, salons, gymnasiums, resorts, bar hotels, swimming pools, spas, and tourist resorts are also waiting for some respite from the pandemic curbs to cash in on Onam. An official said the meeting also weighed whether hotels, shopping malls, cinema halls and related service sectors could admit fully vaccinated customers if they produced proof and observed the protocol. Officials also discussed the possible opening of educational institutions and the conduct of examinations. The mask and physical distancing mandate would endure. The government seemed unsure how far it could dial down the curbs on social life. SC ire Onam entailed increased home visits, fraternising and commuting, and long-distance travel. Both activities risked spreading the contagion. The government had earned the Supreme Court’s ire for lifting pandemic restrictions during Bakrid. It did not want to risk the court’s criticism on the same count twice, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/govt-to-unveil-altered-lockdown-plan-today/article35712715.ece
04 August 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Spike in hospitalisation, ICU occupancy||The State’s COVID-19 case graph continues to be on an upward trend and it seemed to climb higher on Tuesday logging 23,676 new cases when 1,99,456 samples – the highest number of tests done in a day so far – were tested over the past 24 hours. All of last week, the State had registered over 20,000 new cases for six consecutive days. With the increase in tests, the test positivity rate on Tuesday seemed to dip to 11.87%. The State’s active case pool registered a significant jump on Tuesday and now has 1,73,221 patients, with 15,626 patients reported to have recovered on the day. Toll crosses 17,000 The cumulative case fatality crossed 17,000 and now stands at 17,103, with the State adding 148 deaths to the toll list on Tuesday. The number of hospitalisations and ICU occupancy figures are beginning to show an increase and on Tuesday, the ICU occupancy number showed a definite hike from 1,965 on Monday to 2,036. The number of patients requiring ventilator support was 765. On Tuesday, the number of patients newly admitted to hospitals was 2,456. Total hospitalisations of those with moderate or severe infection have been showing a rising trend over the past few days and now stand at 28,858. Among the districts, Malappuram reported the highest number of new cases at 4,276, Thrissur 2,908, Ernakulam 2,702, Kozhikode 2,416, Palakkad 2,223, Kollam 1,836, Alappuzha 1,261, Kottayam 1,241, Kannur 1,180, Thiruvananthapuram 1,133, Kasaragod 789, Wayanad 787, Pathanamthitta 584 and Idukki 340.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/spike-in-hospitalisation-icu-occupancy/article35712722.ece
04 August 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Ensure power supply for online education: panel||The Kerala State Commission for Protection of Child Rights has directed that an applicant seeking electricity connection for their children’s education should be provided one while ensuring safety, even if wiring has been done in only one room in the house. The commission, comprising members K. Nazeer and B. Babitha, also recently directed that in case the owners of the nearby land failed to give the ‘consent for property crossing’, the Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB) staff should submit an application without delay under Section 16 of the Indian Telegraph Act, 1885, to the District Magistrate or the Additional District Magistrate. A decision must be taken by the magistrate on the application for power within seven days, the panel said. Acting on a petition by a girl student from Kozhikode, the panel directed the Revenue Secretary to issue orders to all officials and the KSEB chairman and managing director to issue directives to the staff to follow the commission’s demand. Education disrupted The petitioner had contended that wiring had been carried out only in one room of her house following safety codes. Due to financial strain, the family had been unable to carry out wiring in the entire building. However, her online education was being disrupted owing to the lack of electricity. In his report to the commission, the Assistant Engineer of KSEB, Balussery, said a power line was drawn to the petitioner’s house.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ensure-power-supply-for-online-education-panel/article35712702.ece
04 August 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Schools in district shine bright in CBSE Class X results||Schools in the district produced excellent CBSE Class X results though classes were held online and board examinations cancelled owing to COVID-19 disruptions. At Navajeevan Bethany Vidyalaya, Arya S. Warrier and Monkia Ashleen secured 99.8% marks to secure the first position. Of the 195 students in the school, 176 secured distinction. Sara Fathima of Jyothis Central School, Kazhakuttam, bagged 99.8% marks to become the topper in the school. Thirty six of 135 students from the school secured above 95% marks, and 120 have distinction. At Kendriya Vidyalaya, Pattom, Apsara Jose and Nikhilesh Joshi secured 99.6% marks to grab the top slot. Of the 342 students in both shifts, all registered pass. Forty-four students secured A1 in all subjects. Gowri Krishna bagged 99.6% marks to come first at Kendriya Vidyalaya, Akkulam. Seventy out of 150 students in the school secured more than 90% marks. Forty-one students scored A1 in all subjects. At Saraswathi Vidyalaya, Vattiyurkavu, Athul P.T. secured 99.6% marks to emerge the topper. High scores Safiya Ahamed Shafeek scored 99.6% marks to bag the first position at Amrita Kairali Vidya Bhavan, Nedumangad. Of the total of 86 students, 38 students scored above 90%. Rahul Vinod and Niveditha Anoop secured 99.5% marks to emerge toppers at St. Thomas Central School, Mukkolakkal. Of the 223 students, 193 secured distinction, and 23 had A1 in all subjects. Parthiv Raju, Hanna Sajan, Isha Gafoor, and Thasneem Shajahan were the toppers at Sarvodaya Central Vidyalaya, Nalanchira, with 99.4% marks. Out of 148 students in the school, 147 obtained distinction. At Sai Krishna Public School, Chenkal, Arathy A.R. became the topped with 99.4% marks. The school registered 100% results, with 35 of the 43 students securing distinction. Arjun Krishna J. M. scored 99% to become the topper at Viswabharathy Public School, Neyyattinkara. Of the 242 students, 113 secured 90% and above. Fifty students secured A1 in all subjects. Abhirami H. Nair topped Kendriya Vidyalaya, Pangode, with 98.4% marks. The school had 100% results, with 43 students securing above 90% marks. At Sree Vivekananda Memorial Public School, Aralummoodu, Harikrishna S.S. secured the top spot with 97.4% marks. The school had 100% results. Rameez Sulthan R.S. was the topper with 96.8% marks at St. Shantal English Medium School, Malamukal. The school recorded 100% results. At Cordova Public School, Ambalathara, Nasreen M. secured 96% marks to grab the first spot. At St. Francis Sales Senior Secondary School, Vizhinjam, 15 students secured A1 in all subjects.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/schools-in-district-shine-bright-in-cbse-class-x-results/article35712940.ece
04 August 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||CBSE Class X exam: Kerala, Dweep top with 99.99% pass||In a pandemic-disrupted academic year, the Thiruvananthapuram region, comprising Kerala and Lakshadweep, of the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) has maintained its impressive record to top nationally with a pass percentage of 99.99 in Class X results. The region is ranked ahead of Bengaluru that has recorded 99.96% pass and Chennai that followed in third place with 99.94. The results were declared by the CBSE on Tuesday. Last year too, the Thiruvananthapuram region topped with a pass percentage of 99.28. The overall pass percentage in the country this year is 99.04. As in the case of Class XII results, the board refrained from publishing a merit list for the Class X results. It will issued a combined mark sheet-cum-certificate to the students. Good show As many as 69,610 students were awaiting the Class X results from the region this year. Kerala CBSE School Managements Association president T.P.M. Ibrahim Khan said the results of the Thiruvananthapuram region were very encouraging. The number of distinctions had increased, though the number of students who had secured A1 was lesser this time. However, some students who had Malayalam as an optional subject suffered as only those who had 98 marks and above were awarded A1, he said. K.S. Thampatty, president of the Trivandrum Sahodaya Complex, said many schools under the Sahodaya had registered 100% success. In a few schools with 30 or 40 students, half had secured distinctions. Following the cancellation of the CBSE board examinations in the wake of the COVID-19 surge, the results were tabulated as per a special criterion. Students not satisfied with the marks allocated will get an opportunity to appear for examinations as and when the conditions are conducive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cbse-class-x-exam-kerala-dweep-top-with-9999-pass/article35712656.ece
04 August 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Record pass of 51.86% in KTU BTech exams||The third BTech batch of APJ Abdul Kalam Technological University (KTU) has recorded a pass percentage of over 51.86, the highest for a batch since the university was set up. There is a marked increase of 5% from the pass percentage of the previous year. The results of the eighth-semester examinations that culminated on July 20 were consolidated and published on July 31. Formally announcing the results of the 2017-21 batch here on Tuesday, KTU Vice Chancellor M.S. Rajasree said 14,743 out of the 28,424 students from 144 engineering colleges who appeared for the final-year examinations passed. They included 7,335 girls and 7,408 boys. SC/ST students Among the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes students, only 262 (27.9%) of the 939 could clear the examinations. While 32,525 students were admitted to 23 engineering disciplines in the batch that began on August 15, 2017, a total of 4,101 students failed to progress to the eighth semester due to various reasons. As many as 2,052 among them dropped out or switched to other courses at various periods, while 1,061 availed a one-year break from study and 988 shifted to lower semesters. The pass percentages stood at 46.5 and 36.5 in 2020 and 2019 respectively. Government, government-aided, government-controlled self-financing and private self-financing colleges registered success rates of 68.08, 72.77, 55.46 and 46.02 respectively. Among disciplines Among the major engineering disciplines, Electronics and Communication Engineering recorded the highest pass percentage of 53.40. Computer Sciences, Civil, Electrical and Electronics, and Mechanical Engineering streams registered 52.5%, 49.38%, 42.68% and 37.20% respectively. BTech Honours As many as 3,008 — 20.4% — of those who cleared the examinations were eligible for BTech Honours degree. These included 350 students from the TKM College of Engineering, 117 from the MA College of Engineering and 116 from the Rajagiri College of Engineering and Technology. Government Engineering College, Thiruvananthapuram (82.49); the Muthoot Institute of Technology and Science, Ernakulam (80.81); Model Engineering College, Trikkakkara (80.61); the TKM College of Engineering, Kollam (79.4); and the Rajagiri School of Engineering & Technology, Ernakulam (77.88); were among the colleges that led in terms of highest pass percentages. Pro Vice Chancellor S. Ayoob said provisional certificates and grade cards of the successful students would be made available in digital format along with the e-signature of the Controller of Examinations on the student portal before August 5. They could be downloaded from the university website. Certificates This was the first time in the State that certificates were issued through a digital system, he said. Applications for degree certificates will be accepted within 20 days. Degree certificates in digital form will be made available in DigiLocker, a cloud-based platform provided by the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/record-pass-of-5186-in-ktu-btech-exams/article35712693.ece
04 August 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||All set for KEAM on Thursday||All arrangements are in place for the Kerala engineering and pharmacy entrance examinations (KEAM 2021) scheduled for Thursday (August 5). The examinations, comprising two papers, will be held across 415 centres in Kerala and a centre each in Dubai, Mumbai, and Ghaziabad in Uttar Pradesh. Following the difficulty in identifying an examination venue in New Delhi, the Commissioner for Entrance Examination (CEE) was forced to finalise a centre at St. Thomas School in Indirapuram, Ghaziabad, instead. Those who have opted for the New Delhi centre have been intimated of the change, according to a statement. As many as 1,12,097 have registered for the examination. The exam had earlier been scheduled for July 24, but had to be postponed to avoid clash of dates with the JEE-Main entrance exam. COVID protocol According to the office of the CEE, all steps have been adopted to comply with the COVID-19 protocol. Parents and guardians have been requested to leave the exam centres after dropping their children and return only towards the end. Local bodies have been requested to designate waiting areas for those who prefer to stay back. District Collectors should coordinate various departments to ensure that the norms are met. The police will deploy adequate force for crowd control. In addition, civil defence volunteers will enforce physical distancing at the centres. All candidates will be screened using thermal scanners at the gates before entry. Double masking or N95 masks are mandatory for entering the venues. All exam centres will be sanitised on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/all-set-for-keam-on-thursday/article35712717.ece
04 August 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Heart Failure Biobank starts beating at SCTIMST||The first Heart Failure Biobank in the country to study genetic, metabolomics and proteomic markers of health outcomes in heart-failure patients has come up at the National Centre for Advanced Research and Excellence in HF (CARE-HF) at the Sree Chitra Tirunal Institute for Medical Sciences and Technology (SCTIMST) here. Balram Bhargava, Secretary, Department of Health Research and Director General, Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR), will inaugurate the biobank on a virtual platform on August 5. The HF Biobank, with sophisticated storage facilities for biospecimens, has been set up at Rs. 85 lakh and is one of the major components of the CARE-HF, the project won by the SCTIMST in 2018 from the ICMR, with a supporting grant of Rs. 5 crore. Biobanks are an important resource of collections of high-quality biological human samples that can be used to understand molecular pathways, and to improve the diagnosis, prognosis and treatment of heart failure. The biospecimens include blood, serum and tissue samples obtained during open-heart surgery and peripheral blood mononuclear cells and genomic DNA collected from heart-failure patients. Principal investigator of the project and Professor of Cardiology, SCTIMST, S. Harikrishnan said that the storage facilities include -4, -20, -80 degree Celsius freezers and a liquid nitrogen storage system that can store biosamples at –140 degree Celsius for years. Presently, there is facility to store nearly 25,000 biosamples. The biospecimens are collected after informed consent from patients who are willing to donate specimens. The de-identified samples stored and catalogued will be linked to clinical data such as physiological measures, imaging data like ECG, echocardiography, MRI and follow-up data.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/heart-failure-biobank-comes-up-at-sctimst/article35712691.ece
04 August 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Doctor manhandled in Parassala, four arrested||The police arrested four youths for allegedly manhandling a doctor and three other employees at the Parassala taluk hospital on Monday midnight. The gang unleashed violence after the hospital staff questioned them for not wearing masks. The accused were identified as Rahul, Shambu, Sajin and Vijay of Plamoottukada. The incident occurred when Rahul sought treatment in the casualty wing for an injury in one of his hands. The gang was purportedly under the influence of alcohol. Doctors affiliated to the Kerala Government Medical Officers’ Association launched a boycott of the outpatient wing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/doctor-manhandled-in-parassala-four-arrested/article35712942.ece
04 August 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Three trains partially cancelled||Southern Railways has announced partial cancellation of three trains on August 6, 13 and 20 to facilitate traffic blocks for safety-related track maintenance works. Train 06307 Alappuzha-Kannur daily special will be partially cancelled between Shoranur Junction and Kannur on August 6 and 13. The train will be short-terminated at Shoranur Junction on both dates. Train 06306 Kannur-Ernakulam Junction daily special will be partially cancelled between Kannur and Thrissur on August 20. It will commence service from Thrissur instead of Kannur. Train 06307 Alappuzha-Kannur daily special will be partially cancelled between Thrissur and Kannur on August 20 and short-terminated at Thrissur.  The dates when trains would be partially cancelled are August 6, 13 and 20||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/three-trains-partially-cancelled/article35712893.ece
04 August 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||28,160 more Plus One seats for Malabar||General Education Minister V. Sivankutty told the Assembly on Tuesday that the government would create an additional 28,160 Plus One seats in the Malabar region to ensure that no SSLC student lost the opportunity for higher secondary education. Mr. Sivankutty said the fear that lack of Plus One seats in northern districts would dampen the academic prospects of SSLC passouts was misplaced. Opposition walks out However, the Minister’s assurance failed to assuage United Democratic Front (UDF) Opposition legislators. They walked out of the House stating the government was patently ill-prepared to handle the unprecedentedly high SSLC pass out percentage (99.47) in 2021. They were also irked that Speaker M.B. Rajesh had rejected an adjournment notice moved by Indian Union Muslim League MLA M. K. Muneer to discuss the “pressing matter.” Dr. Muneer said the government had failed to plan for the vast discrepancy between the available Plus Two seats and the high number of SSLC passouts. As many as 1.12 lakh students had passed SSLC in 2021 compared to 41,906 last year. A large number of them had scored full A plus. The government had not planned for the eventuality. Its lack of foresight had put the future of students in jeopardy. The government had denied students the customary latitude in choosing their respective line of study, he said. Leader of the Opposition V.D. Satheesan said the UDF’s adjournment notice reflected the uncertainty faced by parents and students. Given the shortfall in Plus One seats, students faced the prospect of a long daily commute to higher secondary institutions in neighbouring districts or taluks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/28160-more-plus-one-seats-for-malabar/article35712723.ece
04 August 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||State to focus more on lifestyle diseases: Veena||The State will focus on reducing the morbidity and mortality due to lifestyle diseases through focussed interventions, which will be carried out through family health centres, Health Minister Veena George said in the Assembly here on Tuesday. Replying to the discussions on demand for grants for Medical, Public Health and Family Welfare in the revised Budget for the financial year 2021 in the Assembly, the Minister said the care and follow-up of individuals with various non-communicable diseases would be ensured with the help of e-health by giving a unique identity number to every patient.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/state-to-focus-more-on-lifestyle-diseases-veena/article35712724.ece
04 August 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||KGMOA suggests changes in lockdown norms||The Kerala Government Medical Officers’ Association has said in a letter to the Chief Minister that rather than a total lockdown based on test positivity rate (TPR), restrictions be limited to micro containment zones like wards in rural areas. The KGMOA says after the second wave, at least 55% of the population may have acquired some level of immunity. Taking into consideration all socio-economic factors, the current lockdown strategy should be discontinued, it says. These suggestions have also been sent to the State’s expert committee on COVID-19. It also points out that instead of the total reliance on TPR to categorise containment zones, daily positive cases/active cases per 10,000 should also be taken as indicators. It opposes setting targets and criteria for testing to reduce TPR. The KGMOA suggests congestion in markets and shopping areas be eased by extending the hours of functioning and that all shops be allowed to remain open on all days. It suggests that taxis and autorickshaws be asked to run only after fixing partition between the driver and passenger cabins. The KGMOA also says mass vaccination sessions be discouraged as it could act as superspreader events.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kgmoa-suggests-changes-in-lockdown-norms/article35712892.ece
04 August 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Fishing boat capsizes in Muthalapozhi||A fishing boat capsized after colliding with another off Muthalapozhi on Tuesday. All the 23 fishermen managed to escape and were rescued, though some of them sustained minor injuries. The boat that set sail from the harbour around 6 a.m. reportedly lost control after getting caught in the rough waves close to the estuary. This led the boat to collide with another before ramming into a groyne and capsizing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fishing-boat-capsizes-in-muthalapozhi/article35712935.ece
04 August 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Kingpin in Pallipuram dacoity case arrested||The Thiruvananthapuram Rural police have recorded a major breakthrough in the four-month-old Pallipuram dacoity case with the arrest of the kingpin and two other key conspirators. The investigation team apprehended three persons, identified as Santhosh Clement (56), a Balaramapuram native who has settled in Chennai, Satheesh Kumar (40) of Kanyakumari and Ajeesh (30) of Palakkad, who are suspected to be the key conspirators in the incident that occurred in April. The complainant, Sampath Surve, was purportedly looted when he, along with his driver and a relative, was allegedly transporting 100 sovereigns of gold from his jewellery store in Neyyattinkara to Attingal. The police said that Ajeesh, an employee in the store, provided his friend Satheesh the information that Sampath regularly carried large sums of money while transporting gold to various jewellery shops in the district. This tip-off was soon relayed to the prime accused, Santhosh Clement, a real estate developer in Chennai, who allegedly took the lead in hiring a quotation gang based in Kazhakuttam. After closely monitoring Sampath’s movements for two months, the gang attacked him along the National Highway on April 9. While they failed to locate the money concealed in the car, they fled with the gold. Unexpected twist The case had taken an unexpected twist when the police recovered Rs. 75 lakh of what is reported to be unaccounted cash from a concealed chamber in the car during the investigation. As many as 15 persons had been arrested earlier. Forty sovereigns of gold, six cars and two motorcycles have also been seized so far in connection with the case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kingpin-in-pallipuram-dacoity-case-arrested/article35712936.ece
04 August 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Capital logs 1,133 cases||The capital district recorded 1,133 COVID-19 cases and 797 recoveries on Tuesday as the number of active cases rose to 10,709. The test positivity rate (TPR) stood at 7.51% when 15,080 people were subjected to COVID-19 tests during the last 24 hours. Among the cases, 1,051 were attributed to contact transmission, while the source of infection was unknown in 75 cases. Seven health-care workers were among those diagnosed with COVID-19. The administration has placed 32,191 persons in quarantine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/capital-logs-1133-cases/article35712941.ece
04 August 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Textile store gets notice for violations||The city Corporation has issued a notice to a prominent textile-cum-department store located near Ayurveda College Junction over alleged violation of the COVID-19 protocol. According to Corporation officials, the store, spread out over six floors, functioned on Tuesday despite the protocols stipulating that such shops should not open on Tuesdays. The civic body authorities had received calls in the morning, raising complaints of crowding inside the complex. The front shutters were downed and the customers were let in through the gate behind the complex, meant for a grocery store located on the ground floor. The Corporation officials, who had reached the spot for inspection, shot videos of large crowds in some of the floors. Hundreds of workers were also found at the complex at the time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/textile-store-gets-notice-for-violations/article35712944.ece
04 August 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Sports policy on the anvil||Sports Minister V. Abdurahiman has said the government will finalise its Sports Development Policy by January next year. A seven-member committee has been constituted for the purpose. Responding to a question by K.V. Sumesh in the Assembly on Tuesday, Mr. Abdurahiman said the draft report for the policy was being prepared by the expert committee. The recommendations would be deliberated with District Sports Councils, affiliated organisations, MLAs, current and former sports persons and trainers before being declared.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sports-policy-on-the-anvil/article35712716.ece
04 August 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||PSC hails HC decision||The Kerala Public Service Commission (PSC) has hailed the Kerala High Court decision to quash the Kerala Administrative Tribunal order to extend the PSC rank list for Last Grade Servants (LGS). In a release issued here on Tuesday, the PSC Secretary said the decision was an approval of the PSC’s steps. According to Article 13 of the PSC Rules of Procedure, there were strict guidelines on extension of validity of rank lists. Rank lists could be extended in case of a recruitment freeze or a freeze on reporting on new vacancies. Considering the pandemic situation, the rank lists were extended till August 4.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/psc-hails-hc-decision/article35712718.ece
04 August 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Woman, son end life||A woman and son were found dead at their house at Mannampetta in Thrissur district on Monday. The deceased were identified as Anila, 33, wife of Sumesh Vettiyattil, and their son Aswin, 13. Their bodies were found hanging in their bedroom. Anila’s husband Sumesh died of COVID-19 two months ago. According to relatives and neighbours, Anila, a lab technician at a district hospital, and son were under tremendous mental trauma after Sumesh’s death. A neighbour found them hanging in the bedroom. Aswin was a Class 8 student of Gurudeva School, Varakkara. Forensic experts collected evidence. (Suicide Prevention helpline Number – DISHA -1056, 0471-2552056)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/woman-son-end-life/article35712888.ece
04 August 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||CPI(M) expels former branch secretary||Communist Party of India (Marxist) former branch secretary K.K. Sujeesh, who allegedly fought against irregularities at the Karuvannur Service Cooperative Bank, has been removed from the party. He has been expelled from the party by the CPI(M) local committee of Porathissery. It is reported that Mr. Sujesh had informed about the fraud at the bank to the CPI(M) Madayikkonam School branch and the local, area, and district bodies of the party. But the party failed to take action. Mr. Sujesh had sent a complaint to the Chief Minister and the Prime Minister too about the bank fraud. Recently, he wrote about the role of CPI(M) leaders in the fraud on social media. According to party sources, he was expelled for anti-party activities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cpim-expels-former-branch-secretary/article35712714.ece
04 August 2021||August 04 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||The aftermath||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/the-aftermath/article35712648.ece
04 August 2021||August 04 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Minority report||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/minority-report/article35712939.ece
04 August 2021||August 04 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Screening out||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/screening-out/article35712890.ece
04 August 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||230 JNTU-A students land jobs||As many as 230 students from the JNTUA College of Engineering in Anantapur bagged jobs in different multi-national companies through a campus recruitment drive held online recently. University Vice-Chancellor G. Ranga Janardhana handed over some of the offer letters on Tuesday while congratulating all students on their excellent performance. Among the companies that participated in the drive were the TCS, CTS, Infosys, DeltaX, Hexaware Technologies, MedhaServo Drives Ltd., Verzeo, Rockwell Industries, Cerium Systems Ltd., Deccan Fine Chemicals Ltd., Focus Academy Career Enhancement Ltd. and Broadcom Ltd. Out of the 230 students, 4 got an offer in the TCS with a Rs. 7 Lakh per annum package, 2 students got an offer in the CTS Corporation (Rs. 6.75 lakh per annum), 3 students got an offer in DeltaXand Verzeo with (Rs. 5 lakh) and rest of the students were placed with salary package of between Rs. 3 lakh and Rs. 5 lakh per annum.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/230-jntu-a-students-land-jobs/article35712860.ece
04 August 2021||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Five held in Bengaluru for violence||A day after a protest by African nationals against the custodial death of a citizen of Congo ended in violence and lathi-charge in front of J.C. Nagar police station, five were arrested on Tuesday in connection with the violence. DCP (North) Dharmedra Kumar Meena said five persons have been arrested so far in connection with the attack and their travel documents are being verified. They were taken for a medical examination, after which the police alleged that of the five arrested, one tested positive for consuming narcotic substance. “We have taken up two cases, including the attack on PSI Latha and PSI Mallikarjuna during the protest, and a case about an injury to a minor boy when he was pushed by the accused while fleeing after the violence,” an officer said. Based on a complaint by the boy’s parents, the police registered a case and are looking for the prime accused who led the group in the attack They have collected CCTV and video footage. A special team has been formed to track them down. The incident was preceded by the arrest of Joel Shindani Malu, 27, a national of the Democratic Republic of the Congo, for allegedly peddling drugs on Sunday. While in custody, he allegedly complained of chest pain early on Monday and was shifted to a hospital, where he was later declared dead owing to a suspected cardiac arrest. Following the news of his death, members of an African association gathered in front of the J.C. Nagar police station and staged a protest, demanding a detailed inquiry into the incident. The police resorted to lathi-charge to disperse the protesters after accusing them of turning violent and attacking the police. The African Association has countered police claims and said that Joel was pursuing a BBA and was at a birthday party at his friend’s house in Hennur, when the police raided the place and picked him up. On Tuesday, Police Commissioner Kamal Pant told the media that an officer from the Congo Embassy will arrive in the city to look at the post mortem of the deceased and the entire process will be videographed and a copy will be sent to the Human Rights Commission. The special team will take legal action against whoever is found to be overstaying, Mr. Meena said, adding that the police have taken action against 154 persons in the North Division for staying in India without valid documents.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/five-held-in-bengaluru-for-violence/article35712266.ece
04 August 2021||CHENNAI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Webinar on investment industry offers career guidance to young professionals||A webinar, jointly organised by BusinessLine and the CFA Institute, on ‘Career Insights: Gaining an edge in the post-COVID Investment Industry ’ on August 1 saw several students and young professionals participate and interact with industry experts. Panel discussion Vidhu Shekhar, Country Head – India, CFA Institute; Nisha Awasthi, Managing Director and Head of HR, BlackRock India; Saurabh Mukherjea, Founder & CIO, Marcellus Investment Managers; and Vaibhav Jain, Head, Strategic Partnerships & Sales, WealthDesk spoke as a part of the panel discussion moderated by Parvatha Vardhini C, The Hindu BusinessLine’s Chief of Research Bureau. The interaction answered several questions pertaining to qualifications and skill sets required to get a break in investment management, the impact of technology on the profession, the current opportunities and the future of the industry. Ms. Awasthi said that as young professionals entering the industry, they should give themselves enough time and show commitment to go deeper and stronger in a particular field of business that leveraged their strength. Stating that the focus should be on skill building, Mr. Mukherjea said that one needed to get out of the mindset of earning more and more degrees and professional qualifications to showcase expertise. Lucrative Mr. Shekhar said that investment management had become a lucrative career option for young professionals, as increasing income levels and booming markets were drawing more investors to financial assets. Risk management Mr. Jain highlighted the importance of risk management skills for those in the industry.  The interaction answers questions pertaining to qualifications and skill sets required to get a break in investment management and the impact of technology on the profession||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/webinar-on-investment-industry-offers-career-guidance-to-young-professionals/article35712275.ece
04 August 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Red sanders smugglers strike at the core of Seshachalam forests||Gone are the days when red sanders smuggling operatives, mostly the workforce from the north-western districts of Tamil Nadu, used to fell red sanders trees in the lower and middle canopy zones of the Seshachalam biosphere spread over Chittoor and Kadapa districts, mostly handling moderate to small sized logs. In the last one year, their strategy turned more audacious, taking them right into the heart of the forests, targeting the upper canopy on the soil-rich slopes. The giant size and arresting quality of the logs seized in recent months has baffled officials of the Andhra Pradesh State Red Sanders Anti-Smuggling Task Force. The trend has started presenting a big picture, projecting high-level damage to the forest wealth. The trespassers’ axes have reached the roots of the red sanders trees, believed to be four to five decades old. The three-decade-long plundering of red sanders wealth advanced from axing at the perimeter of the Seshachalam ranges to invading the multi-layered terrain and finally entering the core belt. Amid a colossal loss of the forest wealth, running into several thousands of crores, there is no valid information as to how many trees had disappeared over the years. “Quality and quantity matter the most in any contraband trade. It’s true; the core area is still left with an amazing treasure of the red gold. Their protection is now a million dollar issue,” a senior task force member said.  It is observed that taking advantage of the lull in the combing activity, both by the task force and the forest squads, owing to COVID-19 and stepped up surveillance at the border check-posts, the smuggling network indiscriminately felled the trees of finest quality, maintaining dumps at the foothills, and waiting for the right time to shift the stocks across the borders to Tamil Nadu and Karnataka. In recent months, the Chittoor police raided some of the dumps in these States, and the task force unearthed a huge dump in the hillocks bordering Tamil Nadu. Divisional Forest Officer (Rajampeta) G. Srinivasulu said the need of the hour was to make combing parties penetrate deep into the forests, instead of patrolling the boundaries. “Several teams have been formed to cover all the red sanders-rich compartments in Rajampeta division with its maximum share of red sanders presence in the Rayalaseema ranges. Our staff is now carrying weapons to effectively arrest the damage to forest wealth. Constant presence of combing parties in deeper areas would slowly and steadily demoralise the smugglers,” the DFO said. Superintendent of Police (Task Force) Sundar Rao observed that DGP Gautam Sawang had approved additional staff to intensify combing operations not only in Seshachalam hills of Chittoor and Kadapa, but also in Kurnool, Nellore and Prakasam districts. “In spite of our manpower constraints, our forces did their best. We will push through deeper jungles and are in touch with the forest department to procure satellite communication equipment to overcome network hurdles,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/red-sanders-smugglers-strike-at-the-core-of-seshachalam-forests/article35712329.ece
04 August 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Govt. has no role in Amara Raja Batteries moving out of State’||Secretary (Forest and Energy) G.V.S.R. Vijay Kumar has made it clear that no industry was singled out as reported in a section of media but closure and stop production notices were served as per norms on the Amara Raja Batteries Limited. Reports appeared in a section of media suggested that the company was moving out of the State owing to the ‘harassment by the State government’. “During the inspections, pollution levels were found to be high in some industries including the Amara Raja Batteries in violation of the norms. It was found that the managements had violated the norms and as directed by the High Court, they were asked to shift the industries, as irreparable damage had been done to the ecosystem surrounding the units,” said Mr. Vijay Kumar, adding that the management had been served notices twice, in addition to the legal hearing on their violations, before the closure orders were served just like the other industries. High Court directive Mr. Vijay Kumar said the company had moved the High Court, challenging the closure orders and the court ordered to constitute a team to study the conditions in the industries. “In fact, reports by both the APPCB and Hyderabad-based EPTRI (Environment Protection Training and Research Institute) have mentioned that dangerous levels of lead have been identified in air, water, land and even in the blood samples of the factory staff. Based on the reports, the High Court asked the company to initiate measures to address the pollution issue, but it had failed to do so,” said Mr. Vijay Kumar. Mr. Vijay Kumar said that Nayudu Cheruvu, Gollapalli reservoir and other tanks were highly contaminated with presence of lead ranging from 134.79mm to 3159mm. Almost 4-5 km radius surrounding the industries has been highly polluted. Although the APPCB accorded permission to operate 28 air stags, it was using more than 137 air stags unauthorisedly, he said, adding that even employees of the industries were also found with alarming levels of lead (42 mg/dcl) in their bodies due to severe exposure.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govt-has-no-role-in-amara-raja-batteries-moving-out-of-state/article35712871.ece
04 August 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Inspector involved in a rave party?||A circle inspector of police was reportedly among those who have been been allegedly involved in a birthday party in which six women dancers took part. Late on Monday night, the Pattabhipuram police raided a guest house where a party was being held. Police took 25 persons into custody, including the six women. However, local reports said that Venkateswarlu, who had earlier worked as station house officer of Pattabhipuram and Chilakaluripet police stations, was allegedly present in the birthday party at Guntur on Monday night, but he reportedly managed to give the slip. Senior police officials, however, were tightlipped about the incident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/inspector-involved-in-a-rave-party/article35712967.ece
04 August 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Church member attacked by rival group||The reported power struggle between two groups warring to take control of Andhra Lutheran Evangelical Church compound reached a flash point. A series of unsavoury incidents over the last three weeks in which two groups, AELC Guntur synod president G Elia and present Bishop Pardesi Babu yet again brought the spotlight on the issue. The skirmishes on regular Sunday in worships between the two factions reached a flashpoint when a church member Sudhakar was allegedly attacked by a group at West Parish late on Monday. A police case was registered at Nagarampalam police station.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/church-member-attacked-by-rival-group/article35712971.ece
04 August 2021||Hyderabad,ANDHRA PRADESH||TS EAMCET commences today, to end on Aug. 10||Candidates appearing for the Engineering Agriculture and Medical Common Entrance Test (EAMCET) starting from Wednesday have to be very careful with the timings as officials have cautioned that students arriving even one minute late for the test will not be allowed entry into the exam hall. Masks compulsory The Computer Based Test (CBT) starting Wednesday will continue till August 10 covering both the engineering and agriculture streams. A total of 2,51,606 candidates will test their luck of which 1,64,962 are in the engineering stream and 86,644 in the agriculture and medical streams. EAMCET Convenor A. Govardhan said that aspirants need to wear masks while entering the exam hall and also during the exam session. Centres will ensure that candidates follow COVID19 precautions and social distancing. The Convenor has advised students to personally visit the exam centre a day in advance to avoid confusion on the exam and end up reaching late. Mr Goverdhan said the engineering test will be held in six sessions on August 4, 5 and 6 with a session in the morning and afternoon on each day. The agriculture and medical test will be held in three sessions with two sessions on August 9 and an afternoon session on August 10. All the morning sessions will be held from 9 a.m. to 12 noon while afternoon sessions will be held from 3 p.m. to 6 p.m. The attestation on Filled in Online Application form by a Gazetted Officer or the Principal of the college where the candidate last studied is not required this time. Officials have asked candidates to carefully go through the instructions on the hall ticket. This year 2,51,606 candidates applied for the test of which 1,64,962 are in engineering and 86,644 in the agriculture and medical stream. Overall, there are 105 test centres out of which 82 are in Telangana and the remaining 23 in Andhra Pradesh. TS EAMCET is conducted by the JNT University Hyderabad on behalf of the Telangana State Council of Higher Education for admission into various professional courses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/eamcet-across-the-state-from-today/article35712583.ece
04 August 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Telangana absent from Godavari panel meet||A meeting of the coordination committee of Godavari River Management Board (GRMB) convened here on Tuesday ended without making any headway on operationalisation of clauses of the gazette notifying its purview with one of the two member States, Telangana, staying away from it as informed indirectly on Monday. Apart from Chairman of the board J. Chandrashekhar Iyer, Member Secretary B.P. Pandey, other Members, Chairman and Managing Director of AP-Genco B. Sreedhar, CMD of AP-Transco N. Srikanth, Engineers-in-Chief of Water Resources Department C. Narayana Reddy and R. Satish Kumar, representative of the Ministry of Jal Shakti (MoJS) attended the meeting. On its part, Telangana has made its mind clear on Monday by addressing a letter to the GRMB Chairman to convene a full board meeting before holding the coordination committee meeting stating that there were several important issues to be discussed at the meeting for opinion and guidance of the board to go ahead with operationalisation of the purview. Telangana ENC C. Muralidhar wrote a similar letter to Chairman of the Krishna River Management Board (KRMB) M.P. Singh to convene full board meeting before holding coordination panel meet. It is understood from the authorities concerned that the board chairman had enquired about the status of funds to be transferred by the two member States as one-time deposit, Rs. 200 crore each, and also information about projects mentioned in the schedules of the gazette notification issued on July 15. Andhra Pradesh authorities informed the board that they would take the matter to their government’s notice. Sources stated that the AP government was planning to move the MoJS on some issues including the need to de-list some projects from the schedules mentioned in the gazette notification. Speaking after the meeting, Mr. Narayana Reddy said that the board had tried to elicit their views on going-ahead with the operationalisation of clauses of the notification on the purview. However, they had informed the board authorities that they had specific doubts over the basic infrastructure and procedures for implementation of the purview and want clarity on them. There were certain issues to be decided at the level of the Chief Minister and only after that they could be more specific on views. Without mentioning the projects, he further stated that they also had some reservations over the inclusion of some projects in the schedules of the board’s purview The board authorities indicated that the full board meeting could be held next week.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/telangana-absent-from-godavari-panel-meet/article35712265.ece
04 August 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Return of IT employees to offices may take time||One-and-a-half years after switching to work from home mode, information technology firms in the city vary widely in their assessment of how many of the over six lakh people they employ will resume work from office in the months ahead, if findings of a Hyderabad Software Enterprises Association survey are any indication. Conducted to get a peek into future working models and amid Telangana government nudging the firms to call employees back to office, the survey showed the number could be less than 30% to as much as 90% by this fiscal. While 20% of the companies said they will have more than 90% workforce working from office (WFO) by March, another 20% said they will have less than 30% of employees WFO by the same time frame. The remaining 60% of companies will have 30-89% employees WFO, the survey report released on Tuesday said. Uncertainty is high The responses are a reflection of the uncertainty as well as the multiple factors at play, including the fear of contracting the virus, more waves of COVID-19, level of vaccination among the employees and the support staff, comfort developed WFH as well attrition rates. “Any results which has such a huge range means that there is so much of uncertainty,” HYSEA president Bharani K. Aroll said. The survey said by December this year, 73% of the companies are looking to have 10-50% of employees back in office, while the remaining 27% said they are likely to operate with less than 10% employees WFO. Over 50 small as well as medium, large and very large (MLVL) member-companies of HYSEA, representing nearly 25% of the IT/ITeS workforce in the city, participated in the survey. Nearly 45% of the respondents were GCCs or global companies with their technology operations in Hyderabad. The survey report said MLVL companies — firms employing over 500 people — are likely to give a realistic picture of the situation given their employee base. Nearly 76% of the companies surveyed have less than 9% WFO at present, while for MLVL companies this number is less than 5%. Also, not only is an overwhelming majority of Hyderabad’s IT/ITeS employee WFH, but a good number are operating from outside Hyderabad.  Estimating that nearly two lakh of the six lakh IT employees are not in Hyderabad, the report said this factor will eventually be a big constraint in pushing for return to office. Mr. Aroll said while a number of factors may determine WFO numbers going forward, what, however, is likely to make a big difference is clients expecting employees of vendor firms to WFO. ‘Evolving situation’ “It is a evolving situation, there will be more pressure from the clients. They are asking their employees [too] to come back,” he said. For employees too, teamwork and collaboration and in person mentorship, training and development are important for professional growth, he added. However, not all companies are expected to call all employees to office even after the pandemic. They are likely instead to opt for hybrid work model based on function and productivity with a section of workforce given WFH option. WFH is also likely to be leveraged as an incentive to tide over talent supply chain challenges of future, the report said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/return-of-it-staff-to-offices-may-take-time/article35712593.ece
04 August 2021||Kadapa,ANDHRA PRADESH||37 years of service to aurally-challenged||What began as a humble attempt to reach out to a mere 10 students with hearing impairment in 1984 has now transformed into a mega institution. Kadapa-based Helen Keller’s High School for the Deaf and Rehabilitation Centre has provided livelihood to hundreds of aurally-challenged girls, with many of them in government jobs today. The admission of a mere 10 students in 1984 did not sap the morale of its founder P. Dowlath Khan, who continued to put his best foot forward to help the students. It had become a high school in 1992, a junior college in 2006 and, finally, transformed into a degree college in 2016. Over the last 37 years, the centre has come to be known as the epitome of social outreach for children with aural defects, helping more than 1,500 children pursue an active livelihood. “The sight of five children of a family, all having hearing defect, in my neighbourhood made me and my brother think of an institution that takes care of their needs. My mother, an Urdu teacher, guided us in pursuing our dream, due to which we founded the institution,” Mr. Khan told The Hindu.  Apart from catering to the needs of such students, the institution has also taken a giant leap by creating a talent pool of special teachers. “We launched D.Ed Special Education (hearing impaired) course in 1997 and B.Ed in 2006. By this, we have created a talent pool of special teachers for training the students in the future,” said principal Masooda Begum. Thirty such teachers walked out of this school’s portals to serve in Andhra Pradesh and Telangana, she added. The school won the Central government’s award in 2007, a national award for child welfare in 2006 and the State government’s ‘Best institution award’ in 2004, apart from bagging district- level awards six times. The school is open for admission to children with hearing impairment from Chittoor, Anantapur, Kurnool, Nellore and Prakasam districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/37-years-of-service-to-the-aurally-challenged/article35712870.ece
04 August 2021||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||No Tipu Sultan statue in A.P.’s Proddatur||With the Kadapa district administration deciding not to allow the installation of any more statues, the furore over the move to build a statue of Tipu Sultan in Proddatur is expected to die down. It all started with the Proddatur YSRCP MLA Rachamallu Sivaprasad Reddy volunteering to install a statue of Tipu Sultan on a main road junction and even performing ‘Bhumi Puja’ for the same, allegedly without getting a nod from the district statues committee. The Bharatiya Janata Party leadership, led by Somu Veerraju and S. Vishnuvardhan Reddy, visited Kadapa and submitted representations to officials against the move, describing it as “unconstitutional” and “an attempt to appease the minorities”. Welcoming the government’s decision, the BJP on Tuesday demanded Mr. Reddy’s arrest for “going against the Constitution”. Meanwhile, Minority Hakkula Parirakshana Samithi State president Farooq Shibli has accused the YSRCP government of playing with public sentiments. “Muslims never asked for a Tipu Sultan statue. It was the MLA who insisted on installing a statue, but the U-turn is indicative of tacit support to the BJP’s divide-and-rule politics,” he said. Mr. Shibli took exception to the way “the government had taken refuge in the Supreme Court’s directive to avoid installing the statue”. “There are several statues in Proddatur town, including five of former Chief Minister Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy alone. How are they not in violation of the SC’s guidelines?” he asked.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/no-tipu-sultan-statue-in-aps-proddatur/article35712269.ece
04 August 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||CPI(M) leaders pay tributes to former MLA||CPI(M) leaders on Tuesday said that intensifying the movement for the rights of the families affected by the Polavaram irrigation project would be a fitting tribute to former Bhadrachalam MLA Sunnam Rajaiah. CPI(M) East Godavari district committee members Punem Satyanarayana and Mekala Nageswara Rao observed the first death anniversary of Sunnam Rajaiah, former three-time MLA from Bhadrachalam. Rajaiah had succumbed to COVID-19. Rajaiah’s wife Ms. Chukkamma and other Left party leaders offered floral tributes to his statue at his memorial at Sunnamvari Gudem village in V.R.Puram mandal in East Godavari district on Tuesday. Rajaiah was a prominent leader who lent his voice for the rights of the people displaced by the Polavaram project in Andhra Pradesh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cpim-leaders-pay-tributes-to-former-mla/article35712911.ece
04 August 2021||Kakinada,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP to boycott election of second Deputy Mayor||Former Kakinada City MLA and senior Telugu Desam Party(TDP)) leader Vanamadi Kondababu on Tuesday announced that the party corporators would boycott the election of the second Deputy Mayor of the Kakinada Municipal Corporation. The date of the election is yet to be announced. Speaking to reporters, Mr. Kondababu said, “The decision of boycotting the election has been taken in the wake of huge corruption at various levels in the city.” “Kakinada City MLA Dwarampudi Chandrasekhar Reddy’s role in the corruption of Smart City programmes is shocking. The city lags behind in many parameters due to corruption. The TDP has decided to expose the corruption in the Smart City programmes by boycotting the election,” said Mr. Kondababu. “In the present council, the issues raised by the TDP corporators are not being registered in the agenda,” lamented Mr. Kondababu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tdp-to-boycott-election-of-second-deputy-mayor/article35712909.ece
04 August 2021||KOCHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||HC sets aside tribunal order to extend rank list validity||A Division Bench of the Kerala High Court on Tuesday set aside an order of the Kerala Administrative Tribunal (KAT) directing the Public Service Commission (PSC) to extend the validity of the rank list of last grade servants (LGS) to September 29. The Bench of Justice Alexander Thomas and A. Badharudeen, while allowing a petition filed by the PSC against the order, observed that the tribunal should not have passed the interim order and, instead, should have decided the case on merits. Therefore, the interim order needs to be interdicted. The court directed the government to take expeditious steps to ensure that all vacancies of LGSs were reported to the PSC without further delay. The Bench made it clear that the pendency of the rank holders’ petition before the KAT should not be cited as a reason to delay reporting of the vacancies. The court said nobody had the case that the government or tribunal or any other court had restrained the government from reporting the vacancies by the appointing authorities to the PSC. In fact, the government had issued strict instruction to all appointing authorities to immediately report all the vacancies to the PSC. The court also ordered the tribunal to pass the final verdict on the petition filed by the rank holders by the second or third week of September. The validity of the LSG rank list, along with 492 other rank lists, was extended on February 5 for six months and this will expire on August 4.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/hc-sets-aside-tribunal-order-to-extend-rank-list-validity/article35712267.ece
04 August 2021||KOTTAYAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kerala police to probe abuse of minor girl||The Manarcaud police have launched a probe into an incident in which a 14-year-old girl was allegedly abducted, drugged and abused by an unidentified person a few months ago. The incident came to light when the victim gave birth to a preterm infant at the Government Medical College Hospital (MCH) the other day. The foetus, which was about 24 weeks old, could not be saved. According to the police, the victim, a native of Pampady, had been detected pregnant after being admitted to a taluk hospital with severe stomach pain. As her condition worsened, she was later shifted to the MCH. During a preliminary interaction, the victim told the police that she had been abducted by an unidentified person in a car and drugged, before being abused. The accused later dropped the girl at the point from where she had been picked up. The incident reportedly took place when the victim, who lives along with her mother and 12-year-old brother, was selling handicrafts by the wayside near Manarcaud. The police, meanwhile, are yet to confirm the veracity of her statement. A case has been lodged under relevant provisions of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act and a probe is on to trace the person and his car, as stated by the victim.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kerala-police-to-probe-abuse-of-minor-girl/article35712268.ece
04 August 2021||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||IIITDM Kurnool director gets additional charge||The Indian Institute of Information Technology Design and Manufacturing, Kurnool, Director D.V.L.N. Somayajulu has been given additional charge and appointed director of the IIITDM-Kancheepuram. The current director of IIITDM-Kancheepuram, B. Majhi, has been appointed Vice-Chancellor of Veer Surendra Sai University of Technology (VSSUT) in Odisha. Mr. Somayajulu will take over charge from Mr. Majhi on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/iiitdm-kurnool-director-gets-additional-charge/article35712859.ece
04 August 2021||MYSURU,ANDHRA PRADESH||New frog species in Western Ghats||Researchers from the University of Delhi have named a newly discovered frog species after the former Vice-Chancellor and renowned plant geneticist Deepak Pental. The new species was discovered from the globally recognised Western Ghats biodiversity hotspot that extends along the southwest coast of the Indian peninsula. The discovery was made during a comprehensive study on a considerably large, common, yet confusing group of Indian frogs — genus Minervarya (common name: Minervaryan frogs). The study was carried out over a period of nearly 10 years, according to S.D. Biju, Head of the Department of Environmental Studies, and Sonali Garg, a post-doctoral researcher at the University of Delhi. Their findings and description of the species are published in a scientific article titled ‘DNA Barcoding and Systematic Review of Minervaryan Frogs (Dicroglossidae: Minervarya) of Peninsular India: Resolution of a taxonomic conundrum with description of a new species’ in the international journal Asian Herpetological Research .  The newly discovered species, named Minervarya Pentali , is endemic to the southern Western Ghats. “We discovered it on wayside vegetation at multiple localities in Kerala and Tamil Nadu while surveying amphibians during the monsoon season. This species is also among the smallest known Minervaryan frogs, which is probably one of the reasons it was overlooked until now,” says Dr. Garg, the lead author of the study. “It is a great privilege to name a frog species after Prof. Deepak Pental in appreciation of his tremendous support and encouragement for setting up of Systematics Lab at University of Delhi, where research leading to the discovery and description of nearly one-fourth of all known Indian amphibians has been carried out,” said Prof. Biju. The new species — belonging to the family Dicroglossidae — was identified based on multiple criteria, such as external morphology, DNA and calling pattern. The study also resolved the identity and taxonomic status of all known members of the genus from peninsular India, in addition to clarifying the geographical ranges of species, and providing numerous new distribution records based on morphologically and genetically identified samples from a vast region, according to the researchers. The researchers have called for special conservation efforts for the region, which is known for its rich biodiversity. According to Prof. Biju and Dr. Garg, the amphibian diversity in this region is particularly remarkable as more than half of nearly 230 species of all known Indian species (~450 species) are found in the Western Ghats. Besides, over 90% of these are endemic to this region, which means they are not found anywhere else in the world. The researchers said discoveries of such new species not only re-emphasise the uniqueness and endemism in Western Ghats’ amphibians, but also add to the growing inventory of this region’s diverse amphibian fauna. “We are losing precious habitats that are home to many unique and endemic species. We need to protect the Western Ghats in order to conserve these species before they are lost forever,” they added. The new species was discovered from wayside vegetation, very much inside and around towns and cities. Habitat loss, modification, and other anthropogenic threats can lead to a population decline or complete wiping out of this newly discovered species, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/new-frog-species-in-western-ghats/article35712273.ece
04 August 2021||NANDIGAMA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police seize 945 liquor bottles||The police on Tuesday seized 945 Non-Duty Paid Liquor bottles allegedly being smuggled into the State on Tuesday. On a tip-off, the police team conducted a raid when the accused were allegedly shifting the bottles from a car into a tractor at Konatamatmakuru village in the district. They arrested three persons, said Superintendent of Police Siddharth Kaushal. Rowdy sheet would be opened on the main accused, Ch. Suryanarayana of Thotacharla village, who was booked for smuggling liquor stocks earlier, the SP said. Police are investigating from which shop the stock was procured and how could they manage to bring the NDPL across the inter-state border, Mr. Siddharth added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/police-seize-945-liquor-bottles/article35712970.ece
04 August 2021||NELLORE/ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||2,344 active COVID cases in Prakasam||The number of active COVID-19 cases declined to a little over 4,700 in South Coastal Andhra Pradesh as recoveries outnumbered new cases by 85 in the region in the last 24 hours. Three more persons, two in SPSR Nellore district and one in Prakasam district, died due to pandemic in the 24 hours ending 9 a.m. on Tuesday. With this, the toll rose to 1,971 in the region of which Prakasam district accounted for 1,008 deaths and SPSR Nellore district for 963 deaths, according to a health bulletin released by the State government on Tuesday. The cumulative case tally crossed the 2.65 lakh-mark as 186 persons in SPSR Nellore district and another 185 persons in Prakasam district contracted the infection in the last 24 hours. Recoveries The recovery rate improved to 97.47% as 246 persons in Prakasam district and 210 in SPSR Nellore district recovered from the disease. The number of active cases declined further to 4,733 in the region, including 2,344 in Prakasam district during the period.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/2344-active-cases-in-prakasam/article35712861.ece
04 August 2021||NEW DELHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Hyderabad encounter: SC gives six more months to probe panel||The Supreme Court on Tuesday gave the Justice V.S. Sirpurkar Commission another six months to complete the probe ordered by it into the death of four men, accused of gang-rape and murder of a veterinarian, in an alleged encounter with the Hyderabad police on December 6, 2019. A Bench led by Chief Justice of India (CJI) N.V. Ramana, however, asked the Commission's lawyer, advocate K. Parameshwar, why it needed so much time to complete the inquiry. In July last year, the Commission had taken a similar extension of six months. A second extension was given in January last. Mr. Parameshwar cited delays caused by the pandemic and a new list of another 130 witnesses. The court referred to how the Justice B.S. Chauhan panel had completed its probe into the police encounter of gangster Vikas Dubey. Both Justices Sirpurkar and Chauhan are former Supreme Court judges. Justice Chauhan was also the Chairperson of the Law Commission of India. “Why is this matter going on and on....” the CJI asked. In earlier hearings, the Commission members had said they live in different cities, none of which was Hyderabad. Their work was hampered by travel restrictions and the quarantine regime in place. The Commission had said that despite the pandemic restrictions they received a whopping 1,365 affidavits from the Hyderabad police officers allegedly involved and the families of the accused. It had also collected the reports of the National Human Rights Commission, the Special Investigation Team, post-mortem reports, etc, in the case. The four accused — Mohammed Arif, Chintakunta Chennakeshavulu, Jollu Shiva and Jollu Naveen — were taken to the scene of the crime around 60 km from Hyderabad in the early hours of December 6 for a reconstruction of the crime scene. The Telangana government has stuck to its version that the accused men surprised their police escort there, grabbed their guns and tried to kill the policemen. The posse retaliated and the four were killed in the cross-firing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/hyderabad-encounter-sc-gives-six-more-months-to-probe-panel/article35712276.ece
04 August 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Despite pandemic, tobacco ryots get better average prices||Despite truncated auctions in view of the second wave of coronavirus, tobacco farmers in in Prakasam and Nellore districts have realised better average prices for different grades of produce this year. Recovering from damages caused by cyclonic storm Nivar in the early phase of crop cultivation by going in for replantation, the farmers coming under the 12 Southern Light Soil (SLS) and Southern Black Soil(SBS) auction platforms produced a good quality crop. However, for the second year in a row, the restrictions imposed to combat COVID-19 coincided with the peak marketing season. With bright grade varieties accounting for a majority of the crop this year, the farmers realised about Rs. 14 per kg more on an average for over 66 million kg marketed as the e-auctions reached the fag-end. The farmers got a better average price of Rs. 147 per kg for the over 66 million kg marketed so far as against Rs. 133 per kg for 54 million kg marketed during the corresponding period last year, according to Tobacco Board sources. This was despite exporters not entering the market in a big way in view of the uncertain condition globally and the MARKFED, which intervened in the market last year, liquidating about half of the 12 million kg procured by it this year, mostly low grade varieties, outside the auction platforms, affecting the market sentiment. Before the MARFED liquidated the stock on hand, the low grade varieties attracted buyers at about Rs. 100 per kg. The MARFED’s action had brought down the average price by about Rs. 15. “We have incurred additional costs in view of unseasonal rains. The MARFED’s untimely sale has put paid to our hopes of getting a better price for low grade varieties,” complained a group of farmers in Ongole.  Farmers in the SLS region have so far liquidated 32.16 million kg and got an average price of Rs. 142.39 per kg. Their counterparts in the SBS region got an average price of Rs. 147.22 per kg for the 34.58 million kg sold by them so far. Bright grade accounted for the lion's share of 35 million kg in both the regions put together and fetched a relatively better price of Rs. 167 per kg. This helped the growers get a better average price this year, Tobacco Board sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/despite-pandemic-tobacco-ryots-get-better-average-prices/article35712880.ece
04 August 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||SP shares investigation tips with police personnel||Prakasam SP Malika Garg on Tuesday led a group of personnel in probing the death of a middle-aged woman in Abdul Kalam colony within the Epurupalem police station limits in Chirala division. While examining evidence available at the crime spot and enquiring with the locals about the details of the deceased woman, she gave tips to the personnel on how to solve the case. Later, the SP asked them to raise awareness on Disha app among women. She asked them to be well-versed with the details of misbehaving persons, geographical conditions, crime hotspots and other related aspects within their jurisdiction.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sp-shares-investigation-tips-with-police-personnel/article35712868.ece
04 August 2021||POLAVARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Polavaram evacuees plan ‘Chalo Delhi’ on August 5||Leaders of various political parties and tribal organisations have planned to organise ‘Chalo Delhi’ on August 5 to raise their voice demanding justice for Polavaram project displaced families. The protesters have been demanding that the government release budget for implementation of R&R package, extend package for non-tribal people also, evacuate the project evacuees only after paying compensation announced by the government, provide R&R package to all including non-house tax payers and improve the quality of houses being constructed in R&R colonies. Though some thousands of tribal and non-tribes families agreed to vacate the tribal hamlets in the Agency area and give up their tradition for Polavaram project, the government was harassing them, the Adivasi organisations alleged. The leaders will organise protest in Delhi on August 5, demanding government to render justice to all project displaced families. Leaders of the CPI, the CPI (M), Polavaram project victims of various habitations and tribal associations will participate in the protest in New Delhi, the organisers said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/polavaram-evacuees-plan-chalo-delhi-on-august-5/article35712872.ece
04 August 2021||RAJAMAHENDRAVARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||39 villages selected for land survey: Sub-Collector||Rajamahendravaram Sub-Collector S. Ilakkiya on Tuesday said that 39 villages have been selected to carry out an integrated land survey in the three mandals of East Godavari district. In a review meeting with survey officials here, Ms. Ilakkiya directed them to ensure the accuracy and authenticity of the survey to avoid any complications in the boundaries of various categories of land including private land in the three mandals of Alamuru, Kadiyam, and Rajanagaram.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/39-villages-selected-for-land-survey-sub-collector/article35712912.ece
04 August 2021||Sri Rangaraja Puram,ANDHRA PRADESH||A farmer’s ‘date’ with innovation||When the local farmers end up in losses by hitting the beaten track, here’s one who has the ability to take forward his out-of-the-box thinking with courage. C. Bhaskar Naidu decided to have a ‘date’ with a new plant after shunning the idea of planting mango saplings, as Chittoor district is already saturated with mango trees in over a lakh acres. His farm in Pedda Thayyuru village in Sri Rangaraja Puram mandal is the first in the district to grow and harvest fresh date fruits. A resident of Bengaluru and a civil contractor by profession, Mr. Naidu chose this unique crop by clearly estimating its market potential. The decision was backed by solid commitment and careful study of the crop. “We visited tissue culture farms in Rajasthan and Gujarat where the date plants are grown in a large extent. By this August, my plants are completing four years,” Mr. Naidu told The Hindu . Nearly half of the 140 trees planted in his farm came to harvest, but the first yield, as is the case for any crop, was less then expected. “I got 50 kg per tree this time, but every tree will give me 200 to 250 kg in three years,” he says. Going natural The entire farm is managed in a natural manner, where urine and dung obtained from native cows, jaggery and neem are used as pesticides and growth enhancing agents. “No chemical agent is involved in the entire process”, chips in K. Gangadharam, a natural farming enthusiast, who is the consultant for the project. Going for natural agents not only rids the trees of rot, pests and diseases, but also enhances the taste of the fruit. Mr. Naidu has been successfully selling the produce on the Chittoor-Puttur highway abutting his farm. He suggests fellow farmers to think beyond the routine and have a ‘date’ with new ideas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/a-farmers-date-with-innovation/article35712321.ece
04 August 2021||TADIPATRI (ANANTAPUR DT.),ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Battle of one-upmanship’ in Tadipatri municipality puts officials in a spot||The ‘cold war’ between YSR Congress Party’s Tadipatri MLA Kethireddy Peddareddy and Municipal Chairman J.C. Prabhakar Reddy, who belongs to the Telugu Desam Party, has come out into the open with the former MLA staging a unique protest in the municipality administrative block in the town here. Municipal officers were summoned by the Municipal Chairman on Monday morning for a review of the welfare schemes and development works. Meanwhile, the Tadipatri MLA organised another programme on precautions to be taken to deal with the possible third wave of coronavirus pandemic and summoned all municipal officers too. The MLA’s COVID-19 awareness programme continued till afternoon and then the officers were told to go home, not to the office. Irked over this, the Municipal Chairman, along with the 19 party ward members, waited till night for the arrival of the municipal officers. The showdown by the two leaders did not end there. Mr. Prabhakar Reddy remained on the municipal office premises throughout the night. As a mark of protest, he took bath in the open on the municipal office premises in the glare of the media and continued to stay put in the office. With the development, Municipal Commissioner P. Narasimha Prasad applied for leave and left the town. By Tuesday noon, the situation remained tense and none of both the leaders refuse to budge. Review meeting today After all the 26 municipal staff came to the administrative block, Mr. Prabhakar Reddy showed them the Municipal Act books and made them aware of the rules. A compromise was arrived in the afternoon and the review meeting has been rescheduled to 10 a.m. on Wednesday. The municipal officers joined duty on Tuesday and promised to cooperate with the Chairperson in the conduct of the review meeting on development.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/battle-of-one-upmanship-in-tadipatri-municipality-puts-officials-in-a-spot/article35712878.ece
04 August 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kerala carries out a sweep, tests nearly 2 lakh||It was a day of record testing in Kerala’s COVID-19 case graph continues to be on an upward trend and it seemed to climb higher at 1,99,456 samples – the highest in a day so far – and it led to the detection of 23,676 cases on Tuesday. All of last week, the State had registered over 20,000 new cases for six consecutive days. Tuesday’s test positivity rate (TPR) marked a dip, to 11.87%. The State’s active case pool registered a significant jump on Tuesday and now has had 1,73,221 active cases. The cumulative case fatality stood at 17,103, with the State adding 148 recent deaths on Tuesday. Hospitalisations and ICU occupancy figures showed an increase, the latter from 1,965 on Monday to 2,036. Another 2,456 patients were admitted to hospitals. Hospitalisation of those with moderate or severe infection showed a rising trend over the past few days and stood at 28,858. The cumulative cases rose to 34,49,149 cases. Malappuram district reported the highest new cases at 4,276, followed by Thrissur 2,908, Ernakulam 2,702, Kozhikode 2,416, Palakkad 2,223, Kollam 1,836, Alappuzha 1,261, Kottayam 1,241, Kannur 1,180, Thiruvananthapuram 1,133, Kasaragod 789, Wayanad 787, Pathanamthitta 584 and Idukki 340. There were 609 new infections in Telangana on Tuesday, with 1,08,921 samples tested. The fresh cases included 81 from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation region . The infection tally rose to 6,46,606. Four more COVID patients died during the day, taking the overall death toll to 3,811. The State had 8,777 active cases. Non-COVID services were resumed at Gandhi Hospital. 38 deaths in Karnataka Karnataka on Tuesday logged 1,674 fresh cases, taking the tally to 29.09 lakh, while 38 deaths took the toll to 36,650. The TPR stood at 1.38%. The day also saw 1,376 discharges, taking the total number of recoveries to 28,49,003, leaving 24,280 active cases.Bengaluru Urban district reported 477 cases. the highest number of infections (477) and seven deaths, a health department bulletin said. The number of people testing positive for COVID-19 dropped to 1,908 in Tamil Nadu on Tuesday. While cases continued to dip in districts such as Coimbatore, Chennai recorded a marginal rise as 203 more people tested positive. Fresh cases declined for the second day in a row in the State, even as the count continued to fluctuate in a number of districts. In Coimbatore, cases fell to 208 from 219 on Monday  (With inputs from Hyderabad, Chennai bureaus and PTI)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kerala-carries-out-a-sweep-tests-nearly-2-lakh/article35712279.ece
04 August 2021||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||Separate cell mooted to monitor SriVani Trust works||Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams Executive Officer K.S. Jawahar Reddy on Tuesday underlined the need for setting up of an exclusive wing with engineers to monitor and coordinate the development and renovation works of various temples being taken up with the funds received under Sri Venkateswara Alaya Nirmana (SriVani) trust. Presiding over a meeting with senior officials here, Mr. Reddy said the authorities should have a prior assessment as to what extent the developmental works would benefit the devotees even before the submission of proposals, have a categorical understanding with regard to the importance of the Kshetra puranam and significance of the deity and a clear road map with regard to the time for completion of works. Repair works The proposed wing should also take up periodical repair works at all the temples under the TTD’s fold, ensure proper approach road and drinking water facilities along with other required infrastructure facilities, he said. He asked the officials to adopt a cautious approach while taking up repair works at various ancient temples so as to ensure that the original design of the antediluvian structures were not disturbed. Mr. Reddy, who accorded administrative sanctions for taking up renovation and other development works at certain identified temples, urged the concerned to inspect footpaths and arterial roads at Tirumala at least once a week. TTD Addl EO AV Dharma Reddy, JEO Sada Bharghavi, FACAO Balaji, in charge Chief Engineer Nageswara rao, Dy EO Ramana Prasad were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/separate-engineering-cell-mooted-to-monitor-srivani-trust-works/article35712862.ece
04 August 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Village secretariat is a model to be replicated across country: Peddireddi||Minister for Panchayat Raj and Rural Development Peddireddi Ramachandra Reddy said village secretariat system, established by the YSR Congress government, is a model to be replicated across the country to bring governance to the reach of the people. “Andhra Pradesh stands a role model for the other States to emulate,” he said, after inaugurating a Grama Sachivalayam (village secretariat) building in Pichatur mandal headquarters in Chittoor district on Tuesday. Mr. Ramachandra Reddy inaugurated several facilities in Satyavedu constituency, along with local MLA Koneti Adimulam, when he said that the secretariat scheme not only brought the administrators to grassroots, but also created 4.20 lakh new jobs in the State. Similarly, Rythu Bharosa Kendras had been set up to bring modern agricultural practices to the reach of farmers and Rural Health Centres to ensure better medical facilities in the countryside, he said adding that bulk milk coolers would be set up soon to encourage the dairy industry. “One volunteer for every 50 families will certainly bring administration to the reach of the common people and help the fruits of governance percolate to every household,” he asserted. Revenue Divisional Officer (Tirupati) V. Kanaka Narasa Reddy, Superintending Engineer (PR) Amarnath Reddy, District Panchayat Officer Dasaratharami Reddy, Srikalahasti temple Chairman Beerendra Raju took part. The Minister opened Rs. 1.30 crore cement road between Govindappa Naidu Kandriga and Kailasanathakona, laid stone for the Rs. 45.54 crore double road between Nagalapuram and Chinna Panduru and also for the BT road, laid from Ramagiri temple up to Srikalahasti road, with an outlay of Rs. 1.47 crore and a road linking Srikalahasti to Tulasi Krishnapuram worth Rs. 61 lakh, another secretariat built in KVB Puram with Rs. 40 lakh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/village-secretariat-is-a-model-to-be-replicated-across-country-peddireddi/article35712865.ece
04 August 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Use of generic medicines in TTD hospitals to be upped||Hospitals under Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) umbrella are expected to use more of generic medicines in the coming days. Executive Officer K.S. Jawahar Reddy has issued directions to the officials concerned to this effect. Tendering process Addressing a review meeting with officials of SVIMS and BIRRD on Tuesday, he instructed them to route the purchases pertaining to drugs and medical equipment through the central purchase department. Lending an ear to the tendering process in vogue at SVIMS, he wanted the tender proceedings to begin four months ahead of the expiry of old tenders to ensure continuity. Advising against taking the drug-proposing official in the purchase committees, Mr. Reddy suggested to the panels to opt for a member from the government drug control board. “The drug purchase policy should be on the lines of NIMS and NIMHANS, where adequate drugs are procured for two years at one go,” he said, while pointing to the need to compare the prevailing prices of drugs in Karnataka, Telangana and Tamil Nadu before placing orders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/use-of-generic-medicines-in-ttd-hospitals-to-be-upped/article35712863.ece
04 August 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. plans to merge planning and finance departments||The State government is contemplating merger of the Department of Planning with the Department of Finance. The file in this regard has been prepared recently. The process of integration of planning development with the Finance Department will be done in a phased manner if the Chief Minister Y. S. Jagan Mohan Reddy gives his nod to the proposal. The government, reliable sources say, is toying with the idea to save time for decision making for different issues. The proposed merger will cut inordinate delays in developmental activities. The required concurrence of planning and finance will be under one head of both the departments, they say. More so, the political head of both departments is Finance Minister. The Planning Department is also into resource mobilisation under the ‘Connect to A.P.’ initiative. The funds thus obtained will be utilised on the government’s flagship ‘Navaratnalu’ programme, under which cash will be doled out through various schemes to different sections of people every year. So, it would be much easier and smoother in implementation of the government programmes and schemes. CM to take final call “The file is under circulation. The Chief Minister is yet to take a decision,” sources say. According to information, if the government’s plans fructify, the Directors, Joint Directors and etc of the Planning Department, working in various administrative departments of the government, would now report to the Finance Department. The Department of Planning is engaged with a host of activities including collection, compilation, tabulation and publication of the socio-economic data related to the State. Some of the functional areas of the department are preparation of socio-economic surveys, compilation of agricultural statistics, statistics of prices and wages, estimates of the Gross State Domestic Product (GSDP) and etc. The merger plans come close on the heels of the recent fiasco of merging and demerging the Commercial Taxes (CT) and Registrations and Stamps Departments with the Finance Department. The government initially planned to bring the CT, and Stamps and Registration under one umbrella. Then, it said the merger was being done for synergy of resource mobilisation with the Finance Department. But, the move hit a roadblock, as both departments were headed by two different Ministers. The transfer of subjects was not easy as it had an impact on the portfolios of the two Deputy Chief Ministers looking after these subjects, sources say. A G.O. was issued appointing Sameer Sarma as the Special Chief Secretary (Planning). But, it was removed from the public domain.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govt-plans-to-merge-planning-and-finance-departments/article35712883.ece
04 August 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||State records 18 more deaths in 24 hours||COVID-19 claimed 18 lives in the State in the 24 hours ending Tuesday morning. During the same period, 1,546 new infections were reported taking the cumulative tally to 19,71,554. The death toll increased to 13,428 with a mortality rate of 0.68%. The number of active cases came down to 20,170 with 1,940 recoveries in the past day. The total recoveries and recovery rate stand at 19,37,956 and 98.30% respectively. The positivity rate of the 69,606 samples tested in the past day was 2.22%. It was the lowest daily positivity rate in the past 129 days. The overall positivity rate of the 2.47 crore samples tested came down to 7.96%. Chittoor reported four new deaths while Krishna reported three and Anantapur, East Godavari, Guntur and Nellore reported two deaths each. Prakasam, Srikakulam and Visakhapatnam reported one death each in the past day. Four districts reported no death in the past day. No district reported more than 300 new infections. Chittoor reported 284 infections in the past day. It was followed by Krishna (259), West Godavari (195), Nellore (186), Prakasam (185), Guntur (130), East Godavari (83), Visakhapatnam (72), Srikakulam (55), Anantapur (30), Vizianagaram (27), Kurnool (26) and Kadapa (14). Nearly half of the active cases were in three districts including East Godavari (3,348), Krishna (3,162) and Chittoor (3,054). Five districts including Kadapa (692), Srikakulam (472), Anantapur (333), Kurnool (213) and Vizianagaram (177) altogether have less than 10% of the State total active cases. The district tallies are as follows: East Godavari (2,78,287), Chittoor (2,31,888), West Godavari (1,70,119), Guntur (1,68,520), Anantapur (1,56,379), Visakhapatnam (1,52,738), Nellore (1,34,813), Prakasam (1,30,204), Kurnool (1,23,308), Srikakulam (1,20,736), Kadapa (1,10,593), Krishna (1,09,564) and Vizianagaram (81,510).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/state-records-18-more-deaths-in-24-hours/article35712876.ece
04 August 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Eastern Discom takes over business activities of RESCOs||The Eastern Power Distribution Company Limited of Andhra Pradesh (APEPDCL) took over the business activities of Anakapalle (Kasimkota) and Cheepurupalli Rural Electric Cooperative Societies Limited (RESCOs) in the absence of a recommendation by the government to Andhra Pradesh Electricity Regulatory Commission (APERC) to exempt them from obtaining the licence for undertaking distribution and retail sale of power for the 2021-22 financial year. The Southern Discom is bound to take over the business activities of Kuppam RESCO for the same reason as above. According to sources, the APERC issued an order to CMDs of the EPDCL and the SPDCL on March 25 to take over the activities of three RESCOs, but the latter received no instructions to that effect from the Department of Co-Operation. The Managing Directors of the RESCOs have submitted applications to the APERC with the requisite fees, seeking exemption from obtaining licence in their respective areas, but the same were returned to the RESCOs as the government has not recommended exemption of the licence, a mandatory provision under the Section13 of the Electricity Act, 2003. The APERC had ruled that the RESCOs were not entitled to function as per law in the absence of licence or exemption from the same. It had thus prepared the ground for the takeover of RESCOs by the respective Discoms as a prelude to the settlement of the issues related to their (RESCOs’) assets and liabilities by the competent authority. Assets and liabilities A top official of the EPDCL told The Hindu that formalities for taking over the licensed activities of Anakapalle and Cheepurupalli RESCOs except the entrustment of their assets and liabilities (to the Discom) have been completed recently. The supply and maintenance of power, release of new connections, billing and collection have been taken over for now. The RESCOs are barred from engaging new staff (permanent or outsourced) and giving promotions to existing staff.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/eastern-discom-takes-over-business-activities-of-rescos/article35712318.ece
04 August 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP seeks NHRC probe into ‘violations of human rights’||The Telugu Desam Party (TDP) Polit Bureau member Varla Ramaiah has urged the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) to hold a detailed inquiry into the “unchecked human rights violations” by the YSRCP government on its political opponents and the general public in the State. In a letter to the NHRC on Tuesday, Mr. Ramaiah said that the commision was requested to conduct an inquiry into the illegal mining in Kondapalli reserve forest area. It was pertinent to take severe action against the illegal mining mafia and officials and to safeguard fundamental rights. Only a consistent effort from the NHRC would help protect the biodiversity, ecology and livelihoods of the Kondapalli toymakers, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tdp-seeks-nhrc-probe-into-violations-of-human-rights/article35712884.ece
04 August 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Krishna water row: TDP tells Jagan, KCR to fight with Centre||The Telugu Desam Party (TDP) Polit Bureau member Kalva Srinivasulu has stressed the need for a ‘joint struggle’ by Andhra Pradesh and Telangana against the Central government to protect the interests of the farming community in both the States. “Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister Y. S. Jagan Mohan Reddy and his Telangana counterpart K. Chandrasekhar Rao should be wary of the new river projects coming up in Karnataka and Maharashtra,” he told the media here on Tuesday. Mr. Srinivasulu said that the States would suffer heavily in the coming years if the Centre’s plans to take control of the irrigation projects was not opposed. “The upper riparian States are violating the Brijesh Kumar Tribunal award. Karnataka is determined to increase the height of the Almatti project and plans to construct new projects on the Krishna river. Andhra Pradesh and Telangana will be left high and dry if the upper riparian States use more than 1,600 tmcft of water,” he said. He said that Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy owed an explanation as to why his government was unable to fight for the rights of A.P. during the coordination committee meeting of the Krishna River Management Board (KRMB) and the Godavari River Management Board (GRMB). “The Engineer-in-Chief of Andhra Pradesh could not even spell out the State’s stand on the gazette that brought over 107 projects under the control of the Centre through the river boards,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/krishna-water-row-tdp-tells-jagan-kcr-to-fight-with-centre/article35712881.ece
04 August 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Oxygen generation plants donated||ADAMA India, an Israeli-based MNC in Hyderabad, has donated oxygen generation plants (PSA) and oxygen storage tanks to hospitals worth Rs. 3 crore in various States as part of its ongoing community support initiative towards India’s fight against COVID-19. An oxygen generation plant was installed at the government hospital at 1Gudivada of Krishna district and installation of one more plant at the district government hospital in Nandyal of Kurnool district was in the pipeline. Also, oxygen generation plants were installed at Mahavir Hospital and Research Centre, Hyderabad, ESIC Hospital, Ghaziabad of Uttar Pradesh and a hospital in Pune of Maharashtra.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/oxygen-generation-plants-donated/article35712319.ece
04 August 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Resolve issues through mediation, says CPI(M)||CPI (M) State secretary P. Madhu has urged Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy and his Telangana counterpart K. Chandrasekhar Rao to resolve the issued pertaining to sharing of the Krishna river water through mediation. “We welcome the apex court suggestion for mediation. Both the CMs must start deliberations ,” he said, adding that it was unfortunate that A.P. and Telangana moved court over the issue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/resolve-issues-through-mediation-says-cpim/article35712882.ece
04 August 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Teachers’ views on draft education policy sought||Education Minister Adimulapu Suresh on Tuesday said that the aim of the reforms ushered in the education sector was to groom children from a young age and mould them into confident and competent adults with an edge over their counterparts from other States. Addressing a meeting of representatives of teacher unions and Members of the Legislative Council from Graduates’ constituencies, the Minister invited their views and suggestions on the draft proposal being prepared to put in place a strong education policy based on the recommendations of the National Education Police-2020. He said the State was at the forefront in implementation of educational reforms and programmes like Mana Badi-Nadu Nedu, Jagananna Vidya Kanuka and Amma Vodi, which had earned accolades by one and all. “Chairman of the National Education Policy-2020 Dr. Kasturi Rangan appreciated the State government’s efforts in the education sector, and Telangana State has evinced interest in replicating our programmes there,” said the Minister. School Education Director V. Chinaveerabhadrudu, Board of Intermediate Education Commissioner V. Ramakrishna, and Infra Advisor to the Government A. Murali were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/teachers-views-on-draft-education-policy-sought/article35712972.ece
04 August 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Passengers held for pulling chain without valid reason||The Railway Protection Force (RPF) arrested 61 passengers for pulling alarm chain on trains in July (last month) without valid reason. The RPF conducted a special special drive and booked the passengers, who disrupted the punctuality of trains by pulling alarm chain without valid reason. The objective was to create awareness among the public on the consequences, if the alarm chain was pulled without a reasonable cause. Under Section 141 of The Railway Act, 1989, pulling chain without a valid reason may lead to arrest, besides imposing a penalty up to Rs. 1,000, or both, the RPF officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/passengers-held-for-pulling-chain-without-valid-reason/article35712968.ece
04 August 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||APPSC displays list of selected candidates||The Andhra Pradesh Public Service Commission (APPSC) has displayed on its websitehttps://psc.ap.gov.inthe list of provisionally selected candidates for the post of lecturers in Government Degree Colleges in AP Collegiate Education Service, against disabled vacancies of Hearing Handicapped/Visually Handicapped (HH/VH) for English, Telugu, Political Science, Commerce, Physics, Chemistry, Computer Science and Computer Applications subjects. The list is also available on the notice board of the Commission’s office.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/appsc-displays-list-of-selected-candidates/article35712322.ece
04 August 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Initiatives to promote tourism listed||An investor-friendly Tourism Policy has been put in place to propel investments and enable a conducive business environment in the State, Special Chief Secretary, Tourism and Culture, Rajat Bhargav said on Tuesday. Participating in the first meeting of the Task Force for National Digital Tourism Mission, Mr. Bhargav, who is a member of the Task Force, briefed on the various digital initiatives of the State government to promote tourism. He said the official tourism website aptourism.gov.in had a separate icon for investment opportunities. A separate icon displayed the details of the East of Doing Business, facilitating a single desk portal of the department, to assist investors in obtaining the required clearances or approvals for establishing a proposed project, he said. He informed the Task Force members that Andhra Pradesh had developed short video films on tourist destinations like Visakhapatnam, Araku, Dindi and Horsely Hills in the State to promote them as preferred spots.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/initiatives-to-promote-tourism-listed/article35712323.ece
04 August 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||MP Nani welcomes Sindhu||Vijayawada MP Kesineni Srinivas (Nani) and others welcomed shuttler P. V. Sindhu, who won a bronze medal at the Olympic in Tokyo. He tweeted, “Welcomed Star Indian shuttler @Pvsindhu1 who created history by becoming the first Indian woman to win two consecutive individual Olympic medals - Silver in Rio and Bronze in #TokyoOlympics2020 at the Delhi Airport #PVSindhu” By winning the bronze, Ms. Sindhu became only the second Indian and first women athlete from the country to bag two Olympic medals. She defeated China’s He Bing Jiao in the bronze medal play-off. She reached Indira Gandhi International Airport in Delhi on Tuesday at around 3 p.m. Representatives of Badminton Association of India and others received her. The Vijayawada MP and others also went to the airport to welcome her.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/mp-nani-welcomes-sindhu/article35712885.ece
04 August 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Maris Stella College launches H5P OER System||The management of Maris Stella College launched H5P-Open Education Resources System (H5P-OERS) in the institution. Principal Sr. Jasintha Quadras inaugurated the system on Tuesday. Speaking on the occasion, Sr. Jasintha said H5P-OERS would offer a wide variety of material to enhance teaching learning process, equip the facility with the skills to create design and develop the content.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/maris-stella-college-launches-h5p-oer-system/article35712969.ece
04 August 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Safe for COVID infected mothers to breastfeed, says doctor||During the second wave surge of COVID-19, the common worry of lactating mothers, who were affected by the pandemic, was whether they could breastfeed their babies. Some general physicians were also unsure whether infected mothers could breastfeed their babies, causing all the more anxiety among families with infants. World Breastfeeding Awareness Week is observed from August 1 to 7. “Breastfeeding is highly recommended even during the pandemic. The virus is not transmitted through breast milk. However, the mother, if infected, needs to take precautions to avoid spread via nasal droplets and touch,” says Dr. Leela Digumarti, Public Awareness Committee in charge, Obstetric and Gynaecological Society of Visakhapatnam. She was speaking to The Hindu , here on Tuesday. Washing hands before and after touching the baby, wearing a proper mask and not sneezing near the baby, cleaning and disinfecting surfaces, are the important precautions to be taken by a COVID positive mother while breastfeeding. Alternatively, a pump can be used to collect the milk and the baby can be fed with a feeding bottle, if an infected mother has concerns over the safety of her child. The first priority of a mother used to be the breastfeeding of her baby. With changing times and lifestyle, women started to work, slowly moving away from breastfeeding to artificial feeds, recalls Dr. Leela. The “Innocenti Declaration” was made by the WHO and UNICEF to make lactating mothers aware of the importance of breastfeeding and to revive the good old practice. The declaration states that “all women should be enabled to practise exclusive breastfeeding and all infants should be fed exclusively on breast milk up to 4 to 6 months of age as a global goal for optimal maternal and child health and nutrition”. Subsequently, the ‘World Alliance for Breast-Feeding Action’ (WABA), an NGO from the USA, started Breastfeeding Awareness Week in 1992. “The advantages of breastfeeding are multifold. Human breast milk contains the right mix of nutrients for the baby’s physical and intellectual growth. It is available at the right temperature and is easily digested by the baby’s gut.” “Antibodies in breast milk protect the baby against infections, allergies, asthma and other digestive disturbances, thereby reducing neonatal and infant death rates. It also protects babies against ‘sudden infant death syndrome’. It is proven beyond doubt that breast feeding enhances the bonding between the baby and its mother,” adds Dr. Leela.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/safe-for-covid-infected-mothers-to-breastfeed-says-doctor/article35712977.ece
04 August 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two major Smart City projects of GVMC ready for inauguration||Two major projects being developed under the Smart City initiative of the Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) are ready for inauguration. VMRDA park, which is well known as VUDA Park, on Beach Road and Multi Level Car Parking (MLCP) Project at Jagadamba Junction have been completed and are ready to be inaugurated. The officials are planning to get them inaugurated by Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy during his proposed next visit to the city in the month. Among the two projects, the MLCP project is one of the prestigious projects of the GVMC, which aims at solving the parking issues at Jagadamba Junction, which is one of the most crowded junctions in the city, as there are a number of theatres, hospitals, shopping malls and private medical labs. The project was delayed for about a year, mainly due to the COVID-19 pandemic. The G+5 project was being taken up by a Pune-based private company at a cost of Rs. 9.7 crore. The facility is completely computerised and can accommodate about 100 cars. Executive Engineer (Smart City Operations) GVMC, V. Sudhakar, said that all the works pertaining to the project have been completed. The trial run was also completed successfully, he said. The VMRDA Park modernisation works have also been completed. Though the park is under the supervision of Visakhapatnam Metropolitan Region Development Authority (VMRDA), the GVMC is carrying out the project as part of the smart city initiative. According to the Mr. Naresh Kumar, who is the Project Manager of VMRDA Park, all the works have been finished. Spread across 33 acres, the park was developed at a cost of around Rs. 33 crore in three zones keeping in view of people of all ages. Among the major attractions include skating area, jogging track, cycling track, view point, children play arena and open space for others to play with lawn and an exclusive yoga circle. “Different types of herbal saplings have been planted to attract nature lovers. The park will also contain food courts and open gym,” he said. Apart from these, tennis and basketball courts are part of the plan. “The park also has a new boating area and a sculpture of a boat adorns the area to represent the fishing community,” he added. Mr. Naresh Kumars said that solar lights, toilets and good seating arrangement were provided for the visitors. “Though there is no issue throwing open the MLCP project to the public, we are in a dilemma to go ahead with the inauguration of VMRDA Park due to the present COVID-19 situation, as it may attract a huge number of people,” the senior officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/two-major-smart-city-projects-of-gvmc-ready-for-inauguration/article35712985.ece
04 August 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP decries Minister’s alleged remarks against party leader||Telugu Desam Party(TDP) general secretary Md. Nazeer has taken strong exception to Minister for Animal Husbandry Sidiri Appalaraju’s alleged social media comments on the party leader from Srikakulam Gouthu Sirisha. Addressing the media here on Tuesday, Mr. Nazeer said that he had come across reports in the media on Dr. Appalaraju’s comments on the personal life of Ms. Sirisha, who is the daughter of six-time MLA Gouthu Shivaji and granddaughter of Sardar Gouthu Latchanna. Mr. Nazeer said that the comments purportedly made by the Minister and his followers on social media against his TDP rival shows his scant respect for women. The Minister was free to comment on the mistakes, if any, committed by Ms. Sirisha in public life, but it was unbecoming on his part to comment on her inter-caste marriage and her private life, Mr. Nazeer said. He reminded that governments were actually encouraging inter-caste marriages and being an educated person Dr. Appalaraju should have a better outlook. The TDP leader alleged that the police had failed to act on the complaints by Mr. Sivaji in Kasibugga and by Ms. Sirisha in Vajrapukothuru Police Stations in the past. He demanded that the DGP initiate action against those who posted comments on the private life of Ms. Sirisha. He wondered as to what the Cyber Crime Police were doing in thecase.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tdp-decries-ministers-alleged-remarks-against-party-leader/article35712915.ece
04 August 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Will oppose privatisation of steel plant, says Jana Sena||The Jana Sena Party (JSP) stands with the steel workers and displaced persons in their fight against the privatisation of Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP), party State general secretary Siva Sankar has said. He was speaking at a protest organised by the party at the Gandhi statue here on Tuesday. JSP chief Pawan Kalyan has already clarified his stand and the party would do all that was possible within its means to oppose the privatisation of the VSP, Mr. Siva Sankar said. Referring to the criticism that the JSP would not be in a position to question the BJP government as it has an alliance with the latter, Mr. Siva Sankar said that the JSP-BJP alliance was only during elections, and it does not mean that the JSP would support every action of the BJP government. He alleged that the YSR Congress Party government was showing false concern towards VSP employees and the plant, which was evident from the party leaders staging ‘padayatras’. The JSP leader alleged that the YSR Congress Party government had initially agreed to the Centre’s proposal but was now acting innocent. He said that the Centre could not have taken the decision without consulting the State government and alleged that the YSR Congress Party government was duping people. Assuring the steel workers and displaced persons that the JSP would stand by them in their fight for justice, Mr. Siva Sankar said that the protest was only a beginning and not the end. Party State general secretary Bolisetty Satya and party leader Kona Tata Rao also addressed the gathering. JSP corporators and party workers participated in the protest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/will-oppose-privatisation-of-steel-plant-says-jana-sena/article35712981.ece
04 August 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Oppose mining, tribal people urged||Girijana Sangam State general secretary P. Appalanarsa has called upon the tribal people living in the villages, being affected by laterite mining, to wage struggles against the ‘looting of resources’ from tribal areas in the name of laterite mining. A delegation from the State Girijan Sangham visited the mining area at Bamidikaloddhu and the nearby tribal villages on Tuesday. A road was constructed to the site, destroying thick forests. Later, the sangam leaders held a gram sabha at Asanagiri village. Mr. Appalanarsa said that bauxite mining was not taken up as the JC Kala Committee recommendations were against it in areas located in the Fifth Schedule. He alleged that the contractors were indulging in bauxite mining after taking permission for laterite mining. He alleged that the contractors have the tacit support of the government. He also alleged that the Forest Department was felling thousands of trees in the forest along with the mining mafia. He also alleged that the resolution of the gram sabha was forged to trample upon the rights of the tribal people. He also found fault with the ITDA officials and the Tribal Welfare Department for failing to initiate action against those violating the guidelines. The leaders also found fault with members of the Tribal Advisory Council (TAC) and the elected people’s representatives from the tribal areas for failing to adopt a resolution against illegal mining. Mr. Appalanarsa demanded that the government implement the orders of the NGT and conduct an inquiry into the illegal mining. Laterite mining has affected the health and livelihood of the people of 26 villages of five panchayats in the Agency areas of Visakhapatnam and East Godavari districts. The drinking water sources have been contaminated. The other members of the delegation, which visited the affected villages, include Lotha Rama Rao, A. Raju, K. Nagaraju, M. Bujji, M. Rambabu, P. Nookaraju, Chinnabbai and Kasubabu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/girijana-sangam-seeks-halt-to-laterite-mining-in-visakha-agency/article35712973.ece
04 August 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||VSP stir continues for second day in Delhi||The strike by employees of THE Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP) continued for the second consecutive day in Delhi on Tuesday. YSR Congress Parliamentary Party Leader V. Vijaya Sai Reddy and party MPs extended support to the agitating steel workers. Mr. Reddy advised the steel workers and trade unions to continue their agitation for a year so that the government would be forced to withdraw its decision on privatisation of the VSP. No government would dare to take such a step ahead of the next general elections, he said. He called for united struggles by all parties to continue the agitation for a year. He also advised the unions to approach the court, if necessary, and get a stay on the execution of the decision. There were several loopholes in the decision to privatise VSP and the elders in the government were aware of it. Efforts could, therefore, be made to get a stay on the decision, he said. He said that Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy was keen on safeguarding the rights of the workers. Meanwhile, the All Trade Unions, People’s Organisations JAC leaders burnt an effigy of the Prime Minister on the Main Road, opposite the Gandhi statue, in protest against the adamant attitude of the Centre. JAC Chairman M. Jaggu Naidu, vice chairman Padala Ramana, CITU city president RKSV Kumar, Public Sector Coordination Committee convener S. Jyothiswara Rao, AITUC leaders G. Vamana Murthy and CITU city leaders M. Subba Rao, Y. Raju and KVP Chandramouli were among those who participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vsp-stir-continues-for-second-day-in-delhi/article35712975.ece
04 August 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Appoint special team to probe doctor’s death, kin urge government||Family members of medical officer M. Syamala (32), of Gajuwaka, who died under mysterious circumstances on August 4, 2020 at Kasimkota, still wait for justice. Alleging some foul play in the case, kin of Dr. Symala have requested Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy to intervene in the case and take action against the accused. They also said that despite many efforts and meeting a number of officials and political representatives, the case was not solved. Addressing the media here on Tuesday, Mr. Naidu, husband of Dr. Syamala, demanded that the government appoint a special team to investigate the case, alleging that there was no progress in investigation conducted by the district police since the last one year. He also said that though the medical officer died under suspicious circumstances, no one from the medical fraternity and unions had paid a visit to their house. He suspected that there might be the involvement of some influential persons who could be creating a pressure on the investigating authorities. On August 4, 2020, the body of Dr. Syamala, was found in a canal at Kasimkota. At that time, she was working, as a medical officer at Rajendrapalem PHC in Koyyuru mandal. Family members and friends of Dr Syamala alleged foul play in the case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/appoint-special-team-to-probe-doctors-death-kin-urge-government/article35712916.ece
04 August 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Body of a newborn found in drain in city||A body of a newborn baby was found in a drain near Lawsons Bay Colony here on Tuesday morning. According to P. Ramanayya, Inspector of MVP Police Station, the body was noticed by a few locals, who had informed the police at around 11 a.m. The body was found in the drain that leads to the sea. The body was retrieved and sent for an examination. The police have registered a case and investigation is on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/body-of-a-newborn-found-in-drain-in-city/article35712983.ece
04 August 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two women die, two injured in accident||Two women died and two others, including a five-month-old baby girl, were injured in a road accident on NH-16 near Uddandapuram Junction under Nakkapalle police station limits in the Visakhapatnam district on Tuesday. The deceased were identified as P. Durga and P. Kameswari, both hailing from Boddepalli village in Narsipatnam mandal. According to Sub-Inspector of Nakkapalli police station D. Venkanna, the incident reportedly occurred when one P. Raju along with his wife P. Durga, their five-month- old daughter and sister-in-law P, Kameswari were heading to Nakkapalle after having darshan at Thalupulamma temple in Tuni of East Godavari district. “Raju reportedly lost control over the vehicle and hit the median. All of them fell on the opposite side of the road after hitting the median. A van heading towards Tuni ran over Durga and Kameswari, leading to their instantaneous death. The same vehicle ran over Raju’s leg. The baby received simple injuries,” said Mr. Venkanna. Raju was shifted to Visakhapatnam for advanced treatment. Police said that they were verifying CCTV cameras to trace the van which ran over them. The police registered a case and investigation is on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/two-women-die-two-injured-in-accident/article35712987.ece
04 August 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Awareness campaigns, rallies mark World Breastfeeding Week||Awareness campaigns and rallies were organised by various hospitals and organisations, as part of the ongoing World Breastfeeding Week, on Tuesday. The Federation of Obstetric and Gynaecological Societies of India (FOGSI), Visakhapatnam, in association with the Gynaecology Department of KGH, conducted a breast milk awareness campaign at the Post-natal Ward, in Gynaecology Department. The FOGSI members explained in detail the advantages of feeding breast milk to newborn babies till six months of age and up to 2 years age supplementing along with other solid foods. They also emphasised that breast milk was a completely balanced diet for the neonates containing all necessary nutrients that are required for the babies. Dr. T. Padmavathi, FOGSI Visakhapatnam president, Dr T. Nagamani, KGH Gynaecology HOD and Dr. N. Uma, Dr. Y.L. Narasimha Rao, Dr. D. Hemalatha, Dr. P. Sailja, Dr. P. Usha Devi and Dr. Aparna participated Doctors, Nurses and students of GITAM Institute of Medical Sciences and Research (GIMSR) Medical College and Hospital and GITAM Institute of Nursing conducted an awareness rally at Madhurawada. GIMSR Medical College Principal Jyothi Padmaja flagged off the rally. While addressing the gathering, she said that breastfeeding provides every child with the best possible start in life as it delivers health, nutritional and emotional benefits to both children and mothers. GIMSR Paediatrics Department Head Y.V. Harischandra mentioned that the week was celebrated every year between August 1 and 7 in more than 120 countries. During the rally, the participants carried placards and posters stressing the significance of breast milk and its benefits to infants and mothers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/awareness-campaigns-rallies-mark-world-breastfeeding-week/article35712979.ece
04 August 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||District sees 1 death, 72 new COVID cases||The Visakhapatnam district recorded 72 new COVID-19 infections in the last 24 hours ending Tuesday morning, taking the cumulative tally to 1,53,248. The death toll has also increased to 1,054 after one more person succumbed to the infection. 87 recovered According to the bulletin, 87 persons, who were undergoing treatment for the virus, have recovered. The number of recoveries has increased to 1,50,599. The number of active cases has declined to 1,595.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/district-sees-1-death-72-new-covid-cases/article35712986.ece
04 August 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tributes to be paid to Vangapandu today||To commemorate the first death anniversary of prominent lyricist and singer Vangapandu Prasad Rao, the officials will be conducting a function at VMRDA Children's Arena at 9 a.m. on Wednesday. Tourism Minister M. Srinivasa Rao, Chairman of Official Language Commission Yarlagadda Lakshmi Prasad and a few others would take part. The government has also decided to present ‘Sri Vangapandu Prasad Rao Janapadha Kalapuraskaram’ and Rs. 2 lakh cash to a noted artiste every year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tributes-to-be-paid-to-vangapandu-today/article35712988.ece
04 August 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||DMHO: health staff being trained to handle third wave of COVID||Vizianagaram District Medical and Health Officer S.V. Ramanakumari said that training programmes were being conducted for doctors, nurses and other medical staff to face the third wave of COVID-19 which had already caused panic in a few States. Speaking to The Hindu , Ms. Ramanakumari said that the Medical and Health Department had gained considerable experience after handling the first and second waves of the pandemic. “Fortunately, we have sufficient infrastructure at all hospitals including 68 Primary Health Centres with the availability of required medical oxygen cylinders and concentrators. With the support of the Union and the State governments, we could improve infrastructure in all the hospitals. Many service organisations have also extended their service. Now, we are ready to face any kind of challenge in the future,” said Dr. Ramanakumari. She said people’s cooperation was needed to achieve the vaccination targets in the district. “So far, we have administered the first dose of vaccine to 7.5 lakh people and second dose to 1.9 lakh people. The Medical and Health Department is keen on coordinating with concerned departments to ensure vaccination for all eligible candidates within a month so that they would be in a safe position and would not become carriers,” she said. According to her, the department is concentrating on improvement of infrastrcuture in newly-established YSR Urban Health Centres. They are expected to provide treatment to patients suffering from normal problems. The centres are expected to reduce the patients’ rush to the MR Government Hospital and other major government hospitals in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/dmho-health-staff-being-trained-to-handle-third-wave-of-covid/article35712914.ece
04 August 2021||August 04 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sonu Sood ties up with Vijayawada IAS academy||Sonu Sood IAS Scholarship (Sambhavam) is collaborating with Vijayawada-based Sarat Chandra IAS Academy to provide free online coaching for UPSC civil services examinations to aspiring civil servants. The scholarships will be jointly sponsored by Sood Charity Foundation and Diya Foundation. At a press conference on Tuesday, the academy’s managing director Sarat Chandra said that over two lakh students from across the country had applied for financial assistance. “We are happy and feel grateful to Mr. Sonu Sood for putting trust in our academy’s coaching ability at the national-level,” said Mr. Sarat Chandra. To select beneficiaries of the scholarships, the academy conducted an online exam in two phases and each round saw over one lakh students from across the country attempting it, using the Sarat Chandra IAS Academy mobile app. Students were asked to brush up their knowledge in social studies textbooks of Classes VI to X, besides current affairs. “The names of the selected students will be announced in the next few days,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sonu-sood-ties-up-with-vijayawada-ias-academy/article35712325.ece
04 August 2021||August 04 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Inviting trouble||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/inviting-trouble/article35712867.ece
04 August 2021||August 04 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Early bird gets the fish||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/early-bird-gets-the-fish/article35712327.ece
04 August 2021||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||Displacement of poor during pandemic flayed||Former IPS officer R. S. Praveen Kumar on Tuesday called on the members of poor families, those left shelterless following the demolition drive conducted by the authorities at Medarabasti in Kothagudem a week ago. Mr. Praveen, former secretary of the TS Social Welfare and Tribal Welfare Residential Educational Institutions, who resigned from the Indian Police Service over a week ago, made a whirlwind tour of the predominantly tribal populated district on Tuesday. He arrived in the coal town to a rousing welcome by leaders of various mass organisations cutting across political affiliations. The former secretary of the TS Social Welfare and Tribal Welfare Residential Educational Institutions visited the school building where the displaced poor people of Medarabasti have been given temporary shelter in the coal town. Narrating their tale of woe, the aggrieved “displaced” dwellers hailing from weaker sections alleged that they were rendered homeless after the demolition drive amid the COVID-19 pandemic. Mr. Praveen expressed grave concern over the plight of the impoverished shelterless people at the temporary relief camp. He flayed the “apathy” of the elected representatives concerned towards the shelterless poor people and sought immediate allotment of two-bedroom houses to the displaced poor families. The former IPS officer wanted the authorities to conduct a medical camp and provide basic amenities to the “displaced” persons at the temporary relief camp.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/displacement-of-poor-during-pandemic-flayed/article35712934.ece
04 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Lack of clarity making daily wagers miss out on vaccine||Vaccine hesitancy remains a major obstacle in the government’s efforts to tackle the COVID-19 pandemic, but that is not the only reason a part of the State’s population is yet to be inoculated. Daily wage workers are at the risk of being left out of the vaccination programme due to a lack of clarity regarding the drive, which calls for a targeted awareness strategy. D. Tirupathi, a daily wage earner, is among lakhs of people who are yet to undergo vaccination. The 32-year-old attributed it to the lack of information about vaccination timings at government health centres. “I have not taken the vaccine yet since we don’t have information about timings and the procedure. If I go to a health centre once and the staff there asks me to visit another day, I might go back two or three times. If I still don’t get the vaccine, I will be discouraged to pursue it,” Mr Tirupati told The Hindu during a conversation at the labour adda near Mahankali Temple in Secunderabad. Several daily wagers like him have not taken the jab yet. The reasons vary from person to person. There are some who fear losing out on work for two to three days owing to side-effects post immunisation. Besides, it generally takes quite some time to collect tokens and take the jab at government health centres which results in the loss of a day’s wage. They earn around Rs. 500 for a day’s work, and mostly manage to find work for three or four days a week. They wait at the addas every morning hoping to get hired for the day.  Mahesh, an elderly worker who has missed out on vaccination so far, blames it on his ‘carelessness’. Asked by Syed Feroz, a volunteer of Nirashraya Shramika Sanghatan which works for the homeless, if it was because he feels ‘healthy’, Mr Mahesh smiled and nodded. “There are 60-80 homeless persons who live here. Most of them are yet to take the vaccine,” said Mr Mahesh. His fellow workers said setting up vaccination camps near the labour addas will help them easily access the vaccine. ‘Awareness needed’ Mr Feroz said the workers will be encouraged to take the vaccine if an awareness campaign is organised to disseminate information about the inoculation drive, particularly about which health centre to approach in case of side-effects.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/lack-of-clarity-making-daily-wagers-miss-out-on-vaccine/article35712587.ece
04 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Huzurabad constituency inundated by political floods||There are no heavy rains yet Huzurabad is witnessing inundation albeit that of political leaders! Though the schedule for the byelection to the Huzurabad Assembly seat, which fell vacant with Eatala Rajender resigning as MLA, the area is flooded with visits of leaders from TRS and BJP leaders. A void of sorts got created in Congress with its candidate in previous Assembly elections P. Kaushik Reddy joining the ruling TRS. There is likely to be further heavy rain of political leaders’ visits in all villages of the six mandals in the constituency in coming days once the Congress narrows down on its candidate for the bypoll. Already, TRS and BJP are deeply into moves and countermoves to checkmate their rivals. One-upmanship One-upmanship and consolidation of caste groups is in full display in the constituency going by the developments over the last fortnight. It all began with filing of cases and ouster of Eatala Rajender as a minister from the Cabinet, his subsequent move to resign his MLA seat and cross to the BJP before launching a full-fledged campaign through padayatra. Kaushik Reddy quitting Congress in the backdrop of an audio leak (in which he claimed he would be TRS official nominee for bypoll) and joining the TRS spiced up the political scenario in the constituency. It is surely a big gain for Kaushik Reddy to have secured MLC post in Governor’s quota with TRS supremo KCR’s blessings within days of joining the ruling party. Switching of loyalties by leaders ahead of elections has forced leaderships of parties to redraw their strategies to retain their loyalists as the key to winning is held by BC and SC voters. Of the more than 2.05 lakh electorate, BCs constitute roughly 50% while SCs comprise nearly 40,000 and OCs close to 41000.With Mr. Rajender hailing from Mudiraj, a BC community, the TRS leadership after initial inclination to field a Reddy has now come to the conclusion that fielding a BC candidate would be appropriate for taking on the former minister on his home turf. TRS sources said following the resignation of Mr. Rajender, the party scoured for a strong candidate from Reddy community to pit against him. Mr. Kaushik Reddy would have been an automatic choice had it not been for the audio leak episode. Also, by picking up a BC candidate, it could neutralise Mr. Rajender’s bid to play the BC card. Party sources said although a novice, Gellu Srinivasa Yadav of TRS Students wing is the strong contender for the ticket. The TRS is keen on consolidating the BC votes and the latest announcement of Dalit Bandhu scheme is only expected to further boost party chances. Entry of former TDP State chief L.Ramana and former minister E. Peddi Reddy may benefit the TRS to some extent. BJP leadership is confident that Mr. Rajender is still the frontrunner in the runup to the elections. The padayatra was mainly intended to percolate the party’s symbol (lotus) to grassroots as voters might still think Mr. Rajender is a TRS man.The unceremonious exit of Mr. Kaushik Reddy exposed the situation of the Congress in Huzurabad where it has become rudderless. Efforts of the State leaders to convince at least two senior leaders — one a former State minister from the SC community and the other former MP from an influential BC — have come to a nought. Both refused to enter the fray and openly told the leadership that they did not want another defeat to be added to their account. If Congress sources are to be believed, one leader said he would quit the party, if he was forced to contest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/huzurabad-constituency-inundated-by-political-floods/article35712612.ece
04 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Vending zones still a mirage in GHMC||Footpath facility created by the Hyderabad Metro Rail in front of the fruit market in Kothapet presents a shabby picture these days. Pedestrians have to run hurdles to rush to the Chaitanyapuri Metro Station, in order to avoid the hawkers who set shop right along the footpath, often occupying the whole of the tiled portion. Majority of the pedestrians take the abutting road in order to avoid getting on and off the footpaths every often. Interestingly, most of the street vendors here have been issued identity cards by the GHMC, which authorises them for street vending. Some of them have even availed themselves of the loan facility based on their cards. “Still, we have to continuously live in fear of the police, who show special enthusiasm in controlling us. We understand that this is not the vending zone, but we do not know where it is, and we get a lot of business here,” says K.Lakshmamma, a fruit vendor. Despite issuing identity cards in lakhs during a campaign under the Prime Minister Street Vendors’ AtmaNirbhar Nidhi(PM SVANidhi), GHMC has not made much progress so far in demarcating vending zones for the hawkers, and shifting them there. As per the information shared by GHMC at the time of the campaign, more than 1.62 lakh street and small time vendors had been identified under the scheme and identity cards had been issued to over 1.54 lakh vendors. However, sources say that all these vendors do not come under the vending zone policy, which is reserved for hawkers alone. According to available information, GHMC has so far formed 30 town vending committees, and 294 common interest groups under its Street Vending policy formulated in 2016. Loans to the tune of Rs. 59.44 lakh have been sanctioned to 51 common interest groups. Demarcation of a total of 138 vending zones has been completed, and the remaining are under progress. Training in food safety measures has been provided to 300 street vendors in coordination with the Institute of Hotel Management and Catering Technology, in 2019. No data is available on how many street vendors have been shifted to the vending zones already identified. Officials from GHMC were not available for a comment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/vending-zones-still-a-mirage-in-ghmc/article35712607.ece
04 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Net rise of 3.19 m in water levels||Thanks to the copious rainfall received in the State since the commencement of monsoon, groundwater levels registered a net rise of 3.19 metres during July as compared to same month last year. The average groundwater level during July was 6.07 metres below ground level (m bgl). It varied from 2.57 m bgl in Warangal (rural) to 13.79 m bgl in Medak. Of the 33 districts, average water level is 5 m bgl in 11 districts, 5 to 10 m bgl in 20 districts and over 10 m bgl in the remaining two districts. According to an official release, net rise in ground water level is observed in all the districts with a minimum rise of 0.01 m in Mancherial and maximum 8.61 in Rangareddy. Net average rise in ground water level of 3.12 m was observed during July as compared to May with 0.73 m in Nagarkurnool to 6.4 m in Nirmal. Accordingly, 45 % of the State area was occupied by shallow water levels (less than 5 m bgl) followed by 40 % area where water levels were in the range of 5 to 10 m bgl. Close to 11 % area had water levels of 10 to 15 m bgl. Compared with the decadal average levels of July (2011-2020), rise in water levels in the range of 0.08 to 17.26 m was observed in 579 out of the 592 mandals of the State while 13 mandals reported fall in the water levels in the range of 0.21 m to 2.84 m. The State as a whole received 535 mm rainfall till the end of July against normal rainfall of 361 mm. Rainfall ranged from 263 mm in Nagarkurnool district to 769 mm in Nirmal district registering 48 % excess during the period.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/net-rise-of-319-m-in-water-levels/article35712616.ece
04 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Station halts for VIPs cost Railways Rs. 27.84 lakh a year!||A two-minute halt at a particular station usually requested by public representatives to railway authorities costs quite a sum — Rs. 7,628, which includes Rs. 1,763 for additional fuel cost, Rs. 4,401 for locomotive maintenance, Rs. 1,464 for earning capacity lost for a diesel locomotive. For an electric locomotive, it is slightly cheaper, working to around Rs. 5,451. In case the railway authorities are able to successfully convince the demanding public representatives to withdraw the ‘uneconomical’ stoppage, it will save about Rs. 27.84 lakh per annum if the train is hauled by the diesel locomotive and about Rs. 18.25 lakh a year if the train is hauled by the electric locomotive, according to the expenditure worked out by the traffic costing cell of the South Central Railway (SCR). A series of awareness directions have been issued to the departments of operations and commercial concerned in recent times in order to impress upon the staff about the need to cut expenditure wherever possible in view of the prevailing financial condition of the railways where the passenger earnings has nosedived in the past one and half years due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Rolling stocks Urging the personnel to see that the rolling stocks should keep moving and not kept in detention at the station yards, goodsheds, sick lines and terminals, it was pointed out that detention of the diesel loco would cost Rs. 12,154 for one hour, Rs. 16,158 for an electric one, idling of an AC coach Rs. 2,784, sleeper coach Rs. 1,868, general coach Rs. 1,832, covered wagon Rs. 1,044, open wagon Rs. 1,223 and flat wagon Rs. 1,203. The instructions were in line with the Central government’s official order to all the undertakings to curtail the ‘avoidable expenditure’ to the tune of 20% when compared to the expenditure in 2019-20. The expenditure being incurred to combat COVID-19 pandemic has been excluded from the scope of this order, senior officials informed, pleading anonymity. Cost-cutting items Items slated for cost cutting are overtime allowance, domestic/foreign travel, cash rewards, office expenses, publications, advertising, minor works etc.  Items slated for cost cutting are overtime allowance, cash rewards, office expenses, publications, advertising etc.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/station-halts-for-vips-cost-railways-rs-2784-lakh-a-year/article35712596.ece
04 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||New love for heritage||The inscription of Ramappa temple in Palampet as a Unesco World Heritage Site seems to have set in motion a new love for heritage in Telangana. “Our government will create Telangana Heritage Circuit. We are striving to improve visibility of Telangana’s heritage and culture and this recognition is a testament to that,” said V. Srinivas Goud, Minister for Tourism and Culture. He shared that the government would acquire land near the temple to create a buffer zone as mandated by Unesco. Earlier, the Ministers and local politicians participated in a tree plantation drive in the vicinity of the temple. Speaking on the occasion, Minister E. Dayakar Rao hoped that the number of tourists visiting Ramappa would increase and it was a sign that Telangana is finally getting its due. Recalling the long struggle to get the Unesco tag, Congress MLA D. Anasuya spoke on the efforts by Kakatiya Heritage Trust and B.V. Papa Rao for lobbying with diplomats and documentation and help by the Archaeological Survey of India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/new-love-for-heritage/article35712614.ece
04 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Discharge of flood at all projects recedes||Discharge of flood at all major reservoirs in the Krishna Basin — Almatti, Naraynapur, Tungabhadra, Jurala, Srisailam, Nagarjunsagar and Pulichintala — is on the steady decline in tune with the receding inflows into them. At Nagarjunasagar, from the discharge of over 3.18 lakh cusecs from 22 crest gates lifted for 10 ft height each till 2 a.m. on Tuesday, it was first reduced 2.6 lakh cusecs by closing four gates, by 8 a.m. it was further reduced to 2.3 lakh cusecs by closing two more gates and by 9 a.m. it was brought down to 2.02 lakh cusecs by closing two more gates. Gradually, it was brought down to just 31,000 cusecs by 2 p.m. Another 34,000 cusecs was also being let into the river course with power generation as the inflow into the dam came down to 84,000 cusecs at 10 p.m. At Srisailam, it was reduced to 1.11 lakh cusecs from the four spillway gates open for 10 ft height each and another 63,000 cusecs was being let into the river after power generation in the right and left bank power houses of Andhra Pradesh and Telangana as the inflow stood at 2.02 lakh cusecs at 10 p.m. In the upstream at Jurala, the spillway discharge was 1.39 lakh cusecs from 25 crest gates and another 25,000 cusecs was being let into river after power generation against the inflow of 1.8 lakh cusecs. At Narayanpur it the discharge of flood was 1.35 lakh cusecs against the inflow of 1.6 lakh cusecs and at Almatti it was 1.5 lakh cusecs and 2.75 lakh cusecs, respectively. At Tungabhadra, the discharge of flood was about 10,000 cusecs against inflow of 28,000 cusecs. In the Godavari Basin, only Yellampally Barrage was getting 7,900 cusecs in the upstream of Medigadda. At Medigadda and Kanthanapally Barrages the discharge of flood was over 1.25 lakh cusecs each.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/discharge-of-flood-at-all-projects-recedes/article35712622.ece
04 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||CCMB scientists moot new drug targets on cells||Cells communicate with each other via ‘receptor proteins’ on the cell membranes which are targets for drugs to alter functioning and physiology. However, the latest study from Amitabha Chattopadhyay’s lab at CSIR-Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCMB) makes a case for designing new drugs to focus on the lipid environment surrounding these receptor proteins. The lab had earlier found that the serotonin receptors are sensitive to cholesterol surrounding them. In the new study published in ‘Science Advances’, they report a sensor region on ‘human serotonin1A’ receptor can detect cholesterol, specifically a region called ‘CRAC motifs’, which are believed to interact with cholesterol, said an official release on Tuesday. Researchers replaced the specific amino acids in these CRAC motifs and came across a particular amino acid responsible for cholesterol-sensitive function. They collaborated with Jana Selent’s group from Pompeu Fabra University Hospital del Mar Medical Research Institute in Barcelona, Spain, to visualise the protein-cholesterol interaction via computer-aided molecular dynamics simulations. Molecular motion This helped them predict how the specific amino acid on CRAC motif enables the receptor proteins to sense changes in cholesterol levels by controlling molecular motion in certain regions. “Cholesterol levels change in our cells with age and in disease conditions. We believe our work will help in developing better drugs that keep in mind not just the receptor proteins as the drug target, but also the lipid environment in which it is present,” said Mr Chattopadhyay. “Our expertise in structural biology at CCMB is key towards physical understanding of cells and their functions. This not only adds to the detailed view of living cells but also have immense potential in therapeutics development,” said CCMB director Vinay Nandicoori.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ccmb-scientists-moot-new-drug-targets-on-cells/article35712598.ece
04 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TS posts 609 new COVID cases||As many as 609 new coronavirus infections were recorded in the State on Tuesday, with 1,08,921 samples being put to test. The results of 1,541 samples are awaited. The fresh cases include the highest of 81 from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation region, followed by 67 cases in Karimnagar, 51 in Khammam, 48 in Nalgonda, 39 in Pedapalli, and 36 each in Medchal-Malkajgiri and Rangareddy. No infection was detected in Jogulamba Gadwal, while Adilabad logged one case. Telangana’s infection tally now stands at 6,46,606. Four COVID patients also died during the day, taking the death toll to 3,811. The State had 8,777 active cases as of Tuesday evening. A total of 2.23 crore samples have been put to test since the first case was detected on March 2 last year. Non-COVID services On the first day of resumption of non-COVID services at Gandhi Hospital, 268 patients turned up for consultation on out-patient basis, and 28 emergency cases under non-COVID category were admitted. The government tertiary care hospital was turned into a COVID-only facility in the third week of April this year when the second wave of pandemic was peaking.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ts-posts-609-new-covid-cases/article35712591.ece
04 August 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Sub-Inspector held for rape attempt on probationary SI||A 2014-batch Sub-Inspector working in Mahabubabad district was taken into custody for allegedly trying to rape a probationary SI in the wee hours of Tuesday. The 29-year-old victim, who was allotted to Warangal Police Commissionerate, was undergoing practical training in Mahabubabad district and was attached as Station House Officer (SHO) of Maripeda police station in the district. Speaking to The Hindu , Warangal Police Commissioner Tarun Joshi said that around 11.40 p.m. on Monday, Maripeda SI Polireddy Srinivasa Reddy called the probationary SI and informed her about illegal transportation of black jaggery. He sent messages on WhatsApp several times and deleted them after she read them. The accused officer asked the woman to wear civvies and arrived in a private vehicle. When the victim asked him about other officers who should be part of the raid, he told her that he got a tip-off from a credible source and can’t inform his colleagues at the PS, as there was a chance of information leak. “He told her that he was carrying his official pistol in case of any untoward incident,” Dr. Joshi said, quoting the woman. She believed his version, and got into the car. Later, he took her to an isolated place, about 7 km from the PS, and allegedly started misbehaving with her. Mr Reddy allegedly touched her inappropriately while she was seated next to him in the passenger seat and tried to force himself on the woman, police said. He also tore her clothes. “Despite the woman strongly resisting his inappropriate act, the SI tried to rape her. After constant resistance, he dropped her at her place around 2.45 a.m. and returned to his house,” Dr. Joshi said. On Tuesday around 11 a.m. the victim met the Police Commissioner and narrated the whole incident. Soon, Dr. Joshi directed Mahabubabad SP Koti Reddy to register a case under Section 376 of Indian Penal Code and relevant Sections of the Scheduled Castes and Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act against Mr Reddy and take him into custody. The officer said that the victim suffered external injuries and reddish marks were visible on her face, neck and hands. In a swift action, the accused officer was placed under suspension of Inspector General of police (North zone) Y. Nagi Reddy. Earlier in the afternoon, activists of the Mahila Congress led by its president Sunita Rao staged a flash protest in front of the DGP’s office in Hyderabad demanding action against the erring police officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/sub-inspector-held-for-rape-attempt-on-probationer/article35712600.ece
04 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Revanth Reddy shares work with PCC working presidents||Indicating a marked change in the style of functioning of the Pradesh Congress Committee (PCC) under his leadership, TPCC chief A. Revanth Reddy has taken up distribution of work among the five working presidents not only to boost the team spirit but also to send a positive signal to the cadre. The new PCC chief has allocated party work to all the five working presidents — J. Geetha Reddy, M. Anjan Kumar Yadav, Mohd. Azharuddin, T. Jayaprakash Reddy and B. Mahesh Kumar Goud — by sharing the responsibilities and make each of them oversee the party activities parliamentary constituency wise as also the activities of the party’s frontal organisations, departments and cells.As per the work division, former minister Dr. Geetha Reddy will oversee party activities in Secunderabad, Nalgonda and Hyderabad LS constituencies, NSUI, intellectual cell, research department and professional Congress. Similarly, two-time former MP from Secunderabad Anjan Kumar Yadav will handle Nizamabad, Mahabubabad, Medak and Peddapally constituencies, Youth Congress, minorities department and fishermen department. Former MP Azharuddin has been asked to oversee party in Adilabad, Zaheerabad and Malkajgiri, the constituency represented by Mr. Revanth Reddy in Lok Sabha, Parliament constituencies and social media wing. Mr. T Jayaprakash Reddy will be in-charge of Khammam, Warangal, Bhongir and Karimnagar as also Mahila Congress, INTUC, labour cell and unorganised workers cell. Youngest among the working presidents, Mr. Mahesh Kumar Goud has been told to handle party activities in Mahabubnagar, Nagarkurnool and Chevella constituencies besides taking care of the organisation coordination, OBC, SC and ST departments and Sevadal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/revanth-reddy-shares-work-with-pcc-working-presidents/article35712621.ece
04 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Hotels told to strictly monitor visitors||Nearly a week after a man killed his alleged girlfriend and ended his life in a room at a star hotel in Madhapur, police on Tuesday conducted a meeting with the representatives of hotels to create awareness on safety precautions. Representatives of three-star and above category hotels in Madhapur division took part in the meeting conducted by in-charge DCP (Madhapur) M Venkateshwarlu and inspector P Ravindra Prasad. They warned the hotels management and directed them to strictly follow the rules, including installation of IP based, IR, motorised CC cameras with minimum storage of 30 days and CCTV cameras, which must cover each room door closely. Merely installing a CCTV camera at the end of the lobbies doesn’t suffice and the managements were told to keep a close watch on online bookings of single women and their visitors. “Whenever there is a single woman and multiple visitors on a single day, it should be immediately informed to local police or Dial-100,” the in-charge DCP said. “Whenever the hotel managements or security feel suspicious of any activity of any guest, the same should be brought to the notice of local police. They must collect valid ID cards with valid phone numbers and the phone number must be cross checked by giving a missed call,” he said. He asked them to maintain a register for visitors who are going into the guest rooms and send a list of guests everyday to the local police station.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/hotels-told-to-strictly-monitor-visitors/article35712601.ece
04 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Handloom festival in Hyderabad from today||The annual handloom exhibition ‘Go Swadeshi’ by GoCoop is back in Hyderabad. It will be held from August 4-8 at Kalinga Cultural Hall, Road No. 12, Banjara Hills. GoCoop is a marketplace that connects weavers, artisans, co-operatives and clusters directly with consumers through its Go Swadeshi exhibitions organised across India. In its 10th year, the exhibition will showcase a wide range of authentic handloom saris, fabrics, dress materials, stoles, dupattas, menswear, home décor and accessory products by weavers and artisans from different parts of the country. It will also offer a mix of contemporary and traditional handlooms with collections by weavers from Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, Bihar, Delhi, Gujarat, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Odisha, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal. The collection will also include embroidered saris, dupattas and stoles by the Lambadi community. Go Swadeshi by GoCoop aims to support artisans in marketing their products to sustain themselves and to help the sector recover from the impact of COVID-19. The organisers are ensuring that weaver and artisan partners are vaccinated, and safety protocols followed as per government guidelines. The exhibition will be open between 11 am and 8 pm on all four days.  Go Swadeshi aims to help the sector recover from the impact of COVID-19||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/handloom-fest-from-today/article35712599.ece
04 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Life term to home guard for sexual assault||Tukaramgate police of Hyderabad secured conviction of life-imprisonment to a home guard, who was accused of sexually assaulting a minor tribal girl and held guilty of the charge, on Wednesday. First Additional Metropolitan Sessions Judge of Nampally Kunchala Sunitha also handed down a sentence of 30 years of rigorous imprisonment to accused home guard Botla Mallikarjun, holding him guilty under the provisions of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. The convict was also sentenced to undergo rigorous imprisonment of two years for criminal intimidation. A total of Rs. 50,000 was imposed as fine on him. Judge Kunchala Sunitha also ruled that the 16-year-old victim should be paid a compensation of Rs. 7 lakh for the physical and mental trauma she had undergone due to the aggravated assault. The 40-year-old accused from Alair used to live in a portion of his maternal grandmother’s house in Tukaramgate and work at Hyderabad Central Crime Station (CCS). During COVID-19 pandemic, his grandmother went to Alair in December. The victim and her parents, who used to sell broomsticks, were living in the rented portion. “The accused entered the portion when the physically challenged girl was alone and violated her. He repeatedly the assaulted her,” Gopalapuram ACP P. Venkataramana, who investigated the case, said. In February, the girl’s family realised she was pregnant. On learning about the assault, they lodged a complaint. The accused was arrested within 24 hours and remanded in judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/home-guard-gets-lifer-for-sexual-assault/article35712602.ece
04 August 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||No water supply||Several areas in the city will not have water supply on Wednesday due to junction works being taken up for a major pipeline near Nagole. The areas to be affected include Balapur, Maisaram, Barkas, Mekalamandi, Bholakpur, Tarnaka, Lalapet, Boudha Nagar, Marredpally, Railways, MES, Cantonment, Prakash Nagar, Patigadda, Hasmathpet, Ferozguda, Gautamnagar, Vaishali Nagar, B.N.Reddy Nagar, Vanasthalipuram, Autonagar, Maruti Nagar, Mahendra Hills, Elugutta, Ramantapur, Uppal, Nacharam, Habsiguda, Chilkanagar, Beerappagadda, Boduppal, Meerpet, Badangpet, and Shamshabad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/no-water-supply/article35712608.ece
04 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Firm donates oxygen plants, tanks to hospitals||Crop protection solutions manufacturer Adama India on Tuesday said it has started handing over oxygen generation plants (PSA) and oxygen storage tanks worth Rs. 3 crore to hospitals across the country. Mahavir Hospital and Research Centre in Hyderabad and District Government Hospital in Nandyal as well as Pushpalata Government Hospital in Gudivada, Andhra Pradesh, are among those healthcare facilities that will be getting the oxygen generation plants and oxygen storage tanks, the company informed in a press release. Chairman Yossi Goldshmidt said “in these challenging times of COVID-19, we want to help in whatever way we can”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/oxygen-plants-tanks-for-hospitals/article35712594.ece
04 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||MIDHANI donates van to Akshaya Patra||MIDHANI chairman and managing director S.K. Jha on Tuesday handed over a Rs. 17-lakh transport vehicle to Akshaya Patra Foundation for delivering nutritious food to schoolchildren and for COVID feeding activities across Telangana under its corporate social responsibility in the presence of senior officials including director (finance) N Gowri Sankara Rao, chief vigilance officer V. Upendra, general manager-HR A. Ramakrishna Rao and others. APF vice president Yagneshwara Prabhu, state head Rajini Sinha and manager A. Avinash expressed gratitude to MIDHANI for their support in feeding schoolchildren in the State. Despite the challenges of COVID pandemic, MIDHANI in association with APF distributed 1,500 dry ration kits worth Rs. 11.25 lakh to support daily wagers and migrant labourers last year, a press release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/midhani-donates-van-to-akshaya-patra/article35712604.ece
04 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Firm issuing BIS Hallmark spuriously raided||Bureau of Indian Standards (BIS) officials conducted a search and seizure operation at Miryalaguda, Nalgonda district to check the misuse of BIS Hallmark on gold jewellery and found that SS Hallmark Centre was found to be misusing the label without obtaining any necessary permissions. Gold jewellery, silver jewellery and other goods regarding spurious BIS Hallmark were seized during the operation recently along with the laser marking machine used for making the spurious mark. BIS Hyderabad Head K.V. Rao said hallmarked jewellery can be sold only by jewellers registered with BIS and can be hallmarked only by BIS recognised Assaying and Hallmarking Centres (AHCs). Misuse of BIS standard mark, including hallmark without a recognition is a violation and is punishable with imprisonment up to two years or with fine which shall not be less than Rs. 2 lakh. Mr. Rao in a press release has requested consumers to look for complete BIS hallmark, including BIS logo, purity in carat and fineness and HUID. Details of certified jewellers can also be seen by using the ‘BIS CARE’ mobile app and visiting BIS website http://www.bis.gov.in. In case of fraud, complaints may be informed by email to hhybo@bis.gov.in.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/firm-issuing-fake-bis-hallmark-raided/article35712605.ece
04 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Increase in Assembly seats sought||State Planning Board vice-chairman B. Vinod Kumar has demanded that the Central government take steps to increase the number of Assembly seats in the two Telugu States as assured in the State Reorganisation Act. Mr. Vinod Kumar charged the Centre with lacking commitment on the issue and said the seats could be enhanced if the Centre displayed its commitment to the implementation of the promises made to Telangana. The Centre could make necessary amendments to the Reorganisation Act for increasing the number of Assembly seats from 119 to 153 as assured in the Act. He wondered why the Centre was reluctant on increasing the seats when it was possible with a small amendment to the Act. Mr. Vinod Kumar was responding to a reply given by the Centre in Parliament that increase in Assembly seats in Telugu States was not possible till 2026. He said the Reorganisation Act was amended more than once in the past few years. The Centre made amendments to transfer seven mandals in Khammam district to Andhra Pradesh in spite of the opposition from Telangana. “Why is the Centre reluctant now?” he asked. He said he had introduced a private member bill in Parliament, seeking increasent of seats in the Assembly. He had met the then minister M. Venkaiah Naidu who confirmed that the increase was possible.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/increase-in-assembly-seats-sought/article35712617.ece
04 August 2021||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Two reunited with their families||Two mentally ill persons from Assam and Jharkhand, who have been staying at the town-based shelter home for destitute persons for the past four years, are all set to be reunited with their families soon. Chunil Gogoi from Batiporia village in Assam and Marcus from Chatakahu in Jharkhand were rescued from the roadside while wandering on the streets in Khammam by the town-based Annam Seva Foundation chairman and para-legal volunteer Annam Srinivasa Rao nearly four years ago. Since then, they have been residing at the shelter home run by the Annam Seva Foundation in the town. After partially recovering from their mental illness, the duo reportedly shared some information about their native places with Mr Rao. Based on the clues, Mr Rao posted their details on social media and managed to trace their addresses two days ago. Mr Rao obtained permission from the district administration to travel to Assam and Jharkhand along with the duo to reunite them with their family members. The inmates and volunteers of the shelter home accorded an affectionate farewell to Chunil Gogoi and Marcus. The foundation has disbursed financial assistance of Rs. 50,000 to Chunil and Rs. 25,000 to Marcus. Speaking to The Hindu , Mr Rao said Prof. Nanda Kishore of the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Guwahati, Assam, helped him in tracing the address of Chunil.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/two-reunited-with-their-families/article35712931.ece
04 August 2021||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||PDSU, PYL activists taken into custody||Several activists of the PDSU and the PYL were taken into custody when they attempted to lay a siege to the camp office of Transport Minister P Ajay Kumar here on Tuesday as part of a State-wide stir demanding release of a job calendar to fill all vacant posts in various government departments within a time-frame. Chaos prevailed for some time near the camp office after several demonstrators ran towards the entrance of the office building, where they were intercepted by the police. The demonstrators were shifted to a police station. They were let off later. They shouted slogans holding the government “responsible” for the suicide of Shabbir, 26, an unemployed youth of Sirsedu villag, who allegedly ended his life by jumping in front of a running train near Jammikunta on Sunday. Addressing the demonstrators at a rally held earlier in the day, PDSU district president N Azad and PYL district secretary K Srinivas charged the Telangana Rashtra Samithi government with being “indifferent” to the recent spate of “suicides” by unemployed youth in various parts of the State. They alleged that the inordinate delay on the part of the ruling dispensation in the State in filling all posts shattered the hopes of many educated unemployed youth.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/pdsu-pyl-activists-taken-into-custody/article35712623.ece
04 August 2021||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||CT scanner inaugurated at Khammam hospital||The long felt need for advanced diagnostic imaging services at the District Headquarters Hospital in the town ended on Tuesday with the inauguration of a new high-end 16-slice Computed Tomography (CT) scanner at the 500-bed major public health facility here. The much-needed CT scanner has been installed at the hospital at a cost of Rs. 2.10 crore. The old 2-slice CT scanner at the hospital turned defunct a few years ago, sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ct-scanner-inaugurated-at-khammam-hospital/article35712928.ece
04 August 2021||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||Flood discharge reduced at Nagarjunasagar||After operating 22 gates to discharge a maximum 3.52 lakh cusecs into the downstream Krishna river on Monday, officials at Nagarjunasagar Project gradually closed the gates to reduce the discharge so as to fill up the reservoir on Tuesday. From 22 gates which were lifted to a height of 10 feet each, the number was initially brought down to 18 and the outflow was maintained same as the inflow at 2.95 lakh cusecs. By noon, 14 of the gates were gradually closed down and the discharge was further regulated to about 95,000 cusecs through just four gates. The four spillway gates were maintained at five feet height, at around 3 p.m., when inflows from Srisailam Project were recorded as 1.41 lakh cusecs. As per official estimates last available at 8 p.m., the four gates remained at five feet height and were discharging 68,000 cusecs, while inflows from the upstream were 1,40,180 cusecs. The full reservoir level being 590 feet, waters stood at 587.30 feet and was holding 305 tmc ft water as against full capacity of 312 tmc ft.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/flood-discharge-reduced-at-nagarjunasagar/article35712933.ece
04 August 2021||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||Fake baba arrested||The special task force of Nalgonda police arrested Sai Vishwa Chaitanya, a native of Nandigama in AP, for allegedly sexually exploiting women and duping people in the name of powers from Shirdi Sai Baba. Police produced the 50-year-old, along with his three staff, Rs. 26 lakh, 500 gm gold ornaments, FD certificates worth Rs. 1.50 crore, land documents for 17 acres and digital devices, SP A.V. Ranganath said. The main accused Chaitanya had set up ‘Sri Sai Sarvasvam Sai Mansi Charitable Trust’ and an ashramam was being run at Ajmapur village of PA Pally mandal in the district. His history of cheating, the officer said, dated back to 2002, when he was booked by Nampally police in Hyderabad for duping people to the tune of Rs. 1 crore through a computer centre. Later, he began to appear on TV channels for religious sermons. In 2017, he expanded his network by starting a YouTube channel ‘Sri Sai Sarvasvam’ to practide the same and gave online appointments for personal consultations. His ‘supernatural’ puja material, such as raksha kavach yantram, mala, oil, and others, with special labels and sold at premium or sent through couriers, were in fact brought from Moazzam Jahi Market in Hyderabad. Investigation into the ‘fake baba’ ashramam began after a few women complained that “the baba said indulging in sex with him would result in positive energy.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/fake-baba-arrested/article35712618.ece
04 August 2021||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||Man killed in accident||One person was killed on the spot when an RTC bus hit him. The incident took place on Monday at Lingampally in Munipally mandal. According to sources, Raju, belonging to Kothapalli, was walking on the roadside when a bus coming from Zaheerabad hit him. He had died on the spot. His relatives alleged that the driver of the bus was in a drunken state. Munipally police registered a case and are investigating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/man-killed-in-accident/article35712926.ece
04 August 2021||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||Third wave of COVID may hit soon, be prepared: Harish Rao||Finance Minister T. Harish Rao has warned that the danger of third wave of COVID-19 is looming large and the administration needs to get prepared to face the situation. Addressing a gathering after formally inaugurating the cotton fabric expo at the integrated Collectorate in the district headquarters town on Tuesday and participating in a review meeting, Mr. Harish Rao said: “Complete the vaccination at the earliest as there is the danger of third wave of COVID-19 hitting us . See that drug stores in the district are inaugurated in the next 10 days.” The officials were also instructed to see that all dump yards and Vaikuntha Dhamams are started in a special drive. The Minister also presented a sari to horticulture officer Rama Lakshmi for promoting oil palm cultivation in the district. ZP meeting held Zilla Parishad chairperson V. Roja Sharma has directed the officials to reach the target of establishing oil palm cultivation in about 50,000 acres in the district. Addressing the general body meeting of the ZP held here on Tuesday, Ms. Roja Sharma said that double bed room houses were allotted in transparent form and all the pending works will be completed at the earliest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/third-wave-of-covid-may-hit-soon-be-prepared-harish-rao/article35712925.ece
04 August 2021||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||Huzurabad entrusted to Harish Rao?||Has the leadership of Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) entrusted the winning of Huzurabad Assembly byelection to Finance Minister T. Harish Rao? It seems so, though party sources are not ready to either confirm or deny it. They claim that everything is going under the supervision and guidance of party president and Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao. Mr. Harish Rao held a meeting with party workers from Huzurabad town and mandal at Telangana Bhavan, the party office headquarters, at Siddipet on Monda. During the meeting Mr. Harish Rao tried to create confidence among party workers by stating that former health minister Eatala Rajender had entered the party as individual and left the party as individual only and there was no adverse impact on the party as he resigned. “The entire party workers and public are with Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao. Opposition has criticised our schemes like Kalyana Lakshmi, Shaadi Mubarak, Aasra and Rytu Bandhu. We are implementing these schemes without fail in a perfect answer to them. No one ever dreamed of constructing Kaleshwaram Lift Irrigation Scheme (KLIS). We made it possible and everyone has been enjoying the fruits now,” said Mr. Harish Rao while addressing party workers. The Minister also tried to make light the impact of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), in which Mr Rajender joined after resigning from TRS, in the constituency. “BJP has the tactfulness of plying dramas. From tomorrow, the campaign (by Rajender) may be with bandages as if to show that his health was damaged due to padayatra. People have rejected that the party in both West Bengal and Tamil Nadu. It will be of no use even if the party wins in the byelection,”said Mr. Harish Rao. “Party has already entrusted the responsibility to select leaders. As of now the Chief Minister is monitoring personally. Soon, the responsibility will be entrusted to a senior leader,” said a party source.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/huzurabad-entrusted-to-harish-rao/article35712620.ece
04 August 2021||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||School barren land turns green||A decade ago, no one thought it would be possible to grow plants on the premises of the government primary school located at Shakaram village in Wargal mandal. The school ground, spread over two acres, was completely barren, except for one tree which offered some shade. Locals said that it was impossible to plant any sapling when someone in the school tried to do so. Today, the scene is completely different, with the premises looking verdant with various types of plants and trees. Saplings were planted here seven years ago and some have grown into trees that have reached a height of more than 15 feet. All thanks to the efforts of Varala Prashanth Kumar, a teacher working in the school, who took the initiative with the help of students. Efforts were put in since 2016 after consulting some agriculture experts. The soil health was improved by following the traditional system of vermicomposting and using cow dung. About 500 saplings including that of tamarind and neem were planted. The efforts have yielded results and evident in the form of lush surroundings. The first year he had to work hard and convince the students about the importance of growing saplings, from the second year onwards it was the students who played a key role in taking care of the saplings. Saplings were given for adoption to the students who nurtured them. By 2020 about 450 trees grew to their full size with dense foliage and even attracted snakes. As a precautionary measure some of them removed and space was created to move a tractor. Now there is ample place for students to run and walk between the trees. Every year the outgoing 5th class students will hand over the responsibility of these trees to those replacing them in the same class. Students will also tie Raksha Bandhan to these trees during the festival. “Vegetables like tomato, brinjal and leafy varieties are growing here, which are being used for mid-day meals for the past four years,” Mr Prashanth Kumar told The Hindu .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/school-barren-land-turns-green/article35712923.ece
04 August 2021||August 04 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Webinar for breastfeeding awareness||As part of World Breastfeeding Awareness Week, the National Neonatology Forum-Telangana State chapter organised a virtual awareness programme on Tuesday which was attended by nearly 100 participants, including anganwadi teachers, staff of Integrated Child Development Services (ICDS) and mothers who attend ICDS. Forum president Srinivas Murki, secretary Ramesh B Dampuri and Niloufer Hospital paediatrics head Usha Rani explained various aspects of breastfeeding, especially on this year’s theme ‘Protect Breastfeeding: A Shared Responsibility’. Principal secretary of Women and Child Welfare department Divya Devarajan also participated in the webinar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/webinar-for-breastfeeding-awareness/article35712589.ece
04 August 2021||GURUGRAM,||HHRC suggests Rs. 50K for police torture victim||The Haryana Human Rights Commission has recommended Rs. 50,000 as compensation to a victim in a case pertaining to torture in police custody three years ago. HHRC Chairperson Justice S.K. Mittal said the state was liable for the torturous acts of its employees and could later recover the amount from the erring officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/hhrc-suggests-rs-50k-for-police-torture-victim/article35712469.ece
04 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||CBSE Class X results: Delhi, Noida regions get bottom positions||The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) Class X results, using a modified assessment policy that took into consideration marks obtained in unit tests, mid-year exams and pre-board exams, were announced on Tuesday. The pass percentage of Delhi West and Delhi East regions was 98.74 and 97.80 respectively, putting it in the 14th and 15th position out of the 16 regions across the country. The All India pass percentage was 91.46. Last year also, Delhi West and Delhi East regions were placed in the same positions with a pass percentage of 85.96 and 85.97. The Noida region placed 13th with 98.78 pass percentage. The CBSE did not issue a merit list for the results this year. Pass percentage for Delhi government schools for 2021 was 97.52, which is an improvement from the 82.61 achieved in 2020, said the Delhi government. In 2019, which was the last time the board exams was not disrupted due to COVID-19, the pass percentage was 71.58. 100% pass result The number of government schools that secured a 100% pass result has gone up from 147 in 2020 to 750 this year, it added. A total of 186 Delhi government school students scored above 95%. The board has announced the results on the basis of an alternative assessment policy after the exams were cancelled in view of the aggressive second wave of COVID-19. According to the policy, while 20 marks for each subject were for internal assessment as every year, 80 marks were calculated on basis of the students’ performance in various tests throughout the year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/cbse-class-x-results-delhi-noida-regions-get-bottom-positions/article35712475.ece
04 August 2021||New Delhi,||Bariatric surgery on two-year-old weighing 45 kg||A two-year-old girl who weighed 45 kg has undergone successful bariatric surgery and is recovering well, said a private hospital in the city. Normally, a child of that age weighs around 12-15 kg. The two-year-old had a Body Mass Index of 41.5 — normal BMI is between 23.5 to 25. “The child was normal at the time of birth and weighed 2.5 kg. However, she started gaining weight rapidly soon after birth and weighed 14 kg at six months. She reached 45 kg at two years and three months,” said Manpreet Sethi, consultant, paediatric endocrinology, at Max Hospital. He said the child’s condition had worsened to the point where she had trouble breathing and was unable to sleep on her back. She was wheelchair-bound for six months before the surgery. “We finally decided to go ahead with the bariatric surgery as it seemed the only way to save her life,” Dr. Sethi said, adding that the child is undergoing rehabilitation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/bariatric-surgery-on-two-year-old-weighing-45-kg/article35712476.ece
04 August 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Now, SAD-BSP alliance promises free power||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) chief Sukhbir Singh Badal on Tuesday said if the SAD-Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) alliance assumes power in the State, free power up to 400 units per month will be given to all households, besides 75% jobs would be reserved for people of Punjab in the private sector. Announcing a thirteen-point charter of initiatives which the SAD-BSP alliance will implement if it forms the next government in the State, Mr. Badal said a grant of Rs. 2,000 per month will be given to all women heads of ‘blue card’ holder families. Also, Rs. 10 per litre reduction in price of diesel for agriculture consumers will be provided. Provision of power at Rs. 5 per unit for industry and an interest free loan of Rs. 10 lakh for students will be kept, the Akali Dal chief said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/now-sad-bsp-alliance-promises-free-power/article35712487.ece
04 August 2021||GURUGRAM,||HHRC recommends Rs. 50K for police torture victim||The Haryana Human Rights Commission (HHRC) has recommended Rs. 50,000 as compensation to a victim in a case pertaining to torture in police custody three years ago. In an eight-page order recommending the compensation to victim Surya, the son of the complainant Ajit Singh, HHRC Chairperson Justice S.K. Mittal observed that the state was vicariously liable for the torturous acts of its employees and could later recover the amount from the erring officer, Assistant Sub-Inspector Jaipal. The order said the amount has to be disbursed within eight weeks. Mr. Singh, a resident of Jind, in his complaint, said Surya, a student of B.A. final year had gone to college on November 14, 2018, to take an exam when he got a call from his friend around 11 a.m. saying that he had been arrested by the police. When the complainant reached the police post in Hisar, he found his son tied to the window of the building, his legs chained and several injuries on his body. Mr. Singh, in his complaint, said that the ASI along with his colleagues severely beat up his son in his presence and took him to Civil Hospital when he fell unconscious. He was later referred to Agroha Medical Hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/hhrc-recommends-rs-50k-for-police-torture-victim/article35712682.ece
04 August 2021||GUWAHATI,||Bandh observed over slow pace of Naga peace process||Parts of Manipur and Nagaland shut down on Tuesday to protest against the lack of progress in the Naga peace process. The Isak-Muivah faction of the National Socialist Council of Nagaland or NSCN (I-M) had called the 12-hour shutdown on the sixth anniversary of the signing of the Framework Agreement signed on August 3, 2015. Most shops and commercial establishments were closed across ‘Nagalim’, a term for Naga-inhabited areas across the northeast. NNPG areas ignore call According to reports, the shutdown had minimal effect in Zunheboto and Mon districts. These districts are dominated by communities that comprise the bulk of the members of the rival Naga National Political Groups (NNPGs).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/bandh-observed-over-slow-pace-of-naga-peace-process/article35712486.ece
04 August 2021||jaipur,||Karnataka Cong. chief meets Gehlot||Less than 24 hours after an unannounced visit of senior Congress leader Kumari Selja to Jaipur, Karnakata Pradesh Congress Committee president D.K. Shivakumar also met Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot here on Tuesday. Mr. Shivakumar's visit is perceived as yet another attempt by the party leadership to tackle Mr. Gehlot’s unrelenting attitude to a Cabinet reshuffle. Mr. Shivakumar, who landed at Sanganer airport here on Tuesday afternoon, was driven straight to the Chief Minister's official residence in Civil Lines. He left for New Delhi after meeting Mr. Gehlot for nearly an hour. Mr. Shivakumar is the fourth Congress leader to visit Rajasthan in the last one week amid speculation about a Cabinet expansion and reshuffle, in which the MLAs loyal to former Deputy Chief Minister Sachin Pilot are seeking a bigger representation. AICC general secretaries Ajay Maken and K.C. Venugopal and Haryana Congress chief Ms. Selja have visited Jaipur and met Mr. Gehlot over the last couple of week. However, Mr. Shivakumar told reporters at the airport that this was his personal visit to the State Capital and it had “no political agenda”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/karnataka-cong-chief-meets-gehlot/article35712488.ece
04 August 2021||Mumbai,||Maharashtra rolls out Rs. 11,500 cr. package for flood-affected areas||The Maharashtra Cabinet on Tuesday cleared a Rs. 11,500 crore package for the flood-hit areas in Konkan and western Maharashtra. The package will be used for relief, reconstruction, and execution of long-term plans to avoid future disasters. The aid offered is also more than the rates prescribed by the State Disaster Relief Fund. The package includes Rs. 1,500 crore towards relief, Rs. 3,000 crore for reconstruction, and Rs. 7,000 crore for future plans. Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Tuesday called for a comprehensive and permanent policy to tackle disasters caused by natural calamities. “The frequency of floods is growing. A committee comprising experts in the field and administrative officials should be formed with the participation of the National Water Development Agency. The report should be presented to the Cabinet,” he said. A three-year scientific programme would be carried out on the Gandhari, Savitri and Vashishthi rivers, which would include constructing and deepening retaining walls, the CM said. A total of Rs. 10,000 per family is to be given towards damaged clothes, domestic apparatus, utensils etc., by eliminating the condition that requires a house to be under water for 48 hours to avail this relief. In the case of loss of livestock, Rs. 40,000 per lactating animal, Rs. 30,000 per animal used in hard labour, Rs. 20,000 per small animal used in hard labour, and Rs. 4,000 per sheep, goat or pig, is to be provided. On the complete destruction of a dwelling, Rs. 1.50 lakh per house is to be given, and Rs. 50,000 in the case of 50% destruction. Houses with a minimum of 25% destruction will receive Rs. 25,000, while those with 15% destruction, and huts, will get Rs. 15,000. Completely damaged fishing boats and nets will receive Rs. 25,000 and Rs. 5,000 respectively.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/maharashtra-rolls-out-rs-11500-cr-package-for-flood-affected-areas/article35712801.ece
04 August 2021||Mumbai,||Governor’s visit to 3 districts draws criticism||The State Cabinet on Tuesday registered a strong protest against Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari’s three-day visit to three districts where he will be taking review meetings and inaugurating various development works without taking consent from the Minister concerned. “The Chief Secretary will be visiting Raj Bhavan to convey the Cabinet’s objections, and he will also inform the Governor about his rights. It is apparent that the Governor is trying to create two power centres in the State,” Minister and NCP leader Nawab Malik said. Mr. Koshyari has announced a three-day tour of Nanded, Parbhani and Hingoli districts between August 5 and 7.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/governors-visit-to-3-districts-draws-criticism/article35712789.ece
04 August 2021||New Delhi,||Cabinet approves salary hike for MLAs, sticks to cap set by Centre||The Delhi Cabinet, in a meeting chaired by Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, on Tuesday approved a salary hike for MLAs as per the cap fixed by the Centre. The city’s legislators will now get a salary of Rs. 30,000, besides other allowances, the government stated. The move comes after the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) “restricted” the Delhi government’s proposal to hike legislators’ salaries and chose to cap it at Rs. 30,000. The said proposal had been pending for the last five months, said the Delhi government. The BJP opposition alleged the proposal was a veiled attempt by the Delhi government to affect a “400% increase” in MLAs’ salaries, which had been struck down by the MHA as it was “unjustified”. The Salaries and Allowances of Ministers of Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi, (Amendment) Bill, 2021, and MLAs/Speaker-Dy Speaker/Chief Whip/Leader of Opposition of Legislative Assembly of Delhi (Amendment) Bills, 2021, were approved recently, the government stated. The proposal and the draft Bills will be sent for the MHA’s approval before being placed in the Delhi Assembly. ‘Lowest earning MLAs’ As the cost of living in the Capital had risen substantially, the restriction imposed by the Centre had forced Delhi’s MLAs to be amongst the lowest earning MLAs in the country, the city government argued, The Delhi government said the salary of Delhi’s MLAs has not increased since 2011. It said it had requested the MHA that salaries of Delhi’s MLAs be at par with MLAs of other States “but the Centre refused”. “Delhi government had proposed a salary of Rs. 54,000, at par with other States. However, the MHA restricted the salary to Rs. 30,000. Now, the salary plus allowances of Delhi MLAs has been restricted by the MHA to Rs. 90,000,” the government stated, adding: “Many States provide many other perks and allowances to their MLAs, which the Delhi government does not such as: house rent allowance, office rent and staff expenses, allowance for buying office equipment, vehicle, driver allowance.” BJP MLA Vijender Gupta said the Delhi government had passed a Bill increasing MLAs’ salary and other allowances from Rs. 53,000 to Rs. 2,10,000 in 2015 and sent the proposal to the Centre for approval. But this was not granted as the Bill was passed in “an unconstitutional manner”, he added. He also said in 2020, the Delhi government sent a new proposal to the MHA in which it once again demanded salary and other allowances to be increased to Rs. 2,10,000 per month. However, the Centre amended the proposal in January 2021 with an increase in salary and other allowances to Rs. 90,000 from Rs. 53,000 and sent it back to the Delhi government. “The Delhi government’s proposal for a 400% hike in salary and other allowances was not justified, therefore, the Central government approved only 70% increase,” Mr. Gupta said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/cabinet-approves-salary-hike-for-mlas-sticks-to-cap-set-by-centre/article35712485.ece
04 August 2021||New Delhi,||No oxygen-scarcity death at Jaipur Golden: police||The Delhi Police told a court here on Tuesday that the death of 21 COVID-19 patients in Jaipur Golden Hospital in April was not caused due to oxygen shortage, a claim which contradicts the hospital’s stand. In the same status filed by the police before the court, the hospital had said there was a link between inadequate oxygen supply and deaths of the patients as no oxygen was supplied to them for 30 hours despite several alerts. Twenty-one in-patients died at the hospital on the intervening night of April 23-24 allegedly due to lack of oxygen. “On scrutiny of death summaries of all deceased persons, it revealed that no death of any patient caused due to shortage of oxygen,” the police stated in the status report on a plea seeking FIR against the hospital for deaths. DCP Pranav Tayal told Metropolitan Magistrate Vivek Beniwal that as the allegations are against doctors and medical staff, the opinion regarding any medical negligence has been sought from Delhi Medical Council. However, the hospital said: “INOX supplied oxygen 3.8 MT on 22 April at 5:30 pm. There was no refill by INOX at the scheduled time of 5:30 pm on 23 April. This resulted in a crisis situation”.  No oxygen was supplied for 30 hours despite several alerts Jaipur Golden Hospital||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/no-oxygen-scarcity-death-at-jaipur-golden-police/article35712482.ece
04 August 2021||New Delhi,||Plea seeks door-to-door vaccine campaign||The Delhi High Court on Tuesday asked the Union and the Delhi governments to respond to a petition by an octogenarian woman seeking direction to introduce a policy on urgent door-to-door COVID-19 vaccination for high-risk senior citizens in the Capital. Dhiraj Aggarwal, 84, who suffers from arthritis, said she could be exposed to COVID-19 if she went to a vaccine centre. Moreover, she was mostly bed-ridden and unable to go to a centre due to her condition. “Due to her condition, she could not get any shot of the COVID-19 vaccine till date,” the petition said. Next hearing on Sept. 16 A Bench comprising Chief Justice D.N. Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh sought a response from the authorities by September 16, the next date of the hearing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/plea-seeks-door-to-door-vaccine-campaign/article35712478.ece
04 August 2021||New Delhi,||Nod for policy to promote production of medical oxygen in the Capital||The Delhi Cabinet, in a meeting chaired by Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, on Tuesday approved the Medical Oxygen Production Promotion Policy, 2021. The policy includes the provision for incentives for medical oxygen production and storage. “Medical Oxygen Production Promotion Policy 2021 has been approved. It provides several incentives to the private sector to set up oxygen production plants, invest in oxygen tankers, and set up oxygen storage facilities. This will help improve oxygen availability in Delhi, which became a huge bottleneck in handling the last COVID wave,” Mr. Kejriwal tweeted. To become self-reliant The objectives of the policy include making Delhi self-reliant in terms of medical oxygen production and supply. It seeks to do so by increasing the production of oxygen in Delhi through setting up either new manufacturing enterprises or expanding the production capacity of existing units. The objective of the policy is to ensure time-bound fulfilment of the setting up of Liquid Oxygen manufacturing facilities of minimum 50 MT capacity up to a total of 100 MT. It also seeks the setting up of non-captive oxygen generation plants (PSA/Air Separation Unit technology) of minimum 10 MT and maximum 50 MT capacity up to a total of 100 MT, the government said. Target of 11,000 hotspots In another decision. the Cabinet granted approval for the continuation of free WiFi facility in Delhi. Mr. Kejriwal had launched the free Wi-Fi scheme from the ITO bus stop in December 2019. Initially, the government had targeted the setting up of 11,000 hotspots to provide free Wi-Fi across Delhi. So far, the government stated, free Wi-Fi hotspots had been installed at 10,561 places: 2,208 hotspots at bus stops and 8,353 at other locations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/nod-for-policy-to-promote-production-of-medical-oxygen-in-the-capital/article35712480.ece
04 August 2021||New Delhi,||South body’s expenditure on salaries abnormally high, says HC||The Delhi High Court on Tuesday remarked that the expenditure incurred by South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) on paying salaries of employees is abnormally high as compared to its functioning. An HC Bench asked whether the biometric attendance of staff of the civic body was linked to their Aadhaar. “If you see your expenditure in comparison to others in the country or abroad, you are incurring abnormally high expenditure on salaries, which is not justified looking at your core functioning of sanitation. You need to see if you are overstaffed and paying salaries…,” the Bench said. The court observed that when the corporation was not doing that much of sanitation and development work, how it could keep paying so much of salaries to employees. The counsel said the monthly expenses of SDMC include Rs. 214 crore for salaries and Rs. 30 crore for pensions. The court also asked SDMC to comply with its earlier order to submit an affidavit on the steps taken to augment their resources and its financial position. Next hearing on August 11.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/south-bodys-expenditure-on-salaries-abnormally-high-says-hc/article35712680.ece
04 August 2021||New Delhi,||Vaccination picks up pace; 50 new cases||The number of daily COVID-19 vaccine doses administered in the city has increased, the government said on Tuesday. A total of 91,100 doses of vaccine were administered on Monday, compared to 83,042 doses on Saturday. But it is far less than figures towards the end of June when 1.5-2 lakh people were being vaccinated daily. The vaccine stock of the city will last for four days and there are 4,15,990 doses of Covishield and 3,81,560 doses of Covaxin, as per government data. Till now, 1,01,98,723 doses of vaccines have been administered in the city. According to Tuesday’s bulletin, the city reported 50 new COVID-19 cases in 24 hours, taking the total to 14,36,451. There were four deaths pushing the toll to 25,058. A total of 64,276 tests were done in a day and that test positivity rate was 0.08%. Of the total cases, 14,10,874 people have recovered and there are only 519 active cases. No COVID-19 bulletin was released by the government on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/vaccination-picks-up-pace-50-new-cases/article35712479.ece
04 August 2021||New Delhi,||Kejriwal inaugurates ‘Delhi@2047’||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday inaugurated a platform called ‘Delhi@2047’ in an attempt to foster partnerships with the private sector (CSR initiatives) and philanthropic organisations and achieve the vision for ‘Delhi by 2047.’ Mr. Kejriwal said the government was not approaching the sector hoping it would “just write cheques” but needed their ideas, expertise, participation and partnership to realise the dreams everyone had for Delhi. Mr. Kejriwal spoke at a virtual meeting, which had representatives from various corporate entities. Leader of Opposition Ramvir Singh Bidhuri said the slogan Delhi@2047 was “hollow and misleading”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/kejriwal-inaugurates-delhi2047/article35712483.ece
04 August 2021||Pune,||State’s active COVID-19 cases dip below 75,000||Maharashtra’s recoveries continued to outweigh cases with 6,799 patients being discharged on Tuesday as against 6,005 new COVID-19 cases. The State’s active case tally has dipped below the 75,000 mark to reach 74,318. As many as 177 deaths took the State’s cumulative fatalities to 1,33,215 with the case fatality rate climbing to 2.1%. The total cases have reached 63,21,068 while the cumulative recoveries have risen to 61,10,124 with the recovery rate standing at 96.66%. Pune recorded a big spike of nearly 1,100 new cases taking its total case tally to 10,92,018 while 22 deaths pushed the fatality count to over 18,340. Mumbai reported 259 fresh cases to take its total tally to 7,35,657 while the active cases declined below the 5,000 mark to reach 4,996. Nine fatalities took the city’s death toll to 15,911. Ahmednagar registered more than 729 cases and 16 deaths, taking its total cases to 2,88,618 of whom 6,570 are active.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/states-active-covid-19-cases-dip-below-75000/article35712685.ece
04 August 2021||Pune,||Record 99.63% students in State clear HSC exams||In the results to the Higher School Certificate (HSC) or Class 12 exams announced on Tuesday, Maharashtra notched a record cumulative pass percentage figure of 99.63 in a pandemic-ridden educational year. This year, the lethal second wave forced the exams, scheduled between April 23 and May 29, to be first postponed and then scrapped altogether. An alternative assessment pattern was adopted, with the scores calculated on the basis of a 30:30:40 formula, which took the best of three subject performances of a student in Class 10, combined with the final exam marks in Class 11 and the rest based on individual college-level internal assessment tests in Class 12. While 7,10,719 boys and 6,09,035 girls had registered, 7,07,518 boys and 6,07,447 girls cleared the exams.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/record-9963-students-in-state-clear-hsc-exams/article35712688.ece
04 August 2021||Pune,||Govt. monitoring Zika virus situation: Tope||With Maharashtra reporting its first Zika virus case in Pune district, Health Minister Rajesh Tope on Tuesday said all areas adjoining the tehsil where the case had emerged have been placed under strict surveillance to preclude a further spread of the virus. Last week, a 50-year-old patient from Purandar in Pune tested positive for Zika virus. The woman, who had also been diagnosed with Chikungunya, has apparently recovered, as per State health authorities. The Central government immediately dispatched a multidisciplinary team to Maharashtra, mandating it to monitor the Zika virus situation and support the State government. Commenting on the COVID-19 situation, Mr. Tope said the much-anticipated decision to fully open Mumbai’s local train services for the public had been put on hold for the time being. “We are not saying we will not be opening local train services soon, but the decision to lift the restrictions has been put on hold, as a number of issues need to be considered before taking a call. The Chief Minister will discuss the matter further and a solution is expected shortly,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/govt-monitoring-zika-virus-situation-tope/article35712686.ece
04 August 2021||August 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Dirty work||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/dirty-work/article35712684.ece
04 August 2021||Tehran,||Raisi inaugurated as President of Iran||Ebrahim Raisi was on Tuesday inaugurated as President of Iran, a country whose hopes of shaking off a dire economic crisis hinge on reviving a nuclear deal with world powers. “Following the people's choice, I task the wise, indefatigable, experienced and popular Hojatoleslam Ebrahim Raisi as President of the Islamic Republic of Iran,” Iran's Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei wrote in a decree read out by his chief of staff. Mr. Raisi, a conservative, replaces moderate President Hassan Rouhani, whose landmark achievement was the 2015 nuclear agreement between Iran and six major powers. From the outset, Mr. Raisi will have to tackle negotiations aimed at reviving the nuclear deal from which the US unilaterally withdrew imposing sweeping sanctions. The 60-year-old also faces the United States, Britain and Israel's warnings to Iran over a deadly tanker attack last week for which Tehran denies responsibility. Mr. Raisi, in his inauguration speech, said the new government would seek to lift “oppressive” U.S. sanctions, but would “not tie the nation’s standard of living to the will of foreigners”. “We believe the people’s economic position is unfavourable both because of the hostility of our enemies and because of the shortcomings and problems inside the country,” he said. In his response, Mr. Khamenei acknowledged Iran suffered from “many shortcomings and problems”, but quickly added: “The country's capabilities are even more numerous. Fixing economic problems takes time and cannot be done overnight.” Rights record Mr. Raisi won a presidential election in June in which more than half the electorate stayed away after many heavyweights were barred from standing. A former judiciary chief, he has been criticised by the West for his human rights record. Tuesday’s ceremony marked Mr. Raisi’s formal accession to office. He will next be sworn in before Parliament on Thursday when he is to submit his proposed government line-up. Mr. Raisi's presidency will consolidate power in the hands of conservatives following their 2020 parliamentary election victory, marked by the disqualification of thousands of reformist or moderate candidates. The 2015 nuclear deal saw Iran accept curbs on its nuclear capabilities in return for an easing of sanctions. But then U.S. President Donald Trump withdrew from the accord three years later and ramped up sanctions again, prompting Tehran to pull back from most of its nuclear commitments. Mr. Trump’s successor Joe Biden has signalled his readiness to return to the deal and engaged in indirect negotiations with Iran alongside formal talks with the accord's remaining parties — Britain, China, France, Germany and Russia. The U.S. sanctions have choked Iran and its vital oil exports.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/raisi-inaugurated-as-president-of-iran/article35712098.ece
04 August 2021||Jerusalem,||Israeli SC offers compromise to avoid Palestinian evictions||Israel’s Supreme Court has floated compromises that would block the evictions of dozens of Palestinians in the east Jerusalem town of Sheikh Jarrah, where attempts by Jewish settlers to expel them from their homes sparked an 11-day war between Israel and Gaza militants in May. The cases examined on Monday involve four Palestinian families, numbering a total of about 70 people. The settlers have been waging a decades-long campaign to evict the families from densely populated Palestinian neighbourhoods just outside the walls of the Old City, in one of the most sensitive parts of east Jerusalem. The settlers say the homes are built on land that was owned by Jews prior to the 1948 war surrounding Israel’s creation. Israeli law allows Jews to reclaim such property, a right denied to Palestinians who lost lands and homes in the same conflict. The Palestinians say they have owned the properties for decades. During Monday’s hearing, the Supreme Court proposed a pair of compromises, according to Ir Amim, a Jerusalem human rights group that supports the Palestinians and which sat in on the hearing. Two proposals It said the first proposal offered the residents “protected” status, meaning they would be protected from eviction for years in exchange for recognising the settlers’ ownership over the land. This offer would allow the four families the right to pass down their properties for two generations. But after the four families rejected the proposition, the court proposed an alternative settlement where the four families would receive protected status while instead acknowledging that Israel once registered the properties with previous Jewish owners, according to Ir Amim. It said the settlers rejected that proposal, while the families asked for more time to consider it. “The settlement was very challenging, especially with the implied acknowledgement of the ownership of the other side,” said Ahmad Amara, a consultant to the residents’ legal team. He said the court gave the sides one week to respond. The plight of the Sheikh Jarrah families has drawn widespread international attention and criticism of what Palestinians and human rights groups say are discriminatory Israeli property laws aimed at pushing Palestinians out of Jerusalem to preserve its Jewish majority. The Israeli rights group B’Tselem and the New York-based Human Rights Watch both pointed to such policies as an example of “an apartheid regime”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/israeli-sc-offers-compromise-to-avoid-palestinian-evictions/article35712105.ece
04 August 2021||Kandahar,||Army urges Afghans to evacuate city||Residents were urged on Tuesday to evacuate a besieged Afghan city as the Army prepared a major offensive against Taliban insurgents after three days of heavy fighting. The Taliban have seized control of much of rural Afghanistan since foreign forces began the last stage of their withdrawal in May, but are now focused on capturing provincial capitals, where they are meeting stiffer resistance. Fighting is raging for Lashkar Gah, the capital of southern Helmand province, with the United Nations saying at least 40 civilians were killed in the last 24 hours. General Sami Sadat, commander of the 215 Maiwand Afghan Army Corps, told residents to get out as soon as they could. “Please leave as soon as possible so that we can start our operation,” he said in a message to the city of 2,00,000 delivered via the media. “Fighting was intense this morning,” said Sefatullah, director of Sukon radio. He said U.S. and Afghan Air Force planes had pounded Taliban positions, and that fighting was ongoing near the city’s prison and a building housing the headquarters of police and intelligence agencies. In recent days, the U.S. military has intensified air strikes in a bid to stem Taliban advances. “The Taliban are everywhere in the city, you can see them on motorcycles in the streets. They are arresting or shooting people who have smartphones,” a resident of Lashkar Gah said. “The Taliban are in people’s houses and the government is bombing them. About 20 houses in my neighbourhood have been bombed, they are fighting street-to-street battles,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/army-urges-afghans-to-evacuate-city/article35712100.ece
04 August 2021||Washington,||Officer dead, suspect killed in violence outside Pentagon||An officer died after being stabbed on Tuesday during a burst of violence at a transit station outside the Pentagon, and a suspect was shot by law enforcement officers and died at the scene, officials said. The Pentagon, the headquarters of the U.S. military, was temporarily placed on lockdown after gunshots were fired on Tuesday morning near the entrance of the building, A Pentagon police officer who was stabbed later died, according to officials, who spoke on condition of anonymity. More details about the violence were expected at a Pentagon news conference. The connection between the shooting and the stabbing of the officer was not immediately clear. The incident occurred on a Metro bus platform that is part of the Pentagon Transit Center and just steps away from the military headquarters, according to the Pentagon Protection Force Protection Agency. ‘Multiple gunshots’ An Associated Press reporter near the building heard multiple gunshots, then a pause, then at least one additional shot. Another AP journalist heard police yelling “shooter.” A Pentagon announcement said the facility was on lockdown due to “police activity.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/officer-dead-suspect-killed-in-violence-outside-pentagon/article35712297.ece
04 August 2021||Beijing,||Indian student’s death is homicide, suspect held: China||The death of a 20-year-old Indian student in China’s Tianjin city was a homicide and a foreigner has been arrested in connection with the murder, the Chinese Foreign Ministry said here on Tuesday. The suspect’s nationality has not been disclosed, officials said. Aman Nagsen, who hailed from Bihar’s Gaya, was a student of Business Administration at the Tianjin Foreign Studies University. He was found dead on July 29. The Chinese Foreign Ministry, in a written response to PTI , said that around 8 p.m., Tianjin police received a call that an “Indian student was lying on the floor of the dormitory with no sign of life”. “The initial investigation of the public security organ found it to be a case of homicide and the suspect is another foreign student of the university. Compulsory measures have been taken on the suspect and the case is still under further investigation. “Relevant Chinese competent authorities have notified the Indian Embassy in Beijing of the situation of the case on July 30 and 31 respectively and maintained communication with the Embassy,” it said. The Chinese side will handle the case in accordance with law and offer assistance in follow-up matters, it said, adding that an autopsy was conducted on Tuesday. The issuance of the death certificate is expected to take a few days as it is a case of homicide, the officials said. Nagsen was one of the few Indian students who remained in China through the coronavirus pandemic while most of the 23,000 odd Indian students, who left for home, were stuck in India, unable to return due to Beijing’s reluctance to lift visa restrictions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/indian-students-death-is-homicide-suspect-held-china/article35712295.ece
04 August 2021||Hong KOng,||Hong Kong media outlet, broadcaster and artist quit city||Hong Kong online news outlet Initium announced it was relocating to Singapore on Tuesday citing fading press freedoms, the first local media outfit to quit the financial hub as authorities crack down on dissent. The announcement came the same day that veteran broadcaster Steve Vines and Kacey Wong, one of the city’s best known political artists, also separately confirmed they had left Hong Kong because of declining freedoms. “Over the past six years, the road to freedom has become tougher and more dangerous, the world is increasingly polarised and antagonistic,” Initium ’s Chief Editor Susie Wu wrote in an article commemorating the outlet’s sixth year anniversary. She cited Hong Kong’s steady slide down annual press freedom ranking lists and the rise of “little pinks” — staunch nationalists — in mainland China.  Initium is a comparatively small Chinese-language outlet with some 60,000 paying subscribers. But its departure illustrates the concerns many media outlets have about their future in Hong Kong. “We believe no matter where we are, as long as the freedom in our hearts is connected, we can create larger space for freedom,” Ms. Wu wrote. China is currently remoulding Hong Kong in its own authoritarian image after huge and often violent democracy protests two years ago. A sweeping national security law imposed last year has criminalised much dissent and authorities have embarked on a campaign to root out those deemed unpatriotic. Many of the city’s most prominent pro-democracy activists have been arrested or jailed. Others have fled overseas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/hong-kong-media-outlet-broadcaster-and-artist-quit-city/article35712104.ece
04 August 2021||Kabul,||Minister targeted in Kabul attack||A powerful explosion rocked an upscale Kabul neighbourhood on Tuesday in an attack that apparently targeted the country’s acting Defence Minister. At least 10 people were wounded, a health official said. Several smaller explosions, as well as small arms fire, could be heard. Interior Ministry spokesman Mirwais Stanekzai said the blast happened in the posh Sherpur neighborhood in the green zone. Mr. Stanekzai said it appeared the guesthouse of acting Defence Minister Bismillah Khan Mohammadi was targeted in the attack.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/minister-targeted-in-kabul-attack/article35712296.ece
04 August 2021||Wuhan,||China’s Wuhan to test ‘all residents’||Authorities in Wuhan on Tuesday said they would test its entire population for COVID-19 after the central Chinese city where the coronavirus emerged reported its first local infections in more than a year. China is battling its largest coronavirus outbreak in months, confining the residents of entire cities to their homes, cutting transport links and rolling out mass testing as the fast-spreading Delta variant challenges its zero-Covid strategy and homegrown vaccines. Beijing had previously boasted of its success in crushing the virus, allowing the economy to rebound and normal life to return while swathes of the globe have struggled with the pandemic that has killed more than four million people worldwide. But the latest outbreak is threatening China’s success with more than 400 domestic cases reported since mid-July when a cluster among airport cleaners in Nanjing, Jiangsu province, sparked infections in over 20 cities across more than a dozen provinces. Wuhan, a city of 11 million, is “swiftly launching comprehensive nucleic acid testing of all residents”, senior city official Li Tao said at a press conference on Tuesday. Authorities announced on Monday that seven locally transmitted infections had been found among migrant workers in the city, breaking a year-long streak without domestic cases after Wuhan squashed an initial outbreak with an unprecedented lockdown in early 2020. And the holiday destination of Zhangjiajie in central China’s Hunan province abruptly announced on Tuesday that no one would be allowed to exit the city, after closing tourist attractions and encouraging visitors to leave last week. “All residents, tourists and other personnel are forbidden to leave Zhangjiajie,” according Zhangjiajie Daily . Major cities, including the capital Beijing, have now tested millions of residents while cordoning off residential compounds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/chinas-wuhan-to-test-all-residents/article35712102.ece
04 August 2021||Kiev,||Missing Belarus dissident found hanged in Ukraine park||Belarusian dissident Vitaly Shishov, 26, was on Tuesday found hanging in a park in Ukraine, with police opening a murder probe and supporters accusing the regime of Alexander Lukashenko of killing the activist.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/missing-belarus-dissident-found-hanged-in-ukraine-park/article35712107.ece
04 August 2021||Marmaris,||Deadly wildfire races toward Turkish power plant||A roaring blaze raced toward the thermal power plant in the Aegean coast city of Milas on Tuesday as frightened tourists left on boats for safety, farmers herded cattle toward the sea and dozens of people evacuated villages as wild winds and soaring heat spread the flames.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/deadly-wildfire-races-toward-turkish-power-plant/article35712103.ece
04 August 2021||August 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Poverty in India is on the rise again||India has not released its Consumption Expenditure Survey (CES) data since 2011-12. Normally a CES is conducted by the National Sample Survey Office (NSO) every five years. But the CES of 2017-18 (already conducted a year late) was not made public by the Government of India. Now, we hear that a new CES is likely to be conducted in 2021-22, the data from which will probably not be available before end-2022. Meanwhile, we know that the economy has been slowing for nine quarters prior to the outbreak of the novel coronavirus pandemic. Unemployment had reached a 45-year high in 2017-18, as revealed by NSO’s Periodic Labour Force Survey (PLFS). Sufficient to estimate change India’s labour force surveys, including the five-yearly Employment-Unemployment Rounds from 1973-4 to 2011-12, have also collected consumption expenditure of households. The PLFS has maintained that tradition. While the PLFS’s questions on consumption expenditure are not as detailed as those of the CES, they are sufficient for us to estimate changes in consumption on a consistent basis across time. It enables any careful researcher to estimate the incidence of poverty (i.e., the share in the total population of those below the poverty line), as well as the total number of persons below poverty. That is exactly what we do in the table . There is a clear trajectory of the incidence of poverty falling from 1973 to 2012. In fact, since India began collecting data on poverty, the incidence of poverty has always fallen, consistently. It was 54.9% in 1973-4; 44.5% in 1983-84; 36% in 1993-94 and 27.5% in 2004-05. This was in accordance with the Lakdawala poverty line (which was lower than the Tendulkar poverty line), named after a distinguished economist, then a member of the Planning Commission. Methodology In 2011, it was decided in the Planning Commission, that the national poverty line will be raised in accordance with the recommendations of an expert group chaired by the late Suresh Tendulkar (then professor of Economics at the Delhi School of Economics). That is the poverty line we use in estimating poverty in the table . As it happens, this poverty line was comparable at the time to the international poverty line (estimated by the World Bank), of $1.09 ( now raised to $1.90 to account for inflation) person per day. Based on the Tendulkar poverty line, the poverty estimates for 2004-05 and 2011-12 are to be found in the Planning Commission’s own estimates using the CES of those years. Hence, we have extended the 2011-12 poverty line for each State and used the consumption expenditure reported by the PLFS to estimate a consistent poverty head count ratio (i.e., incidence of poverty in the population) as well as the absolute number of the poor. We feel confident about using the PLFS, because in the absence of CES data, the PLFS can be used to estimate the incidence of poverty. It also collects the household monthly per capita consumption expenditure data based on the Mixed Recall Period methodology. Similar to the CES, the PLFS (PLFS annual report, 2019-20, page 6) also asks the household questions about expenses on health, clothing and bedding, education, footwear and consumer durables for a 365 day recall period — prior to the day of the survey; but for non-durable consumption goods/services — including expenses on food, housing and conveyance, etc. — its question expects a recall period of 30 days prior to the day of survey. We naturally updated the Tendulkar poverty line, using the Consumer Price Index for each State to 2019-20, to arrive at the estimate for the last year before COVID-19. An urban and rural rise What is stunning is that for the first time in India’s history of estimating poverty, there is a rise in the incidence of poverty since 2011-12. The important point is that this is consistent with the NSO’s CES data for 2017-18 that was leaked data. The leaked data showed that rural consumption between 2012 and 2018 had fallen by 8%, while urban consumption had risen by barely 2%. Since the majority of India’s population (certainly over 65%) is rural, poverty in India is also predominantly rural. Remarkably, by 2019-20, poverty had increased significantly in both the rural and urban areas, but much more so in rural areas (from 25% to 30%). It is also for the first time since the estimation of poverty began in India on a consistent basis, that the absolute number of poor has risen: from 217 million in 2012 to 270 million in 2019-20 in rural areas; and from 53 million to 71 million in the urban areas; or a total increase of the absolute poor of about 70 million. It is important here to recall two facts: between 1973 and 1993, the absolute number of poor had remained constant (at about 320 million poor), despite a significant increase in India’s total population. Between 1993 and 2004, the absolute number of poor fell by a marginal number (18 million) from 320 million to 302 million, during a period when the GDP growth rate had picked up after the economic reforms. It is for the first time in India’s history since the CES began that we have seen an increase in the absolute numbers of the poor, between 2012-13 and 2019-20. The second fact is that for the first time ever, between 2004-05 and 2011-12, the number of the poor fell, and that too by a staggering 133 million, or by over 19 million per year. This was accounted for by what has come to be called India’s ‘dream run’ of growth: over 2004 and 2014, the GDP growth rate had averaged 8% per annum — a 10-year run that was not sustained thereafter. By contrast, not only has the incidence of poverty increased since then, but the absolute increase in poverty is totally unprecedented. The contributory factors The reasons for increased poverty since 2013 are not far to seek. While the economy maintained some growth momentum till 2015, the monumental blunder of demonetisation followed by a poorly planned and hurriedly introduced Goods and Services Tax, both delivered body blows to the unorganised sector and Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises. The economic slowdown followed. None of the four engines of growth was firing after that. Private investment fell from 31% inherited by the new government, to 28% of GDP by 2019-20. Public expenditure was constrained by a silent fiscal crisis. Exports, which had never fallen in absolute dollar terms for a quarter century since 1991, actually fell below the 2013-14 level ($315 billion) for five years. Consumption stagnated and household savings rates fell. Joblessness increased to a 45-year high by 2017-18 (by the usual status), and youth (15-29 years of age) saw unemployment triple from 6% to 18% between 2012 and 2018. Real wages did not increase for casual or regular workers over the same period, hardly surprising when job seekers were increasing but jobs were not at anywhere close to that rate. Hence, consumer expenditure fell, and poverty increased. Poverty is expected to rise further during the COVID-19 pandemic after the economy has contracted. Santosh Mehrotra has recently edited ‘Reviving Jobs: An Agenda for Growth, 2020’. Jajati Keshari Parida is Assistant Professor of Economics at the Central University of Punjab, Bathinda||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/poverty-in-india-is-on-the-rise-again/article35712084.ece
04 August 2021||August 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Providing horizontal quota: the Bihar way||The Bihar government recently announced 33% horizontal reservation for women in State engineering and medical colleges. While reservation for Scheduled Castes (SCs), Scheduled Tribes (STs), Other Backward Classes (OBCs) and Economically Weaker Sections (EWS) is referred to as vertical reservation, horizontal reservation refers to the equal opportunity provided to other categories of beneficiaries, such as women, veterans, the transgender community, and individuals with disabilities, cutting through the vertical categories. Bihar at present has 60% reservation in the State higher educational institutions along the six vertical categories (SCs, STs, EWS and so on). The newly announced reservation for women in engineering and medical seats will not be in addition to this; it will instead be distributed across all the vertical categories, including the non-reserved 40% seats open to all. For example, if an engineering college has 100 reserved seats for STs, 33 of those seats will have to be filled with ST women. Article 15(3) of the Constitution allows governments to make special provisions for women and children. Dropping out of the workforce This initiative should be welcomed and adopted across sectors, departments, and States given that India’s female labour force participation (FLFP) rate is consistently declining and is worryingly low. World Bank data show that the FLFP came down to 21% in 2019 from 31.79% in 2005. As per the Bihar Economic Survey 2019-20, the State’s FLFP rate was abysmal compared to the all-India average. Only 6.4% and 3.9% women were employed in the urban and rural areas of Bihar compared to the all-India figures of 20.4% and 24.6% respectively. The FLFP rate needs to be treated cautiously though as it doesn’t take into account unpaid work (majorly performed by women) or the role played by social barriers like caste in blocking employment opportunities for women like owning a shop. Patriarchal control of women and systemic gender discrimination cannot be defeated by government intervention alone; State welfare schemes can go a long way in challenging them. The Bihar government needs to work towards reducing the female and male school dropout rate and ensure quality education at the primary and secondary level. In addition, initiatives like reservation of seats, when implemented properly, could become an important driver for improving the FLFP. Improving representation In the last three decades, Bihar has implemented various initiatives to empower women and improve their representation in various fields. When Lalu Prasad was the Chief Minister in 1992, Bihar had announced two consecutive days of menstrual leave for women employees in government services. In 2006, under Nitish Kumar, Bihar became the first State to reserve 50% seats for women in Panchayati Raj institutions even though the 73rd and 74th amendments to the Constitution, which came into force in 1993, mandated only one-third seats for them. This was later imitated by several other States such as Madhya Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh, Maharashtra, Gujarat, and Chhattisgarh. In 2013, the Bihar government made a provision for 50% reservation for women in cooperative societies and reserved 35% seats for them in police recruitment. The second initiative led to a swift jump in the number of women officers in the police department to 25.3% in 2020, more than double the national average of 10.3%, from 3.3% in 2015. In 2016, the government extended the 35% reservation for women to all government jobs in Bihar for which direct recruitment is made. In 2006, a scheme called the Mukhyamantri Balika Cycle Yojana was launched for Class 9 and 10 girl students. This was India’s first scaled up conditional cash transfer programme for secondary education of girls. The enrolment of girl students went up after this scheme. The Bihar government also provides Rs. 50,000 in installments to girl students to support their studies and other needs till graduation under the Mukhyamantri Kanya Utthan Yojana. This is an incentive-based scheme to encourage girls to complete education and delay marriage. According to the National Family Health Survey-5, the State’s literacy rate among girl children rose to 61.1% in 2019-20 from 56.9% in 2015-16. More jobs for women While the Bihar government has taken some laudable steps for the empowerment of women, the low female literacy rate and FLFP rate are of concern. One of the important factors for the low FLFP rate is the lack of employment opportunities for women after matriculation and graduation. The India Human Development Survey-II found that women with low levels of education and from rural areas are relatively more active in the labour market compared to women with middle or high school education. Therefore, the Bihar government needs to ensure that women don’t fall out of the labour market as they become more educationally qualified. One way this can be done is by filling up pending vacancies in the health sector, police force, teaching and other government departments as at least 35% of these posts will go to women. The government should also do away with hiring workers on contract and make all the current contractual workers permanent. Evidence points out that increasing women’s participation in the workforce to the level of men boosts the economy. In light of this, it is important for the government to make more and more jobs available for women. The Bihar government should also extend the engineering and medical quota for women to all institutions of higher education, including private colleges and universities. Further, the quota allotted to them can be increased to 40-45%, if not 50%, and the category can be renamed as ‘women and transgender persons’. Other State governments and the Union government should follow the Bihar government’s lead and introduce horizontal quota for women (and in addition, for transgender persons) in higher educational institutions as well as State employment as these measures will go a long way in reducing gender disparity in the country. Aditi Priya is a Senior Research Associate at LEAD at Krea University and is also with the Bahujan Economists group; Tejas Harad is a social and political commentator||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/providing-horizontal-quota-the-bihar-way/article35712094.ece
04 August 2021||August 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Getting back in business in the Indo-Pacific||United States President Joe Biden executed a bold diplomatic outreach to the Indo-Pacific region last month through carefully choreographed visits of his three top officials — Deputy Secretary of State Wendy R. Sherman, Secretary of Defense Lloyd J. Austin III, and Secretary of State Antony J. Blinken. This is part of a deliberate strategic re-focus, away from the 20 years of Afghanistan and Iraq and towards maritime Asia, where COVID-19, climate change and China are the compelling challenges. Assessing what the three American dignitaries sought and actually achieved is instructive in order to appreciate the impressive sweep of diplomacy and military strength of the world’s top power, the United States. Their discussions would surely mould the geopolitical equations in the region. In East Asia and Oman Ms. Sherman’s visit (July 19-27) was probably the most complex since it covered not only Japan, South Korea and Mongolia but also China. Throughout her trip, she reaffirmed the U.S. commitment to working with allies and partners for the promotion of peace and prosperity and upholding a ‘rules-based order’, the code word critical of China’s behaviour. Her discussions with Japanese Vice Foreign Minister Mori Takeo, covered not only the present state of the Japan-U.S. alliance but also other issues including Myanmar and COVID-19. In addition, she participated in a trilateral meeting involving Japan and South Korea, perhaps in a bid to smoothen tensions afflicting the two east Asian neighbours. By visiting Ulaanbaatar, Ms. Sherman became the highest U.S. dignitary to visit Mongolia since 2016. Despite its close relationship with Beijing, Mongolia looks for devices to assert its independence. So, the opportunity to discuss its needs and concerns with the new administration was valuable. In Tianjin, China, she held discussions with Vice Foreign Minister Le Yucheng, her counterpart, and was also received by Foreign Minister Wang Yi. Her main mission was to convey that the U.S. welcomed competition but did not seek confrontation with China. She also discussed forthrightly the dismal human rights situation in Xinjiang and logistics for a possible Biden-Xi Jinping meeting at the G20 summit in Rome in October. Southeast Asian dynamics The visit by Mr. Austin (July 23-30) covering three important ASEAN member-states — Singapore, Vietnam and the Philippines — turned out to be the most productive in that it reiterated the necessity for a U.S. military presence in the region. As the Pentagon chief, Mr. Austin is heard with attention, particularly when he speaks with the candour of a veteran general. “Beijing’s claim to the vast majority of the South China Sea has no basis in international law,” he aptly asserted, while delivering the Fullerton Lecture on July 27 (https://bit.ly/3CkTeMT). He listed China’s other objectionable actions, including “aggression against India”. And then he sent out the key signal to Beijing: “We will not flinch when our interests are threatened. Yet we do not seek confrontation.” This seems to have resonated, as Mr. Austin’s discussions with leaders of the three countries went off exceptionally well. In a joint statement, Singapore and the U.S. agreed that America’s presence in the region is “vital for its peace, prosperity and stability”. The U.S. side appreciated Singapore’s logistical support to U.S. military aircraft and vessels (https://bit.ly/3xmjPW7), while Singapore benefits from the arrangement of an air force fighter training detachment hosted in Guam as well as new training facilities inside the U.S. Singapore could modulate its current inclination to move closer to China. Mr. Austin encouraged Vietnam to develop closer defence cooperation with the U.S. A new memorandum of understanding was signed to resolve the war legacy issues by creating a database to accelerate the search for those still missing in action (MIA). Mr. Austin’s visits to Singapore and Vietnam will be followed shortly by U.S. Vice President Kamala Harris. The Philippines leg produced a notable result as Manila agreed to full restoration of the Visiting Forces Agreement which provides the legal foundation for the U.S. military presence in that country. In South Asia and Kuwait Mr. Blinken’s trip to Delhi and Kuwait (July 26-29; https://bit.ly/3yq8Yvt) drew attention for its positive outcomes. The India visit was more in the nature of a consultative, confirmatory dialogue rather than one that results in signing of new agreements. His discussions with the Prime Minister, the National Security Adviser and the External Affairs Minister brought out clearly that the areas of convergence between the two nations are expanding and the areas of divergence are shrinking. His repeated observation that the friendship with India is one of the closest that the U.S. has, was music to Indian ears. On Afghanistan, the proximity of perceptions was emphasised, although this did not conceal the differences in their perspectives. On the Indo-Pacific, however, the convergence was clear, with the two Foreign Ministers agreeing to cooperate on a range of geopolitical and geo-economic issues without uttering the “C” word even once in their smoothly-managed joint press conference. By clarifying that the Quad was not “a military alliance”, Mr. Blinken spoke the truth, tipping his hat to India’s strategic autonomy. He defined the Quad as four like-minded countries “coming together to work collectively … on regional challenges, while reinforcing international rules and values”. The takeaways Together, what do the three visits signal? First, that America’s China policy and the Rest of the Indo-Pacific policy will run in tandem, with inner consistency ensured by Mr. Biden. Second, Washington maintains a tough attitude towards Beijing, but it desires to keep the doors open for dialogue. The relationship with China is marked by three characteristics — adversarial, competitive and cooperative — and is likely to stay that way. Third, the U.S. is willing to resist and counter China firmly, but with the full engagement of and contribution by the like-minded states of the region. Therefore, Mr. Austin’s exposition of “integrated deterrence”, defined as “using every military and non-military tool in our toolbox, in lock-step with our allies and partners....”, assumes significance. In short, the U.S. is back and is willing to lead — but the region will have to seriously step up too and participate actively to maintain peace and prosperity. Asia can ill-afford to be a reticent bystander. Rajiv Bhatia is Distinguished Fellow, Gateway House and a former Ambassador to Myanmar||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/getting-back-in-business-in-the-indo-pacific/article35712087.ece
04 August 2021||August 04 2021 00:00 IST,||The problems of prediction||As the pandemic broke, in a Harvard Business Review article of April 2020, Julie Shah, an AI researcher and a roboticist at MIT, and Neel Shah, a physician at a major hospital and a public health researcher at Harvard, perceived that this would be our most meaningful Big Data and analytics challenge yet. “We have the people. We have the data. We have the computational force. We need to deploy them now,” they wrote. In terms of the volume of data, COVID-19 is something like Alibaba’s cave. Many data scientists, statisticians, computer analysts, and epidemiologists got engaged in the fashionable exercise of predicting the trajectories of the number of cases and deaths, different waves of the pandemic and their peaks. Many of the predictions were contradictory in nature and were proved to be misleading eventually, although they were mostly done by academics of reputed universities and institutes. But why did such predictions fail? A dubious track record In a paper in the International Journal of Forecasting in August 2020, John P.A. Ioannidis, Sally Cripps, and Martin A. Tanner recalled that epidemic forecasting has a dubious track record. The failures became more prominent with COVID-19. They pointed out several important causes of the failure of such forecasting: poor data input, wrong modelling assumptions, high sensitivity of estimates, lack of incorporation of epidemiological features, poor past evidence on effects of available interventions, lack of transparency, errors, lack of determinacy, looking at only one or a few dimensions of the problem at hand, lack of expertise in crucial disciplines, selective reporting, etc. The models used in most COVID-19 predictions were simple statistical models like regression or time series models, or standard epidemiological models such as SIR, SEIR, or their simple variants. These are well-studied and are also included in standard software packages. Thus, most COVID-19 data analysts didn’t do much beyond feeding the classified data on daily cases and deaths into the computer. Software immediately provided forecasts along with fancy graphs. Each of these models depends on some underlying assumptions on the nature of the disease and the behaviour of the concerned community. The dynamics of a new and unknown disease, however, maybe far more complicated and unpredictable. And if the assumptions are not satisfied in reality, the predictions might become weird. The nature of COVID-19 was unknown from the beginning. Even now, there are many unknowns concerning the disease. New variants of the virus, effectiveness and coverage of the vaccines, etc. play important roles. So, which of the existing models is really ‘suitable’ for predicting COVID-19? It’s difficult to answer. Quality of data Although waves of data are available, official death tolls from COVID-19 are likely to be a “significant undercount”, the World Health Organization (WHO) said in May, estimating that the true figure of direct and indirect deaths in many countries “would truly be two to three times higher”. The WHO estimated double the reported COVID-19 deaths in the European region, having relatively reliable reporting systems, during 2020. An unknown but huge number of asymptomatic cases, inadequate and inefficient testing facilities, overwhelmed hospital infrastructure, social stigma, etc. may be some of the reasons. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) in the U.S. even issued an official warning about the quality of data: “Counting exact numbers of COVID-19 cases is not possible because COVID-19 can cause mild illness, symptoms might not appear immediately, there are delays in reporting and testing, not everyone who is infected gets tested or seeks medical care, and there are differences in how completely states and territories report their cases.” CDC even uses an ‘ensemble’ forecast which combines many independently developed forecasts into one to improve prediction. Thus, almost everywhere, the reality of COVID-19 predictions is restricted to forecasting official figures based on official data, using some possible wrong model. The dimensions of errors are unknown both in the model and data. Policymakers may still need some such predictions to plan for healthcare infrastructure. But it’s unclear why many academics, who should understand that they’re engaged in useless exercises, are busy in the prediction business. The horror or false sense of security caused through these wrong predictions is undesirable. In their 2020 paper, Ioannidis, Cripps, and Tanner opined that some, but not all, of the problems of epidemiological forecasting can be fixed. Careful modelling of predictive distributions rather than focusing on point estimates, considering multiple dimensions of impact, and continuously reappraising models based on their validated performance may help. Atanu Biswas is Professor of Statistics at the Indian Statistical Institute, Kolkata||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-problems-of-prediction/article35712090.ece
04 August 2021||August 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Circumscription||Police verification and security clearances for passport or government job applicants are a matter of routine in most parts of the country. In Kashmir, where the police have now issued a circular aimed at gathering details and denying security clearance to those involved in throwing stones and joining street protests in the past, the exercise may not be out of the ordinary, but it could result in serious prejudice to the aspirations of many young men and women. The circular, which asks CID Special Branch field units to ensure that any subject’s involvement in law-and-order incidents and related crimes be specifically looked into, and also to collect digital evidence from the records of police and security forces, suggests that the administration is quite serious about preventing those with a likely link to protests in the past from either entering government service or travelling abroad. Reports suggest that the official list of street protesters swelled between 2008 and 2017 to include nearly 20,000 people. On the face of it, the decision to subject applicants for passports and jobs to scrutiny is not illegal. Under Section 6(2) of the Passports Act, 1967, passports can be denied to applicants for various reasons, including their likelihood of engaging in activities prejudicial to the country’s sovereignty and integrity, or detrimental to its security. Further, those convicted in the preceding five years, or against whom proceedings are pending before any criminal court, are also candidates for refusal. There is legal recourse for those affected, as the Act allows them to approach the trial court for a ‘No Objection’ certificate to get a passport. In the backdrop of the Union government’s outreach to revive political activity preparatory to elections, it is quite incongruous that such a far-reaching measure that would dampen the hopes and aspirations of thousands of people is being pursued. The Government’s position is that the alteration of the status of J&K in August 2019 has ushered in a new era of development and prosperity, and that it is time to strengthen grassroots democracy. It was as a part of this process that Prime Minister Narendra Modi invited leaders of the Union Territory’s political parties in June for a discussion. Despite their obvious disappointment that the restoration of statehood is likely to be considered only after polls to the Legislative Assembly, the parley did create some cautious optimism about a fresh political process. Were the administration to pursue this circular zealously, there is a danger that it may revive the sort of alienation among the youth that led to the stone-pelting incidents in 2008 and 2010, and the wave of disaffection following the killing of militant leader Burhan Wani. When all efforts should be directed towards building on current gains, nothing ought to be done to make those still harbouring, for whatever reason, a sense of betrayal feel that some fresh collective punishment is in the offing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/circumscription/article35712077.ece
04 August 2021||August 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Time and patience||Just as Indian hockey’s Olympic tryst draws rightful attention in Tokyo, Virat Kohli’s men will don whites and play their Test series in England. The first Test commencing at Nottingham’s Trent Bridge on Wednesday will kick-start a five-match joust stretching all the way to September 14. Due to bio-bubble protocols and the World Test Championship final that India lost to New Zealand at Southampton on June 23, Kohli and company have been in England since June first week. Perhaps, this is the longest an Indian squad has stayed overseas prior to an opening Test and there was adequate time to get acclimatised. After the contest involving New Zealand, the players took a break, savoured the countryside, Euro and Wimbledon, and added zest to their Instagram accounts. They then reverted to the bubble and had a warm-up fixture against a County Select XI. Meanwhile, Rishabh Pant recovered from COVID-19, an injured Shubman Gill returned home, and Mayank Agarwal suffered a concussion and was ruled out of the first Test. Even so, India is seemingly in a better head-space, an important attribute while countering England in its backyard. Ever since its maiden tour of England in 1932, India has won only three series — 1971, 1986 and 2007 — at the Old Blighty. Having ambushed Australia, India wants to replicate that feat in cricket’s birthplace. With its whimsical skies torn between the sun and feathery rain, and pitches favouring the sultans of pace, England is a hard testing ground. A cautionary fact is that India lost all its three previous tours during 2011, 2014 and 2018. It would be interesting to see who walks out along with Rohit Sharma as his fellow-opener. K.L. Rahul has a chance while Cheteshwar Pujara, Kohli and Ajinkya Rahane would constitute the middle-order. Hanuma Vihari is part of the mix with Pant lending match-altering flair. A pace-attack headlined by Jasprit Bumrah along with R. Ashwin lending his spin, augurs well and seemingly India have the right men. Yet, there are worry-lines. By their exalted standards, Kohli, Pujara and Rahane have had a lean patch, and Bumrah was not on fire against New Zealand. However, the team-management sees this as an aberration. Facing off against India, England has skipper Joe Root and the pace-combine of James Anderson and Stuart Broad to fall back upon. But there is no Jofra Archer and the exit of all-rounder Ben Stokes citing mental issues and the need for rest, is a blow to the host. Exactly 50 years after registering its maiden series victory in England, India is back for another tilt. With just the walking-wounded and its bench-strength, India stunned Australia. Kohli is banking on that memory to turn the tide.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/time-and-patience/article35712078.ece
04 August 2021||August 04 2021 00:00 IST,||A confident exit from Afghanistan||Contrary to popular belief, the U.S. is not getting out of Afghanistan a defeated nation. It stayed there as long as it needed to, as President Joe Biden stated, achieving its objective “to degrade the terrorist threat to keep Afghanistan from becoming a base from which attacks could be continued against the United States.” The U.S.’s exit from Afghanistan represents a fundamental shift in its strategic objectives. As Vanda Felbab-Brown observes in her blog dated April 15, 2021 in  Brookings Institution , the U.S.’s decision is the right one. It is time for it to move on and focus on more important strategic priorities such as “threats from China, an aggressive Russia, North Korea, and Iran — as well as zoonotic pandemics”. Stopping spread of communism By exiting Afghanistan, the U.S. has left the problem of containing what remains of the Taliban’s brand of Islamic fundamentalism to its concerned neighbours. The most aggrieved by this exit will be the Afghans who, after enduring 20 years of conflict, were looking forward to better times, but are instead being abandoned by the U.S. This is what happened to the South Vietnamese when the U.S. withdrew from the Vietnam war in 1973. The U.S.’s seemingly messy exit then concealed a victory against global communism that two shrewd and ruthless men — President Richard Nixon and Henry Kissinger — conjured in just under four years between 1969 and 1973. At the start of the big U.S. engagement in Vietnam following the Gulf of Tonkin Resolution passed by the U.S. Congress in August 1964, which authorised the President to deploy armed forces in Southeast Asia, there was a real fear among Americans that revolutionary communism, spearheaded by the Soviet Union and China, would take over one country after another in Asia and that Vietnam would be one more country to fall if not checked. Fortunately for Nixon, soon after becoming the American President in 1969, the ideological differences between the Soviet Union and China came out in the open and led to a border dispute. It is here that Nixon saw his chance to drive them further apart by reaching out to China through Romania and Pakistan. In her 2005 paper, ‘Nixon, Kissinger, and the “Soviet Card” in the U.S. Opening to China, 1971-1974,’ Evelyn Goh, citing declassified documents, wrote about how the U.S. Secretary of State and National Security Adviser, Henry Kissinger, in his first secret trip to Beijing in July 1971, assured Premier Zhou Enlai that the U.S. government “would gradually withdraw U.S. troops as the war in Vietnam ended and as relations with China improved”. The paper was published in the official journal of Society for Historians of American Foreign Relations, Diplomatic History . Following up on Kissinger’s secret visit to China, Nixon went there in 1972 on his much publicised ‘the week that changed the world’ tour paving the way for a ‘safe’ U.S. exit from Vietnam in 1973. This was no small victory for Nixon. With China almost wholly on his side, the U.S.’s principal enemy, the Soviet Union, stood alone. This practically eliminated American fears of communism overrunning the world. Drawing parallels Something similar has happened in Afghanistan. With the kind of surveillance that the U.S. and its allies are able to mount on countries and individuals today, it is unlikely that the Taliban will, even if they wrest control of Afghanistan, be in a position to nurture another terrorist like Osama Bin Laden, as they have been accused of doing. It is this confidence, not frustration, that has enabled Mr. Biden to announce American military disengagement in Afghanistan. Uday Balakrishnan teaches at IISc, Bengaluru; Views are personal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-confident-exit-from-afghanistan/article35712096.ece
04 August 2021||August 04 2021 00:00 IST,||No assurance on Mujib’s life: Yahya||The President of Pakistan, Gen. Yahya Khan, has refused to give an assurance that the Awami League leader, Sheikh Mujibur Rehman, would not be executed after he has been tried by a military court for “high treason” [New Delhi, August 3]. He told the Teheran daily, Kyhan International, in an interview last week that Mr. Rehman “would be court-martialled and I cannot say whether or not he would be alive when the (National) Assembly meets.” Mr. Amir Taheri, who interviewed Gen. Yahya Khan in Rawalpindi, had asked him whether Sheikh Mujib would be “tried and possibly executed before the National Assembly is convened.” Although Gen. Yahya Khan would not give any exact date for the trail, Mr. Rehman would be tried before October, according to the time-table set for the implementation of the proposed constitutional measures in Pakistan. Gen. Yahya Khan only said: “The matter is in the hands of military justice.” He hoped that there would be a civilian government in Pakistan before the 2,500th anniversary of the Iranian monarchy, falling in October, “and in any case before the end of the current year.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/no-assurance-on-mujibs-life-yahya/article35712088.ece
04 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||Insolvency code has strayed from intent: Parliament panel||The Parliament’s Standing Committee on Finance has sought a review of the design and implementation of the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (IBC) as it has deviated from the original intent and questioned the low recovery rates, long delays in the resolution process and the high number of vacancies in the National Company Law Tribunals (NCLTs). The panel, chaired by the BJP’s Jayant Sinha, stressed that the low recovery rates under the IBC ‘with haircuts as much as 95% and the delay in resolution process with more than 71% cases pending with NCLT for more than 180 days, clearly point towards a deviation from the original objectives of the Code’. In a report tabled on Tuesday on the ‘Implementation of IBC — pitfalls and solutions’, the Committee noted that the Code had undergone six amendments since its introduction in 2016, but the operationalisation of these changes ‘may have altered or even digressed from the basic design of the statute’. Calling for a thorough evaluation of the extent of fulfilment of the Code’s original aims, the panel said the fundamental aim of the statute was to secure creditor rights so as to reduce borrowing costs with the reduction of risks. It also suggested a benchmark be put in place for the quantum of “haircuts” to be taken by creditors. It expressed apprehensions over fresh graduates appointed as Resolution Professionals (RPs). Disciplinary action had been taken in the case of 123 RPs out of 203 inspections conducted so far, it pointed out. It said it was concerned over the NCLT functioning without a President, and 34 members short of its sanctioned strength of 62.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/insolvency-code-has-strayed-from-intent-parliament-panel/article35712063.ece
04 August 2021||MUMBAI,||Nifty scales 16,000 on hopes of faster economic recovery||The Sensex and Nifty rose to record closing highs on Tuesday, with the NSE’s 50-company benchmark closing above the 16,000 level amid renewed investor interest in stocks on bets that the economy may recover faster than anticipated earlier. The S&P BSE Sensex gained 872.73 points, or 1.65%, to 53,823.36 while the NSE Nifty 50 added 245.60, or 1.55%, to end at 16,130.75. On the BSE, the top gainers included Titan, which rose 3.89%, HDFC, up 3,72%, Nestle, IndusInd Bank and UltraTech Cement. Majority of the sectoral indices reported gains except for media and metals. “Volumes on Nifty were higher than average which indicates strength,” said Gaurav Udani, CEO & Founder, ThincRedBlu Securities. “We can expect Nifty to touch 16,250 and 16,400 in the coming days. On the lower side 15,950 and 15,880 will act as strong support,” he added. S. Ranganathan, Head of Research, LKP Securities said the bulls had pulled off the 16,000 mark on the Nifty ‘effortlessly’, buoyed by positive news flow on GST and export data. “The journey past 16,000... quite clearly has been led by the retail investors who have allocated more into equities,” said Mr. Ranganathan. “The present rally is all the more significant since it provides enough opportunities to the new investor coming in now as several pockets of the economy still offer value going forward,” he added. Domestic funds had invested Rs. 28,000 crore into stocks in the first four months of the current fiscal, Mr. Ranganathan noted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/nifty-scales-16000-on-hopes-of-faster-economic-recovery/article35712060.ece
04 August 2021||CHENNAI,||IOB Q1 net more than doubles to Rs. 327 crore||Public sector lender Indian Overseas Bank’s (IOB) standalone net profit for Q1 FY22 has more than doubled to Rs. 327 crore on account of an increase in other income and cash recovery. “We have been doing well in all the key parameters for the last few quarters,” said P. P. Sengupta, MD & CEO. Seeks to exit PCA “We have written to the RBI requesting us to take us out of Prompt Corrective Action (PCA),” he added. Going forward, IOB will be focusing on recovery, low-cost deposits and less capital-consuming advances. For FY22, it has targeted to recover Rs. 4,500 crore. In Q1, cash recovery stood at Rs. 1,100 crore against the target of Rs. 860 crore.  During Q1, total income contracted by Rs. 79 crore to Rs. 5,155 crore and interest income by Rs. 239 crore to Rs. 4,063 crore. Net interest margin dropped to 2.34% (2.36%). Gross deposits rose to Rs. 2,42,941 crore ( Rs. 2,25,546 crore) and gross advances to Rs. 1,38,944 crore (Rs. 1,31,565 crore). Gross non-performing assets (NPAs) declined to 11.48% from 13.90% and net NPAs to 3.15% from 5.10%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/iob-q1-net-more-than-doubles-to-rs-327-crore/article35712066.ece
04 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||No error of judgment in HFC deal: PNB MD||Asserting that there was no error of judgment with regard to the fund-infusion decision of PNB Housing Finance Company (PNB HFC), Punjab National Bank MD S. S. Mallikarjuna said the future course of action would depend on SAT’s order. The Securities Appellate Tribunal (SAT), after hearing all parties related to PNB Housing Finance-Carlyle deal, has reserved its orders. PNB currently holds a 32.6% stake in PNB HFC. Under the deal announced on May 31, the U.S.-based Carlyle, alongside other investors, is slated to infuse Rs. 4,000 crore capital into PNB HFC through the issue of preference shares and warrants. However, the deal has come under the scanner of capital markets regulator SEBI. The firm was told to carry out the share-valuation process as per legal provisions. PNB HFC contended it had followed SEBI norms in deciding the issue price at Rs. 390 apiece.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/no-error-of-judgment-in-hfc-deal-pnb-md/article35712068.ece
04 August 2021||MUMBAI,||‘Asset quality pressure to persist for NBFCs’||The pressure on quality of assets for non-banking financial companies (NBFCs) would persist in the near term and the risk to this sector would remain elevated due to the impact of the COVID-19 second wave, ICRA said in a report. Stating that large housing finance companies had seen relatively limited impact on collection efficiency (CE) during the second wave, the ratings agency said other NBFCs with exposure to the likes of vehicle finance, business loans and microfinance saw CEs decline 20-25% in May 2021 vis-a-vis the average Q4 FY21, when lockdowns imposed by various States were stringent and widespread. The CE improved marginally (rising 3-5%) in June compared with May, with States relaxing restrictions, it added. “Headline asset quality numbers for June 2021 would be significantly elevated vis-a-vis March 2021, but the same is expected to subside over a couple of quarters if the CEs continue to trend upwards,” said A.M. Karthik, V-P, Financial Sector Ratings. With credit costs expected to remain elevated in FY22, earnings may stay subdued, it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/asset-quality-pressure-to-persist-for-nbfcs/article35712057.ece
04 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Roll out flexible fuel vehicles in a year’s time’||Union Minister of Road Transport and Highways Nitin Gadkari urged automakers to roll out flex-fuel vehicles capable of running on 100% ethanol in the Indian market within a year’s time. Flexible fuel vehicles are designed to run on petrol or petrol-ethanol blends. India plans to achieve 20% ethanol blending by 2025. He also appealed to all private vehicle makers to compulsorily provide a minimum of six airbags in all vehicles in the interest of passenger safety. CEOs from the Society of India Automobile Manufacturers have, however, reiterated demand for deferment of fuel efficiency and second stage of Bharat Stage VI emission norms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/roll-out-flexible-fuel-vehicles-in-a-years-time/article35712061.ece
04 August 2021||Chennai,||City firm bags Rs. 350-cr. order from Maldives||Chennai-based Indira Group of Companies has drawn up plans to enter the Maldives, Mauritius and African markets as part of its expansion programme. “We are in the process of bagging orders close to Rs. 1,000 crore this calendar year,” said Bhupesh Nagarajan, chairman and founder. Two projects of more than Rs. 800 crore are to be executed in Maldives over the next two years, he added. “The first in the line of Rs. 350 crore was bagged by our joint venture firm (Ashoka Buildcon Ltd.) ABL-Indira Projects to design and construct police stations, accommodations and custody facilities in Maldives for its police service,” Mr. Nagarajan said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/city-firm-bags-rs-350-cr-order-from-maldives/article35712064.ece
04 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||Floor prices for data are critical: COAI||Industry association COAI on Tuesday contended that fixing floor prices was ‘absolutely critical’ and the need of the hour, given the ‘major financial stress’ in the telecom industry. The association said floor prices needed to be fixed for data only for an interim period, say two years, and that voice calls could be excluded. “Telcos have incurred losses because of the downward pricing trend of data tariffs... revenue generation is now essential,” S.P. Kochhar, director-general of Cellular Operators’ Association of India (COAI), said in a statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/floor-prices-for-data-are-critical-coai/article35712071.ece
04 August 2021||MUMBAI,||BoI PAT down 15% on higher provisioning||Bank of India (BoI) on Tuesday reported its first- quarter net profit declined 14.7% to Rs. 720 crore from Rs. 844 crore in the year-earlier period due to higher provisioning for bad loans and less net interest income (NII). NII declined 9.67% to Rs. 3,145 crore. Net non-performing assets (NPA) decreased 6.4% to Rs. 12,424 crore, while gross NPA was down 3.02% to Rs. 56,042 crore. Total provisioning for the quarter was Rs. 2,086 crore, a 4.26% increase. Out of this, provisioning for NPA was Rs. 873 crore, up 13.9%. Provision Coverage Ratio (PCR) at 86.17% improved by 130 bps y-o-y, the bank said in a filing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/boi-pat-down-15-on-higher-provisioning/article35712058.ece
04 August 2021||New Delhi,||Sebi allows payments banks to act as investment bankers||To provide easy access to investors to participate in public and rights issues by using various payment avenues, markets regulator SEBI allowed payments banks to carry out activities of investment bankers. Non scheduled payments banks, that have prior RBI nod, can as a banker to an issue, SEBI said in a circular.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/sebi-allows-payments-banks-to-act-as-investment-bankers/article35712070.ece
04 August 2021||Coimbatore,||DGTR recommends withdrawal of anti-dumping duty on viscose||The Directorate General of Trade Remedies (DGTR) has suggested the withdrawal of anti-dumping levy on viscose staple fibre originating in or exported from Indonesia or China and imported by India. ‘The authority considers it appropriate to recommend withdrawal of anti-dumping duty’ on viscose fibre import from Indonesia or China, it said in a notification.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/dgtr-recommends-withdrawal-of-anti-dumping-duty-on-viscose/article35712055.ece
04 August 2021||Tokyo,||India’s golden dreams shattered||India’s quest for an Olympics gold medal in men’s hockey after Moscow 1980 ended after it lost to Belgium in the semifinal clash on Tuesday. Belgium’s 5-2 win, however, masked how competitive the game was. Alexander Hendrickx took his tournament tally to 14 goals as he struck a hat-trick for the World champion and Rio 2016 silver medallist Belgium. Early strike The Belgians got off to a screamer as Loick Luypaert scored with only 70 seconds played. The second-minute goal was the fastest India had conceded this campaign. However, Graham Reid’s team made a comeback as Harmanpreet Singh struck in the seventh minute. The goal, his fifth in Tokyo, came off India’s first penalty corner. A minute later, Mandeep Singh put India 2-1 ahead. Controlling Amit Rohidas’ pass and spinning around his marker, he sounded the boards with a tomahawk hit. Rohidas, the busiest man on the pitch, tracked back in time minutes later to intercept a Thomas Briels pass to Cedric Charlier, who was left unmarked in the circle. India looked good in the scorching conditions before Hendrickx turned on the heat. He scored the equaliser in the 19th minute — a goal that came after Belgium dictated play early in the second quarter and had won three back-to-back penalty corners.  Despite the high stakes, the players did not lose their cool. Charlier and Varun Kumar collided during a tackle, but shook hands and continued. The Indians saw more of the ball in the opening half (54%), had more circle penetrations (12), and did well to restrict the free-scoring Belgians. They took the fight to Belgium and created multiple scoring opportunities, but were unable to convert. Things unravelled in an engrossing final quarter, fuelled by skipper Manpreet Singh’s green card in the 48th minute. Belgium won three successive penalty corners and Hendrickx came back to haunt the Indian defence as he scored with a drag-flick in the 49th minute. The 27-year-old completed a hat-trick, his third of the competition, four minutes later as he converted a penalty stroke. With options and time running out , the Indian camp decided to gamble. Goalkeeper Sreejesh made way for an outfield player. However, it did not change the course of the game as John-John Dohmen scored in the 60th minute to round off a thumping win. Belgium will take on Australia, a 3-1 winner over Germany in the other semifinal. The Indians will play the Germans in the bronze medal match on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/indias-golden-dreams-shattered/article35712291.ece
04 August 2021||Nottingham,||Focus on Kohli’s playing XI as India braces up for acid test||The toughest four months of Virat Kohli’s eventful leadership career start here on Wednesday when his strategic acumen will be tested while selecting a perfect Indian combination to take on a good England side in the first Test of a five-match series. Kohli will have to think overtime about the balance of his squad with a long tail, often bushy with runs, and just two openers — Rohit Sharma and K.L. Rahul. Logical choice Rahul, with 2000-plus Test runs, looks a logical choice to partner Rohit. Bengal’s Abhimanyu Easwaran had last played a First Class game in March 2020 and, that too, after enduring a horrendous season. Will the team risk him? It would be a huge call. That brings into the equation Hanuma Vihari, the team’s ‘all-purpose player’, who had once faced the new ball in Australia. His handy off-spin, along with that of automatic choice R. Ashwin, could also pave the way for Shardul Thakur’s entry as the bowling all-rounder in place of an experienced Ravindra Jadeja. Mohammed Shami is a wily customer and Ishant Sharma still possesses a big heart but they are ageing. Jasprit Bumrah, since his lower-back stress fracture in 2019, is hardly the Test bowler one has come to know but his success in the last series may ensure a start for him. But where does it leave India’s fastest and most in-form bowler Mohammed Siraj, whose raw pace ousted a concussed Agarwal from this Test match? Kohli’s team selections in England last time left a lot to be desired as Kuldeep Yadav was picked to play on a Lord’s green top where he looked like a lamb for slaughter. Similarly baffling was his decision to ignore a pacer in overcast conditions in his bid to shore up the batting with Jadeja’s presence even though he had to be under-bowled. Adequate preparation Rahul’s hundred in the last First Class game and adequate preparation time would keep him in good head space. Kohli was a part of the 2014 team when it lost 1-3 and the then vice-captain had a torrid time with the bat. He came back determined in 2018, scored truckloads of runs but a poor team choice at Lord’s and one bad batting session in Southampton meant that under him, India lost 1-4. The Indian captain would walk out with his band of men against a side that has two artists of red Dukes at work in James Anderson and Stuart Broad. The veterans will be complemented by one of the world’s fastest bowlers in Mark Wood and a smart apprentice in Ollie Robinson.  The teams (from):   India: Virat Kohli (Capt.), Ajinkya Rahane (Vice-capt.), Rohit Sharma, Cheteshwar Pujara, Hanuma Vihari, Rishabh Pant (wk), R. Ashwin, Ravindra Jadeja, Axar Patel, Jasprit Bumrah, Ishant Sharma, Mohd. Shami, Mohd. Siraj, Shardul Thakur, Umesh Yadav, K.L. Rahul, Wriddhiman Saha (wk), and Abhimanyu Easwaran.   England: Joe Root (Capt.), James Anderson, Jonny Bairstow, Dom Bess, Stuart Broad, Rory Burns, Jos Buttler, Zak Crawley, Sam Curran, Haseeb Hameed, Dan Lawrence, Jack Leach, Ollie Pope, Ollie Robinson, Dom Sibley and Mark Wood.   Umpires: Michael Gough & Richard Kettleborough; TV umpire: Richard Illingworth; Match Referee: Chris Broad.   Match Starts at 3:30 p.m. (IST).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/focus-on-kohlis-playing-xi-as-india-braces-up-for-acid-test/article35712338.ece
04 August 2021||August 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Stars like Ben Stokes keep mental health issues in the forefront||It is possible that the most far-reaching result at the Tokyo Olympics might have been achieved by gymnast Simone Biles. After all the celebrations are done, and the national revelries completed, one fact will remain: a top athlete, the face of the Olympics, pulled out from the early competition citing mental issues. One whispers this quietly during the Olympics: sport is not just about taking part, it is about winning. And the pressures are enormous. Living up to expectations can be draining. In recent years, both public and professional reactions to athletes who recognise a problem and take a break from the sport have become increasingly sympathetic. As India prepare to take on England in a five-Test series, the opposition will be without their most iconic player. Ben Stokes, the extraordinary all-rounder will miss the series as he takes time off “to prioritise his mental well-being.” Even a generation back, top players who had an issue, like Marcus Trescothick, had to face the criticism and confusion of those who didn’t understand. Affecting in differnt ways The pandemic has affected people in different ways. For a sportsman, life in the ‘bubble’, with movements restricted, distanced from family and friends has increased the pressure. England played 14 Tests in the past year, beating the West Indies, Sri Lanka and Pakistan while losing to New Zealand and India. In the same period India played nine, winning dramatically in Australia and losing to New Zealand while beating England at home. It will not be surprising if more players around the world take breaks to prioritise their mental well-being. Skipper Joe Root has told Stokes that he can take as much time as he needs. Those who are troubled know they will be treated with compassion and that is crucial. Trescothick has written about a teammate “taking my mickey big time”. That is unlikely to happen now. Living up to expectations is an occupational hazard for Indian teams. On the last three tours of England, they were favourites but lost the series each time, 0-4, 1-3, 1-4. That is a sobering thought, even if that last series could have gone 3-2 either way. Starting issues A lot will depend on the start. Teams, especially those uncertain of their batting strength tend to carry the extra batter when they go into the first Test of a five-Test series. India’s problem is that they are uncertain of their batting, starting with the question of who will accompany Rohit Sharma as opener. They will have to plump for experience rather than recent performance since none of Cheteswar Pujara, Kohli or Ajinkya Rahane has scored heavily of late, although Rahane did have a century in Melbourne. That will probably give Rahul another chance. Often in recent years, one poor session or an hour’s irresponsible cricket has seen India lose the first Test of a series and with that the advantage, specially abroad. They did recover after losing the opener to England in the last series, but that was at home. Kohli is not a captain who thinks in terms of evolving through a series, of starting slowly and building up to a climax. He is likely to throw everything into every match, a tactic that could backfire. He hates to play for a draw, but might be forced to if things go wrong very quickly. Only five captains have led their country in more Tests than Kohli, but his percentage of draws is the lowest among the top six (16% of 61 Tests). Even Ricky Ponting had a marginally higher percentage. India’s bowling is less worrying, and the choices are wider. Still, the batting beyond No. 7 has not clicked as well as they were expected to after Australia. England, playing at home, and with a larger pool of players available immediately, start off with the advantage. Much at stake After the showing post-36 all out in Australia, miracles are expected from India. If they lose overall by the kind of margins they have in recent years, this could see a generational change in Indian cricket. That would be an astonishing slide for a team good enough to simultaneously field two international teams recently. But stranger things have happened. In sport, no team can complain they were unable to field their best team. You pick the best available under the circumstances and take on the best available of the opposition. While Biles at the Olympics, and Stokes among others in cricket focus attention on an issue that is little understood, does the fact that they are among the top stars give them the confidence to withdraw from competition? Will a younger player or one less certain of his place in the side think differently? It does not matter. The stars keep the issue in the forefront, and that’s what is important.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/stars-like-ben-stokes-keep-mental-health-issues-in-the-forefront/article35712074.ece
04 August 2021||August 04 2021 00:00 IST,||History beckons Lovlina||In her bid to become the first Indian boxer to reach an Olympics title clash, Lovlina Borgohain will face World champion Busenaz Surmeneli of Turkey in a women’s 69kg semifinal bout on Wednesday. Two inches taller than Busenaz, Lovlina will be pumped up to create another upset after getting past Worlds medallist German Nadine Apetz and former World champion Nien-Chin Chen of Chinese Taipei to assure India of another medal at the Games.  The two 23-year-old boxers have never met before. While two-time Worlds bronze medallist Lovlina has 14 wins and nine losses in her career, Busenaz has a superior record of 25 wins and six defeats. “I have a few days, I will see her videos and figure out what to do with her,” said Lovlina, who approached her match against Chen without any strategy and tasted success, after winning her quarterfinal bout. In case Lovlina manages a win, she will ensure a medal of better colour than that of Vijender Singh and M.C. Mary Kom, who won bronze medals in the 2008 and 2012 Olympics respectively.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/history-beckons-lovlina/article35712280.ece
04 August 2021||August 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Warholm smashes 400mH World record||He had broken Kevin Young’s 29-year-old world record last month and everybody expected Karsten Warholm to repeat it at the Tokyo Olympics. But none was ready for such an awesome performance. The Norwegian 400m hurdler, who had clocked 46.70s last month, became the first man to go under 46s for a sparkling gold which came at a stunning 45.96s in a breathtaking final. Apart from a brief phase early on the home straight where he came under a bit of pressure from American Rai Benjamin, son of former West Indian fast bowler Winston Benjamin, it was all Warholm as the Norwegian produced a near-perfect show. Benjamin also went below the previous WR with his 46.17s for silver, while four others bettered national records. Incidentally, Warholm, the 2013 octathlon champion at the under-18 Worlds, was a multi-eventer and was doing the decathlon till 2015 before moving to the hurdles seriously. Duplantis soars high Meanwhile Sweden’s Armand Duplantis attempted to raise his World record by a centimetre to 6.19m, after taking gold with 6.02m, but narrowly missed it. And then, Poland’s Anita Wlodarczyk made history while winning the hammer throw (78.48m), becoming the first woman athlete to win three Olympic golds in the same discipline, a feat that had eluded Jamaican sprinter Shelly-Ann Fraser-Pryce and Croatian discus thrower Sandra Perkovic. Jamaican Elaine Thompson-Herah, the fastest woman in Tokyo, completed the double-double by taking the 200m gold in 21.53s to repeat her gold show in Rio. American Athing Mu and Britain’s Keely Hodgkinson, both juniors, made it an impressive 1-2 in the women’s 800m while German Malaika Mihambo pipped American Brittney Reese with a last-round 7m for the women’s long jump title. Way below their best A day after discus thrower Kamalpreet sent the country on a bit of a high, Indians were back on familiar territory with discus thrower Annu Rani and shot putter Tajinderpal Singh Toor posting poor marks in the qualification round. Annu, the 2019 Worlds finalist and a consistent 60m-plus thrower, was last overall with just 54.04m while Toordisappointed with 19.99m, his lone legal effort and finished 13th in his group and 24th overall. Only 12 made the final in throws.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/warholm-smashes-400mh-world-record/article35712288.ece
04 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||Sindhu dedicates medal to fans||World champion P.V. Sindhu dedicated her Tokyo Olympics bronze to her supporters and those who have played a part in her journey so far. After being felicitated by the Union Sports Minister Anurag Thakur, who described Sindhu as “one of the greatest Olympians India has produced,” she said, “In Tokyo, I could not see many spectators, fans but I am sure, billions of people from India have shown their love, support and put in all the efforts and blessings. So I dedicate (this medal) to all of them. I can’t thank you all enough for your support and encouragement. “My parents are here and I would like to thank them for their efforts and sacrifices that got me here. Especially my coach Park Tae-sang, with whom I have been working for more than a year now. I think his hard work and dedication got us to where we wanted our dreams to come true. And it has come true.” Thakur, in the presence of Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman, presented Sindhu with a golden salver. Another golden salver was presented to her Korean coach Park.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sindhu-dedicates-medal-to-fans/article35712293.ece
04 August 2021||August 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Sonam exits in opening round||Sonam Malik, the youngest Indian wrestler in the fray, crashed out in the first round of the women’s 62kg category at the Tokyo Olympics on Tuesday. Sonam lost to Bolortuya Khurelkhuu 2-2 on criteria as the Mongolian equalised with a takedown in the last minute. The 19-year-old Indian gave a good account of herself against the Asian championships silver medallist, pushing her out of the ring to take a 1-0 lead in the first period. Sonam doubled her lead, driving Bolortuya out early in the second period. The Indian thwarted at least four attempts of leg attack from the Mongolian but paid the price for her defensive approach. Bolortuya attacked Sonam’s right leg to bring about the crucial takedown with just 30 seconds left on the clock. Sonam’s chances of making it to the repechage round ended when the Mongolian was outclassed by 2018 World champion and 2019 Worlds silver medallist Taybe Mustafa Yusein of Bulgaria in the quarterfinals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sonam-exits-in-opening-round/article35712294.ece
04 August 2021||HYDERABAD,||Good day for Jhansi Priya Laveti||Jhansi Priya Laveti of Hyderabad took the lead at the end of the eighth race, but a protest from Akshaat Dohare has been pending since Monday in a race in which she finished second and that could well decide her fate in the final medals tally, in the Monsoon Regatta National-ranking championships at the Hussain Sagar Lake here on Tuesday. With one discard, Jhansi is still first overall, followed closely by Ekalavya Batham of Bhopal. Shashank Batham, also of Bhopal, is in third position. Two races were sailed and the remaining four will be sailed till the final race on Aug. 5. Vaishnavi Veeravsmsham led the second race till the halfway point and capsized to finish 11th and dropped from the first position to fourth, but still within striking distance of an overall medal. The Green Fleet of beginners saw Bunny Bongur and Mohammad Mothsmeem of Rasoolpura in the first and second spots after eight races.  Overall tally after 8th race:   1. Jhansi Priya Laveti (24 points); 2. Ekalavya Batham (29); 3. Shashank Batham (32); 4. Vaushnavi Veeravamsham (35); 5. Divyanshi Mishra (42).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/good-day-for-jhansi-priya-laveti/article35712573.ece
04 August 2021||Hyderabad,||A dream come true for Rakshan Reddy||It was a dream come true for 20-year-old Rakshan Reddy when he was picked to be the net bowler for Chennai Super Kings in the IPL to be held in Dubai next month. The young Hyderabad pacer, who plays for Buddings Stars in the HCA League and was the leading wicket-taker amongst pacers in the Cooch Behar Trophy (19 wickets) a couple of seasons ago, got the nod after impressing M. Senthilnathan, the head coach of MRF Foundation in Chennai, during the recent two-week training programme. “Initially, I was prepared for a two-month training programme. But, then it is a great feeling to be part of such a great team led by M.S. Dhoni sir. I am looking forward to learn a lot during the stint,” Rakshan told The Hindu . Big improvement “The fitness training helped me and I could see a lot of improvement in my bowling too, thanks to the guidance of Senthil Sir and other support staff,” said Rakshan, who played two matches each for Hyderabad in the Vijay Hazare and Syed Mushtaq Ali Trophy tournaments earlier. “Once it was clear that I will be part of the CSK team, the focus shifted to improving my skills in bowling slower balls and yorkers. This should help me a lot,” Rakshan said. “Definitely, I am more confident now and look at this big opportunity as a huge stepping stone to realise my ultimate dream of playing for India,” said Rakshan, who would be joining the CSK team on August 7 for quarantine before leaving for Dubai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/a-dream-come-true-for-rakshan-reddy/article35712575.ece
04 August 2021||Chennai,||Aparajith leads Royal Kings’ charge to victory||B. Aparajith’s composed 44 and R. Sanjay Yadav’s quickfire 31 (15b, 2x4, 3x6) helped Nellai Royal Kings secure a five-wicket win against Dindigul Dragons in the TNPL match here at the M.A. Chidambaram Stadium on Tuesday. Finding his groove Chasing 148, skipper Aparajith quickly found his groove in the PowerPlay with a flurry of boundaries through the off-side. At the other end, L. Suryapprakash launched into left-arm pacer R. Suthesh for three boundaries with some beautiful shots down the ground. Once Surya was dismissed, Aparajith and Pardosh Ranjan Paul (27) consolidated the chase with a 62-run stand for the second wicket. Dragons had a sniff of a chance when pacer L. Vignesh removed Aparajith (caught & bowled) and Pradosh (bowled) with well-disguised slower deliveries. But his good work came undone when he missed his length against Sanjay Yadav, who launched him for two consecutive sixes in the 16th over that brought the equation under less than six runs per over. Nellai’s victory though was set up by its bowlers who restricted Dragons to a modest score of 147/5. Poor start Asked to bat first, Dragons had a poor start with pacer V. Athisayaraj Davidson and left-arm spinner N.S. Harish, removing the openers cheaply. It was then left to R. Srinivasan (60) and Mani Bharathi (30) to get Dragons back on track with an 85-run stand for the third wicket. Srinivasan started with two boundaries of Trilok Nag — a beautiful cover drive followed by a late-cut through slips, using the pace of the bowler. Srinivasan, who has played First Class cricket for Tamil Nadu, brought his experience into play, finding boundaries regularly without taking many risks. In full control Be it fine leg-glance or a cut over point for a six off Trilok, the 35-year-old batsman was in complete control. Royal Kings got back into the game by removing the two set batsmen in quick succession. Later, Vivek Raj made a quick unbeaten 32 but, some brilliant death bowling by Athisayaraj helped Royal Kings fight back to keep the Dragons to a modest score.  The scores: Dindigul Dragons 147/5 in 20 overs (R. Srinivasan 60, Vivek Raj 32 n.o., K. Mani Bharathi 30, V. Athisayaraj Davidson 2/23) lost to Nellai Royal Kings 148/5 in 18.5 overs (B. Aparajith 44, R. Sanjay Yadav 31, Pradosh Ranjan Paul 27, L. Vignesh 2/20) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/aparajith-leads-royal-kings-charge-to-victory/article35712383.ece
04 August 2021||August 04 2021 00:00 IST,||‘A player of Pujara’s calibre should be left alone’||Despite extending the suspense over Rohit Sharma’s opening partner to the morning of the series-opener, captain Virat Kohli stressed that, after spending two months in England, India is ready to roar in the five-Test series, which starts on Wednesday. Better prepared “We are definitely much better prepared than in the past. The [COVID] situation has allowed us to get acclimatised and get used to the weather first, because it can change drastically quite quickly here,” Kohli said from Nottingham on Tuesday. “At the same time, playing under different changes in conditions — in terms of the weather, whether it is overcast or sunny, how the pitch behaves, how the ball travels, how much it swings in the air — all those things are going to add to our experience, which the team already possesses a lot of, having played in England before.” In addition to the challenge of filling the opener’s slot, India also enters the series with a potential void created by the absence of a pace-bowling all-rounder. With Hardik Pandya sidelined from Test cricket due to a chronic back injury — he had an excellent outing in 2018 — the only option India has is Shardul Thakur. “He is already a multi-dimensional cricketer and it is all about gaining more and more confidence with performances like Brisbane. Someone like him always brings a lot of balance,” Kohli said. Shardul a huge prospect “Shardul is a huge prospect for us and one who is going to be very important for us not just in this series but going forward.” Ever since the conclusion of the WTC final, there have been suggestions in some quarters that Cheteshwar Pujara no longer enjoys the team management’s confidence. Kohli, however, dismissed the idea that there were doubts over Pujara’s ability. “A player of his calibre should be left alone and the responsibility is with the individual to figure out what are the drawbacks in his game that he needs to work on,” Kohli said. “I can from the outside say that the criticism is unnecessary, but I know for a fact that Pujara does not care. Criticism is only as relevant as you want it to be.” Despite the absence of Jofra Archer and Chris Woakes, veteran pacers James Anderson and Stuart Broad will pose severe challenges for India’s batsmen. Kohli dead-batted a specific query about his plans to tackle Anderson with: “I’ll just bat.” India will be hoping he does just that for the next six weeks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/a-player-of-pujaras-calibre-should-be-left-alone/article35712334.ece
04 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||Adhiban falls short of quarterfinals||B. Adhiban’s defeats in the last three rounds cost him a place in the quarterfinals of the $100,000 Chessable Masters online rapid chess tournament on Monday. Adhiban, who won the first two rounds to move to the eighth place and enjoyed a half-point lead over Jorden van Foreest, crashed to losses against Alireza Firouzja (France), Wesley So (USA) and Levon Aronian (Armenia) to finish joint-ninth at eight points, 1.5 points behind Foreest. The day proved to be worse for P. Harikrishna (6) and K. Humpy (2). Harikrishna lost four rounds, including the last three to Vladislav Armetiev (Russia), World’s youngest GM Abhimanyu Mishra (USA) and David Anton (Spain). Humpy lost all five rounds to finish last among the 16 participants.  The results (involving Indians):   15th round: Levon Aronian (Arm) bt B. Adhiban; P. Harikrishna lost to David Anton (Esp); Ju Wenjun (Chn) bt K. Humpy. 14th round: Abhimanyu Mishra (USA) bt Harikrishna; Humpy lost to Eduardo Iturriazaga (Esp); Adhiban lost to Wesley So (USA).   13th round: Alireza Firouzja (Fra) bt Adhiban; Vladislav Artemiev (Rus) bt Harikrishna; Aryan Tari (Nor) bt Humpy.     Standings (after 15 rounds): 1. So (11), 2-4. Aronian, Firouzja, Hikaru Nakamura (USA) (10.5 each), 5. Artemiev (9.5), 6-7. Le Quang Liem (Vie), Shakhriyar Mamedyarov (Aze) (9 each), 8. van Foreest (8.5), 9-10. Adhiban, Iturriazaga (7 each), 11. Tari, 12. Harikrishna (6), 13. Anton (5.5), 14. Wenjun (5), 15. Abhimanyu (2.5), 16. Humpy (2).   Quarterfinal line-up: So-Foreest; Nakamura-Artemiev; Firouzja-Quang Liem; Aronian-Mamedyarov .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/adhiban-falls-short-of-quarterfinals/article35712341.ece
04 August 2021||TOKYO,||Durant leads USA into the last four||The United States kept its basketball gold medal dreams on track on Tuesday by sweeping past World champion Spain 95-81 and into the semifinals, while Olympic debutant Slovenia crushed Germany to set up a last-four clash with France. Sharp-shooting Brooklyn Nets star Kevin Durant poured in 29 points and four assists for the Americans while Boston’s Jayson Tatum chipped in with 13, nullifying Ricky Rubio’s dazzling 38-point spree for Spain. Big win The three-time defending champion will next face Patty Mills’ Australia, which convincingly beat Argentina 97-59, for a place in Saturday’s final.  Slovenia progressed on the back of 27 points from Zoran Dragic and another 20 from Dallas Mavericks star Luka Doncic in the 94-70 rout of Germany. France who edged Italy 84-75 in a nail-biter, with Utah Jazz center Rudy Gobert drilling 22 points and fellow NBA mainstay Evan Fournier getting 21.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/durant-leads-usa-into-the-last-four/article35712289.ece
04 August 2021||August 04 2021 00:00 IST,||India cricketers hooked to the Olympic Games||Just like the rest of the world, India’s cricketers in England have been hooked to the Olympics during their preparatory phase in England. According to captain Virat Kohli, the entire squad has been watching the quadrennial extravaganza together. “We have all been keenly following it. In Durham [last week] at breakfast, we had big screens and televisions which were always running all the Olympic events,” Kohli said. “Especially our athletes, when they were performing, we were all keenly watching. The whole country and all of us are super proud of our medal winners and also the people who have gone far into the competition, who might have not won medals, but who have competed and given their best.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/india-cricketers-hooked-to-the-olympic-games/article35712284.ece
04 August 2021||New Delhi,||PM to invite contingent to Red Fort on Aug 15||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will invite India's Olympic contingent to the Red Fort as special guests on August 15 when he will deliver his eighth straight independence day speech. Official sources said Modi will also invite them to his residence for interaction. India has been represented by a 228-strong contingent, including over 120 athletes, at the Olympics.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/pm-to-invite-contingent-to-red-fort-on-aug-15/article35712286.ece
04 August 2021||Dhaka,||Bangladesh beats Australia, goes 1-0 up||Spinner Nasum Ahmed claimed four wickets as Bangladesh beat Australia by 23 runs in the opening Twenty20 International on Tuesday. Nasum, a left-arm spinner, returned career-best figures of four for 19 to help dismiss Australia for 108 while chasing a target of 132 as Bangladesh took a 1-0 lead in the five-match series in Dhaka. It was Bangladesh’s first ever T20 win over Australia, whose four wins over The Tigers came in T20 World Cups. This is the first bilateral series between the two sides. The second T20 is on Wednesday at the same venue.  The scores: Bangladesh 131 for seven in 20 overs (Shakib Al Hasan 36, Starc 2/33, Hazlewood 3/24) bt Australia 108 in 20 overs (Mitchell Marsh 45, Nasum 4/19, Mustafizur 2/16, Shoriful 2/19).   Toss: Australia.   MoM: Nasum.   Bangladesh won by 23 runs and leads five-match series 1-0.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bangladesh-beats-australia-goes-1-0-up/article35712332.ece
04 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||Makhija tops air rifle selection trials||Paarth Makhija beat the reigning World Junior champion Hriday Hazarika by 1.4 point to top the men’s air rifle event in the shooting National selection trials at the Dr. Karni Singh Range. The 19-year-old Hazarika, however, topped the junior section beating the Youth Olympics silver medallist Shahu Tushar Mane by 0.5 point. Nisha Kanwar topped in the women’s air rifle event, beating Meghana Sajjanar by 0.3 point. Shreya Agarwal did very well to score 631.6 in the qualification stage. Anish Bhanwala and Rhythm Sangwan topped in the men’s and women’s section of rapid fire pistol. The trials scores, along with the scores of the last national championship, will form the basis of selection of the Indian team for the 14th Asian Air Gun championship to be staged in Shymkent, Kazakhstan, apart from the Junior World Championship to be held in Lima Peru, in September. The shooters who competed in the Tokyo Olympics will also be eligible for selection. They have been exempted from the trials, and their scores in the last two World Cups in Delhi and Osijek, apart from the European Championship and the Olympics will be considered for selection.  The results: 10m air rifle: Men: 1. Paarth Makhija 253.6 (630.4); 2. Hriday Hazarika 252.2 (629.8); 3. Shahu Tushar Mane 231.2 (627.8). Juniors: 1. Hriday Hazarika 251.5 (629.8); 2. Shahu Tushar Mane 251.0 (627.8); 3. Paarth Makhija 229.1 (630.4). Youth: 1. Keval Prajapati 249.6 (624.2); 2. Rudrankksh Patil 249.5 (625.9); 3. Yash Vardhan 227.9 (625.0).   Women: 1. Nisha Kanwar 251.2 (627.7); 2. Meghana Sajjanar 250.9 (627.5); 3. Nupur Patil 229.2 (625.6). Juniors: 1. Atmika Gupta 250.7 (626.9); 2. Mehuli Ghosh 250.6 (624.6); 3. Manini Kaushik 229.6 (624.1). Youth: 1. Ramita 251.0 (624.4); 2. Khyati Chaudhary 248.1 (625.7); 3. Yana Rathore 227.8 (620.2).   25m rapid fire pistol: Men: 1. Anish Bhanwala 581; 2. Vijayveer Sidhu 579; 3. Adarsh Singh 579. Women: 1. Rhythm Sangwan 552; 2. Simranpreet Kaur Brar 546; 3. Tejaswani 542 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/makhija-tops-air-rifle-selection-trials/article35712689.ece
04 August 2021||Nyon,||UEFA opens proceedings against FA||UEFA opened disciplinary proceedings against the English Football Association on Tuesday over the behaviour of some England fans at the European Championship final at Wembley Stadium. European soccer’s governing body added that more information “will be made available in due course.” Fans without tickets broke through security barriers and turnstiles to get in to see England’s first major tournament final in 55 years. England defender Harry Maguire said his father sustained rib injuries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/uefa-opens-proceedings-against-fa/article35712581.ece
04 August 2021||August 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Pivotal knock||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/pivotal-knock/article35712495.ece
04 August 2021||Liberec (Czech Republic),||Sumit Nagal bows out||Maximilian Marterer of Germany beat Sumit Nagal 6-4, 6-3 in the first round of the €44,820 Challenger tennis tournament here.  Other result: $15,000 ITF women, Cairo: Doubles: Pre-quarterfinals: Aline Thommen (Sui) & Ashmitha Easwaramurthi bt Farah Khalil & Zeina Shaaban (Egy)4-6, 7-5, [10-6] .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/nagal-out/article35712339.ece
04 August 2021||August 04 2021 00:00 IST,||‘There could be others like Stokes’||India captain Virat Kohli has said there could be more cricketers like Ben Stokes who would opt for a break from the sport. “Like he [Stokes] has taken a break, there could be more players in the future, at some stage or the other, who could get fatigued by bubble life. For us, this break was very important and with regard to the preparation for this series, we realise how important the break was,” Kohli said on Tuesday. India cricketers were given a three-week break after the World Test Championship final before they reassembled on July 15 to kick-start the preparation for the five-Test series. “These breaks are very important, for me to refresh. In any case, captaincy and shouldering a team’s responsibility can be stressful. To add to that if you are confined in a bubble for a long time, things get even more difficult. Breaks important “These periodic breaks are very important. Because if your players don’t survive to play, then maintaining the quality of cricket will get difficult,” Kohli said. “We are going into the series fresh and with an exciting mindset. We are optimistic that now we can give our best efforts over five Tests.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/there-could-be-others-like-stokes/article35712331.ece
04 August 2021||August 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Anirudh scripts Bangalore Athletic’s win||N. Anirudh’s brace helped Bangalore Athletic FC defeat Global FC 3-2 in the KSFA-BDFA ‘C’ division football league on Tuesday.  The results: Bangalore Arrows FC 3 (Abindan 21, Alex-og 26, Salim 45) bt FCA 1 (Arul Mani 20); Bangalore Panthers FC 2 (Nicholas Arnold 24, Karan Kumar 35) bt Whitefield United FC 0; Bangalore Athletic FC 3 (N. Anirudh 16, 46, Vedant Sudarshan 52) bt Global FC 2 (Hari Lakshman 29, Prince 45) .      P. Dhruv (109 and 4/15) powered Vijaya CC past Coles CC in the KSCA Group I Division II league. In Group I Division III, Amogh Srikanth (5/20) took Century Cricketers to a one-run win over Jolly Cricketers.  The scores: Division II Group I: Vijaya 281/7 in 50 overs (P. Dhruv 109, Yashovardhan Parantap 27, K. Gourav 52 n.o., Hriddhiman Basu 4/54) bt Coles 124 in 34.4 overs (Dheeraj Mohan 38, P. Nachiketh 30, P. Dhruv 4/15).   Jawahar SC (1) 300/8 in 50 overs (S. Chaitanya 32, Rishi Bhansali 54, L.R. Chethana 27, Kruthik Krishna 68, A.P. Aslam 35) bt Bangalore SC 230/8 in 50.0 overs (Santosh Krishna 31, C.R. Aiyappa 51, Naveen 52 n.o., K. Mahesh 39, Shimon Luiz 4/31).   Wilson Garden 208/8 in 50 overs (M. Arsalaan 52, Harshil 34, Vikram Kumar 28 n.o., Ronak 3/30, Milind Mali 4/37) lost to Jawans 212/7 in 49.1 overs (Shashank Krishnamurthy 29, U. Karan 29, Rohan Raju 34, Milind Mali 39 n.o.).   Herons 284/8 in 50 overs (Aaron Christie 87, Mohsin Khan 86 n.o., Shahid Shariff 29, D. Basavaraj 3/43) bt Jawahar SC (2) 215 in 44.3 overs (K.S. Lankesh 37, Prajwal Reddy 43, Sudhanwa Kulkarni 43, Anmol Mathur 4/61, Shahid Shariff 3/46).   Bangalore Occasionals 253/7 in 50 overs (Niranjan 48, Sumit Dhawani 33, Hemanth Shinde 52, Vishnu 40, Rajvir Wadhwa 35 n.o.) bt FUCC (2) 188 in 44.2 overs (Ravi Reddy 28, V.L. Suraj 91 n.o., Rajvir Wadhwa 4/28, G.D. Naman 3/26).   Jupiter CA 165 in 42.1 overs (R. Suhas 28, Desmond Antony 52) lost to The Bangalore Cricketers 166/4 in 34.4 overs (U. Nakul 37, K.B. Shreyas 59).   Division III Group I: Century Cricketers 104 in 34.1 overs (H.R. Vijaykumar 26, Rahul Prasanna 4/21) bt Jolly Cricketers 103 in 42.2 overs (D. Samit 50, Amogh Srikanth 5/20).   Cavaliers 333/6 in 50 overs (V. Prithvi 102, Mohammed Waseef 46, Rohith Sundar 96, R. Ajith 33, Akshay Patil 27 n.o.) bt Engrades 261/9 in 50 overs (K.A. Vijay 35, S. Ramanji 31, Deepak Gowda 39, Jithendravn 25, C.E. Mani 38, N. Pratham 3/52).   Hammonds 119 in 36.5 overs (Surendra Rathore 29, S. Raghav 27, N. Arunkumar 3/21) lost to Neptune 120/4 in 27.3 overs (Aashish Mahesh 54, Koushik Hegde 28 n.o.).    Shashank Rai (40 points) starred in Mangalore BC’s 91-67 victory over Southern Blues in the State ‘A’ division basketball league on Tuesday.  The results: GST & Customs 83 (Dheeraj 34, Akash 10) bt Mangalore BC 80 (Shashank Rai 25, Pranvil 15); Mangalore BC 91 (Shashank Rai 40, Ranjith 17) bt Southern Blues 67 (Abhishek Gowda 28, Rishab 16) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/anirudh-scripts-bangalore-athletics-win/article35712342.ece
04 August 2021||August 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Tanay slams double century||Tanay Thyagarajan scored 222 (220b, 25x4, 6x6) for Budding Stars in the A1-Division (three-day) league cricket championship here on Tuesday.  The scores: A1-Div. (three-day): SCRSA 97 in 52.2 overs (Md. Abdul Adnan 4/14) vs Deccan Chronicle 40/2 in 29 overs.   Ensconse 249 in 77 overs (J. Mallikarjun 107, Abhinay 87, Mir Jaweed Ali 3/17) vs Sporting XI 11/2 in 5.5 overs.   UBI 134 in 48.5 overs (Abhinav Kumar 30, M.A. Khader 38, Diwesh Pathania 3/32) vs AOC 75/1 in 28.2 overs (Shivam Tiwari 32).   BDL 300/9 in 90 overs (B. Revanth 61, M.S.R. Charan 46, K. Himateja 103, B. Thejodhaur 41, Lokesh Gait 3/68, Ajay Dev Goud 3/34) vs EMCC.   Jai Hanuman 277 in 87.2 overs (G.A. Shashidhar Reddy 56, N. Anirudh Reddy 45, K. Rohit Rayudu 83, Vittal Anurag 31, Akash Bhandari 6/54) vs SBI.   Hyderabad Bottling 130 in 55.3 overs (J. Vinay Goud 36, Sundesh 3/29, Abdul Ela Al Qureshi 6/43) vs Gemini Friends 80/4 in 27 overs.   Buddings Stars 418 in 83.2 overs (Tanay Thyagarajan 222, K. Nitish Reddy 90, P. Nitesh Reddy 43, Nitish Challa 4/39, Mohd Omer 3/80) vs India Cements.   Central Excise 401/9 in 90 overs (M. Pratyush Kumar 32, K. Sumanth 153, Chaitanya Reddy 112, G. Manish 31, Saketh Sairam 39, Neel Chakravarthy 4/105, Abrar Mohiuddin 3/75) vs Zinda Tilismath.   MP Colts 463/6 in 90 overs (Rahul Radesh 119, Mickil Jaiswal 117, B. Sandeep 117, G. Sireesh Goud 35 n.o.) vs R. Dayanand.   Sri Chakra 186 in 60.3 overs (N. Nikhil 30, K. Jaya Kiran Reddy 31, B. Manas 45, M. Siddu Nayak 4/23, K. Sri Harsha 4/41) vs Apex 91 for no loss in 25 overs (M. Anirudh Yadav 57 batting).   Balaaji 309/9 in 90 overs (H.K. Simha 37, Paras Raj 50, Ganesh 46, Raja Shekar 41, Pabba Nilesh 3/83) vs Mahmood.   Charminar 341 in 82.2 overs (Kunal Daswani 45, Syed Ghouse 46, R. Shiv Shankar 128, Ali Kacchi 79, Md. Adnan Ahmed 32, Chand Pasha 4/42, Izaz Ali 4/67) vs Gouds XI 9/3 in 5 overs.   Jai Bhagwathi 270 in 72.3 overs (Nihal 67, Abhinesh Tiwari 88, Vijay Akash 3/60) vs Concorde 37/1 in 10 overs.   Sportive 143 in 48.3 overs (Aryan Krishna 41, Raju 39, Amith Kumar Singh 3/43, Nitish Kumar 4/40, Ruthvik Yadav 3/14) vs Khalsa 115/2 in 30 overs.   Sec’bad Nawabs 210 in 45.1 overs (Takshith Rao 94, Deepak 5/58) vs Rohit XI 107/1 in 29.2 overs (A. Vigneshwar 55 batting, Md. Liakhat Hussain 44).   A2-Div. (two-day): Osmania 180 in 35.1 overs (Debansu Rayaguru 32, Anish Rao 31, P. Sumanth 41, N. Anish Reddy 5/57) lost to Brothers XI 182/9 in 48.5 overs (Anurag Pandey 50, C. Sriharsha 32 n.o., Debansu Rayaguru 3/48).   Aggarwal Sr. 31 in 16.4 overs (K. Kritin 5/13) lost to Future Stars 32/1 in 9.2 overs.   New Star 90 in 35.4 overs (Faizan 32, Syed Ali 5/24) lost to Sunshine 91/3 in 24.3 overs (M. Karthik 34).   Swastik Union 109 in 46.3 overs (Md. Abdul Jaweed 5/52) lost to Canara Bank 113/3 in 26.4 overs (G. Srinivas Rao 49 n.o.).   Hariram 262 in 68.5 overs (Vamshi Reddy 146, B. Yeshashvi 3/47, N. Siddharth Reddy 3/59) bt Anu 94 in 29.3 overs (Mayank 4/33, Furqaun 3/14).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/tanay-slams-double-century/article35712580.ece
04 August 2021||August 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Now WhatsApp a||Pandemic-scarred and second wave-battered, I found myself checking into The Lodhi one weekend in June, drawn by the promise of space and emotional recuperation. Just time spent doing nothing but stare at flickering images of Mughal-style jaalis that dominate the architecture of the hotel, in the deep plunge pool within my suite. But the real reason why we stayed put for four days is not the suite’s roominess or giant TV screens, but Naveen, the personal butler assigned to my family and I. His unobtrusive care smoothened every First World problem I thought of: how to get the rooms cleaned in our absence without actually being absent? How to give laundry instructions with minimal contact? That the wine was to my liking? Above all, the Hamletian dilemma: to go or not to the rather excellent restaurants in the hotel. “It is full today, so perhaps you wouldn’t like to,” Naveen Tiwari, 26, said quietly from behind his mask and face shield, having gauged my need for strict privacy. He would instead bring up restaurant-style meals — from billowy baos to black cod miso — and lay them out on the dining table, edible flowers, micro greens, frills and all, with the flair of a restaurant chef and bartender. A far cry from messy “room service”.  Traditional to tech  Luxury Indian hotels have always prided themselves on offering the best private butler services to special and/or high-paying guests. In the past, my own encounters with this kind of uber pampering has ranged from a butler waiting up in the wee hours till I returned from a party to ask whether I would like a glass of hot chocolate before retiring for the “night”, to helping coordinate sight-seeing. The pandemic has altered things, though. Guests now seek privacy, minimal interactions, and the least intrusive ways of communication. Privacy, in fact, is the new luxury. And butler services are pivoting to cater to this new normal while trying to retain personalisation and warmth — with help from technology. WhatsApp is the preferred mode of communication lately. “Your plate is hot, please be careful,” Naveen would, for instance, ping to tell me, as he unobtrusively left the suite after plating our food. At The Leela group of hotels, the messaging service has, in fact, been integrated into the hotel’s communications system. Apart from individual numbers that are exchanged between butlers and guests, there is an ebutler programme on a centralised number where guests can message instructions and requests. “Today, the guest has the choice to decide who they want to interact with and how much. We, as a brand, have tried to balance hi tech with hi touch,” says Anuraag Bhatnagar, Chief Operating Officer, The Leela Palaces, Hotels and Resorts. But technology apart, since butlers are now more likely to be the sole representative of a hotel that guests are likely to interact with, their role has extended to ideating and suggesting unique experiences based on their intuitive understanding of the guest. Suchetna Pal Roy, a 21-year-old recent graduate from IHM Kolkata and a butler at the newly-launched Leela Jaipur, explains how she approaches her assignments. “I was recently assigned to a top corporate executive from Korean. Before he arrived, I researched his background, how many years he has worked at his job, where in Korea he is from, what his food and drink preferences are, whether his kids were accompanying him [they were, so amenities like cup cakes were arranged]. On the basis of this, I created unique experiences for his family,” she says.  Socially-distanced experiences  Unlike earlier, when butlers oversaw a team when setting the table or offering turn down services, now Pal-Roy and her tribe are trained in every department, including the kitchen, and are sensitised adequately to new safety protocols. Their tasks include subtly reassuring guests about safety, hygiene, and vaccination status of all staff during the course of initial conversations to build confidence. At The Leela Jaipur, these include private meals on terraces, evening tea rituals, art walks or even a courtyard experience titled ‘ Jhilmil sitaaron ka aangan ’, where dinner is laid out al fresco in a space lit with 100 lamps. Most hotels report a substantial jump in in-room dining revenues (with the idea of “in-room” being redefined). “Butlers suggest our many open air areas at different hotels, from gardens and rooftops to even a small jetty [at the Taj Langkawi] where a table for two can be set up,” says a spokesperson from the Taj group of hotels. “We also have features such as the ‘floor is yours’, where an entire floor can be booked for a family or small group, which can be serviced by a butler.” Even for non leisure guests, butler services are now relevant with a “contact light” model of service. At ITC Grand Chola in Chennai, the “knock and drop” programme enables them to leave smartly-packed meals outside a room, or serve evening drinks and service via door-to-door trolley service. And tech-savvy butlers have even been fielding requests to set up Zoom sessions for older guests, concludes a spokesperson.  The writer was a guest   at The Lodhi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/now-whatsapp-a/article35712663.ece
04 August 2021||August 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Pearls on Zoom and suits||Pearls are shedding their prim, old-fashioned tag and enjoying a contemporary comeback. The New York Fashion Week 2020 set the tone, with designers such as Marc Jacobs, Prabal Gurung, and Jason Wu pairing their outfits with gorgeous strands and large, asymmetrical pieces. Since then, we’ve spotted these classics on modern tastemakers, including Harry Styles and Rihanna. And don’t forget, when Kamala Harris was sworn in as America’s first female vice-president this January, she accessorised her purple Christopher John Rogers dress with a custom pearl necklace by Wilfredo Rosado. The fact that the oldest-known gems are seeing a resurgence doesn’t surprise Chennai-based entrepreneur and designer, Mita Banker. “It’s always appropriate to wear pearls; they are evergreen,” she exclaims. The force behind 32-year-old fashion jewellery brand, Estele, Banker launched her second brand, Isadore, in 2018, to create collections that draw inspiration from her travels. Like her first collection, Ottoman Empire — the pomegranate design, worn for good luck and prosperity, was a hit among Delhiites when she exhibited there. “I pull out things from my travels. Then I research the ideas and launch my designs,” she says.  Channelling royalty  Banker is full of stories about pearls. “La Peregrina is the world’s most famous [the 58½ carat pear-shaped gem was gifted by actor Richard Burton to Elizabeth Taylor],” she reminds me, sharing how pearls have always been worn as a sign of wealth. “Queens Victoria and Elizabeth favoured them; our n awabs and maharajas flaunted them. Maharani Gayatri Devi of Jaipur was famous for her chiffons-and-pearl look.” Now, she is offering that touch of royalty with her collection at Evoluzione on Kadar Nawaz Khan Road. On offer: seed, round and oval pearls, along with coloured ones — in grey, champagne, peach, and pink. “You could buy them in strands or bunches, and have aunique piece designed for yourself. For a bit of bling, you can have them strung with Swarowski crystals,” she says. If coming up with your own design is tedious, pick up something from the Isadore line of bracelets, earrings, and necklaces. Asymmetrical drops, a twisted multi-strand neck piece with a dramatic knot, and a seed pearl cluster studded with emeralds are eye-catchers. “I’ve created a half-black-half-white neck piece with onyx and pearls,” she says, adding that customers must check out the double strand pearl neck piece with rubies and emeralds. “These gems fit well with the corporate environment — team it with a suit or wear a saath lada haar with a sari.” So, when Zoom calls demand you look sharp at 9 am, don pearls for instant glam.    Prices from Rs. 10,000 to Rs. 40,000. Details: 9840752100||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/pearls-on-zoom-and-suits/article35712670.ece
04 August 2021||August 04 2021 00:00 IST,||In Parul Gupta’s square||At the new Nature Morte gallery at Dhan Mill Compounds, in Chattarpur, New Delhi, two overlapping black squares fix you to the spot with a hypnotic presence. You are pulled into its vortex and, as you walk closer, little details swim into focus. The subtle lines that run across the surface of the oil pastel on paper, the heavy gold pigments that become warm and bold, the void and the frame that draw you into a place of contemplation. It is a visual engagement that teases the eye and stimulates the mind. It is the first time that the gallery is working with artist Parul Gupta, who is known for work ‘born from minimalism’ — they appear deceptively simple at first, and then reveal their complex programs. It is also her largest solo show to date. Still, on the verge… presents a wide range: drawings on paper made with ink, charcoal, oil pastel, gold pigments, as well as sculptures of painted aluminium covered in industrial paint. Her main subject is the square, yet this geometric form is torqued, layered, multiplied, and confounded to create works of heightened tensions. “I began my investigation with the square in 2018. It was a form that fascinated me, yet I was not able to work with it in the manner that I wanted. So, I locked myself up in my studio and decided not to take on any other project until I was able to figure out my relation with it,” says Gupta, 40. “In these works, one cannot immediately access the perceptual shift in the square; one has to reach to it. In between, it has many visual hurdles that one has to cross, like a puzzle in their heads, and then decipher it.” If this sounds esoteric, you can understand how her work examines her own interpretations of space and the idea of architecture. A selection of these works is also featured on Nature Morte’s online viewing room at Los Angeles’ Frieze Art Fair, which is on till August 1.  Read the full story on weekend.thehindu.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/in-parul-guptas-square/article35712666.ece
04 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||Nangal fumes after ‘rape, murder’ of child||Two days after a nine-year-old girl was allegedly cremated against her parents’ consent inside a cremation ground — and a priest and three others were arrested on charges of rape and murder of the girl — protests demanding the hanging of the accused continued in south-west Delhi’s Nangal on Tuesday. As the road in cantonment area from both sides towards Nangal village was blocked by protesters, the girl’s mother lay semi-conscious while the father sat amid the crowd. Both were clearly overwhelmed by the situation. Nearby, on a stage, locals kept shouting that “this is not a political incident… we just want justice for our daughter… those who have come here for political gains should refrain from being part of the protest”. Among the political figures who visited the parents to express solidarity were Bhim Army chief Chandra Shekhar Azad and his party members. Recalling the incident, the mother, who is a ragpicker, said that the girl was dropped at the cremation ground by her father as he went to buy vegetables, and the mother had gone home from nearby mazaar . “ Jaise  meri  bacchi  jalayi  hai … vaise hi fansi  chahiye  unke  liye [The way they have burnt my daughter… I want them to hang],” she said. Rattled mother “A person came searching for me and said the priest is calling me. When I reached the cremation ground, he told me that my daughter is dead. I kept asking for proof if she died of electrocution. But he never gave any. There were bruises on her hand, her skin was peeling off. Her tongue was black and lips were blue,” she said. She told the priest that she wanted to call the police but she didn’t have a phone so she thought of going to the village, which is walking distance from the crime scene. “But he forced me inside the premises and locked the gate,” she claimed. The mother said that she believed that her daughter had been raped because of the rushed cremation. “The priest didn’t ask for any documents, which he asks from others. He told me that I should not call the police because police matters go on for longer periods,” she said. One of the four accused went on a scooty and brought the father from a nearby market. Both parents reportedly refused to sign any cremation document, and the girl was already being cremated when the father reached the place, the family said. As the word spread, locals reached the crematorium, broke open the gate, poured water on the body and told the parents that it may be a case of rape after which police were called. Police harassment The father claimed that he was beaten up by the police inside the station on Sunday night. “They said I had taken money,” he said. “I told the priest that I would have taken my daughter to hospital if she was electrocuted… why did he burn her? He asked me to come the next day and take her ashes,” the father said. Senior officers of Delhi Police, including Joint Commissioner of Police Jaspal Singh and Deputy Commissioner of Police (South-West) Ingit Pratap Singh reached the protest site on Tuesday and tried to defuse the situation. They asked the crowd to submit their grievances in written form so that action can be taken. Sources said that medical examination of the accused was conducted and it was found that they were not drunk at the time of the incident. No CCTV footage has been found either, they said, although videos of the girl’s remains being pulled out of the pyre have been obtained. Chandra Shekhar Azad demanded justice for the child. “If our girls here are not safe, then one can only imagine what the situation would be like in villages. I haven’t seen the FIR yet. I want to see it so that I can help the family with legal discourse,” he said. Sharing a news piece on the incident, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi wrote “Dalit ki beti bhi desh ki beti hai [A Dalit’s daughter is also daughter of the country].”  The priest told me that I should not call the police because police matters go on for longer periods Victim’s mother||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/nangal-fumes-after-rape-murder-of-child/article35712474.ece
04 August 2021||New Delhi,||Sushil wanted to re-establish supremacy, says chargesheet||The brawl at the Chhatrasal Stadium that allegedly led to the death of a former junior national wrestling champion was the result of a conspiracy hatched by Olympic medallist wrestler Sushil Kumar, who wanted to re-establish his supremacy among younger wrestlers, the Delhi police has said in its chargesheet filed in the murder case. Sagar and his four friends were allegedly assaulted by Sushil and others at the stadium on the intervening night of May 4 and 5 over a property dispute. Sagar succumbed to injuries later. Police investigation showed that Sagar and his friends were abducted from two different locations in Delhi and brought to the stadium, following which its gate was locked from inside, and the security guards were asked to leave. “At the stadium, all the victims were confined and beaten mercilessly by all the accused. All the victims were beaten for around 30-40 minutes with ‘lathi’, ‘dandas’, hockey, baseball bat, etc,” the police said in the final report, which runs into over 1,000-pages. “The incident is the result of a criminal conspiracy hatched by accused Sushil Kumar along with his associates to take revenge on Sonu and Sagar,” the police said. The Crime Branch, which is tasked with investigating the case, said Sushil wanted to teach a lesson to Sagar and Sonu and re-establish his supremacy in the stadium through muscle power. It also listed reasons why Sushil and his associates took revenge. ‘Murmurs in stadium’ The police investigation established that it was due to the initial reluctance shown by Sagar and Sonu to vacate Sushil’s flat and “murmurs” in the stadium that the Olympic wrestler was scared of the duo and couldn’t withstand them. Another reason, according to the police, was that Sushil had a strong suspicion that wrestlers training under him were passing information about his movements to Sagar and Sonu and the latter could harm him as he had an extensive criminal background. Notorious criminal Kala Jathedi, who was recently arrested, told the police that Sushil’s ego was hurt after the duo refused to vacate his flat because of which he felt a loss of respect. The charge sheet names 13 accused, including Sushil and mentions the names of 155 prosecution witnesses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/sushil-wanted-to-re-establish-supremacy-chargesheet/article35712471.ece
04 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||CM demands capital punishment for culprits||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday condemned the rape and murder of a nine-year-old girl in the city and demanded capital punishment for the culprits. Besides, he said there is a need to improve the law and order situation in the national capital. “Going to meet the victim’s family on Wednesday, will do everything possible to help the family in this fight for justice,” Kejriwal tweeted. The Delhi Commission for Women (DCW) issued notice to Delhi Police and sought a detailed action taken report in the matter and details of the accused. “The DCW has instituted an enquiry into the matter of the death of a nine-year-old in Delhi Cant. The commission had received a call on its 181 women helpline number on the night of August 1 regarding the death of the girl. The commission immediately sent a team to the police station and assisted the family in filing an FIR in the matter wherein they alleged that their daughter had gone out and was brought home dead by a local “pujari” [priest],” a DCW official said. The women’s panel asked senior police officers to be present before the commission on August 5. Cong. expresses concern Meanwhile, Delhi Congress chief Ch. Anil Kumar visited the girl’s family on Tuesday morning and alleged that the police made the family wait at the station for several hours and were reluctant to file an FIR for rape and murder. Moreover, they put pressure on them to compromise, but only when Congress workers strongly took up the case that they filed a strong FIR. Mr. Kumar expressed concern at the rising crimes against women and girls in the Capital and said that the incident has once again exposed the reality that Delhi has become unsafe for women. He also demanded protection for the girl’s family as they face threats from criminals and said that the Delhi Congress’ Legal Cell will provide free legal aid to the family.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/kejriwal-seeks-capital-punishment-for-culprits/article35712477.ece
04 August 2021||New Delhi,||HC dismisses plea to stop use of EVMs, imposes cost||The Delhi High Court on Tuesday dismissed, with a cost of Rs. 10,000, a petition seeking direction to the Election Commission of India (ECI) to stop the use of the Electronic Voting Machines (EVM) and instead return to ballot paper. A Bench of Chief Justice D.N. Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh rejected the petition filed by advocate C.R. Jaya Sukin saying it was akin to a “publicity interest litigation”. The Bench said the petition was filed without doing any research on the working of the EVMs and lacked material to justify the plea. It said the EVMs were approved by the ECI and Parliament. The court pointed out that Mr. Sukin’s plea relied on four documents — one of which was a news item, and the other was his representation on the issue and pleas before the Supreme Court. The High Court, however, said Mr. Sukin may approach it again after conducting research and making proper averments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/hc-dismisses-plea-to-stop-use-of-evms-imposes-cost/article35712470.ece
04 August 2021||New Delhi,||HC questions SDMC expense||The Delhi High Court on Tuesday remarked that the expenditure incurred by South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) on paying salaries of employees is abnormally high as compared to its functioning. The Bench asked whether biometric attendance of staff was linked to their Aadhaar. “You need to see if you are overstaffed,” the Bench said. The south municipal body submitted that its monthly expenses include Rs. 214 crore for salaries and Rs. 30 crore for pensions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/hc-questions-sdmc-expense/article35712466.ece
04 August 2021||GUWAHATI,||PIL against Assam blockade||The Mizoram Bar Association on Tuesday filed a public interest litigation at the Aizawl Bench of the Gauhati High Court against the economic blockade on National Highway 306 in Assam. Locals in southern Assam’s Barak Valley imposed an indefinite blockade on the highway – Mizoram’s lifeline – after six Assam policemen and a civilian were killed in firing after a flare-up on the boundary between the two north-eastern States on July 26.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/pil-against-assam-blockade/article35712679.ece
04 August 2021||New delhi,||Domestic violence plaint against Yo Yo Honey Singh||A Delhi court on Tuesday issued notice to singer Hirdesh Singh, alias Yo Yo Honey Singh, on a domestic violence complaint filed by his wife. Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Tania Singh directed Mr. Singh to respond to the plea filed under the Protection of Women from Domestic Violence Act, and posted it for hearing on August 28. Shalini Talwar, in her plea, accused Mr. Singh of physical, mental, and verbal abuse. She said they had gotten married in 2011, around the time the singer was gaining more popularity. “With the incoming success, Mr. Singh’s attitude changed towards Ms. Talwar and he became rude, brash, aggressive, contemptuous, and disrespectful towards her,” the plea said. Advocates Sandeep Kapur, Apoorva Pandey and G.G. Kashyap represented Ms. Talwar during the proceeding. Ms. Talwar also accused Mr. Singh of cheating on her, becoming an alcoholic and a drug addict.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/domestic-violence-plaint-against-yo-yo-honey-singh/article35712465.ece
04 August 2021||New Delhi,||Post monsoon, PWD to repair major roads||The PWD will carry out complete overhaul of major city roads after the monsoon season gets over, officials said on Tuesday. According to PWD officials, the move is aimed at “improving health” of roads which gets deteriorated during rainy season due to extensive waterlogging and high-intensity rainfall. A major portion of the road beneath IIT flyover caved in on Saturday due to leakage of an underground DJB pipeline. The PWD had worked overnight to repair the stretch and allow vehicular traffic on the road. “Major roads of the city will get a complete overhaul after end of the monsoon season. This will include major repairing and other maintenance works,” PWD Engineer-in-Chief Shashi Kant said. According to a study conducted by the Central Road Research Institute on request of the PWD in 2019, several flyovers in the city were in dire need of revamp. Some of those structures were repaired but work on a majority of the flyovers are yet to be done.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/post-monsoon-pwd-to-repair-major-roads/article35712472.ece
04 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||DUTA stages stir for release of grants||The Delhi University Teachers’ Association (DUTA) on Tuesday observed a strike demanding the release of grants to 12 DU colleges that are fully funded by the Delhi government. The teachers’ body also said that if the government failed to release the grants, the agitation would be stepped up. “Teachers are at their tether’s end as salaries and pensions have not been paid, payment of other dues of employees including medical bills, arrears of the Seventh Pay Commission and so on have not been done due to inadequacy of grants. Even pensioners have not been spared,” DUTA president Rajib Ray said. In a statement, the teachers’ body said: “The DUTA categorically demands that the government unconditionally releases the grants as the employees must not be penalised but paid all their dues without any further delay. Failure to do so will force the DUTA to escalate the agitation.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/duta-stages-stir-for-release-of-grants/article35712850.ece
04 August 2021||GUWAHATI,||Bandh in parts of Manipur, Nagaland||Parts of Manipur and Nagaland shut down on Tuesday to protest against the lack of progress in the Naga peace process. The Isak-Muivah faction of the National Socialist Council of Nagaland or NSCN (I-M) had called the 12-hour shutdown on the sixth anniversary of the signing of the Framework Agreement signed on August 3, 2015. Most shops were closed across ‘Nagalim’, a term for Naga-inhabited areas across the Northeast. According to reports, the shutdown had minimal effect in Zunheboto and Mon districts. These districts are dominated by communities that comprise bulk of the members of the rival Naga National Political Groups.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/bandh-in-parts-of-manipur-nagaland/article35712677.ece
04 August 2021||JAIPUR,||Another senior Cong. leader meets CM Gehlot||Shortly after an unannounced visit of senior Congress leader Kumari Selja to Jaipur, Karnakata Pradesh Congress Committee president D.K. Shivakumar met Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot here on Tuesday. Mr. Shivakumar’s visit was perceived as yet another attempt by the party leadership to tackle Mr. Gehlot’s unrelenting attitude to a Cabinet reshuffle. Mr. Shivakumar, who landed at Sanganer airport here on Tuesday afternoon, was driven straight to the Chief Minister’s official residence in Civil Lines. He left for New Delhi after meeting Mr. Gehlot for nearly an hour. Mr. Shivakumar was the fourth Congress leader to visit Rajasthan during the last one week amid speculations about a Cabinet expansion and reshuffle, in which the MLAs loyal to former Deputy Chief Minister Sachin Pilot are seeking a bigger representation. AICC general secretaries Ajay Maken and K.C. Venugopal and Haryana Congress chief Ms. Selja have visited Jaipur and met Mr. Gehlot. However, Mr. Shivakumar told reporters at the airport that this was his personal visit to the State Capital and it had “no political agenda”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/another-senior-cong-leader-meets-cm-gehlot/article35712678.ece
04 August 2021||GURUGRAM,||Now, Gurugram to demolish all illegal buildings on PLPA land||In view of the Supreme Court direction in a case pertaining to Khori Basti this past month, the Gurugram district administration has decided to identify illegal structures on land notified under the Punjab Land Preservation Act, 1900 and remove them. Around 6,800 hectares of land in the district across 33 revenues estates is notified under the PLPA. The Faridabad district administration too had on July 28 said all illegal structures, including farmhouses and educational institutes, on the land notified under the PLPA would be demolished to clear encroachment on forest land. The Faridabad district has around 130 illegal structures spread across 500 acres of notified land. The Supreme Court had, in a matter pertaining to Khori Basti demolition, observed on July 23 that “the direction to remove all unauthorised structures standing on forest land applies to ‘all’ unauthorised structures”. Gurugram Deputy Commissioner Yash Garg has ordered a survey of the land notified under PLPA.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/now-gurugram-to-demolish-all-illegal-buildings-on-plpa-land/article35712467.ece
04 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||Clear Aravali forest land encroachments by Aug. 23: SC||The Supreme Court on Tuesday said the Faridabad Municipal Corporation is expected to complete the removal of unauthorised structures on Aravali forest land in Khori Gaon before August 23 while reiterating that all unauthorised structures, including illegal farmhouses, will face the axe. “If structures are in forest land, they will face action,” a Special Bench of Justices A.M. Khanwilkar and Dinesh Maheshwari clarified. The court asked the municipal authorities to file a status report by August 25 on the demolition. The court-ordered demolition covers about 10,000 unauthorised residential constructions encroaching into the forest land. The court also asked the State of Haryana to expedite and finalise the rehabilitation policy for residents, preferably before the next date of court hearing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/clear-aravali-forest-land-encroachments-by-aug-23-sc/article35712468.ece
04 August 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Now, SAD-BSP alliance assures free power||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) chief Sukhbir Singh Badal on Tuesday said if the SAD-Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) alliance assumes power in the State, free power up to 400 hundred units per month will be given to all households, besides 75% jobs would be reserved for people of Punjab in the private sector. ‘Cut in diesel price’ Announcing a thirteen-point charter of initiatives which the SAD-BSP alliance will implement if it forms the next government in the State, Mr. Badal said a grant of Rs. 2,000 per month will be given to all women heads of ‘blue card’ holder families. Also, Rs. 10 per litre reduction in price of diesel for agriculture consumers will be provided. Provision of power at Rs. 5 per unit for industry and an interest free loan of Rs. 10 lakh for students will be kept. Mr. Badal added that all electricity connections of below poverty line (BPL) families, which have been disconnected due to non-payment, will be restored.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/now-sad-bsp-alliance-assures-free-power/article35712676.ece
