06 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||Allegations serious, truth has to come out in snooping issue: SC||The Supreme Court on Thursday made it clear that “truth has to come out” in the Pegasus snooping issue. A Bench of Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana and Justice Surya Kant said the allegations about the government using Israel-based technology to spy on civilians, journalists, Ministers, parliamentarians and activists were “no doubt serious”, provided the news reports were true. The Bench directed the petitioners, including senior journalist N. Ram, the Editors Guild of India, Rajya Sabha member John Brittas and five journalists reported to be targeted by the Pegasus spyware, to serve copies of their petitions to the offices of the Attorney General of India and the Solicitor General. Former Union Minister Yashwant Sinha, represented by senior advocate Manish Tiwari, has also filed a petition. Listing the case for August 10, the Bench said it wanted the government to be represented in court in the next hearing. “Somebody should appear for the government,” Chief Justice Ramana observed. No formal notice to govt. The court did not issue a formal notice to the government. Part of the court’s reluctance was invited by a petition by advocate Manohar Lal Sharma, in which he has arraigned individuals as respondents. Personal parties Mr. Sharma has named Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union Home Minister Amit Shah as personal parties in his petition.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/allegations-serious-truth-has-to-come-out-in-snooping-issue-sc/article35756699.ece
06 August 2021||Chennai,||India beats Germany, bags bronze in men’s hockey||A more than four-decade-long wait finally bore fruition. India last won an Olympic hockey medal — a gold — at the 1980 Games in Moscow and after 41 years of fading hope and enduring angst, Manpreet Singh’s men turned a corner. On a pulsating Thursday in the Tokyo Games, India edged Germany 5-4 to secure bronze through the third-place play-off. It was a moment equally invested with the frenzied thrills of the present and the warm tug of nostalgia. Hockey, India’s national game, was once a sure-fire Olympic medal prospect and it showed in the trophy cabinet that has eight golds and one silver, besides three bronzes, including the latest addition. Indomitable Sreejesh India found its goalscorers in Rupinder Pal Singh, Hardik Singh, Harmanpreet Singh and Simranjeet Singh, with the last-named striking twice. Yet at one point, India was trailing 1-3 before finding a second wind and surging ahead. Germany was relentless but India did not budge and in goalkeeper P.R. Sreejesh, it had an indomitable wall that thwarted most rival advances. The way the team played also reflected the hard yards and strategy that coach Graham Reid infused into his wards. If hockey offered unbridled joy, there was a silver to be savoured too as wrestler Ravi Kumar Dahiya emerged second-best to Russian Zaur Uguev in the freestyle 57 kg final bout.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/india-defeats-germany-to-win-bronze-in-mens-hockey/article35756700.ece
06 August 2021||Pune,||Recoveries continue to exceed cases in State||Maharashtra’s recoveries continued to outweigh cases, with 7,120 patients being discharged as against 6,695 new COVID-19 cases. The active case tally now stands at 74,995, with the State Health Department completing the reconciliation of positive cases till July 26 (for Amravati district the process has been completed up to July 31). In this process, the number of active cases has increased by 2,231. A total of 120 deaths took the State’s cumulative toll to 1,33,530, while the case fatality rate stands at 2.1%. The total case tally has reached 63,36,220 and cumulative recoveries have risen to 61,24,278, with the recovery rate standing at 96.66%. Pune reported more than 1,000 new cases, taking its total case tally to 10,93,032, while 12 deaths pushed the death toll to over 18,370. As per district authorities, the active case tally has declined to a little over 9,000. Mumbai reported 327 new cases and nine fatalities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/recoveries-continue-to-exceed-cases-in-state/article35757080.ece
06 August 2021||New Delhi,||Centre moves to redact retrospective tax law||The government on Thursday took the first step towards doing away with the contentious retrospective tax law of 2012, which was used to raise large tax demands on foreign investors such as Vodafone and Cairn Energy, and blamed for vitiating India’s investment climate — less than a month after Cairn Energy secured an order from a French court to freeze India’s assets in Paris. Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman introduced the Taxation Laws (Amendment) Bill in the Lok Sabha on Thursday to nullify the relevant retrospective tax clauses that were introduced in 2012 to bring past indirect transfer of Indian assets under the ambit of taxation. As per the proposed changes, any tax demand made on transactions that took place before May 2012 shall be dropped, and any taxes already collected shall be repaid, albeit without interest. To be eligible, the concerned taxpayers would have to drop all pending cases against the government and promise not to make any demands for damages or costs. Former Finance Minister, Pranab Mukherjee, had introduced the retrospective taxation power.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/centre-moves-to-redact-retrospective-tax-law/article35757316.ece
06 August 2021||New Delhi,||Not prosecuting free oxygen suppliers, drug controller tells Delhi HC||The Drugs Control Department informed the Delhi High Court on Thursday that it has decided not to prosecute those who were involved in supplying free oxygen cylinders to COVID-19 patients in the Capital during the second wave of the pandemic. A Bench of Justices Vipin Sanghi and Jasmeet Singh said the stand taken by the department was the “right approach”. Taking note of the submission, the court also decided to dispose of a petition seeking the lodging of an FIR on allegations that politicians were able to procure COVID medicines in huge quantities even as patients were running from pillar to post to get them. ‘No wrongful intention’ Senior advocate Rahul Mehra, representing the Delhi government, said they have decided not to launch any prosecution against social organisations, individuals and gurdwaras which procured and distributed medical oxygen to COVID patients free of cost and without any wrongful intention. Mr. Mehra said the pandemic is not yet over and if prosecution is launched in such cases, no good Samaritan would come forward in future to help the needy for fear of being punished. In the previous hearing, the High Court had slammed the drug controller for initiating proceedings against AAP MLA Praveen Kumar for procuring and distributing oxygen cylinders during the second wave. The court had said it would not permit prosecution of good Samaritans for helping society at a time when the state had failed to provide oxygen. It, however, drew a distinction between the AAP MLA’s case and that of BJP MP from East Delhi, Gautam Gambhir, who had stocked and distributed a large quantity of medicines to COVID-19 patients. The court remarked that Mr. Gambhir had “irresponsibly hoarded medicines” when people did not have access to them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/not-prosecuting-free-oxygen-suppliers-drug-controller-tells-delhi-hc/article35756819.ece
06 August 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||City Corporation to open 12 water kiosks today||Minister for Education V. Sivankutty will inaugurate 12 drinking water kiosks built by the city Corporation for the public as part of the Smart City project on Friday evening. The 12 kiosks are part of a Rs. 2.2-crore project. Two kiosks will come up at Women and Children Hospital, Thycaud; two at Government Model Boys Higher Secondary School; three at Putharikandam Maidanam; and one each at the Rajaji Nagar anganwadi; Thampanoor upper primary school; Sree Chithira Thirunal Park, Corporation main office, and Gandhi Park.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/city-corporation-to-open-12-water-kiosks-today/article35757208.ece
06 August 2021||New Delhi,||Centre moves to redact retrospective tax law||The government on Thursday took the first step towards doing away with the contentious retrospective tax law of 2012, which was used to raise large tax demands on foreign investors such as Vodafone and Cairn Energy, and blamed for vitiating India’s investment climate — less than a month after Cairn Energy secured an order from a French court to freeze India’s assets in Paris. Retrospective tax clauses Union Finance and Corporate Affairs Minister Nirmala Sitharaman introduced the Taxation Laws (Amendment) Bill in the Lok Sabha on Thursday to nullify the relevant retrospective tax clauses that were introduced in 2012 to bring past indirect transfer of Indian assets under the ambit of taxation. As per the proposed changes, any tax demand made on transactions that took place before May 2012 shall be dropped, and any taxes already collected shall be repaid, albeit without interest. To be eligible, the concerned taxpayers would have to drop all pending cases against the government and promise not to make any demands for damages or costs. Former Finance Minister, the late Pranab Mukherjee, had introduced the retrospective taxation power after the Supreme Court held that Vodafone could not be taxed for a 2007 transaction involving its purchase of a 67% stake in Hutchison Whampoa for $11 billion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/centre-moves-to-redact-retrospective-tax-law/article35756716.ece
06 August 2021||New Delhi,||Centre seeks to redact retrospective tax law||The government on Thursday took the first step towards doing away with the contentious retrospective tax law of 2012, which was used to raise large tax demands on foreign investors such as Vodafone and Cairn Energy, and blamed for vitiating India’s investment climate — less than a month after Cairn Energy secured an order from a French court to freeze India’s assets in Paris. Union Finance and Corporate Affairs Minister Nirmala Sitharaman introduced the Taxation Laws (Amendment) Bill in the Lok Sabha on Thursday to nullify the relevant retrospective tax clauses that were introduced in 2012 to bring past indirect transfer of Indian assets under the ambit of taxation. As per the proposed changes, any tax demand made on transactions that took place before May 2012 shall be dropped, and any taxes already collected shall be repaid. To be eligible, the concerned taxpayers would have to drop all pending cases against the government and promise not to make any demands for damages or costs. Former Finance Minister, Pranab Mukherjee, had introduced the retrospective taxation power.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/centre-seeks-to-redact-retrospective-tax-law/article35756697.ece
06 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||60% of dropouts at 7 IITs from reserved categories||Nearly 63% of the undergraduate dropouts at the top seven Indian Institutes of Technology (IITs) over the past five years were from the reserved categories, according to Education Ministry data submitted in response to a question in the Rajya Sabha on Thursday. Nearly 40% of the dropouts were from the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes. In some institutions, the SC/ST share was as high as 72%. Disadvantaged groups This indicates that those who drop out of these elite programmes disproportionately belong to the disadvantaged groups, given that only half the undergraduate intake in the IITs are from the reserved categories, while about 23% are from the SC/ST communities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/60-of-dropouts-at-7-iits-from-reserved-categories/article35756701.ece
06 August 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||Govt. launches new portal to record COVID deaths||The State government has readied a new COVID-19 death information portal, which can be accessed by all government institutions and the public, Health Minister Veena George has said. The public can use the portal to search for information on the death of a family member/relative. All deaths certified by the government as COVID deaths can be found on the portal. This data can be accessed by entering the district, name of the deceased and date of death. Also, government institutions can access the portal to check the veracity of death declaration document issued by District Medical Officers, of those officially declared to be COVID deaths. At present, the details of all COVID deaths declared by the government till July 22 are available on the portal. The officially declared deaths after July 22 would be updated as soon as possible. The said portal can be accessed through the link, https://covid19.kerala.gov.in /deathinfo/||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/govt-launches-new-portal-to-record-covid-deaths/article35757207.ece
06 August 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||Radial gate at Pulichintala project washed away||One of the radial gates of KL Rao Sagar Pulichintala Project was washed away in the early hours of Thursday. Following the continuous flood in the Krishna during the past several days, the 16th hydraulic operated radial gate of the project was washed away while officials were trying to lift it at around 3 a.m. Water Resources Minister Anil Kumar Yadav and others rushed to the project. Irrigation officials are making efforts to fix the leak by placing a stop log in place of the radial gate. A flash flood alert has been issued at the Prakasam Bararage in Vijayawada and areas downstream.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/radial-gate-at-pulichintala-project-washed-away/article35756695.ece
06 August 2021||Mumbai,||Extend timings till 11 p.m.: hotel association to CM||The apex body of hotels and restaurants has written to Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray seeking permission to remain open till 11 p.m. AHAR (Indian Hotel and Restaurant Association) said restaurants are now allowed to operate only till 4 p.m. through the week, including weekends. Shivanand Shetty, president, AHAR, pointed out that other States had relaxed guidelines. “We hope the CM pays heed to our request and extends the timings,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/extend-timings-till-11-pm-hotel-association-to-cm/article35757079.ece
06 August 2021||August 06 2021 00:00 IST,||582 COVID cases in TS||Telangana recorded 582 COVID-19 cases on Thursday, taking the total to 6,47,811. Samples put to test were 1,07,329. Three COVID patients died.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/582-covid-cases-in-ts/article35756920.ece
06 August 2021||LUCKNOW,||This year, BJP’s focus on free ration in U.P.||If Narendra Modi-led BJP dedicated August 5 last year — exactly a year after changing the constitutional status of Jammu and Kashmir in 2019 — to launch the construction of the Ram Mandir, this year the day marked the government’s emphasis on free ration to the poor in poll-bound Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/this-year-bjps-focus-on-free-ration-in-up/article35756822.ece
06 August 2021||August 06 2021 00:00 IST,||TS wants Aug. 9 GRMB meet put off||Uncertainty shrouds the possibility of the emergency meeting of the Godavari River Management Board (GRMB) as Telangana, one of the two member States, has expressed its inability to attend the meeting scheduled for August 9 by the board, as communicated to the two States on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ts-wants-aug-9-grmb-meet-put-off/article35756921.ece
06 August 2021||KRISHNAGIRI,||GAIL pipeline will not be allowed: CM||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin said on Thursday that the GAIL underground pipeline, cutting through agricultural lands, will not be allowed. His assurance came against the backdrop of protests by farmers that were revived in some villages of Thally in Krishnagiri and in Dharmapuri, after pipelines were brought in by GAIL officials. Speaking to the media on the sidelines of the launch of ‘Makkalai Thedi Maruthuvam’, Mr. Stalin said, “Explanations have already been given through the department concerned, and I reiterate it. GAIL pipeline shall not be allowed at any cost to the detriment of farmers and their lands.” This was his government’s categorical position on the Kochi-Kootanad-Bengaluru-Mangaluru gas pipeline project. To a question on the details of pattas that were granted under the DMK government in 2000 but were missing from revenue records, leaving the patta-holders with only the copy of the patta without corresponding proof, Mr. Stalin said this was a common complaint across the State. “The previous [AIADMK] government had not acted on it, and this was seen in all districts. Soon, the government will regularise all the pattas,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/gail-pipeline-will-not-be-allowed-cm/article35756758.ece
06 August 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||Lockdown relaxations kick in||Kerala on Thursday appeared to take tentative steps towards a slow recovery from the economic devastation brought about by the COVID-19 pandemic. On Wednesday, the government had eased most restrictions on commuting and the non-essential retail and service sectors. The administration hopes the current set of relaxations would help restore the lost livelihoods to some measure.  The relaxations triggered a swarm of activity with shops, markets, street vendors, hair salons, beauty parlours, dress shops, fancy stores and jewellery shops admitting customers from 7 a.m. Indoor dining remained banned. Police step up vigil Meanwhile, the police have stepped up enforcement of the mask and physical-distancing mandate. Sectoral magistrates said retailers would risk steep fines if they did not assign a minimum of 25 sq feet to a customer or permit crowding. They already closed a grocery supermarket in Thiruvananthapuram for allowing a large number of customers through the back entrance in violation of the pandemic prevention protocol. Law enforcement fanned bus stops, terminals, fish markets, harbours, fish landing centres, loading and unloading bays, and manufacturing units to prevent crowding. However, the bustle on the street appeared to hide the not-so-obvious economic woes. The proviso that only vaccinated persons be allowed into shops drew criticism from the Opposition United Democratic Front. Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president K. Sudhakaran said the stipulation was impractical. The government had not made vaccination certificates mandatory for buyers at liquor stores and bars, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/lockdown-relaxations-kick-in/article35756963.ece
06 August 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||Minister to release SSC results today||Education Minister Adimulapu Suresh will release the SSC (10th Class) results on Friday. The Minister will release the school-wise results along with the “Memorandum of Subject-Wise Performance” of students for SSC Public Examinations, March-2021 at 5 p.m. The students can check their results from the official websitewww.bse.ap.gov.inafter the official release of the results. Headmasters of schools can download the “Memorandum of Subject Wise Performance” using their school login credentials and handover the attested copies of the same to the students.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/minister-to-release-ssc-results-today/article35756696.ece
06 August 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,||Special pujas to mark opening of TTD temple||The city will soon have a new spiritual and tourist attraction with the temple of Lord Venkateswara being built by the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) on 10 acres nearing completion. Special pujas, including ‘maha samprokshanam’, will be performed at the temple complex from August 8 to 13 by the priests from Tirumala. The newly built temple will be opened for darshan from August 13. The temple, being constructed at an estimated cost of Rs. 28 crore, is located atop a hill near the Gayatri Vidya Parishad (GVP) College at Rushikonda. A road being laid from the foothill to the hilltop is almost complete. The view from atop the hill offers a breathtaking view of the Bay of Bengal. It is said that all the rituals at the Rushikonda temple will be on the lines of those performed at Tirumala. Though Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy is scheduled to participate in the function on August 13, there is no confirmation of it so far. “The Lord Venkateswara temple will be a boon to the poor devotees who are unable to go all the way to Tirumala in view of the high cost of transportation. The temple will spur the growth of the city for sure,” Tourism Minister M. Srinivasa Rao told The Hindu on Thursday. “The Chief Minister’s visit is not yet confirmed, but we are sure that he will visit the city very soon,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ttd-temple-in-vizag-ready/article35756772.ece
06 August 2021||Bengaluru,||BBMP notices on tax zones trigger outcry||Several citizens across the city have received notice from the BBMP stating that the tax zone reclassification was done in 2016-17 and that they now have to pay penalty and interest for not updating the records before paying property tax.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bbmp-notices-on-tax-zones-trigger-outcry/article35756713.ece
06 August 2021||New Delhi,||Delhi terminates study on sources of pollution||The Delhi government has terminated a study to find the sources of air pollutants on a real-time basis despite paying over Rs. 88 lakh for it, according to a government letter . The study was allotted on a “nomination basis” without an open tender to the University of Washington.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/delhi-terminates-study-on-sources-of-pollution/article35756823.ece
06 August 2021||Canning (West Bengal),||Heroin worth Rs. 1 crore seized, 1 arrested in Bengal||A 29-year-old woman was arrested and heroin worth Rs. 1 crore seized from her possession in South 24 Parganas district on Thursday, police said. The police nabbed the woman from Jibantala police station area.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/heroin-worth-rs-1-crore-seized-1-arrested-in-bengal/article35757019.ece
06 August 2021||Mumbai,||NIA court rejects default bail filed by Sachin Vaze||The Special National Investigation Agency court on Thursday rejected the default bail filed by Sachin Vaze, assistant police inspector dismissed in the Antilia case and the murder of Mansukh Hiren.Page 10||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/nia-court-rejects-default-bail-filed-by-sachin-vaze/article35757081.ece
06 August 2021||LUCKNOW,||Akhilesh sees 400 seats in SP’s kitty in 2022 polls||Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav on Thursday said given the resentment among people towards the Yogi Adityanath government in U.P., his party could even win 400 out of 403 seats in 2022 Assembly polls.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/akhilesh-sees-400-seats-in-sps-kitty-in-2022-polls/article35756821.ece
06 August 2021||Kolkata,||BJP-ruled States getting more jabs, says Mamata||Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday accused the Centre of discriminating against her State. “Gujarat is smaller in size but got double the [COVID-19] vaccines. I have a problem when we are not getting vaccines. People are suffering,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bjp-ruled-states-getting-more-jabs-says-mamata/article35757106.ece
06 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||Jaishankar’s Tehran trip holds key amid Afghan developments||The visit of External Affairs Minister (EAM) S. Jaishankar to Tehran to attend the swearing-in ceremony of Iranian President Ebrahim Raisi on Thursday marks a milestone in recent attempts by both sides to reset the ties that have been under strain for several reasons, including India cancelling oil imports due to U.S. sanctions, progress in Chabahar and Iranian comments on Kashmir over the past few years. They also signal that India will continue to balance its ties with Iran on one side, and Iran and the U.S., and West Asian adversaries, including Saudi Arabia and Israel, on the other. “During his visit, EAM will call on the President, and on the sidelines, will also meet other leaders,” the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) said in a statement ahead of the visit, Mr. Jaishankar’s second one to Tehran within the space of a month. In early July, then newly-elected Mr. Raisi made a break from protocol to meet Mr. Jaishankar and invited the government to attend. India has attended the swearing-in ceremonies of Iranian leaders before. Former Vice-President Hamid Ansari and then former Petroleum Minister Nitin Gadkari led the Indian participation both times former Iranian President Hassan Rouhani was sworn in (2013 and 2017), but the timing of Mr. Jaishankar’s visit is of particular note. To begin with, his visits come amidst rapid developments in Afghanistan, with the U.S. completing the pull-out of troops and the Taliban increasing its attacks on Afghan cities. “The rapid advance of Taliban concerns both India and Iran. Iranian Foreign Minister Mohammad Javad Zarif has called an [Islamic Emirate in Afghanistan] as a ‘security threat for Iran and India and an existential threat for Pakistan’. Given this context, and common interests, it is necessary for India and Iran to cooperate more closely, particularly on Afghanistan, and work to support the democratically-elected Ashraf Ghani-led government,” former Indian Ambassador to Iran (2011-2015) D.P. Srivastava told The Hindu , referring to remarks made by Mr. Zarif during the Raisina Dialogue in April last. With the U.S.-Russia-China-Pakistan grouping on Afghanistan deciding to meet again in Doha next Wednesday, India and Iran also share a common bond as the two regional powers were left out of the “Troika plus”. Secondly, the fact that Mr. Jaishankar is himself participating in the ceremony, without delegating it to another Minister, puts a spotlight on India’s desire to build ties with Mr. Raisi in particular, who as the Chief Judge of Iran prior to this was placed on the U.S.’s list of individuals sanctioned in November 2019. Despite campaign promises to reverse the Donald Trump policy on Iran, U.S. President Joe Biden’s administration has yet to withdraw most of the additional sanctions placed in 2017-2018. Walk a tightrope That Mr. Jaishankar’s travels to Tehran book-ended a visit to Delhi by U.S. Secretary of State Anthony Blinken indicates that India will continue to walk its tightrope between its traditional ties with Iran and the growing strategic partnership with Washington. “The presence of Mr. Jaishankar at the swearing-in is itself a pointer to the view held by India at the highest level. We have common interests in the region, which cannot be a subset of other relations, even though those relations are important too,” said Mr. Srivastava, when asked if India’s ties with the U.S. and Israel would in any way be affected by the visit. Finally, the flurry of meetings to Tehran and Mr. Zarif’s engagement with Delhi indicate a desire to move on from some of the tensions in ties during the Rouhani era.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/jaishankars-visit-to-iran-holds-key-amid-afghan-developments/article35756449.ece
06 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||No study yet on suicides tied to pandemic, govt. informs LS||The Central government has taken several initiatives to provide psychosocial support to people, given that COVID-19 may have an impact on their mental health, according to a Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) written reply in the Lok Sabha. The Ministry said no study to assess the impact of the pandemic on suicides had been conducted, but the government had taken a series of measures. 24/7 helpline They include the setting up of a 24/7 helpline to provide psychosocial support to different target groups: children, adults, the elderly, women and healthcare workers; and advisories on management of mental health issues, catering to different segments of society and creating awareness. The National Institute of Mental Health and Neurosciences (NIMHANS), Bengaluru, has also issued detailed guidelines. The government has also facilitated capacity building of health workers by NIMHANS in providing psychosocial support.  At the primary healthcare level also, the government is taking steps to strengthen mental healthcare services. The services have been added in the package under Ayushman Bharat. The reply was in response to the questions from various members . The National Crime Records Bureau reported an increase in suicide cases during 2019 (1,39,123) compared to 2018 (1,34,516).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/no-study-yet-on-suicides-tied-to-pandemic-govt-informs-ls/article35756467.ece
06 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||Opposition may join farmers’ stir today||With proceedings in both Houses of Parliament remaining stalled for the third week of the monsoon session over the Pegasus snooping controversy and the farm laws, Opposition members are likely to hold a symbolic protest at Jantar Mantar on Friday to express solidarity with the protesting farmers. Since the start of the Parliament session, a section of farmer leaders have been protesting at Jantar Mantar to demand the repeal of the three controversial farm laws. The modalities are likely to be worked out at the routine floor coordination meeting of Opposition leaders on Friday morning but former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi is expected join the protests. “All of us, including Rahul- ji , will go to Jantar Mantar and reiterate our stand that the farm laws are ‘black laws’ and need to be withdrawn,” a senior Congress leader from the Lok Sabha said, adding that the Pegasus snooping controversy continues to be the “number one issue”. On Thursday too, the Lok Sabha witnessed multiple adjournments over the Pegasus snooping and the farm laws, even as the government introduced two key Bills: the Central Universities (Amendment) Bill, 2021 and the Taxation Laws (Amendment) Bill, 2021. Leader of the Congress in the Lok Sabha Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury said Bills were being passed in the House without a debate with an average time of seven minutes spent on a Bill, and objected to supplementary list of business being circulated at the last minute. The day’s proceedings started at 11 a.m. with Speaker Om Birla congratulating the Indian hockey team for its Olympic bronze medal after 41 years, as well as the women players who won medals in individual events. However, protests and sloganeering started the moment the Question Hour was taken up by the Speaker, with many members trooping into the Well of the House. “This is not appropriate for Parliament traditions,” Mr. Birla said as the protests continued. He pointed out that crores of rupees were being spent to run Parliament and people were asking why the House was not functioning. As the protests did not stop, he adjourned the House until noon; three more adjournments took place after this. Mr. Chowdhury tried to raise the issue of the alleged rape and murder of a nine-year-old Dalit girl but was quickly rebutted by Minister of State for Parliamentary Affairs Arjun Meghwal, who wondered why Congress leader Rahul Gandhi never raised his voice against such incidents in Congress-ruled Rajasthan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/opposition-to-move-to-jantar-mantar/article35756434.ece
06 August 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Sidhu moves to consolidate position||After assuming charge as Punjab Congress president, Navjot Singh Sidhu has been travelling across the State to meet party workers and leaders to galvanise support and consolidate his position within the party. Mr. Sidhu, a detractor of Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh, was appointed party president last month. Since then, he has been on the move to try and convey to the party cadre that implementing the central leadership’s 18-point agenda for Punjab is his key objective ahead of the Assembly poll in the State in early 2022. By presenting the high command’s agenda at almost every meeting and interaction, party insiders feel that the underlying message he wants to pass on among the cadre is about the strong backing of the central leadership behind him. He has already handed over a letter to the Chief Minister regarding the five priority areas of the 18-point agenda, which includes punishing the main culprits behind the sacrilege of the Guru Granth Sahib and the police firing incidents at Kotkapura and Behbal Kalan in 2015; the immediate arrest of “big fishes” behind drug trafficking in Punjab; cancelling “faulty” power purchase agreements; and steps towards ensuring that the Centre’s three farm laws will not be implemented in Punjab at any cost. During his interactions with party leaders and workers, Mr. Sidhu has been forcefully discussing the 18-point agenda and the five priority points. Addressing gatherings in Moga and Faridkot on Thursday, Mr. Sidhu said he promised to give the people of State the “Punjab” of their dreams by implementing the high command’s agenda. The Opposition, however, has been quick to hit out at Mr. Sidhu. The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) and the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) have accused him of attempting to shelter the sand and liquor mafia. Former Education Minister Daljit Singh Cheema recently asked Mr. Sidhu to tell why he had whittled down the 18-point charter to five points. ‘Change of heart’ “It was intriguing that Navjot Sidhu experienced a change of heart after Congress Ministers aligned with the sand and liquor mafia switched over to his camp and he had given up his supposed fight against these mafias,” Mr Cheema alleged. AAP MLA and Leader of the Opposition Harpal Singh Cheema alleged the heart of the Congress State president was now beating for the Congress leaders involved in illicit liquor trade and smuggling.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sidhu-moves-to-consolidate-position/article35756441.ece
06 August 2021||August 06 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Pregnancy, childbirth do not increase risk of acquiring SARS-CoV-2 infection’||Dr. Narendra Kumar Arora , a paediatric gastroenterologist and a senior member of the National COVID-19 Task Force, explains why and how the regulators approved vaccines for pregnant women. Excerpts:  Why is COVID-19 vaccine important for pregnant women? Though pregnancy and childbirth do not increase the risk of acquiring SARS-CoV-2 infection, they worsen the clinical course of COVID-19 compared with other women in the same age group. During the second wave, the country witnessed a surge in COVID-19 cases, and with that a sudden surge in the absolute number of cases in pregnant women. It was found that 22% of pregnant women who tested positive for COVID-19 had premature deliveries, and 48% had to undergo a caesarean delivery. The rate of admission to the ICU among pregnant women with COVID-19 was also higher than those of non-pregnant women. COVID-19 during pregnancy can lead to pre-eclampsia or eclampsia, which is an increase in the blood pressure of mother, and the risk of cardiopulmonary arrest increases, especially if the infection occurs during the third trimester. Since the vaccine significantly reduces the severity and mortality due to COVID-19, the government took the decision to provide vaccination to pregnant women. What kind of safety studies were conducted before prescribing COVID-19 vaccines for pregnant women? The common perception has been to avoid any drug or new interventions during pregnancy because two lives are affected — the mother-to-be and the embryo growing in her womb. Developmental and Reproductive Toxicology (DART) studies have been conducted for the m-RNA-based COVID-19 vaccines. These reproductive tract toxicity studies are done on pregnant animals, for example mice. In several countries, there are cases of young frontline workers, who were unknowingly pregnant at the time of vaccination, also indicated that the vaccine is safe for both the mother and the foetus. On the basis of the above two findings, the World Health Organization recommended the use of vaccines for pregnant women. Killed virus vaccines such as Covaxin have been used before the current pandemic in pregnancy without side-effects. In view of these scientific rationales, the continuing intense virus transmission in our country and the increased mortality observed among hospitalised pregnant women during the second wave, the experts strongly felt that the benefits of administering the vaccine outweigh the remote risk associated with Covishield, Sputnik-V, and other similar COVID-19 vaccines. The government guidelines specifically instruct the vaccinators that every pregnant women should be informed in a simple and comprehensible manner about the benefits as well as the minor risks of taking COVID-19 vaccines. Is there any specific phase of pregnancy when a woman should take this vaccine? It can be taken anytime during pregnancy, including in the first trimester. If a pregnant woman acquires COVID-19 during pregnancy, when should the vaccine be given? If the pregnant woman gets COVID-19 infection, no vaccine doses are required till she gives birth, even if she had already taken the first dose. She can take the second dose post-childbirth. Pregnant women receive Tetanus-Diptheria vaccine. Can the COVID-19 vaccine be given together with this? Yes, the two vaccines can be given together on the same day. Which of the three vaccines available in India — Covaxin or Covishield or Sputnik V — would you recommend for pregnant women? I emphasise that all the vaccines in the national programme are equally effective and safe as per the currently available national data. Is there a plan to study the long-term impact of vaccination on women and children? Active maternal immunisation safety surveillance network for COVID-19 vaccines is being established to identify any known or unknown side-effects of the vaccines. The aim is to assemble a big group of pregnant women who have received at least the first dose of any COVID-19 vaccine during pregnancy and they are then followed up till parturition/culmination of pregnancy. This will also document fetal outcome and follow up the neonate for 28 days after the delivery. The network is planned to cover the whole country. It will comprise tertiary care hospitals across India, and equipped with NICU facility. What about adverse events following immunisation? There are strict guidelines on how to prioritise reporting of adverse events following immunisation (AEFIs) in vaccinated pregnant women. All pregnant women receiving any of the COVID-19 vaccines are also advised to report back to the vaccination centre any time till four weeks after receiving any dose if they are hospitalised, experience unusually severe headache or abdominal pain with or without vomiting, or breathing difficulty. This helps in identifying even the rare side-effect of vaccines quickly, which can be managed in hospital. All such cases must be referred to the nearest AEFI management centre or secondary or tertiary healthcare facility.  The vaccine can be taken anytime during pregnancy, including in the first trimester||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pregnancy-childbirth-do-not-increase-risk-of-acquiring-sars-cov-2-infection/article35756465.ece
06 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||Amid din, Rajya Sabha passes 3 Bills||Parliament on Thursday passed the Essential Defence Services Bill, 2021, that prohibits strikes by workers in manufacturing and maintenance of defence equipment, as well as the Commission for Air Quality Management in National Capital Region and Adjoining Areas Bill, 2021, which sets up a statutory body for handling air pollution in the NCR. The two Bills, which were passed by the Lok Sabha earlier this week, were cleared by the Rajya Sabha on Thursday amid din. The Upper House also passed the Constitution (Scheduled Tribes) Order (Amendment) Bill, 2021, which amends the list of STs in Arunachal Pradesh. The three Bills were passed after brief discussions, while the Opposition continued to protest against the government over the alleged use of Pegasus spyware on Indians and in support of its demand for repeal of the three farm laws passed last year. The Constitution (Scheduled Tribes) Order (Amendment) Bill, 2021, which seeks to amend the constitutional list of Scheduled Tribes as recommended by Arunachal Pradesh was passed in 12 minutes. It was passed by voice vote amidst shrill protests from Opposition members on the Pegasus spyware. “This Bill will bring justice to tribals,” Tribal Affairs Minister Arjun Munda said. Stubble burning On the commission for air quality management Bill, several MPs raised concerns over a clause that they said would penalise farmers for burning stubble. In his response, Environment Minister Bhupender Yadav said penalty would not be imposed on farmers and that stubble burning had been decriminalised. During the discussion on the Essential Defence Services Bill, 2021, Leader of the Opposition Mallikarjun Kharge said new precedents were being set. He said the Bill was included in the additional agenda and was not earlier supposed to be brought in this session. There was an attempt to get the Bill passed through any means, taking “advantage” of the ruckus in the House. He said the Bill sought to de-nationalise defence manufacturing and maintenance and should be sent to a select committee. Elamaram Kareem of the CPI(M) moved a statutory resolution against the Bill and termed it “draconian”. For his part, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said the Bill did not impede the right to “peaceful protest”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/amid-din-rajya-sabha-passes-3-bills/article35756427.ece
06 August 2021||GUWAHATI,||Assam and Mizoram agree on border patrol by neutral forces||The Assam government on Thursday revoked its advisory against travel to Mizoram after the two States agreed to let neutral forces deployed by the Centre take control of the disputed stretches of the border for maintaining peace. Trouble since October 2020 snowballed into a conflict on July 26, with six Assam policemen and a civilian gunned down allegedly by the Mizoram police and armed civilians. The two States have also decided not to send their respective police and forest forces “for patrolling, domination, enforcement or for fresh deployment to any of the areas where confrontation and conflict has taken place between the police forces of the two States during recent times”. The decision was taken at a meeting between Ministers and officials of the two States in Aizawl. While Assam was represented by Border Protection and Development Minister Atul Bora, Urban Development Minister Ashok Singhal and Border Protection and Development Commissioner-Secretary G.D. Tripathi, Mizoram was represented by Home Minister Lalchamliana, Rural Development Minister Lalruatkima, and Home Secretary Vanlalngaihsaka. “The decision will apply to all disputed stretches of the Assam-Mizoram border in Hailakandi and Karimganj districts besides Cachar district [where the July 26 incident happened],” Mr. Bora said after the meeting. The representatives of the Mizoram government conveyed their condolences to the survivors of those killed on July 26. The outcome of the meeting, however, had little impact on the economic blockade imposed on the roads leading to Mizoram by locals in southern Assam’s Barak Valley. “We have been in touch with local groups continuously for removing the blockades,” Cachar’s SP Ramandeep Kaur said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/assam-and-mizoram-agree-on-border-patrol-by-neutral-forces/article35756439.ece
06 August 2021||Kolkata,||BJP-ruled States getting more jabs: Mamata||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday met Nobel laureate Abhijit Vinayak Banerjee and discussed India’s management of COVID-19 with him. Mr. Banerjee, who is a member of West Bengal’s COVID-19 management committee, said his sense is that the biggest problem is the Centre is not capable of generating the supply of vaccines needed for the country. “We have not reached the promised level of supply,” the economist said. He also said West Bengal had effectively used the vaccines supplied by the Centre. Ms. Banerjee raised the issue of shortage of vaccines and accused the Centre of discriminating against West Bengal. “Gujarat is smaller in size but got double the vaccines. I don’t have a problem [with this]. But I have a problem when we are not getting vaccines. People are suffering,” she said. She has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi with the appeal that West Bengal should receive adequate doses of vaccines, according to its requirement. The letter said: “I am sorry to say the Central government is providing large numbers of vaccine doses to States like Uttar Pradesh, Gujarat and Karnataka, which are BJP-ruled. I have no problem if they or any other State for that matter receives higher number of vaccine doses, but I cannot remain a mute spectator to see Bengal deprived.” The Chief Minister, in the communication, said that West Bengal needs 14 crore doses of COVID-19 vaccines. “However, we have received 2.68 crore doses till day from Government of India,” she said. Ms. Banerjee also announced that the State government may open schools after Durga Puja, depending on the COVID-19 situation prevailing at that time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bjp-ruled-states-getting-more-jabs-mamata/article35756455.ece
06 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||88% IIT Guwahati dropouts from reserved quotas||At least six out of 10 undergraduate dropouts at the top seven Indian Institutes of Technology (IITs) over the past five years were from the reserved categories, according to Education Ministry data submitted in response to a question in the Rajya Sabha on Thursday Dalit and Adivasi activists have long argued that students from these communities face a higher level of pressure and discrimination at these institutions. However, Education Minister Dharmendra Pradhan told the Rajya Sabha that the dropouts were “mainly on account of securing seat in other departments or institutions of students choice or on any other personal ground”. He was responding to a question from Kerala MP V. Sivadasan regarding undergraduate dropouts at all Centrally-funded technical institutions, the variance seen across social categories and the measures taken to address it. The Minister listed “fee reductions, institute scholarships, priority access to national-level scholarships to aid students with poor financial backgrounds to pursue their education” among the steps taken to prevent dropouts. An analysis of the seven IITs that stand in the top 10 of the National Institute Ranking framework shows that the disproportionality of dropouts is starker at some institutions. IIT Guwahati holds the worst record, with 88% of its 25 dropouts hailing from the reserved categories. Almost three-fourths of all dropouts are from the SC/ST communities, although they make up less than a quarter of the students. Of the 10 students who dropped out of IIT Delhi in 2018, all were from the reserved categories, a trend that holds true for every year except 2019. More than half of all the dropouts in IIT Delhi are from the SC/ST communities and 76% of its dropouts are from the reserved categories. Top ranked IIT Madras has only had 10 dropouts over the past five years, but six of them have been SC/ST students, while another was from an Other Backward Class community.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/88-iit-guwahati-dropouts-from-reserved-quotas/article35756687.ece
06 August 2021||LUCKNOW,||BJP to focus on free ration for poor in U.P.||If Narendra Modi-led BJP dedicated August 5 last year — exactly a year after changing the constitutional status of Jammu and Kashmir in 2019 — to launch the construction of the Ram Mandir, this year the day marked the government’s emphasis on free ration to the poor in poll-bound Uttar Pradesh. Mr. Modi on Thursday accused past governments in Uttar Pradesh of restricting the State to a “political centre” for reasons of dynasty and political selfishness and never linking it to the country’s financial progress. The Prime Minister also blamed the Opposition parties for “stalling” the proceedings of Parliament and “insulting” it for their “political selfishness” and said their actions indicated they were trying to score “self-goals.” He juxtaposed the stalling of Parliament with the achievements and ‘goals’ scored by the Indian sportspersons in the ongoing Olympics in Tokyo. “What the country wants, what it is achieving and how it is changing, they have no interest in this. For their selfishness, these people are hurting both the country’s time and feelings,” Mr. Modi said. Important date Addressing beneficiaries of the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana virtually, Mr. Modi said the date August 5 would be recorded in history for years to come. He referred to the removal of Article 370 (2019) and the “first steps” towards the construction of Ram Mandir (2020). To emphasise Ayodhya, Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath attended the event for free ration from the town, where he elaborated on Mr. Modi’s plans and schemes worth over Rs. 3,000 crore for building a “New Ayodhya.” Ram Mandir was being built at a fast pace, added Mr. Modi, who also praised Mr. Adityanath as a “karma yogi.” Mr. Modi said each foodgrain sent from Delhi was now reaching the beneficiaries and that the implementation of this scheme strengthened the “identity of new Uttar Pradesh.” In previous governments, the foodgrains meant for the poor would be looted, he alleged. The government said the scheme was benefiting almost 15 crore people through 80,000 fair price shops in the State, which has a roughly 23 crore population. With few months left before Uttar Pradesh goes to the polls, Mr. Modi lamented that the State was always seen through a political lens, as the route to power in Delhi through Lucknow. “Many people dreaming of this came and went but they never saw that the road to India’s prosperity also passed through Uttar Pradesh.” Without taking names, Mr. Modi said, “Some people became prosperous, some families moved up. They made themselves prosperous instead of Uttar Pradesh. I am happy Uttar Pradesh is now moving forward after coming out of their vicious circle.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/this-year-bjp-to-focus-on-free-ration-for-poor-in-up/article35756425.ece
06 August 2021||LUCKNOW,||Akhilesh confident of 400 seats in SP’s kitty||Samajwadi Party (SP) president Akhilesh Yadav on Thursday said given the resentment among people towards the Yogi Adityanath government, his party could even win 400 out of the 403 seats in 2022 polls. “Till now we spoke of 350 seats. The situation is such that the BJP will fall short of candidates. Candidates won’t ask for ticket,” Mr. Yadav said, before embarking on his first major show of strength before the polls. The former Chief Minister led a cycle rally from the SP headquarters to Janeshwar Mishra Park here on the 89th birth anniversary of the socialist leader. The move is said to be a part of the SP’s outreach towards the Brahmin community. Similar cycle yatras were held in other districts of the State. Mr. Yadav, speaking to reporters, criticised the BJP government for the “mismanagement” of the second wave of COVID-19. He said people could even reward his party with 400 seats. The SP won 47 seats in 2017, while the BJP and its allies hit the 325 mark in a sweeping victory. Mr. Yadav also took a dig at the BJP for inducting former BSP MLA Jitendra Singh ‘Babloo’, who was accused in an arson case in which the house of Rita Bahuguna Joshi, present BJP MP and former Congress leader, was set on fire in 2009.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/akhilesh-confident-of-400-seats-in-sps-kitty/article35756430.ece
06 August 2021||New Delhi,||Modi suppressing reality, says Rahul||Just as Opposition members holding placards in the Lok Sabha are not shown by the Lok Sabha TV to hide the reality, Prime Minister Narendra Modi too is suppressing the reality, former Congress president Rahul Gandhi has said. He made these remarks on Thursday at ‘Sansad Gherao’, a programme of the Indian Youth Congress to protest against “growing unemployment, price rise, farm laws and the Pegasus snooping controversy”. Leader of the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge and Congress general secretary (organisation) K.C. Venugopal were among those who attended it. Mr. Gandhi accused the government of not allowing the media to talk about issues like “jobs or the ones raised by farmers”. He cited the recent rape and murder of a nine-year-old in Delhi, and claimed it was “blacked” out. “Their aim is to suppress the voices of the youth in colleges and universities. Their aim is to suppress the voice of India because they know that the day the youth start speaking the reality, the Modi government won’t last.” The Pegasus spyware was linked to the government’s move to suppress people’s voices. “Someone asked me why the Congress is unrelenting over a small issue like Pegasus. It’s a not small issue as Narendra Modi has put Pegasus not just in my phone but in all of yours.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/modi-suppressing-reality-says-rahul/article35756432.ece
06 August 2021||Kolkata,||‘Dravidian languages possibly spoken in Indus Valley’||A recent publication has provided crucial evidence that Ancestral Dravidian languages were possibly spoken by a significant population in the Indus Valley civilisation. The paper titled “ Ancestral Dravidian Languages in Indus Civilization: Ultraconserved Dravidian Tooth-word Reveals Deep Linguistic Ancestry and Supports Genetics”, by Bahata Ansumali Mukhopadhyay was published earlier this month in a Nature Group of journal -Humanities and Social Sciences Communications volume 8, Article number: 193 (2021)https://www.nature.com/articles/s41599- 021-00868-w). This study seeks to resolve a crucial part of this perennial puzzle of South Asian prehistory, through establishing the certain existence of ancestral Dravidian language(s) in the Indus Valley civilisation. In the absence of any deciphered written documents of Indus Valley civilisation, there are no direct ways of identifying Harappan languages. Thus, the only feasible starting point is to find certain proto-words whose likely origin in Indus Valley civilisation gets confirmed through historical and linguistic evidence, whereas archaeological evidence indicates that the objects signified by those proto-words were prevalently produced and used in the Indian Valley civilisation. Elephant-word Analysing numerous archaeological, linguistic, archaeogenetic and historical evidences the study finds some such proto-words. It claims that the words used for elephant (like, ‘pīri’, ‘pīru’) in Bronze Age Mesopotamia, the elephant-word used in the Hurrian part of an Amarna letter of ca. 1400 BC, and the ivory-word (‘pîruš’) recorded in certain sixth century BC old Persian documents, were all originally borrowed from ‘pīlu’, a Proto-Dravidian elephant-word, which was prevalent in the Indus Valley civilisation, and was etymologically related to the Proto Dravidian tooth-word ‘*pal’ and its alternate forms ( ‘*pel’/‘*pīl’/‘*pi’/). Analysing Dravidian grammar and phonology, Ms. Bahata, a software technologist in Bengaluru, says the elephant words ‘pīlu’, ‘palla’, ‘pallava’, ‘pilluvam’, etc., which are attested in Dravidian dictionaries, are related to the Proto-Dravidian tooth-word “pal”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/dravidian-languages-possibly-spoken-in-indus-valley/article35757022.ece
06 August 2021||Mumbai,||Special NIA court rejects default bail filed by Vaze||The Special National Investigation Agency (NIA) court on Thursday rejected the default bail filed by Sachin Vaze, assistant police inspector dismissed in the Antilia case and the murder of Mansukh Hiren. The court also allowed the Central agency an extension of 30 days to file the chargesheet against Mr. Vaze along with Santosh Shelar, Vinayak Shinde and Pradeep Sharma. Mr. Vaze, currently in Taloja Central Jail, had filed for bail citing NIA’s failure to file the chargesheet within the mandated 90 days under the Code of Criminal Procedure. On Tuesday, the NIA told the court that Rs. 45 lakh was paid by an accused for killing Hiren as he was the weakest link in the case. The court was also informed that witnesses were not coming forward to testify. An SUV car was found with 20 gelatin sticks on February 25 near industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s residence and the police said the car was stolen from Airoli-Mulund Bridge on February 18. The body of car owner Hiren, an auto parts dealer, was found on March 5 in Kalwa creek. The case was transferred from the Maharashtra police to the NIA on March 8. Mr. Vaze was arrested on March 13 for his “role in placing the explosives-laden vehicle”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/special-nia-court-rejects-default-bail-filed-by-vaze/article35757084.ece
06 August 2021||August 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Centre seeks to redact retrospective tax law||Later, the tax was invoked against Cairn Energy for a corporate reorganisation done in 2006-07 and its assets were frozen by the authorities. The National Democratic Alliance (NDA), which was in the Opposition at the time, had termed this “tax terrorism” and late former Finance Minister Arun Jaitley had promised to stop the retrospective tax levy. However, there has been no move to scrap the law in the NDA’s seven years in office so far — the latest rethink could have been prompted by last month’s Paris court order allowing Cairn to freeze at least 20 Indian properties worth $23 million. The Bill’s ‘Statement of Objects and Reasons’ reads: “It is argued that such retrospective amendments militate against the principle of tax certainty and damage India's reputation as an attractive destination.” It also says, “In the past few years, major reforms have been initiated in the financial and infrastructure sector which has created a positive environment for investment in the country. However, this retrospective clarificatory amendment and consequent demand created in a few cases continues to be a sore point with potential investors.” Experts welcomed the move as it will end the spectre of policy uncertainty for potential investors who have seen the Vodafone and Cairn cases unfold over the past decade. “This could help restore India’s reputation as a fair and predictable regime apart from helping put an end to unnecessary, prolonged and expensive litigation,” said Pranav Sayta, tax partner at EY. “The ghost of the retrospective amendment on indirect transfers is now proposed to be buried with the government giving up claims on taxes due under such covered indirect transfers of Indian assets and is seeking to respect the original decision of the Supreme Court,” noted Aravind Srivatsan, tax leader at Nangia Andersen. Separate international arbitration tribunal verdicts in the Vodafone and Cairn cases have ruled against India’s retrospective tax demands over the past year. While the government had earlier said it will honour the legal process, it has filed appeals against both verdicts. Cairn Energy, which was awarded $1.2 billion by an international tribunal, has filed cases in at least ten global jurisdictions, including the U.S., the U.K., Canada and Japan, to seize India’s assets in lieu of the award as the government did not abide by the tribunal’s decision.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/centre-seeks-to-redact-retrospective-tax-law/article35756436.ece
06 August 2021||August 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Truth has to come out in snooping issue: SC||The CJI said that some of the petitioners have expanded the scope of their pleas beyond Pegasus to other issues, including a challenge on authorised interceptions under the Telegraph Act. “There are a number of problems… We have to see which petitions we have to issue notice on. Some have even challenged the Telegraph Act… These are unnecessary complications,” Chief Justice Ramana and Justice Kant told the lawyers. The hearing began with a barrage of questions from the Bench. For one, the Chief Justice noted that a “majority” of the petitions were based on reports in foreign newspapers. The court asked whether there was any other “verifiable material” based on which it could order an inquiry into the Pegasus allegations. “We are not saying the petitions are based on hearsay and we cannot say there is no material, but with your access to international materials and resources, should you not have made more efforts?” Chief Justice Ramana asked the petitioners’ side. Secondly, he said questions regarding surveillance had popped up over two years ago. “Why have you come now suddenly? What were you doing for two years?” Thirdly, the court asked why the “targets” have not taken criminal action. “If you knew your phone was hacked, why did you not file a criminal complaint?” he queried. NSO Group’s plea in U.S. Responding to the first question about the need for “verifiable material other than foreign newspaper reports” to order an inquiry, senior advocate Kapil Sibal, appearing for Mr. Ram and senior journalist Sashi Kumar, said a California court had recorded that the Pegasus spyware was “only sold to government agencies”. The U.S. court had rejected a plea by NSO Group, the creators of the Pegasus spyware, for “sovereign immunity”. Mr. Ram’s petition clearly mentioned that the U.S. court was dealing with a suit filed by WhatsApp against the NSO Group “for targeting the mobile phones of around 1400 users with malware”. But Mr. Sibal said there was anyway no dispute about Pegasus targeting Indian phone users. A statement was made by the Minister in the Lok Sabha in July, taking note of Pegasus surveillance of Indian users. On the second question about why the petitioners have moved court in 2021 and not in 2019 when reports of unauthorised surveillance first came out, senior advocate Meenakshi Arora, for Mr. Brittas, stated that the issue was indeed raised in November 2019. “The Minister had then answered there was no unauthorised interception,” Ms. Arora submitted. Senior advocate C.U. Singh, for the Editors Guild, said the names of targets came to be known only in July 2021. On the third question regarding why ‘targets’ did not go to court individually, senior advocate Shyam Divan said this was not an individual case of surveillance. “The dimension of this surveillance is huge. This is an issue which requires the formation of an independent fact-finding body at the highest level,” he submitted. Senior advocate Arvind Datar, for the five journalists, agreed that the enormity of the allegations and the number of persons targeted deserved the court to take up this case as a “class action suit”. “Pegasus is a rogue technology. It is entirely illegal. It infiltrates our lives without our knowledge through our phones… It hears, it watches, it surveys our every movement. It destroys the constitutional values of our Republic like privacy and individual dignity. Moreover, it destroys our national Internet backbone and is a threat to our national security… Please issue notice to the government. Let the government come on board and say why and how Pegasus infiltrated in India… Let the government say why, if they knew of the surveillance, they did not register a case… Why did the Government of India keep quiet?” Mr. Sibal said. He said he was informed that accessing a mobile phone using Pegasus costs $55,000. “The NSO Group says its technology is used for fighting terror and crime… So all these journalists are terrorists now?” he inquired.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/truth-has-to-come-out-in-snooping-issue-sc/article35756437.ece
06 August 2021||Srinagar,||Shutdown marks day when J&K lost status||People in Jammu and Kashmir observed a shutdown on Thursday, a day which marked the second anniversary of the revocation of J&K’s special constitutional status. Most markets remained closed and many regional parties expressed their anguish. However, the BJP held celebrations in Jammu and Srinagar. While the authorities decided not to block the Internet facility, extra deployments were made across the Valley. The shutdown resulted in skeletal traffic on the roads. Residents, fearing clashes, preferred to stay indoors in most parts of the old city. However, no violence was reported from any part of the Valley. Wearing a black band, Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) president Mehbooba Mufti led a street protest outside the party headquarters in Srinagar. “Today is a day of mourning for J&K. When unbridled oppression is unleashed and gross injustice heaped, there is no other choice but to resist to exist,” Ms. Mufti said. National Conference president Dr. Farooq Abdullah, who addressed party leaders in Srinagar, said the unilateral, unconstitutional and undemocratic decisions were unacceptable to the party. Hurriyat chairman Mirwaiz Umar Farooq, who remains under house arrest since August 5, 2019, said the government’s August 5 move had “only complicated the Kashmir dispute”. Meanwhile, the BJP held celebrations in Srinagar and Jammu on the occasion. “The BJP has created such an atmosphere that even stone-throwers are nowhere to be seen. J&K will soon be tourism capital of India,” BJP national general secretary Tarun Chugh said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/shutdown-marks-day-when-jk-lost-status/article35756446.ece
06 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||Minister will discuss bilateral issues in Iran||External Affairs Minister (EAM) S. Jaishankar flew to Tehran on Thursday to attend the swearing-in of newly elected Iranian President Ebrahim Raisi. Mr. Jaishankar is meeting Mr. Raisi as well as other dignitaries before returning to Delhi on Friday. Apart from bilateral issues, he will discuss the growing violence in Afghanistan. India and Iran are the two regional powers not included in the “Troika plus” meeting of U.S.-Russia-China and Pakistan, which is expected to discuss Afghanistan’s future on August 11 in Doha, and have both made it clear that they only recognise the legitimacy of the Ghani government though Iran has regularly held talks with Taliban delegations as well. Afghanistan President Ashraf Ghani also attended the ceremony held inside the Iranian Parliament.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/jaishankar-to-discuss-bilateral-issues-in-tehran/article35756447.ece
06 August 2021||Pune,||Poonawalla to support students travelling abroad||With Covishield yet to be cleared by the drug regulators of a few countries across the globe, Serum Institute of India chief executive officer Adar Poonawalla on Thursday said that he would support students with additional costs they were likely to incur while travelling abroad despite being vaccinated. “Dear students travelling abroad, as a few countries are yet to approve COVISHIELD as an acceptable vaccine for travel without quarantine, you may have to incur some costs. I have set aside Rs. 10 crores for this, apply below for financial support if needed,” said Mr. Poonawalla in a tweet. Contribution of Rs. 10 cr. The #UnlockEducation scheme recently announced on NDTV seeks to provide financial help for Indian students studying abroad. “I remain fully committed to helping Indian students’ quarantine in the United Kingdom on arrival for their higher studies. The new Amber List rules make it clear that Indian students will still need to quarantine, albeit at a place of their choosing. They may, therefore, still incur substantial costs I have made a personal contribution of Rs. 10 crore (£1 million),” Mr. Poonawalla said announcing his philanthropic gesture. In all, 16 of the 27 European Union countries, including France and Germany, recognise Covishield, the Indian-manufactured version of the AstraZeneca-Oxford University vaccine. It has been approved by the World Health Organization.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/poonawalla-to-support-students-travelling-abroad/article35756462.ece
06 August 2021||CHENNAI,||Earth observation satellite to be launched on Aug. 12||The Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) will launch an Earth Observation Satellite on August 12 from the Satish Dhawan Space Centre, SHAR, at Sriharikota. The launch has been scheduled at 5.43 a.m. The satellite, EOS-03, will be carried on board the 14th flight of the GSLV, the GSLV-F10, and will place the satellite in a Geosynchronous Transfer Orbit. The satellite will reach the final geostationary orbit using its onboard propulsion system, ISRO said. A four-metre diameter Ogive-shaped payload fairing is being flown for the first time in this GSLV flight, ISRO said. The EOS-03 is a state-of-the-art agile satellite that will enable real-time monitoring of natural disasters, waterbodies, crops, forest cover changes, among others. Union Minister of State for the Department of Space, Jitendra Singh, recently informed the Rajya Sabha that EOS-03 is capable of imaging the whole country four to five times every day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/earth-observation-satellite-to-be-launched-on-aug-12/article35756625.ece
06 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Defence Services Bill will lapse after a year’||The Essential Defence Services Bill, 2021, passed in the Rajya Sabha on Thursday does not come into effect unless it is invoked and is in place for only one year, a defence official said. The Bill was promulgated to prevent the employee unions of the Ordnance Factory Board (OFB) from going on strike against the corporatisation plan that was announced. “There is a sunset clause introduced in Clause 1 as an amendment. It is applicable only for one year, after which it will lapse,” the official said. “It does not come into effect by default. Employees have the right to peaceful protest.” The Bill also did not violate the International Labour Organisation convention. It was meant to ensure uninterrupted supply to the Services, which was “especially essential in the current situation”, the official said. Cabinet nod On June 16, the Cabinet approved the plan to convert 41 factories into seven government-owned corporate entities for better management. Following this, the employee unions had announced a plan to go on an indefinite strike. The government then promulgated the Essential Defence Services Ordinance-2021, which bans all strikes by defence-civilian employees. This was condemned by five OFB unions, which called it “draconian”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/defence-services-bill-will-lapse-after-a-year/article35756428.ece
06 August 2021||August 06 2021 00:00 IST,||60% of dropouts at 7 IITs from reserved categories||Dalit and Adivasi activists have long argued that students from these communities face a higher level of pressure and discrimination at these institutions. However, Education Minister Dharmendra Pradhan told the Rajya Sabha that the dropouts were “mainly on account of securing seat in other departments or institutions of students choice or on any other personal ground”. He was responding to a question from Kerala MP V. Sivadasan. An analysis of the seven IITs that stand in the top 10 of the National Institute Ranking framework shows that the disproportionality of dropouts is starker at some institutions. IIT Guwahati holds the worst record, with 88% of its 25 dropouts hailing from the reserved categories. Of the 10 students who dropped out of IIT Delhi in 2018, all were from the reserved categories, a trend that holds true for every year except 2019. Top ranked IIT Madras has only had 10 dropouts over the last five years, but six of them have been SC/ST students, while another was from an Other Backward Class community. IIT Kharagpur saw 79 students leaving over the last five years. More than 60% are from the reserved categories.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/60-of-dropouts-at-7-iits-from-reserved-categories/article35756438.ece
06 August 2021||August 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Karma and its effects||In this world, the course of karma is not easily understood. Even the devas are not able to comprehend the wonderful effect of actions. This is Vyasa’s observation on karma when Janamejaya seeks clarification about the law of karma in the Devi Bhagavata Purana, pointed out Sri K. Srinivasan in a discourse. Sastras explain that it is through karma that everything had its origin when the universe comprising the three gunas was created. The seed of karma has always been in existence with no beginning or end. The individual embodied soul, jiva, also arose along with karma. These jivas are born again and again owing to karma, and only when the karma ceases, the jiva is free from the cycle of birth. That is, the jiva no longer will be associated with the body. Vyasa further added that the sages of yore have said that the Karmas done by the Jivas are of three kinds, auspicious, Satvik karma, inauspicious, Tamasic karma, and the mixed, Rajasic karma. These are further subdivided into three types: Sanchita, accumulated; Bhavishya, to be experienced in the future; and Prarabdha, already commenced. These karmas are always associated with the body. All embodied beings from Brahma onwards to the smallest ant are under the influence of karma. When the jiva undergoes pain, pleasure, old age disease and death, and whenever it gives vent to feelings of anger, hatred, etc, it is all owing to the karma effects. This is also called Fate. These are also linked to one’s past likes or dislikes. Karma is the cause of the sun’s movement across the skies and of the moon’s waxing and waning cycles. Also, this entire universe appears real owing to karma and its effects. That is why sages engaged in meditation to ascertain if the universe is real or not point out the presence of Maya.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/karma-and-its-effects/article35756452.ece
06 August 2021||New Delhi,||Rajnath didn’t keep his word, says Kharge||The Opposition-government tussle came to a head on Thursday when the Leader of the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha, Mallikarjun Kharge, accused the government of running a propaganda that the Opposition was being inflexible despite the government’s attempt to broker a peace deal. Mr. Kharge accused Defence Minister Rajnath Singh of not delivering on his promise to resolve the deadlock. Mr. Kharge said Mr. Singh had called him and told him that he would find some “solution” to the problem after returning from a foreign trip. But a week had passed since his return and no leader had received any notice for a meeting, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rajnath-didnt-keep-his-word-says-kharge/article35756435.ece
06 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘We support an Afghan-led peace process’||India is “closely monitoring” the unfolding situation in Afghanistan, said an official of the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) on Thursday. Addressing the weekly press briefing, MEA spokesperson Arindam Bagchi laid out the position ahead of the United Nations Security Council (UNSC) discussion on Afghanistan and said the relation with Afghanistan was guided by the Strategic Partnership Agreement signed in 2011. “We are closely monitoring the evolving security situation, and we continue to call for an immediate and comprehensive ceasefire. We support an Afghan-led, Afghan-owned and Afghan-controlled peace process,” said Mr. Bagchi at the virtual press conference. The comment highlighted the strategic nature of the bilateral relationship under which India had earlier sent military hardware to the government of Afghanistan. Over the last few days, several public protests took place in Herat and Kabul against the Taliban attacks, which saw widespread participation of mostly pro-government crowds. The protests took place soon after a car bomb exploded outside the house of the Afghan Defence Minister Bismillah Khan Mohammadi. “We are also strategic partners, and are guided by Strategic Partnership Agreement signed in 2011. We have been supporting the government and people of Afghanistan in realising their aspirations for a peaceful, democratic and prosperous future,” said Mr Bagchi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/we-support-an-afghan-led-peace-process/article35756443.ece
06 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||Kishor quits as adviser to Amarinder||Poll strategist Prashant Kishor on Thursday quit as adviser to Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh as he had decided to take a “temporary break from an active role in public life” and as he had not been able to formally assume the responsibility. Mr. Kishor’s exit is significant. He had been one of the key strategists behind Capt. Singh’s victory in the 2017 Assembly election in Punjab. Moreover, the Chief Minister was looking to repeat the feat with his help.  And Mr. Kishor’s move comes amid speculation that he is going to join the All-India Congress Committee (AICC) in an important position. The AICC is expected to have a major reshuffle in the next couple of months, with former party president Rahul Gandhi assuming charge again.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/kishor-quits-as-adviser-to-amarinder/article35756444.ece
06 August 2021||Srinagar,||‘Police forced shops to open in Srinagar’||Srinagar’s commercial hub Lal Chowk on Thursday witnessed a face-off between shopkeepers and the police over observing a shutdown on the second anniversary of the revocation of the J&K’s special constitutional position. Several shopkeepers at Polo View, Residency Road, Lambert Lane and Regal Chowk alleged that the police personnel in civvies cut locks with hacksaw and iron rods to lift the shutters of the closed shops. It started around 10:30 a.m. after the shopkeepers decided against opening them. “I was forced to open it [shop] against my will,” said a shopkeeper. Members of the association running these markets said several senior police officers on Wednesday warned of action in case the shopkeepers failed to open shops.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/police-forced-shops-to-open-in-srinagar/article35756445.ece
06 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||Over 2.69 cr. vaccine doses available: govt.||More than 2.69 crore (2,69,06,624) balance and unutilised COVID vaccine doses are still available with the States/Union Territories and private hospitals, said the Union Health Ministry on Thursday in a release. The Ministry added that more than 51.01 crore (51,01,88,510) vaccine doses have been provided to the States and the Union Territories so far, through all sources and a further 7,53,620 doses are in the pipeline. Of this, the total consumption including wastages is 48,60,15,232 doses (as per data available at 8 a.m. today).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/over-269-cr-vaccine-doses-available-govt/article35756463.ece
06 August 2021||New Delhi,||Fake pop-ups: ED conducts multiple raids||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Thursday conducted searches at multiple locations in Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan in connection with a case against six private companies, which allegedly sent pop-ups to personal computers with bogus warnings about serious technical issues. The pop-ups prompted many users to install unwanted programmes and tricked them into paying online for resolving the fictitious problems.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/fake-pop-ups-ed-conducts-multiple-raids/article35756468.ece
06 August 2021||Patna,||Nitish writes to Modi on caste census||Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar on Thursday said that he had written a letter seeking an appointment with Prime Minister Narendra Modi to press for a caste-based census. “Once the Prime Minister gives appointment, we will take the matter forward,” Mr. Kumar told mediapersons in Patna, after an aerial survey of flood-affected districts. Earlier, the Leader of the Opposition in the Bihar Assembly Tejashwi Yadav had urged Mr. Kumar to lead an all-party delegation to the PM on the issue. The State legislature, too, had earlier passed a unanimous resolution supporting the caste-based census. Days back, Mr. Kumar had also said that if the Centre did not agree to their request for a caste-based census, the State government had options to conduct one on its own. Janata Dal (United) MPs, sources said, had earlier been denied a meeting with the PM on the issue, and were told to meet Home Minister Amit Shah instead. However, some State BJP leaders feel such a census would create “tension in society”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nitish-writes-to-modi-on-caste-census/article35756685.ece
06 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||No evidence of phone hacking: BJP||As Parliament continued to see disruption owing to Opposition protests on the Pegasus snooping issue and the three farm laws, the BJP on Thursday claimed that there was no “ prima facie ” evidence to back up the allegations that certain phones had been hacked by the government. Former Union Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad, at a presser at the BJP’s national headquarters in New Delhi, said the government was willing to discuss all issues in the House but the Opposition had even forgone the opportunity to get clarifications from Information Technology Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw after his statement on the Pegasus issue in the Rajya Sabha. “Opposition MPs instead tore the statement,” he said. “Is there any prima facie evidence that [phone] numbers were indeed put under surveillance,” he asked. Justice Arun Mishra, who retired from the Supreme Court in September 2020 and is now chairman of the National Human Rights Commission, has said a mobile number of his allegedly put under surveillance was surrendered by him in 2014, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/no-evidence-of-phone-hacking-bjp/article35756429.ece
06 August 2021||Kolkata,||TMC delegates to meet West Bengal CEO today||A delegation of Trinamool Congress (TMC) leaders will meet the West Bengal chief electoral officer on Friday to urge him to hold bypolls in the State as early as possible, senior party leader Partha Chatterjee said. TMC had met the Election Commissioner in Delhi in this regard.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tmc-delegates-to-meet-west-bengal-ceo-today/article35757021.ece
06 August 2021||GUWAHATI,||Poachers killed 22 Assam rhinos in 5 years||Poachers have killed 22 one-horned rhinos in Assam since 2017, the State’s Environment and Forest Minister Parimal Suklabaidya told the Assembly on Thursday. The government had set up 10 fast-track sessions courts over the years for speedy trials of wildlife- related crimes, he said. In a written reply to a question by All India United Democratic Front MLA Sirajuddin Ajmal, the Minister said poachers killed 22 rhinos in five years. Nine of these were killed in 2017, seven in 2018, three in 2019, two in 2020 and one in 2021 so far, indicating a declining trend. “Till June 1 this year, 644 poachers have been arrested and at least 25 cases were registered against them,” Mr. Suklabaidya said. Most of the rhinos killed were in the Kaziranga National Park and Tiger Reserve. The other rhino habitats in the State are Pobitora Wildlife Sanctuary, Orang National Park and Manas National Park.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/poachers-killed-22-assam-rhinos-in-5-years/article35756453.ece
06 August 2021||Mumbai,||Kundra, Thorpe file for bail before Sessions Court||Businessman Raj Kundra and his aide Ryan Thorpe filed for bail before the city civil and sessions court on Thursday in the pornographic racket busted last month. They were arrested on July 19 by the Property Cell of the Mumbai Crime Branch.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/kundra-thorpe-file-for-bail-before-sessions-court/article35756457.ece
06 August 2021||Ahmedabad,||Gujarat BJP leader, wife found dead||A local BJP leader and his wife were on found dead in Mahisagar district of Gujarat on Thursday. Tribhovanbhai Panchal and Jashodaben were attacked with sharp objects at their house in Palla village. “The motive is not known,” said Deputy Superintendent of Police N.V. Patel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/gujarat-bjp-leader-wife-found-dead/article35756469.ece
06 August 2021||Raipur,||One dead, 11 injured as Naxals blow up vehicle in Chhattisgarh||One person was killed and 11 others injured after Naxals blew up a sports utility vehicle that they were travelling in using an improvised explosive device (IED) in the insurgency-hit Dantewada district, Chhattisgarh, on Thursday, a police official said.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/one-dead-11-injured-as-naxals-blow-up-vehicle-in-chhattisgarh/article35756470.ece
06 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Tangedco staff face hurdles while fixing transformers, shifting cables||New transformers and cables are often considered the answer to complaints of erratic power supply and voltage fluctuation. While most utility agencies don’t face any issues while taking up infrastructure improvement work, it is not so in the case of the Tamil Nadu Electricity Generation and Distribution Corporation (Tangedco). In the midst of executing a major project in the city, its staff are facing a strange problem. Instead of facilitating their work, citizens are not allowing them to install pillar boxes or transformers even in areas with complaints of voltage fluctuation. In contrast, workers of the Chennai Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Boad (CMWSSB) find it easy to install water and drainage chambers in places of their choice. Tangedco staff are peeved that they have to overcome several hurdles while installing pillar boxes or transformers. The problem is more pronounced in several localities where Tangedco has taken up shifting of overhead cables underground. As part of this Rs. 2,567 crore project, new transformers are to be installed, besides replacing the old ones in core city areas as well as suburbs like Perambur, Avadi, Tambaram, Velachery and the Information Technology (IT) corridor. Under this project, overhead power lines running to a length of 3,250 km are to be shifted underground and more than 500 old transformers are to be replaced. While the execution of the project was delayed due to lockdowns, Tangedco has resumed work in several places. But the residents do not want transformers or pillar boxes in front of their homes. A senior official of Tangedco said that at several places, the residents cited safety concerns, reduced access, and aesthetics of the property being marred and did not allow the installation of transformers. Some residents are not even allowing pillar boxes that occupy very little space to be put up. Although the roads come under the purview of local bodies, Tangedco faced constraints in putting up transformers and pillar boxes. Its action would give scope for residents to move the Consumer Grievance Redressal Forum. In one instance, residents even lodged a police complaint. A senior electricity official of the southern region said when a new transformer was proposed to be erected on MGR Street in Velachery, the residents complained to the police, resulting in commotion recently. Even owners of apartments were not providing space for transformers although the building bylaws made it mandatory. Any complex with a built-up area of more than 900 m should allot space for transformers. But the developers circumvented this rule by showing the area to be less than 900 m and got the plan sanctioned. It was for the Chennai Metropolitan Development Authority to look into the issue, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tangedco-staff-face-hurdles-while-fixing-transformers-shifting-cables/article35756763.ece
06 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||New materials to register FIR against Rajenthra Bhalaji: DVAC||The disproportionate assets case against former Milk and Dairy Development Minister K.T. Rajenthra Bhalaji of the AIADMK took an interesting turn on Thursday. While the Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption (DVAC) claimed it had got additional materials to register a First Information Report (FIR) against him, he expressed his intent to approach the Supreme Court against references made by two Madras High Court judges who had delivered a split verdict in his case early this year. When the matter was listed before the third judge Justice, M. Nirmal Kumar, senior counsel M. Ajmal Khan, representing the former Minister, said one R. Mahendran had filed a writ petition in the Madurai Bench of the High Court in 2013 accusing him of amassing wealth. That petition was disposed of on January 7, 2014 after the DVAC reported that it would take action in accordance with law. The writ petition was listed again in February 2018. Then, the DVAC reported that it had decided to drop action on January 13, 2014 and it was accepted by the government on February 4, 2014. Displeased with such submission, a Bench led by Justice Sathyanarayanan (since retired) on June 12, 2018 ordered another preliminary inquiry into the issue by an IPS officer in the rank of Superintendent of Police and extended the check period from August 25, 1996 (when Mr. Bhalaji became the vice-president of Thiruthangal Town Panchayat in Virudhunagar district) to March 31, 2018. Accordingly, IPS officer R. Ponni conducted a preliminary inquiry and found that the then Minister was unable to account satisfactorily only for Rs. 16.04 lakh which was 5.03% of his total assets. Her report was forwarded to the government, through the Chief Vigilance Commissioner, and it was decided once again to drop further proceedings since the disproportionate assets was less than 10% which had been termed negligible by the Supreme Court in a case. Dissatisfied with this inquiry report too, Justice Sathyanarayanan on March 4, 2021 directed the DVAC to register an FIR against the then Minister. However, his companion judge Justice R. Hemalatha held that she did not find any prima facie case warranting registration of an FIR. Thereafter, when the matter was listed before Justice Kumar on June 25, he found that Justices Sathyanarayanan and Hemalatha had framed three questions each while making a reference to the third judge. Mr. Khan on Thursday told Justice Kumar that those questions were not part of the original split verdict. They appeared to have been framed subsequently and a copy was not issued to the former Minister, Mr. Khan said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/new-materials-to-file-fir-against-rajenthra-bhalaji-dvac/article35756817.ece
06 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Traders seek uniform timings during lockdown||Traders have demanded that the Greater Chennai Corporation allow all shops to function from 6 a.m. to 6 p.m. during any lockdown. At a meeting on Thursday, the Corporation and the police advised the traders to wait for a decision of the State government in this regard later this week. The decision would be based on the COVID-19 data from health officials, they said. The Corporation rejected the demand of traders to open shops in congested commercial areas. Traders in Old Washermenpet in north Chennai protested this week against the closure order. Following an increase in the number of cases, the Corporation had ordered shops in nine commercial areas to remain closed from July 31 to August 9. Plea turned down Tamil Nadu Vanigar Sangangalin Peramaippu president A.M. Vikramaraja said the traders requested the Corporation to allow shops to reopen in congested commercial areas. “The Corporation officials said it was not possible to reopen shops in crowded areas. Traders suggested opening shops from 6 a.m. to 6 p.m. in the event of a lockdown,” said Mr. Vikramaraja. Traders at the meeting claimed that street vendors were responsible for overcrowding of commercial areas that had been shut for 10 days. The traders demanded the demarcation of vending zones for street vendors to prevent crowding in congested areas such as T. Nagar, Old Washermanpet, Purasawalkam and Aminjikarai. The commercial stretches will remain closed until 6 a.m. on August 9 to prevent the spread of COVID-19. A decision on opening the shops is expected to be taken by the State government after a meeting with public health officials on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/traders-seek-uniform-timings-during-lockdown/article35756768.ece
06 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||T.N. hopes to exceed hydro power generation target for 2021-22||Tamil Nadu hopes to exceed the hydro power generation target fixed by the Central Electricity Authority (CEA) for 2021-22. The CEA has fixed 3,853 million units. Since April 1, the State generated around 1,570 million units, about 210 million units higher than what was achieved during the corresponding period in the previous year. The optimism of officials in charge of hydro power generation is based on the pattern followed in the State. Ordinarily, it is only during July-December (most part of the southwest monsoon, coupled with the entire northeast monsoon) that the reservoirs generate about 60% of the annual production. With virtually five more months to go, the State, in the assessment of the officials, will be able to experience several rounds of substantial inflow and generate more than the target. During 2020-21, the total hydro power generation was 4,040 million units. Though the share of hydro power is hardly 5% of the present total power availability, the hydel stations come handy for the authorities to handle the peak-hour load, besides in times of sudden failure of the coal-based thermal power stations or a steep fall in production of infirm power such as wind and solar energy. However, the present storage of hydel reservoirs, despite being higher than what it was in the previous year, may not surpass the maximum storage attained three years ago. As on date, the storage of the reservoirs, expressed in terms of million units, was around 1,327, about 430 million units higher than that of the corresponding day in 2020. The maximum storage — around 2,390 million units — was recorded on August 15, 2018, going by the meteorological forecast for the coming days. According to the latest forecast of the meteorological department, the State, especially the catchments of the hydel reservoirs, is likely to witness rainfall during August 7-9, but this spell is not expected to bring huge inflows. The current rate of inflow is around 17 million units and the generation is 20 million units. These days, wind and solar power plants account for about 108 million units of the State’s total energy consumption of 350 million units every day. The coal-fired thermal power stations of Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation contribute 69 million units. The State gets around 82 million units in its share from the Central Generating Stations in places such as Ramagundam, Vallur, Neyveli and Kundankulam. Of the remaining sources of energy, long term open access (LTOA) accounts for around 47 million units.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tn-hopes-to-exceed-hydro-power-generation-target-for-2021-22/article35756799.ece
06 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||State records 1,997 fresh infections, 33 fatalities||A total of 1,997 people tested positive for COVID-19 in Tamil Nadu on Thursday, taking the tally to 25,69,398. Six districts, including Coimbatore, Erode, Chennai, Thanjavur, Tiruvallur and Chengalpattu, had the most number of cases. In Coimbatore, 220 new cases were recorded, and 161 people tested positive for the infection in Erode. There were 196 fresh cases in Chennai, 130 in Chengalpattu, 119 in Thanjavur and 106 in Tiruvallur. Active cases As many as 1,943 people were discharged after treatment, taking the total figure to 25,15,030. As of date 20,138 people are undergoing treatment either at home or in health facilities, including 1,887 in Chennai. The State recorded 33 deaths, including five at private hospitals and 28 at government ones. A total of 34,230 people have succumbed to the infection so far. Tiruppur district witnessed the highest number of daily deaths, with five people succumbing to the infection. Chennai and Salem recorded four deaths each. Coimbatore and Thanjavur recorded three deaths each. Nine of those whose deaths were reported on Thursday had no pre-existing health condition, while 24 had co-morbidities. The Health Department included five deferred reconciled death reports from Salem and Tiruppur, pertaining to May. 2.26 crore vaccinated Till date, 2.26 crore people in the State have received vaccines to protect them against COVID-19. In 4,42,441 sessions held to administer Covishield and Covaxin, a total of 8,70,090 healthcare workers, 11,47,768 frontline workers, 92,32,890 people in the 18 to 44 age group and 73,70,886 people with co-morbidities in the 45 to 60 age bracket have been vaccinated. As many as 39,79,578 senior citizens have also been inoculated, taking the vaccination coverage in the State to 2,26,01,212. According to the daily update provided by the Directorate of Public Health, since May 1, when private COVID-9 vaccination centres began functioning, 16,34,959 doses of vaccines have been administered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/state-records-1997-fresh-infections-33-fatalities/article35756784.ece
06 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Repair drains before monsoon, Koyambedu wholesalers urge panel||Waterlogging has become common in parts of the Koyambedu wholesale market every time there is a sharp spell of rains. Traders’ associations have appealed to the authorities concerned to improve the infrastructure on the market premises. The market is allowed to function till noon with restrictions on entry owing to the pandemic. Although the Koyambedu Market Management Committee had taken up improvement work, including repair of storm-water drains last year, traders said that some spots like G block and N block on the premises got waterlogged during the recent rain. They wanted the drains in such locations to be cleaned ahead of the northeast monsoon. The Federation of All Associations of KWMC Periyar Vegetable Market recently submitted a charter of demands to the Koyambedu MMC, seeking improvement in infrastructure. Federation president D. Rajasekaran said the market lacked drinking water facility. There was no regulation of vehicular traffic. The link road for vehicles visiting the market from Poonamallee High Road had been closed. “We need an alternative road for better access to the market area,” he said. On average, the market received about 400-450 trucks carrying vegetables and nearly 2,500 vehicles of retailers daily. Haphazard parking causes chaos during business hours. A dedicated parking space for two- and four-wheelers, must be allotted on 7.5 acres of land in the market, Mr. Rajasekaran said. Moreover, an electronic weigh bridge must be built for goods vehicles. S. Chandran, a wholesaler, said, “We have requested MMC to waive maintenance fee as we pay several taxes and fees for our shops. Now, we pay Rs. 1 per sq ft as maintenance fee, and property tax and water tax. We pay a vehicle entry fee.” Traders wanted the cattle menace to be controlled and better maintenance of toilets. Some of the other demands include a community hall, repair of concrete roads, restrictions on the use of plastics and regular power supply.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/repair-drains-before-monsoon-koyambedu-wholesalers-urge-panel/article35756770.ece
06 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HC says it’s time to stop domesticating elephants||It is time to stop any more elephant being domesticated or taken into captivity, except in case of injury or disability, and that, too, only by forest officials in special enclosures maintained in forest areas, the Madras High Court wrote on Thursday. Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice P.D. Audikesavalu made the observation in an interim order on a public interest litigation petition. It was filed by activist Rangarajan Narasimhan of Srirangam, complaining about the ill-treatment of temple elephants. ‘No regular mahouts’ The activist told the court that many temple elephants did not have regular mahouts with whom they developed a bond and the pachyderms were made to stand in the same place for hours, besides being lodged in small enclosures. Claiming that the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Minister had recently made a call to people to donate elephants to temples, he wondered what the necessity was for religious institutions to own elephants. Referring to the religious references to Lord Vishnu having descended on earth to save an elephant from a crocodile, the litigant said, “Religion does not insist on keeping animals in captivity. It has only become a fashion statement to donate elephants to temples.” Direction to Forest Dept. After hearing him as well as a few elephant lovers who wanted to get themselves impleaded in the case, the judges directed the Forest Department to apprise the court, by August 25, of the minimum physical activity that an elephant was required to undertake. They also wanted the Forest Department and the HR&CE Department to jointly explore the possibility of creating natural surroundings on huge tracts of properties owned by temples so that the animals could be housed there and taken to temples only during festivities. The court said the Principal Chief Conservator of Forests should resuscitate the district-level captive elephants monitoring committees and could utilise the Tamil Nadu State Judicial Academy campuses in Chennai, Madurai and Coimbatore to create awareness programmes. “It is possible that in the larger interest of the elephants, the hearing of this matter can, at least on one occasion, be alfresco and in a less formal atmosphere, so that more persons may have a say and hearing may even be in the presence of the animals, whether at a temple or elsewhere,” the judges said, before adjourning the case to August 25.  Religion does not insist on keeping animals in captivity. It has only become a fashion statement to donate elephants to temples Rangarajan NarasimhanPetitioner||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-says-its-time-to-stop-domesticating-elephants/article35756796.ece
06 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Healthcare scheme will cost T.N. Rs. 257 crore||‘Makkalai Thedi Maruthuvam’ under the National Health Mission, meant to address non-communicable diseases among the citizens, is aimed at bringing every listed beneficiary under the population health registry, forming a common denominator to ensure continuous monitoring and follow-up. The goal is to achieve better compliance and control for non-communicable diseases. Apart from detection, treatment and follow-up, the beneficiaries will be given medicines at their doorstep. Field workers will provide healthcare services. The population-based screening programme will cover all aged above 18 for 10 common conditions: hypertension, diabetes, tuberculosis, leprosy, chronic kidney disease, oral, breast and cervical cancers, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and mental health. Those who are aged above 45 and registered with the population health registry will receive their drugs for hypertension and diabetes from women health volunteers. Home-based palliative care, physiotherapy, services to deliver peritoneal dialysis bags and monitoring of dialysis at home have been included in the scheme. A total of 1,172 health sub-centres, 189 primary health centres and 50 community health centres in 50 universal health coverage blocks will be covered. The scheme will be rolled out in one zone in three corporations of Tirunelveli and Coimbatore districts, and in the Greater Chennai Corporation. By the year-end, it will cover the entire State, costing Rs. 257,15,78,350. This amount is apart from what is being spent on the ongoing non-communicable disease prevention programmes. District nodal officers, community health officers, city health officers and block medical officers will monitor the scheme. The field workers include non-communicable disease staff nurses, pharmacists, physiotherapists, palliative care nurses, community health nurses and health inspectors, besides public health managers at the zonal level. The medical officers, the non-communicable disease nurses, the pharmacists, the sector health nurses and health inspectors have been assigned the responsibility at primary health centres. At the health sub-centres, the village health nurses, urban health nurses, mid-level healthcare providers and woman health volunteers will be made responsible. The Directorate of Medical and Rural Health Services and the Directorate of Medical Education will designate a nodal officer to monitor the scheme and linkages. Renal dialysis The scheme includes continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis (CAPD) as an alternative to haemodialysis to overcome such issues as infrastructure requirement and biomedical waste. The CAPD will be brought under the Chief Minister’s Comprehensive Health Insurance Scheme. The State Health System Reform Programme will monitor the coverage. Medical college hospitals and district headquarters hospitals will be the hub for the CAPD scheme, while the block primary health centres will be the spokes. A palliative nurse will be deployed to provide the bags for dialysis, educate the patients on self-care, and to monitor them. The home-based outreach support will be given to all, whether or not they are covered under the Chief Minister’s Comprehensive Health Insurance Scheme. The guidelines will be developed by the Mission Health Director in coordination with the State Nodal Officer, Renal Health, Peritoneal Dialysis Services. In each district, a nodal officer, who is either a nephrologist or a physician, will be appointed. The district-level officer in charge of the Chief Minister’s Comprehensive Health Insurance Scheme will look after logistics. The government order signed by Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan put the total cost of the scheme in rural areas at Rs. 195,69,51,050. In urban areas, it will cost Rs. 61,46,27,300.  District nodal officers, community health officers, city health officers and block medical officers will monitor the scheme||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/healthcare-scheme-will-cost-tn-rs-257-crore/article35756777.ece
06 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Allow caste surnames of scholars to remain in Tamil textbooks: Ramadoss||PMK founder S. Ramadoss on Thursday urged the State government to allow the mentioning of caste surnames of eminent scholars in Tamil textbooks, which had been in practice. In a statement, he said though the intention of the government to abolish caste was welcome, such a move would erase the identity of the scholars. Dr. Ramadoss was reacting to The Hindu ’s report on the Tamil Nadu Textbook Corporation dropping the caste identity of Tamil scholar U. Ve. Swaminatha Iyer and referring to him as U. Ve. Swaminathar in the Tamil textbook for Class XII students, and similar cases of other scholars’ names as well. He said the caste system could be abolished only by creating equality among people, for which the State government has to take various measures, and the PMK would support them. “That is why to ensure [social] equality, Central and State governments are taking measures like reservation in education and jobs. This should continue. Instead, the move to drop caste surnames shows a lack of understanding of the issue,” Dr. Ramadoss said. There is nothing wrong in dropping the caste surnames of ordinary people. But exemptions should continue to be given to the caste surnames of achievers, as there is a risk of erasing their identity otherwise, he added. Dr. Ramadoss said the practice of putting caste surnames has ended long back, and it won’t be necessary for the leaders and achievers of the future.  Exemptions should continue to be given to the caste surnames of achievers, as there is a risk of erasing their identity otherwise||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/allow-caste-surnames-of-scholars-to-remain-in-tamil-textbooks-ramadoss/article35756786.ece
06 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Veteran AIADMK leader E. Madhusudanan no more||AIADMK presidium chairperson and former Minister, E. Madhusudanan, 80, died here on Thursday after a brief illness. He was hospitalised last month. A release from Apollo Hospitals, where he had undergone treatment since July 18 for multiple-organ dysfunction and sepsis, said he was treated in the critical care unit by a multi-disciplinary medical team. “Despite all active medical measures, his condition deteriorated gradually...” and he passed away around 3.42 p.m. His wife, Jeeva, predeceased him in April this year. A well-known face of the party in north Chennai, Mr. Madhusudanan passed the SSLC examination in 1956. It was then that M.G. Ramachandran, who founded the AIADMK in 1972 and became the Chief Minister five years later, was emerging as one of the leading stars of Tamil cinema. Mr. Madhusudanan became one of his ardent fans. He also took an interest in labour welfare. After the AIADMK was established, Mr. Madhusudanan became the party convener for north Chennai. He was made the Chennai district secretary in 1987. When the AIADMK came to power for the first time in 1977, he became a member of the Board of Directors of the Tamil Nadu Slum Clearance Board and held that post for seven years. In March 1984, he was elected to the Legislative Council and remained a member until it was abolished in November 1986. Five years later, when the AIADMK returned to power under Jayalalithaa, he was elected from R.K. Nagar and appointed Minister for Handlooms. He was later given the portfolios of Animal Husbandry and Food. After the DMK assumed office in May 1996, a case was filed against him in connection with the purchase of dhotis and saris, meant for free distribution to mark the Pongal festival in 1992, with three companies having violated the procedures. In April 2000, a special court sentenced him to two years of rigorous imprisonment with a fine of Rs. 20,000. Nine years later, the Madras High Court set his conviction aside. In February 2007, he was elected chairperson of the party’s presidium and perhaps held the post for the longest period. Within days of the death of Jayalalithaa in December 2016, he was one among those who demanded that V.K. Sasikala, the former Chief Minister’s aide, take over the party affairs as general secretary. Two months later, when O. Panneerselvam resigned as the Chief Minister and launched a “dharma yudham” against Ms. Sasikala, Mr. Madhusudanan switched over to his camp. In March 2017, he, along with Mr. Panneerselvam and former MLA S. Semmalai, petitioned the Election Commission against the election of Ms. Sasikala as the party’s [interim] general secretary. This led to the freezing of the party symbol, ‘two leaves’, for eight months. Later, the Election Commission allotted it to the group led by Mr. Madhusudanan, who merged the faction with that of Edappadi K. Palaniswami. He was the AIADMK candidate in the byelection to R.K. Nagar in December 2017. But he lost to T.T.V. Dhinakaran by about 40,000 votes. He blamed his defeat on former Fisheries Minister D. Jayakumar, who sat in the Assembly for Royapuram. In a statement, Mr. Panneerselvam, the party coordinator, and Mr. Palaniswami, the co-coordinator, recalled that Mr. Madhusudanan, even in the 1950s, ran MGR fans’ clubs in north Chennai and organised night schools for children. Called “Anjanenjan”, Mr. Madhusudanan was appointed secretary of the MGR Mandram and propaganda secretary of the AIADMK after Jayalalithaa became the general secretary, they said, adding that the party would observe a three-day mourning. Condolences pour in Chief Minister M.K. Stalin said the AIADMK presidium chairman had the affection of late AIADMK leaders M.G. Ramachandran and Jayalalithaa, and was appointed to a significant post. “He came to politics at a young age, inspired by MGR, and had a rich experience of about 60 years,” MNM leader Kamal Haasan said. DMDK leader Vijayakant recalled that Mr. Madhusudanan held key posts in the AIADMK during MGR’s time and enjoyed Jayalalithaa’s trust. PMK founder S. Ramadoss said Madhusudanan worked hard for the AIADMK's growth since its inception. Ms. Sasikala, who visited him in hospital a few weeks ago, also condoled his death.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/veteran-aiadmk-leader-e-madhusudanan-no-more/article35756776.ece
06 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||One arrested for GST input credit fraud||The Directorate-General of GST Intelligence (DGGI), Chennai zonal unit, has arrested a former director and shareholder of a private facility management company for allegedly availing fraudulent input tax credit of Rs. 19.22 crore by using fake invoices for Rs. 106.8 crore. Searches were conducted on the premises of the said company at the registered premises as well as certain bogus entities in New Delhi on August 3 and certain incriminating documents were seized, according to a statement issued by Mayank Kumar, Principal Additional Director-General of GST Intelligence. An analysis of the documents suggested that a person in charge of the day-to-day operations of the company and who happens to be a former director and shareholder of the company was responsible for the fraud. The accused admitted to the offence and was arrested on August 4.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/one-arrested-for-gst-input-credit-fraud/article35756771.ece
06 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Caste surnames of scholars dropped two years ago, says teachers’ body||The Tamil Nadu Teachers’ Association on Thursday said the caste surnames of leaders and Tamil scholars were removed from school textbooks in 2019, when a new curriculum was prepared after a gap of 14 years. In a statement issued in Chennai, P.K. Ilamaran, the secretary of the association, said the books circulated for students were printed based on the curriculum. Reacting to The Hindu’s report ‘Tamil textbook drops caste surnames of eminent scholars', Mr. Ilamaran said the curriculam was changed when IAS officer T. Udayachandran was the Secretary of School Education. “Now, changes have been incorporated. But the news has created an impression as if the changes are current, and triggered a debate on caste on social media,” he said. Move welcomed The State Platform for Common School System — Tamil Nadu (SPCSS-TN) on Thursday welcomed the removal of the caste surnames of political and Tamil scholars from school textbooks. “The State government has done it with the objective of achieving a society aspired by Ambedkar, Periyar and Singaravelar,” said the office-bearers of the platform in a statement. They also pressed for removal of names denoting caste from schools, colleges and other educational institutions. “Neither national poet Namakkal Ramalingam nor C.W. Thamodharanar secured a place in history because of their caste,” they added.  Surnames of leaders and Tamil scholars were removed in school textbooks in 2019 when a new curriculum was prepared after a gap of 14 years||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/caste-surnames-of-scholars-dropped-two-years-ago-says-teachers-body/article35756788.ece
06 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Traffic to be diverted for Independence Day rehearsal||The police have announced traffic diversion in view of the rehearsals being conducted for the Independence Day celebration on August 15. The rehearsal is planned to be held between 6.30 a.m. and 10 a.m. on August 7, 9, and 13. In a press release, the police said a portion of Kamarajar Salai from Napier Bridge to RBI Subway till Rajaji Salai and the Flag Staff Road would be blocked for all vehicles. Those taking Kamarajar Salai and proceeding towards Parry’s Corner through Rajaji Salai will be diverted via Swami Sivananda Salai, Anna Salai, Muthusamy Road, R.A. Mandram and NFS Road to reach Parry’s Corner. Similarly, vehicles taking Rajaji Salai and going towards Kamarajar Salai would be diverted via the same route.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/traffic-to-be-diverted-for-independence-day-rehearsal/article35756764.ece
06 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Tamil archanai begins at 47 temples||Minister for Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments P.K. Sekarbabu on Thursday inaugurated the ‘Annai Thamizhil Archanai’ scheme at 47 major temples in the State. At the request of devotees, priests will chant the ‘potri’ (archanai) in Tamil. It has been the usual practice to chant them in Sanskrit. Addressing mediapersons at the Kapaleeswarar temple in Mylapore after launching the scheme, he said Chief Minister M.K. Stalin had formally launched the facility a couple of days ago. “A set of 14 different ‘potris’ have already been prepared, and the booklets have been distributed to the identified priests. The facility will be expanded to other temples if there is popular demand,” he said. The facility was not new, Mr. Sekarbabu said. It was in 1971 that former Chief Minister M. Karunanidhi had mooted the idea, and the then Minister for Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments, Kannappan, had made an announcement, he said. In 1974, a circular was sent to temples. In 1998, when a discussion pertaining to the performing of archanai in Tamil arose, Karunanidhi had said ‘potri’ would be performed in Tamil, too, for devotees who wanted it. Kumbabhishekam query When asked whether ‘kudamuzhukku’ (kumbabhishekam) would be performed in Tamil, Mr. Sekarbabu said that if a large section of devotees wanted it and if it would not hurt the sentiments of the people and if the ‘agamas’ permitted it, this would be done. He said the government led by Mr. Stalin aimed to restore and renovate temples and perform kumbabhishekam according to the traditions. Secretary for the Department of HR&CE B. Chandramohan, Commissioner J. Kumaragurubaran and temple ‘thakkar’ Vijayakumar Reddy were among those present. Since the Minister had come to the temple just before the evening (‘Saayarakshai’) puja, he and the officials waited for it to get over before addressing the media.  A set of 14 different ‘potris’ have already been prepared, and the booklets have been distributed to the identified priests||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tamil-archanai-begins-at-47-temples/article35756782.ece
06 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Peter Alphonse seeks special law to protect communal harmony||Demanding stringent action against those who incite communal violence in Tamil Nadu, State Minorities Commission Chairperson Peter Alphonse on Thursday made a strong case for enacting special legislation to protect communal harmony. “It can serve as a model to other States in the country,” he said in a letter to Chief Minister M.K. Stalin. Recalling an incident of miscreants placing an idol of Lord Vinayaka in Tiruchengode and subsequent developments, he said Tamils divided into two groups and raised slogans against one another. “Miscreants, who sow the seeds of disharmony should be booked under law irrespective of their religious faiths,” he stressed. Mr. Alphonse felt that while the Chief Minister was driven by the goal of getting $1,00,000 crore and making Tamil Nadu the investment destination of Southeast Asia, a section was seeking to derail the goal by invoking caste and religion. “They are afraid of your efforts to bring them together with the identity as Tamils. They should be dealt with seriously,” Mr. Alphonse said. The Congress leader also recalled how he and the Tamil Nadu Bishops Council condemned a priest when he spoke against Hindus and Bharat Mata. “The Catholics will stand by you in your efforts to preserve communal and social harmony,” he said, and urged the Chief Minister to set up a communal harmony committee in every district. "The committee will serve as the messengers of peace," he contended.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/peter-alphonse-seeks-special-law-to-protect-communal-harmony/article35756790.ece
06 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||High Court directs actor Dhanush to pay Rs. 30.33 lakh in 48 hours||The Madras High Court on Thursday directed actor K. Dhanush to pay within 48 hours the balance of Rs. 30.33 lakh out of Rs. 60.66 lakh demanded by the Commercial Taxes Department in 2015 towards entry tax for a Rolls Royce Ghost imported by him from the United Kingdom. Justice S.M. Subramaniam issued the direction while disposing of a writ petition filed by the actor six years ago seeking tax exemption in toto. Interim order He had been using the car since then after complying with an interim order to pay 50% of the total entry tax demanded from him. However, now, when the writ petition was listed for final hearing, just a fortnight after the judge passed a scathing order in a similar case filed by actor Vijay, Mr. Dhanush's counsel Vijayan Subramanian told the court that his client was willing to pay the tax in full and wanted to withdraw the writ petition. After recording his submission, the judge said it was not just the two actors; many other affluent people had been plying their imported luxury cars, on roads laid with public money, for years together by virtue of interim orders passed by the court to make just part payment of entry tax. Revenue loss Consequently, the State ends up suffering huge revenue loss for a considerable number of years, he lamented. The judge also observed that litigants must pay their taxes dutifully and avoid the practice of filing cases seeking exemption and then suddenly agree to pay the money after many years. Such practice leads to the court being overburdened with cases and not being able to concentrate on genuine litigation, he observed. The judge also said that Mr. Dhanush was guilty of suppression of facts since he had not mentioned his profession in the affidavit filed in 2015. The affidavit barely stated that the petitioner purchased the luxury car for Rs. 2.15 crore and paid a whopping Rs. 2.69 crore towards customs duty and hence there was no need to pay entry tax too to the State government. However, the affidavit did not disclose that the deponent was an actor. The judge pointed out that the writ rules of the High Court always required the litigants to disclose basic details such as their name, age and profession. He directed the Registry to initiate disciplinary action against court staff who entertain affidavits bereft of such details.  Many affluent people have been plying their imported luxury cars, on roads laid with public money, for years together by virtue of interim orders passed by the court to make just part payment of entry tax||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-directs-dhanush-to-pay-rs-3033-lakh-entry-tax-for-car-in-48-hours/article35756794.ece
06 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||No change in retirement age for government staff||The State government seems to have decided not to disturb the current age of retirement — 60 years — for its staff. The main reason cited for not going back to 58 years, which was the retirement age until last May, is the “heavy financial outgo” that the government may have to suffer this year. Rs. 7,000 crore outgo As per an estimate, at least Rs. 7,000 crore will have to be shelled out if the retirement age is advanced to 58. It is open knowledge that the pandemic has aggravated the tight financial situation of Tamil Nadu. In February this year, then Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami announced an extension in the retirement age to 60, from 59. In May 2020, the government made the first change, by raising the age to 59, when the State was in the early phase of the COVID-19 pandemic, which hit the finances of the State adversely. At the time, it was expected that the State would get relief of Rs. 5,000 crore during 2020-21 by increasing the retirement age. There are approximately nine lakh government employees and, on average, 3% of them — around 27,000 people — retire every year. The process, which got disrupted last May, will witness a revival next year, unless the State government revisits its present position on the age of retirement for staff.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-change-in-retirement-age-for-govt-staff/article35756791.ece
06 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Respond to complaints, MLA tells Tangedco||Tambaram Assembly constituency has a high density of residential houses and needs a robust power distribution infrastructure. Comprising Selaiyur, Chitlapakkam, Sembakkam, Mudichur, Medavakkam, Pallikaranai, Peerkankaranai, Madambakkam and Perungalathur, the constituency has several crowded apartments that have come up in the last few years. As a result of this, the power distribution system has come under tremendous pressure. Tangedco local officials have been struggling to cope with complaints of power cuts. Tambaram MLA S.R. Raja convened a meeting with senior officials this week to review the status of pending work that had to be completed before next summer. At the meeting, Mr. Raja advised Tangedco officials, who are part of essential services, to attend to the grievances and calls of residents without fail irrespective of the time when such calls are received. Regarding low voltage and frequent disruptions in certain pockets, the Tangedco officials informed Mr. Raja that new substations of 11 kV/33 kV were proposed at New Balaji Nagar in Selaiyur, and Old Perungalathur. The officials gave an update on the progress of shifting overhead cables underground. The MLA wanted the project to be completed by coordinating with the State Highways department and local bodies at the earliest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/respond-to-complaints-mla-tells-tangedco/article35756760.ece
06 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Bilateral cataract done on baby||A four-month-old baby girl recently underwent a bilateral cataract surgery. The baby, weighing 2.5 kg, was referred from the Institute of Child Health a month ago, said Mohan Rajan, medical director of Rajan Eye Care hospital. The procedure was done under Rotary Paediatric Eye Surgery free of cost by a team led by senior paediatric anaesthesiologists Ramesh and Jeenendhar Gothi and Dr. Mohan, along with Suraj Nayak.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bilateral-cataract-done-on-baby/article35756765.ece
06 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Non-Tamils applying for V-C post: VCK||VCK leader Thol. Thirumavalavan on Thursday claimed that a large number of candidates from other States have applied for the post of Vice-Chancellor in Alagappa University. “Particularly many candidates from Uttar Pradesh have applied for the post. Do they know how to write and speak Tamil? On what confidence have they applied for the post?” he asked. In a statement, he alleged such a situation has been caused due to the Governor ignoring the recommendations made by the previous AIADMK government (on V-C posts).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/non-tamils-applying-for-v-c-post-vck/article35756787.ece
06 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Poll panel announces electoral roll revision||The Election Commission of India has announced the special summary revision of photo electoral rolls, with reference to January 1, 2022, as the qualifying date. Those completing 18 years of age on January 1, 2022, and those whose names have not been included in the rolls can also apply for inclusion. As per the schedule, integrated draft electoral rolls will be published on November 1, 2021, and the period for filing claims and objections will be between November 1 and 30. The disposal of claims and objections is scheduled to take place on December 20, and the final publication of the electoral roll will be on January 5, 2022. “During the claims and objections period — from November 1 to November 30, 2021 — of special summary revision, 2022, an elector or an eligible citizen who wants to get enrolled or wants to make a deletion/correction/transposition in the existing entry may submit the form,” the Chief Electoral Officer said in an official release. Forms 6, 7, 8 or 8A are to be submitted to booth-level officers or electoral registration/assistant electoral registration officers, on any working day, or booth-level officers on special campaign days, at the respective polling stations. For inclusion, proof of address and age should be submitted along with the form. “If the name of the elector is already in roll, but he/she has lost/misplaced the EPIC, then he/she may apply any time at the taluk/zonal office, using Form 001,” it said. For the inclusion of Indian citizens living abroad, Form 6A should be submitted directly to the electoral registration officer concerned, or be sent by post to the officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/poll-panel-announces-electoral-roll-revision/article35756792.ece
06 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||One dies in hotel fire||One person died in a hotel fire in Triplicane here on Wednesday night. The police said fire was noticed in the air-conditioning unit of the hotel located on Big Street in Triplicane. Immediately, all the guests in the rooms were evacuated. However, Aravindan, 50, hailing from Madurai, who was sleeping near the AC unit, was found unconscious. He was rushed to a nearby hospital where he was pronounced brought dead. Personnel from the Triplicane police station visited the hotel and as per initial inquiries, the cause of the fire was found to be an electrical short circuit. The police sent the body for postmortem examination to the Government Royapettah Hospital. A case has been filed and investigations are on, a senior police officer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/one-dies-in-triplicane-hotel-fire/article35756759.ece
06 August 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Three get 10 years jail in emu scam||The Special Court for the trial of cases registered under the Tamil Nadu Protection of Interests of Depositors (TNPID) Act in Coimbatore on Thursday awarded 10 years imprisonment to three persons in one of the many emu scams that rocked western Tamil Nadu nearly a decade ago. The three persons convicted in the case include S. Yuvaraj (41), the main accused in the murder of Gokulraj, who belonged to a Scheduled Caste community, at Pallipalayam in Namakkal district in June 2015 in an alleged case of caste killing. As per the chargesheet filed by the Economic Offences Wing (EOW) of the police, Yuvaraj from Akkamapettai in Salem district, S. Tamizhnesan (34) from Thiruvenkitampalayampudur near Perundurai in Erode district and C. Vasu (52) from Nehru Street at Soorampatti in Erode district ran Suthi Emu Farms, Suthi Emu Farms Private Limited and Suthi Emu Farms and Hosieries at Perundurai in Erode district in 2011. Yuvaraj was the director of the emu farms with Tamizhnesan as the business partner and Vasu as the manager. High monthly returns According to the EOW, the accused lured investors through various schemes offering high monthly returns for rearing emus. A total of 121 people from Salem, Erode, Namakkal and other districts invested Rs. 2.70 crore with the firms run by the accused. However, several investors complained that they did not get the monthly returns. The EOW registered a case against the firms and the accused based on a complaint lodged by Palanisamy of Tiruchengode in Namakkal district. Yuvaraj, Tamizhnesan and Vasu were arrested by the police and booked under Sections 120 (b) (criminal conspiracy), 406 (criminal breach of trust), 420 (cheating) of the Indian Penal Code and section 5 of the TNPID Act. Fine imposed Judge A.S. Ravi sentenced the three men to undergo 10 years of imprisonment and imposed a fine of Rs. 2.47 crore on them on Thursday. The judge issued a non-bailable warrant against Tamizhnesan who did not appear before the court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-persons-get-10-years-imprisonment-in-emu-scam/article35756816.ece
06 August 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||MSMEs concerned over frequent disruptions in power supply||For the Micro, Small and Medium-scale Enterprises (MSMEs) in Coimbatore district, unannounced disruptions in electricity supply during the last few days have become a matter of concern. “Till two days ago, we had disruptions that ranged from 10 minutes to a couple of hours every day. When we called up the local line man, we were told that there were breakdowns. So the time taken to restore the supply depended on how bad the breakdown is,” said Kumar, who runs a micro unit near Pollachi. There are similar complaints in Coimbatore city too. Ramaswamy, who has a machine shop at Vellakinar, says that the supply has improved during the last two days. However, for almost 10 days till then, there will be no power supply for 30 minutes to an hour every morning. Again, there will be disruption for 10 minutes to 30 minutes during the day. “I employ six people who operate five lathes and one CNC machine. If the power goes off, the workers remain idle. In CNC machines, the tool gets damaged and it has to be set right before resuming operations. If the unit produces 300 pieces in eight hours, the production reduces. All these lead to losses,” he said. Units that had CNC machines faced a lot of problems because of unannounced power cuts, said J. James, president of Tamil Nadu Association of Cottage and Tiny Enterprises. When the machine stopped suddenly, it left a mark on the surface of the product that was under production. Such pieces were rejected by the customers and the unit owner incurred loss. The units were facing severe financial crunch and such issues only added to their problems. The Tangedco should understand the practical difficulties that small-scale manufacturers faced due to power cuts, he said. In a memorandum submitted to the Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation (Tangedco), the Association said the micro units faced 10 minutes to one hour power supply disruption and it happened two to five times a day. Unannounced power cuts affected the quality of products and tools and led to losses. “We have given the Tangedco officials here a list of places where there are power cut complaints,” he said. An official of Tangedco said there were shutdowns to take up maintenance works and these were announced to the public in advance. Power supply disruptions for routine maintenance were informed to the consumers. There might be small complaints locally for which there would be disruptions for a short while. Otherwise, the field-level officials had been told to take up maintenance works only after informing the public, the official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/msmes-concerned-over-frequent-disruptions-in-power-supply/article35756888.ece
06 August 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Elgi sees profits go up||Elgi Equipments, manufacturer of air compressors, has registered consolidated Profit After Tax of Rs. 12.02 crore for the June 2021 quarter, compared to a loss of Rs. 8.73 crore during the same period in 2020-21. The standalone PAT for the quarter was Rs. 26.01 crore compared to a loss of Rs. 7.06 crore in the same period in 2020-21. Consolidated sales for the quarter was Rs. 489 crore as against Rs. 286 crore in the corresponding quarter in 2020-21. Standalone sales for the quarter was Rs. 301 crore compared to Rs. 119 crore for the same quarter in 2020-21. The second wave of COVID-19 and associated lockdowns impacted business primarily through supply chain dislocations. The demand for products continued to remain reasonably strong globally, though in India it was slightly muted compared to the rest of the world. The spiralling raw material prices in 2020-21 continued during the first quarter of this year and this had a significant adverse impact on profitability. Multiple price increases by the company yielded results with significant time lags, which is typical of capital goods. The company has not fully recovered the cost increases from the market. The company’s automotive business increased by 39% compared to the corresponding period of 2020-21. It expects to perform well in the second quarter if the pandemic related impediments do not adversely impact its operations. The pressure on profitability will continue, but the company hopes to make up some of this through increased volumes, according to a press release from Elgi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/elgi-sees-profits-go-up/article35756892.ece
06 August 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Minister launches ‘Makkalai Thedi Maruthuvam’ scheme in Coimbatore||Following the State-wide launch of the ‘Makkalai Thedi Maruthuvam’ scheme to deliver essential healthcare at the doorstep, Minister for Forests K. Ramachandran launched it in Coimbatore district on Thursday. A release said Mr. Ramachandran inaugurated two vehicles that will be used for the scheme and also visited nearby residences of beneficiaries along with District Collector G.S. Sameeran and Corporation Commissioner Raja Gopal Sunkara to distribute medicines as part of the scheme. Following this, Mr. Ramachandran along with Mr. Sameeran visited the inter-State border check-post at Walayar to inspect the COVID-19 restrictions for those entering the district from Kerala. He told reporters, only those with COVID-19 negative certificate or double dose vaccination certificate were being allowed to enter Coimbatore district. They also inspected the screening and lifting of swab samples of passengers arriving at the Coimbatore Railway Station on Thursday, the release said. At the Collectorate, Mr. Ramachandran distributed 141 sewing machines to beneficiaries and identity cards to 64 transwomen under the ‘Ungal Thoguthiyil Muthalamaichar’ scheme. He also flagged off a campaign vehicle to raise awareness on breastfeeding to mark the World Breastfeeding Week, according to the release. Health Department officials also visited the tribal settlements within Anamalai Tiger Reserve limits in Valparai for the scheme’s inaugural day. Valparai Block Medical Officer Babu Lakshman said he visited Vellimudi settlement to distribute medicines tor the residents and the staff also visited Balakinar tribal settlement. In Tiruppur district, Minister for Information and Publicity M.P. Saminathan inaugurated the scheme at Avinashi. The scheme would initially cover 25 health sub-centres in Avinashi taluk and would be extended to the whole district soon, he said in a release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/minister-launches-makkalai-thedi-maruthuvam-scheme-in-coimbatore/article35756809.ece
06 August 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Bid to break open ATM, one held||The Sulur police arrested a 25-year-old man who attempted to break open an ATM of the State Bank of India (SBI) near Kangayampalayam on Wednesday. The arrested has been identified as A. Akil of Haryana. The police sources herer said that the Air Force Station branch of the SBI received an alert from its control room in Mumbai that there was an break-in attempt at the ATM near Kangayampalayam area around 10 a.m. on Wednesday. An alarm went off after Akil cut a wire connected to the ATM. Branch manager Lakshmipriya Pillai and team rushed to the ATM and caught Akil in the act. He was handed over to the police. Akil was produced before a magistrate and remanded in judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bid-to-break-open-atm-one-held/article35756812.ece
06 August 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Only 2,511 applications received under RTE Act quota seats: Collector||District Collector G.S. Sameeran has invited more applications from parents in Coimbatore district for the seats reserved in private schools under the Right to Education (RTE) Act, following the extension of the last date for applications to August 13. Vacant In a release, he said that between July 5 and August 3, online applications were received for only 2,511 out of 4,710 seats available under the RTE Act quota in the district and 2,199 seats remained vacant in private schools. Parents could apply online either throughhttps://rte.tnschools.gov.in/or visit one of the offices under the Department of School Education – Chief Educational Office, District/Block Educational Offices and Samagra Shiksha offices – for applications in Coimbatore district. Documents Soft copies of the applicant’s photograph, birth certificate, address proof, income certificate for those with annual income of less than Rs. 2 lakh, disadvantaged group special category certificate and community certificate would be required for application, Mr. Sameeran said in the release. As per Section 12 (1) (c) of the RTE Act, private schools must allocate “...to the extent of at least twenty five percent of the strength of that class, children belonging to the weaker section and disadvantaged group in the neighbourhood and provide free and compulsory elementary education till its completion.” If the number of applications received is more than the allocated 25% of the seats in a school, lottery admissions will be held to select the students in the RTE Act quota, according to the release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/only-2511-applications-received-under-rte-act-quota-seats-collector/article35756805.ece
06 August 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Emu scam: 3 get 10-year imprisonment||The special court for the trial of cases registered under the Tamil Nadu Protection of Interests of Depositors (TNPID) Act in Coimbatore on Thursday awarded 10 years of imprisonment to three persons, in one of the many emu scams that rocked the western region nearly a decade ago. The three convicted in the case include S. Yuvaraj, 41, the main accused in the murder of Gokulraj, who belonged to a Scheduled Caste community, in Pallipalayam, Namakkal district, in June 2015, in an alleged case of caste killing. As per the chargesheet filed by the economic offences wing (EOW) of the police, Yuvaraj from Akkamapettai in Salem district, S. Tamizhnesan, 34, from Thiruvenkitampalayampudur near Perundurai in Erode district, and C. Vasu, 52, from Nehru Street in Soorampatti, Erode district, ran Suthi Emu Farms, Suthi Emu Farms Private Limited and Suthi Emu Farms and Hosieries in Perundurai, Erode district, in 2011. Yuvaraj was the director of the farms, with Tamizhnesan as his business partner and Vasu the manager. According to the EOW, the accused lured investors through various schemes, offering high monthly returns for rearing emus. A total of 121 people from Salem, Erode, Namakkal and other districts invested Rs. 2.7 crore with the firms run by the accused. However, several investors complained that they did not get the monthly returns. The EOW registered a case against the farms and the accused, based on a complaint lodged by Palanisamy of Tiruchengode in Namakkal district. Yuvaraj, Tamizhnesan and Vasu were booked under Sections 120(b) (criminal conspiracy), 406 (criminal breach of trust), 420 (cheating) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 5 of TNPID Act. The police arrested the three. Judge A.S. Ravi sentenced the three to 10 years’ imprisonment and imposed a fine of Rs. 2.47 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/emu-scam-3-get-10-year-imprisonment/article35756797.ece
06 August 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore Railway Station gets IGBC’s platinum rating||The Coimbatore Railway Station has received the ‘platinum’ rating from the Indian Green Building Council (IGBC), becoming the only railway station in Southern Railway and the sixth railway station in India to receive this level of green certification. Green concepts According to a release from the Salem Railway Division on Thursday, the IGBC with the support of the Environment Directorate of Indian Railways developed the ‘Green Railway Stations Rating System’ to facilitate adoption of ‘green concepts’ in railway stations, thereby reducing the adverse environmental impacts due to station operation and maintenance.  Advantages The ‘green railway stations’ will have advantages such as reduction in water consumption by 30 % - 50% and energy consumption by 20 % -30%, better waste management and increased use of renewable energy. The evaluation was done based on six environmental categories as defined by the IGBC - Sustainable Station Facility, Health, Hygiene and Sanitation, Energy Efficiency, Water Efficiency, Smart and Green Initiatives and Innovation and Development. Coimbatore Railway Station scored 83 out of 100 points during the evaluation to get the ‘platinum’ rating, the release said. Initiatives Sources in the Salem Division said that since 2019, the railway station had carried out various ‘green’ initiatives such as waste water recycling, Miyawaki plantations and had installed 370 solar panels (100 kW) for general lighting purposes. Apart from Coimbatore, the five other railway stations in Indian Railways with IGBC’s ‘platinum’ certification are Secunderabad, New Delhi, Jaipur, Visakhapatnam and Asansol, the release noted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-railway-station-gets-igbcs-platinum-rating/article35756810.ece
06 August 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Teenager drowns in tank||An 18-year-old boy from Saibaba Colony drowned in a tank near Karamadai where he had gone to celebrate the birthday of his friend on Tuesday. A. Manikandan from K.K. Pudur drowned in a tank at Velliangadu and his body was retrieved on Wednesday. The police said Manikandan had gone to the place with six friends to celebrate a friend’s birthday. A cake was cut near the tank after which the youths ventured into the water body. Manikandan did not know swimming and he drowned in the tank before others could rescue him, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/teenager-drowns-in-tank/article35756814.ece
06 August 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Briefly||Members of Patanjali Yog Samiti distributed herbal saplings in various locations in the State on Wednesday. A release said the saplings were distributed in Coimbatore, Hosur, Salem and Namakkal.   Rotary Club of Coimbatore Texcity launched three programmes on Wednesday. A release said Adopting Farming Community, Vocational Training Programme and Annadhanam pertaining to organic farming, computer training and free lunch respectively were launched.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/briefly/article35756806.ece
06 August 2021||Dharmapuri,TAMIL NADU||Subsidy for inland fishing in Dharmapuri||Subsidies are proposed under the National Agriculture Extension Project for inland fishing for farmers on their farms here in the district. Under the Nation Agriculture Extension Project, applications are invited from farmers interested in inland fishing on their farms at a subsidy. The project entails a subsidy of 40% of the total project cost of Rs. 7 lakh for setting up of a new farm pond for fishing on a hectare of land. This envisions a subsidy amount of Rs. 3.50 lakh. The input cost of Rs. 1.50 lakh will be met by a subsidy amount of Rs. 60,000, which is 40% subsidy. Under the project, a total subsidy of Rs. 4.10 lakh is granted to the farmer. Farmers may own the land or hold a lease to the land for not less than five years. Farmers interested in availing the subsidy may apply through the fisheries office here before August 20. The selection shall be based on priority basis in the event of receipt of excess number of applications. The applications will be received at the office of Assistant Director of Fisheries, 1/165 A, Ramasamy Gownder Street, Oddapatty, Dharmapuri, phone – 04342-296623.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/subsidy-for-inland-fishing-in-dharmapuri/article35756893.ece
06 August 2021||DINDIGUL,TAMIL NADU||Medical team examines residents||Cooperation Minister I Periasamy launched the ‘Makkalai Thedi Maruthuvam’ at Ammayanakayanur near Nilakottai on Thursday in the presence of Collector S Visagan, MLA I P Senthil Kumar. When many States were under pressure to tackle the COVID-19 pandemic, the trend was declining in Tamil Nadu. It had become possible due to efficient management of the government and the professional ability of doctors and frontline staff here. He said that six lakh people in Dindigul district had been vaccinated. He said that people in Kodaikanal had been given fully vaccinated and credited the Health Department and other officials for achieving it. The Makkalai Thedi Maruthuvam scheme would reach out to the doorsteps of the people requiring medical attention. The government has provided a vehicle with a trained nurse and another technical staff, who could guide the patients above 45 years. The government has proposed to give dialysis at the doorsteps of patients with the aid of mobile dialysis unit. For womenfolk, the nurse would be able to give regular checks on post-delivery issues, if any . Ramanathapuram Collector J U Chandrakala launched the scheme at Vazuthur in Mandapam panchayat in the presence of MLAs Kadarbasha Muthuramalingam and K R Manickam. She said that about 50000 patients were undergoing treatment at different GHs in the district. From now on, those immobile would benefit from this scheme. She hoped the programme would prevent deaths as mobile health team would be at the doorsteps. Apart from the trained nurse and technician, the vehicle would carry medical kit for the needy patients. From now on, apart from the district, villages in taluks and panchayats would be covered, she said and added that in phases Tirupulani, Paramakudi, Sayalkudi and other blocks would be covered. Theni Launching the scheme in Andipatti Assembly Constituency, Theni Collector K V Muralidharan said that it would take care of those who were not covered so far. The mobile vehicle would be able to reach the doorsteps of those living in the tail end of the district. The tribal population in Bodi and Periakulam blocks would benefit much. Similarly, elderly people would get proper medical attention. The Collector appealed to the residents to make use of the medical care. Sivaganga Collector P Madhusudan Reddy flagged off the mobile medical van at O Pudur in Sivaganga Panchayat Union in the presence of MLAs A Tamilarasi and Mangudi. He said that elders in rural pockets would be screened for diabetes and other ailments. Regular checks like BP and other tests would be carried out for the needy people at the nearest PHCs. The mobile van would be able to give tablets to the patients at the doorsteps. Many people, particularly, elders could not collect the tablets from the Government Hospitals due to the lockdown and other emergencies. From now on, the scheme would be of immense help to them, he said. DD Health Yasodamani said that the mobile vehicle would reach all block level hamlets and habitations. Subsequently, the patients can get in touch with the nearest PHCs for any further attention. By this, the travel time is saved for the elders and those with serious ailments, she added. Virudhunagar Collector J. Meghanath Reddy launched the scheme at Ayanreddiyapatti Sub Health Centre under Kariyapatti Taluk on Thursday. He said that the new scheme was aimed at reducing the burden of patients of non-communicable diseases by providing them medical help at their doorsteps. Patients suffering from diabetes and hypertension can get their medical tests at their doorsteps. Besides, they would get their medicines and physiotherapy, pain-relief treatment too. Those patients who have kidney problems and children with congenital diseases will be given medical examination and necessary treatment would be advised. The details of the patients would be recorded for continuous monitoring, the Colletor said. Deputy Director (Health Services), A. Palanisamy (Virudhunagar), Kalusivalingam (Sivakasi), Kariyapttti Tahsildar, Dhanakumar, were amog those who were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/medical-team-examines-residents/article35756877.ece
06 August 2021||Kallakurichi,TAMIL NADU||Ministers launch healthcare scheme||Minister for Higher Education K. Ponmudi launched the ‘Makkalai Thedi Maruthuvam’ scheme, aimed at providing healthcare at people’s doorstep, at Siruvangur village in Kallakurichi district. He said the scheme would be extended in phases to all villages in the district. It would cover about 53,384 beneficiaries, including 51,341 with non-communicable diseases, in the district. Collector P.N. Sridhar, Deputy Director of Health Services D.N. Sathish Kumar and Vikravandi MLA N. Pugazhenthi were present. Earlier, Mr. Ponmudi inaugurated the scheme at Panjamadevi village in Villupuram district. Water Resources Minister Duraimurugan and Minister for Food and Civil Supplies R. Sakkarapani inaugurated the scheme in Vellore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ministers-launch-healthcare-scheme/article35757158.ece
06 August 2021||KODAIKANAL,TAMIL NADU||Check on people coming from Kerala||Collector S. Visagan on Thursday said that the district administration would intensify surveillance on people coming here from Kerala. With reports of COVID-19 patients from Kerala coming in, he told reporters that officials have been instructed to intensify checks at all check posts, railway station and border points. The checks would be done jointly by teams from health and police, he said and added that tourism spots in Kodaikanal hill station would continue to remain under lock and key until further orders. Already, Bryant Park, Rose Garden and a few other locations in the hill station were closed as a preventive measure. Now, other spots such as Green Valley View, Guna Caves and others would be closed for the public, Mr. Visagan said and added that tourists coming from Kerala should possess the vaccine inoculation certificates or RT-PCR test report that they were COVID-19 negative. Vehicles from Kerala entering Kodaikanal should have e-pass, which has been made mandatory by the government. The persons travelling and checking in hotels, resorts and private bungalows in the hill stations should ensure the COVID-19 protocol. Any negligence on the part of the hoteliers would be viewed seriously, Mr. Visagan said and added that round-the-clock checks would be in place. A senior police officer said that adequate police personnel would be deployed during weekends and public holidays to regulate crowds in the hills. Kodaikanal police have warned of stern action against two-wheeler riders from other districts indulging in rash and negligent driving as there were such complaints of late. Cases have been booked and in some cases, the vehicles were seized as the bike riders were in an inebriated condition, the police said and added that vehicle drivers should follow SOP and the MV Act rules. The police have registered cases under dangerous driving and under the Disaster Management Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/check-on-people-coming-from-kerala/article35756874.ece
06 August 2021||KODAIKANAL,TAMIL NADU||Elephant movement suspected||Forest officials have urged farmers and tribals living in upper Kodaikanal to remain indoors as they have a strong suspicion of elephant movement in some private farms over the last two days. Following complaints of coconut plantations being destroyed, they have asked the people to stay indoors and not to venture into the fields during late evenings. The villages including Puliyur and Pethuparai were under scanner since Monday after farmers complained about the destruction. The elephants may even move towards areas where the human population settlements were situated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/elephant-movement-suspected/article35757053.ece
06 August 2021||KOVILPATTI,TAMIL NADU||Youth commits suicide||A youth allegedly hanged himself as he could not meet the fuel expenses. The police said Krishnasamy, 28, of Scheduled Tribes Colony near Manthithoppu here, who is working as temporary driver in the Kovilpatti Municipality, asked his wife Rohini Prabha on Thursday to give him money to buy fuel for his bike. When she replied that she had no money for petrol, Krishnasamay reportedly lamented that he could not meet the fuel and other expenses with his poor salary. After telling her husband that she would get money from her father-in-law for the fuel, Ms. Rohini Prabha went to the bathroom. When she came out, she found that Krishnasamy hanging himself with her saree. As she screamed in fear and agony, neighbours rushed to her house and informed the Kovilpatti West police, who sent the body to Government Hospital for a post-mortem. The police are investigating the case. Those in distress or having suicidal tendencies could seek help and counselling by calling State’s health helpline 104 or Chennai-based Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/youth-commits-suicide/article35756871.ece
06 August 2021||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||CM launches ‘Makkalai Thedi Maruthuvam’||‘Makkalai Thedi Maruthuvam’, the DMK government’s scheme to deliver essential healthcare services at the doorstep of the people, was launched on Thursday by Chief Minister M.K. Stalin at Samanapalli in Krishnagiri district. The scheme will change the mode of preliminary healthcare delivery and ring in an era when essential medical services are within the reach of the poor, Mr. Stalin said. In the presence of Health Minister Ma. Subramanian, he simultaneously declared the scheme open in seven other districts. ‘Makkalai Thedi Maruthuvam’ will screen those aged above 45 and others with infirmities through routine door-to-door check-ups and detect non-communicable diseases that are seen to cause sudden deaths and impact the quality of life. The scheme will hinge on women public health workers, women health volunteers, physiotherapists and nurses, the Chief Minister said. Mr. Stalin said the scheme was part of his government’s 7-point vision aimed at an “enhanced quality of life for all”. “Makkalai Thedi Maruthuvam will ring in an era of healthcare delivery, when people need not come to hospitals but will have access to medicine and screening at their doorstep,” he said. People will be screened for high blood pressure and diabetes — both of which go largely undetected in villages — and monthly medicines will be provided at the doorstep. Physiotherapy will be given to those in need. The scheme will include screening for kidney ailments and congenital defects in children, which will be followed up through hospital treatment, Mr. Stalin said. Dialysis will also be provided in due course through portable dialysis machines. The scheme was simultaneously launched in Thanjavur, Tiruchi, Tirunelveli, Coimbatore, Chennai, Salem and Madurai districts with a cumulative allocation of Rs. 258 crore and a targeted coverage of 30 lakh families and a population of 1 crore. About 1,264 women health workers, 50 physiotherapists and 50 nurses have been appointed to implement the scheme. By the year-end, the government is hoping to extend the scheme to the entire State by inducting an estimated 25,000 additional workers (healthcare volunteers and nurses). A 108 ambulance was pressed into service for exclusive emergency response in the remote tribal terrain of Bettamugilalam and surrounding villages in Thally.  People will be screened for high blood pressure and diabetes — both of which go largely undetected in villages — and monthly medicines will be given M.K. Stalin Chief Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-launches-makkalai-thedi-maruthuvam/article35756774.ece
06 August 2021||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||When CM delivered medicines||Thursday was perhaps the only time in life Chandrashekhar, 50, was grateful for his diabetes and stroke that have rendered him infirm and home-bound. When Chief Minister M.K. Stalin set foot into Mr. Chandrashekhar’s home at Samanapalli to hand over a box of medicines, marking the start of ‘Makkalai Thedi Maruthuvam’ (healthcare at the doorstep), he finally spotted the silver lining. For this hardcore DMK man, it was a surreal experience. It lingered through the interaction as Mr. Chandrashekhar showed the box of medicines handed to him by Mr. Stalin. A physiotherapist had taught him some basic exercises for recovery from stroke, which will be continued through weekly visits of the therapist. A week ago, Mr. Chandrashekhar’s family heard from the Udhanapalli primary health centre, from where he was getting the monthly quota of tablets for diabetes, that Mr. Stalin would visit their home. “ En thalaivar vararu, en thangam vararu, en kadavul vararu en veetai thedi [My leader is coming, my precious one is coming, My god is coming to my house],” Mr. Chandrashekhar had repeated all through the week, his wife Gowramma and relatives said. It was fading vision that led Ms. Gowramma to take her husband to a private hospital in Hosur five years ago. “They told us his vision was fading because of high sugar... The doctor said he also had a mild stroke.” Mr. Chandrashekhar, who was a parotta master in an eatery, had to quit his job and be home-bound. The family of five has since been running on the income of Ms. Gowramma, an anganwadi help. After spending over Rs. 50,000, the family started treatment at the primary health centre. “The PHC gives us his monthly sugar tablets,” said Ms. Gowramma. Later, she said, she wished she had a chance to ask the high-profile guest for financial support for her children’s education.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/when-cm-delivered-medicines/article35756779.ece
06 August 2021||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Chief Minister orders removal of banners||No large banners or glitter, no flowers or satin-wrapped chairs, but only the shade of a grand old peepal tree and a rustic platform with a fresh coat of cement that lent the stage for the launch of ‘Makkalai Thedi Maruthuvam’ in Krishnagiri district on Thursday. The preparations for Chief Minister M.K. Stalin’s arrival, too, were marked by austerity. It all began after he arrived in Hosur on Wednesday evening. On a quick visit to the house of MLA Y. Prakash to condole the passing of his wife, Mr. Stalin was said to have spotted four large circular banners dotting the stretch. Official sources said he had a word with the Collector, and revenue officials were called to have them removed. Barring DMK flags that lined some stretches of the highway, Mr. Stalin’s visit was bereft of ostentation. Returning, Mr. Stalin charmed a woman loyalist, stopping his car and taking his mask off at her request. In a video circulated, his convoy is seen stopping at the request of the woman, who then insists he take his mask off. “It’s been many days since we saw your face,” she says, and he lifts his mask, revealing a smile.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/chief-minister-orders-removal-of-banners/article35756780.ece
06 August 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Passengers from Kerala not screened at railway stations||Even as Tamil Nadu made RT-PCR negative report mandatory for passengers coming from Kerala from Thursday, no health or revenue team was present at Madurai railway junction to check inbound passengers. Health Minister Ma. Subramanian had recently announced that it was mandatory for passengers coming from Kerala to produce the RT-PCR negative report as COVID-19 cases were on the rise there. “No team is present in Dindigul, Madurai, Virudhunagar and Sattur railway stations,” said a railway official. With inter-State buses not being operated, trains and flights are the main modes of transport between Tamil Nadu and Kerala. Six interstate express trains are being operated between the two States. “Passengers from Kerala come to Madurai right from early morning with the arrival of Punalur Express. It is followed by Guruvayur Express (forenoon), Amirtha Express, Intercity Express, Kollam-Chennai Express (till evening) and Ananthapuri Express which comes late in the night,” the railway official said. Though the patronage by passengers is not high, the officials cannot take chances as even one or two COVID-infected passengers arriving at the railway stations in the southern districts of Tamil Nadu can neutralise all the efforts taken by the government in containing the infection. The district administrations have barred entry of devotees into places of worship. In Madurai, the flower market has been shifted to a spacious ground, and retail sale has been banned in vegetable and fruit markets. However, when Guruvayur Express arrived at Madurai junction on Thursday, no passenger was intercepted by any team to check RT-PCR certificates. “Neither screening of passengers was done today,” said a railway official. City Health Officer P. Kumaragurubaran said that teams had already been posted for screening railway passengers. “We will ensure that they screen every interstate passenger from Friday morning,” he added. Virudhunagar A health official in Virudhunagar said teams would be deployed in Virudhunagar station on Friday. to verify RT-PCR reports. “If the passengers were not in possession of the certificates, swab samples will be lifted on the spot and their personal details along with phone numbers and their places of visit/stay will be recorded,” the official added.  No questions asked As inter-State buses are not operated, people travel by trains Six interstate trains are operated between the two States Even one or two passengers with infection can neutralise all prevention efforts||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/passengers-from-kerala-not-screened-at-railway-stations/article35756879.ece
06 August 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||‘New scheme, a boon for all’||Commercial Taxes and Registration Minister P. Moorthy on Thursday launched the ‘Makkalai Thedi Maruthuvam’ scheme at M. Kallupatti village in Sedapatti union in Madurai district. Presiding over the function, Collector S. Aneesh Sekhar said that under the scheme, mobile medical teams would screen people of all ages at their doorstep for all ailments, including diabetes. The advantage of visiting people in their houses was that the medical team would get an opportunity to have a better understanding of the living conditions and prescribe the right medication. Data on patients requiring medical attention had been tabulated and the nurses/technical staff would coordinate with the primary health centres in the respective blocks for screening. For post-operative surgeries, the patients need not travel to far away government hospitals as the mobile team would check their condition at periodic intervals, the Collector said. The on-the-spot diagnosis scheme would be extended to cover more places with more features, he said. MLAs A. Venkatesan and M. Boominathan, senior officials from the health, revenue and other departments participated in the function.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/new-scheme-a-boon-for-all/article35757064.ece
06 August 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Issue passport to documentary filmmaker, says High Court||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has directed the Madurai Regional Passport Officer to process the application and issue passport to documentary filmmaker and lawyer K. Divya of Madurai. Justice N. Anand Venkatesh observed that Divya was a qualified lawyer and is also engaged in making documentaries. It is seen from the records that she has dedicated her life to create awareness on various subjects through documentary films and has received several awards. Her documentary films have been screened at various film festivals across 45 countries. It is clear that she will have to travel to foreign countries to attend international film festivals and participate in gatherings involving rights of marginalised communities and LGBTQIA+ issues. The application made by the petitioner seeking passport was kept pending as criminal cases were pending against her. When she was a law student she took part in a protest demanding better hostel facilities for students. Taking note of the fact that she was acquitted in one case and had filed a petition before the court to quash the other case, the judge directed the Madurai Regional Passport Officer to process the application and issue the passport. Since the quash petition is pending before the court, only if the court grants permission will the Passport Officer issue or renew a passport as per an earlier judgment of the High Court. Accordingly, the directions are issued to the Passport Officer, the judge said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/issue-passport-to-documentary-filmmaker-says-high-court/article35757055.ece
06 August 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Mini buses must ply only on permitted routes: HC||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has directed Kanniyakumari District Mini Bus Owners Association to ask its members to strictly follow rules pertaining to operating their vehicles only on permitted routes. In the event of any violation, the authorities could take action against them, the court said. The court was hearing a petition filed by Association secretary P. David Raj. He complained that the Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation (TNSTC) officials were interfering in the operation of mini buses. He said that there were 35 mini bus operators in the association, with 160 vehicles, plying in the Marthandam region. TNSTC officials were disrupting the operation of mini buses under the guise of inspection. Even if the mini bus owners were indulging in illegality, the TNSTC officials could only complain to the Collector who had to take appropriate action. He sought direction to the authorities to stop interfering in mini bus operations. The State submitted that operation of mini buses were checked periodically. There were several route violations committed by the operators. In 2018-2019, more than 200 check reports were issued to the operators. The TNSTC submitted that the mini bus operators, instead of operating their buses on permitted routes, were deliberately operating them in routes that were exclusively permitted for the TNSTC. This caused heavy loss to the Corporation. Taking note of the submission, Justice J. Nisha Banu observed that the association had a right to operate the buses only on permitted routes as per the conditions laid. In case the buses were operated on routes other than the permitted route, action can be taken. The TNSTC can bring the violations to the notice of the Transport Department and the police officials who shall take appropriate action based on the complaints. The association should ask its members to strictly follow the rules, the judge said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mini-buses-must-ply-only-on-permitted-routes-hc/article35757057.ece
06 August 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Inspect shrimp farm: HC||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has directed Tirunelveli district administration to ascertain if a shrimp farm was established without permission in Thomaiyarpuram village in Radhapuram Taluk in Tirunelveli district. The court was hearing the petition filed by P. Stalin. He complained that one Arputharaj had illegally set up a shrimp farm and laid a pipeline to draw seawater without obtaining permission from the authorities concerned. When this was brought to the notice of the authorities, the villagers were assured that action would be taken to close the shrimp farm and dismantle the pipe. However, no action had been taken so far by the authorities, the petitioner said. A Division Bench of Justices T.S. Sivagnanam and S. Ananthi directed the authorities to take action by conducting an inspection and if it was ascertained that the shrimp farm was established without permission then steps must be taken to lock and seal the premises and dismantle the pipeline.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/inspect-shrimp-farm-court/article35756880.ece
06 August 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Lottery ticket racket busted, two held||Busting an illegal lottery ticket selling racket, Madurai Rural District Police seized lottery tickets valued at Rs. 5.21 lakh and Rs. 5.27 lakh in cash and arrested three persons since Wednesday. Superintendent of Police V. Baskaran said that a special team of police arrested M. Gnanamurugan of Pulimanthai Street in Usilampatti after it seized lottery tickets valued at Rs. 1.20 lakh and Rs. 1,000 from him on Wednesday. Based on interrogation, the team shadowed M. Sakthi in PC Patti and C. Krishnan of NRT Nagar, both in Theni district, on Thursday. The police found that they were in the possession of lottery tickets valued at Rs. 4 lakh and Rs. 5.26 lakh, which was the proceeds of selling the illegal lottery tickets. Mr. Baskaran said that the accused were selling Kerala State lottery tickets and single-digit lottery tickets that were being done by a network of illegal lottery promoters. The SP said that stringent action would be taken against those involved in illegal sale of lottery tickets.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/lottery-ticket-racket-busted-two-held/article35757059.ece
06 August 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Water level||The water level in Periyar dam stood at 136.20 feet (maximum permissible level is 142 feet) with an inflow of 613 cusecs and discharge of 900 cusecs. In Vaigai dam, the water level stood at 68.57 feet (71 feet) with an inflow of 722 cusecs and discharge of 969 cusecs. The combined storage in Periyar credit was 10403 mcft.      Forest officials have announced that devotees proceeding to Mahalingam Temple in Sathuragiri in Virudhunagar district through the Varushanadu-Upputhurai village through the forest area would not be permitted this year also. After reviewing the pandemic situation, officials said that the government had instructed them to ensure that there was no public gathering. Every year, at least 50 TNSTC buses would be organised as a special service up to Upputhurai from where the devotees would trek to the temple. Kandamanur forest authorities including Arumugam, Pradeep and Senthil reviewed the situation at Yanaigajam on Thursday and installed barricades at vantage locations for restricting public entry.      Demanding the State government to appoint a commission to probe into the alleged corruption charges during the AIADMK regime, a majority of the TASMAC staff worked by wearing badges on Thursday. They said that the previous government had allegedly forced them to indulge in malpractice in many ways. As a result, many rules were bent especially on sale price of liquor bottles to the consumers. The TASMAC employees wanted the government to regularise their pay scale, confirm their service and give all the benefits as enjoyed by other employees in government departments.    Forest officials have urged the farmers and tribals living in upper Kodaikanal to remain indoors as they have a strong suspicion of elephant movement in some private farms over the last two days. Following complaints of coconut plantations being destroyed, they have asked the people to stay indoors and not to venture into the fields during late evenings. The villages including Puliyur and Pethuparai were under scanner since Monday after farmers complained about the destruction. The elephants may even move towards areas where the human population settlements were situated. Adequate pickets have been posted in the area, a senior official here said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level/article35756882.ece
06 August 2021||Perambalur,TAMIL NADU||Gang involved in killing couple arrested||Special police teams arrested a six-member gang which had allegedly murdered a couple at Allinagaram village in Kunnam police station limits in the district in June and decamped with gold and silver jewellery items and cash. The teams recovered stolen gold jewels weighing 16 sovereigns, a television set and an anklet set made of silver from the accused K. Chandru alias Santhoshkumar; J. Mahesh, D. Yuvaraj, R. Appu alias Sri Ramakrishnan, M. Sathya and M. Manikandan. The victims, Periyasamy (62) and his wife Arivazhagi (48), were murdered in the early hours on June 8, by the gang members who decamped with the valuables. The Kunnam Police had registered a case. Two special teams were formed as per the direction of the Superintendent of Police, Perambalur S. Mani which apprehended the gang members who were sent for judicial remand, a police press release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gang-involved-in-killing-couple-near-perambalur-arrested/article35756859.ece
06 August 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||When it comes to banner rule, parties pay only lip service||The rules on the erection of banners and cutouts in the Union Territory have been watered down by successive governments over the years, thanks to poor enforcement by local bodies and promises by political parties remaining only lip service. The flagrant violation of the directions of the government banning the erection of cutouts and other graffiti can be seen quite often; particularly the parties which champion the point that no banner should be erected are the first to violate when they come to power. In 2016, the government tweaked the conditions laid down in the Puducherry Open Places (Prevention of Disfigurement Act) 2009, which envisaged a blanket ban on erection of banners, flex boards, and hoardings in order to meet the demands from various corners and to bring some revenue to the cash-starved local bodies. The Local Administration Department notified 20 designated places each, within the jurisdiction of Puducherry and Oulgaret municipalities, for putting up banners. It decided to allow banners at designated places and protect the town's aesthetics. But both the ruling and opposition parties continue to violate the order and put up banners and hoardings everywhere in the town. The stand taken bythe political parties while in opposition changes the moment the party comes to power. According to T.R. Gayathri Srikanth, founder of Iraivi, a women’s forum, “This can be seen in Puducherry over the last two decades irrespective of the party in power. The banners and flex boards are mostly tied to electric posts and medians.” “In case of strong winds or rain, the banners are likely to tilt, causing accidents. Though the electric posts are maintained by the Electricity Department, it has turned a blind eye to the banners that could endanger lives or cause damage to electric installations.” “Local bodies are at a loss to implement the ban order as the rules under the Puducherry Municipality Act on all forms of advertisements and hoardings had been subsumed under the Goods and Services Tax (GST) Act in 2017,” said an official of the Local Administration Department on anonymity. “The Department is now working on drafting a bylaw for banners, including advertisements. However, whether this act will come into force remains to be seen,” he said. According to K. Jaya Kanthan, a resident of Kamaraj Nagar, "The lack of penal action against violators of law has been the reason for the erection of innumerable illegal hoardings. When the hoardings are erected for political leaders, who will dare to take action against the people responsible for such hoardings?” “While banners were earlier put up near government buildings, temples and schools, their numbers have now increased at vantage locations, distracting motorists,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/when-it-comes-to-banner-rule-parties-pay-only-lip-service/article35757153.ece
06 August 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Municipality cracks down on defaulting cable TV operators||A team of Pondicherry Municipality officials led a crackdown against cable TV operators defaulting on entertainment tax payment across the city on Thursday. The Municipality has begun disconnecting cable lines of operators who have not paid tax arrears or who are not registered with the civic body. As a result of the fuzzy accounting prevailing in the cable entertainment sector, many cable operators have not registered with the Municipality, under-report the number of connections and on top of that default on paying taxes causing substantial revenue loss to the urban civic body. According to a press note from Pondicherry Municipality Commissioner S. Sivakumar, the disconnection drive was launched after two notices issued to operators to cough up tax arrears were ignored. Cable lines of six operators with total outstanding tax arrears of Rs. 1.2 crore were disconnected and their broadcast equipment seized on Thursday. The Commissioner has warned of continuing with the drive in the days ahead and appealed to the operators to remit tax dues immediately.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/municipality-cracks-down-on-defaulting-cable-tv-operators/article35757148.ece
06 August 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||University V-C meets L-G, seeks help in land allocation||A team of Pondicherry University officials, led by Gurmeet Singh, Vice-Chancellor, met Dr. Tamilisai Soundararajan, Lieutenant Governor of Puducherry and Chief Rector of Pondicherry University, at Raj Nivas to discuss various development proposals of the University. The Vice-Chancellor requested her intervention in expediting the process of allocation of about 15 acres of land by the government in addition to the already allocated 5 acres for the establishment of an exclusive campus of Pondicherry University in Karaikal. The University also sought a portion of the existing land to an extent of 3 acres behind the campus of the Arignar Anna Government Arts College, Karaikal, for the construction of two hostels — with 136 capacity/ground plus five floors each (for boys and girls) — to benefit the students. Mr. Singh also appealed to Ms. Tamilisai for assistance in securing two tracts of land to an extent of 8 acres adjacent and opposite to the JIPMER extension campus near bypass road in Karaikal, so as to enable Pondicherry University to establish the Pondicherry University Community College and staff quarters, common facilities for the Pondicherry University Community College Campus in Karaikal. In Mahe, the University is looking to expedite the process of transferring the allotted 2 acres land at Chalakkara Revenue Village for the establishment of the Pondicherry University Community College. According to a press release from the University, the Lt. Governor agreed to look into the proposals and promised her support to elevate the University to be one of the country’s top institutions of higher learning. Mr. Singh also invited the Lt. Governor and Chief Rector to inaugurate the indoor stadium built at Pondicherry University later this month. S. Balakrishnan, Director (Studies, Educational Innovation and Rural Reconstruction) and B. Chithra, Registrar, accompanied the Vice-Chancellor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/university-v-c-meets-l-g-seeks-help-in-land-allocation/article35757155.ece
06 August 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||No COVID-19 death reported in U.T.||No COVID-19 death was reported in the Union Territory on Thursday even as 81 new cases were confirmed in tests against 100 recoveries on Thursday. The death toll remained at 1,798 — Puducherry 1,424, Karaikal 231, Yanam 101 and Mahe 38. Puducherry reported 62 of the new cases, which were detected from 5,953 tests, followed by Karaikal (6), Yanam (1) and Mahe (12). The test positivity rate was 1.36%, case fatality rate 1.48% and recovery rate 97.79%. The active cases stood at 888 with 167 patients in hospitals and 721 under home isolation. The Union Territory has recorded an aggregate of 1,21,333 cases against 1,18,647 patients recovered to date. Of an estimated 15.25 lakh tests administered so far, over 13 lakh have returned negative. Meanwhile, 4,630 people took the jab in the last 24 hours to take the total vaccinated population to 7,22,992. The vaccinated segment comprises 37,875 healthcare workers, 22,978 frontline personnel and 5,15,398 members of the public. Nil deaths in Cuddalore Cuddalore district reported nil deaths due to COVID-19 on Thursday. As many as 72 persons tested positive for the infection, taking the overall tally to 60,787. The district saw 59,255 recoveries and 656 were active cases. In Villupuram district, 38 persons tested positive, taking the total number of positive cases in the district to 44,005. Kallakurichi district reported 42 cases, taking the overall tally to 29,287.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-covid-19-death-reported-in-ut/article35757149.ece
06 August 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Puducherry govt. seeks Centre's nod to sell AFT land||The territorial administration has approached the Centre for sanction to dispose of land belonging to Anglo French Textiles at Pattanur, near here. Home Minister A. Namassivayam, in a memorandum to Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Thursday, sought the Centre's nod to sell the land. The territorial administration for the last several years was taking efforts to sell the land to mobilise financial resources to disburse pending salary, gratuity and dues of employees working in the now defunct AFT. The AFT has at its disposal around 55 acres of land at Pattanur. Nod for Bills A statement from Mr. Namassivayam's office said the Minister had also sought the Home Ministry' s approval for the Private University Bill and the Higher Education Council Bill passed by the Puducherry Assembly. The Minister had also sought financial assistance to open a Cooperative Sugar Mill. He was accompanied by Speaker R. Selvam and nominated legislator Ashok Babu. The delegation also called on Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman and Union Minister of State for Electronics and IT Rajeev Chandrasekhar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/govt-seeks-centres-nod-to-sell-aft-land/article35757156.ece
06 August 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||U.T. govt. approaches SpiceJet to renew operations||The government has formally approached SpiceJet to resume flight services from Puducherry. “We have formally requested the operator to resume services from the airport at the earliest as several COVID-19 restrictions have been lifted. The tourism sector is slowly picking up and so resumption of flight operations will further add momentum to the tourism activity,” Public Works Minister K. Lakshminarayanan told The Hindu . The management of SpiceJet has assured the government of an early decision, once the chairman and managing director of the service provider returned from abroad, said Mr. Lakshminarayanan, who also holds the Civil Aviation portfolio. Before the outbreak of the pandemic, SpiceJet had operated daily flights to Bengaluru and Hyderabad. The Minister said the Public Works Department had been directed to assist the Airports Authority of India to facilitate all weather runway clearance, he said. The runway should have good vision clearance of 140 m on both sides. The present clearance was only about 90 m on both sides from the middle of the runway which hampered landing, especially during winter season, the Minister said. “The PWD will soon start pruning of trees and provide signal facility on certain buildings adjacent to the airport,” he also added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/puducherry-government-approaches-spicejet-to-renew-operations/article35757150.ece
06 August 2021||Pudukottai,TAMIL NADU||Two held for threatening boy||The Cyber Crime Wing has arrested two persons on the charge of threatening a boy and having obtained Rs. 20,000 from him through online mode last month. The team recovered Rs. 20,000 and a cell phone from the accused M. Ganesan (43) and T. Prakash (23) both from Krishnagiri district. A press release said the boy from Melur village near Tirumayam received a call last month from unidentified persons who claimed that they were from Cyber Crime Police. They told the boy that he had watched porn videos which was an offence and threatened him to pay Rs. 20,000 as fine. Fearing the threat, the boy sent the money online. Based on a complaint by the boy's uncle, the Cyber Crime Police registered a case. The team went to Krishnagiri and arrested Ganesan and Prakash. They were remanded in judicial custody on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-held-for-threatening-boy/article35756858.ece
06 August 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Collector launches health scheme||District Collector S. Karmegham flagged off the vehicle for ‘Makkalai Thedi Maruthuvam’ scheme here on Thursday and visited residences and provided medicines. Mr. Karmegham along with DMK legislator R. Rajendran, S. Subramani, Deputy Director of Health Services, and other senior officials launched the scheme which would provide essential healthcare services at the doorsteps of the public. A vehicle has been provided for health workers to visit residences to provide pain and palliative care. The scheme was launched at Motankuruchi under Kannankuruchi primary health centre. According to health officials, 452 persons would benefit under the scheme at Motankuruchi. Mr. Karmegham along with Mr. Rajendran and officials, visited two residences and provided medicines. They also visited a house where physiotherapy exercises was being provided to a bed-ridden patient under the scheme. Health officials said that a vehicle has been provided to each block in the district to visit residences to provide pain and palliative care. S. Subramani said that persons aged above 45 are screened for diabetes and hypertension while women are also screened for cervical cancer and breast cancer. A woman health volunteer, a non-communicable disease health nurse and physiotherapist would be part of health team. Women health volunteers would visit the residences and provide medicines for diabetes and hypertension once in two months, Dr. Subramani said. Following a check-up at the end of two months, medicines would be continued, he said. He added that physiotherapists would visit the residences of bed-ridden patients and train them in exercises.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/collector-launches-health-scheme/article35756897.ece
06 August 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Tourists barred from visiting Yercaud during weekends||The district administration has prohibited tourists from visiting Yercaud during the weekends till August 9 as part of COVID-19 disease control measures. District Collector S. Karmegham issued orders prohibiting tourists from visiting the hill station during the weekends as part of measures to prevent the pandemic. According to a release, on weekdays, tourists visiting the hill station must carry vaccination certificate of two doses or RT-PCR negative certificate. Residents or employees working in Yercaud can travel to the hill station by producing local address proof or identity card issued by the firm. The district administration has also prohibited conducting weekly markets on Saturdays at Konganapuram near Edappadi as part of restrictions till August 9. Mr. Karmegham told presspersons that the daily caseload in the district has been gradually declining. However, during field surveys it was found that more tourists were visiting Yercaud during the weekends. Following field surveys, it was decided to prohibit tourists from visiting Yercaud during the weekends, he said. He added that further action would be taken based on the State government’s decision on lockdown. Mr. Karmegham advised the public to follow COVID-19 safety protocols and cooperate with disease control measures. He added that fines are being imposed on persons found to be venturing out in the public without masks. Mr. Karmegham said that about 10.5 lakh persons, 30% of vaccine target population have received vaccination in the district. He added that about Rs. 2.8 crore has been collected as fines till date for violation of COVID-19 protocols.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tourists-barred-from-visiting-yercaud-during-weekends/article35756900.ece
06 August 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||HM protests against removal of idol||Members of Hindu Munnani protested at Tiruchengode on Thursday demanding reinstallation of a Ganesha idol removed allegedly from a poramboke land by officials on Wednesday. The protesters raised slogans condemning the police and the State government and urged officials to replace the idol. A Ganesha idol was installed by a few persons in the vicinity of Arabaleeswarar temple here recently, allegedly in a poramboke land and police and revenue officials removed it from the place during the early hours of Wednesday. According to officials, the temple administration is planning to expand road facilities to the temple for girivalam and encroachments, including a church, were recently removed. Police had arrested 22 suspects in connection with the case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hm-protests-against-removal-of-idol/article35756901.ece
06 August 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Explosive materials seized, one arrested||The Salem district police on Thursday arrested a man for illegal possession of explosive materials. According to the police, based on a tip-off, a team led by Inspector Kathirvel from Kolathur police station inspected the residence of a man named Chandran at Korapallam here. Police said that Chandran was involved in the business of digging wells and blasting rocks. During search, police found 138 electric detonators and 55 gelatine sticks without documents and seized the materials. Kolathur police registered a case and arrested Chandran.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/explosive-materials-seized-one-arrested/article35756899.ece
06 August 2021||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Boy killed as boulder falls on him||An eight-year-old boy was killed when a boulder fell on him near Kondalampatti on Thursday. According to police, the deceased was identified as Vignesh. Police said that the boy was playing on a small mount at the backyard of his house in Periya Pudur, near Kondalampatti. While he was playing, a huge boulder fell over him and he succumbed to the injuries at the incident spot itself.    An 18-year-old boy from Saibaba Colony drowned in a tank near Karamadai where he had gone to celebrate the birthday of his friend on Tuesday. A. Manikandan from K.K. Pudur near Saibaba Colony drowned in a tank at Velliangadu and his body was retrieved on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/boy-killed-as-boulder-falls-on-him/article35756898.ece
06 August 2021||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||On Cauvery issue everyone should abide by the law: Annamalai||State president Bharatiya Janata Party, K.Annamalai, on Thursday said that in matters relating to sharing Cauvery river water resources, everyone should abide by the law. Talking to reporters after observing a fast here on Thursday in protest against Karnataka’s proposal to construct a dam across the river Cauvery at Mekedatu, Mr. Annamalai said that everyone knew that there was no animosity or disagreement between the people of Karnataka and Tamil Nadu over the sharing of Cauvery river water. With the Union Minister for Jal Shakti making it very clear in the Parliament that the construction of a dam across river Cauvery at Mekedatu could not be taken up without the written consent from the lower riparian States – Tamil Nadu and Kerala and the Union Territory of Puducherry, the issue has now been settled, he maintained. The fast in Thanjavur was in protest against the stand taken by the Karnataka government and the Opposition parties in Karnataka with respect to the Mekedatu issue and it had nothing to do with the people of Karnataka, he said. Adding that the issue was being used by some politicians in both the States to derive political mileage, Mr. Annamalai said that the Tamil Nadu BJP had made it clear at the all-party meeting convened by the Tamil Nadu government that it stood by the State’s decision on not to allow or encourage construction of the dam at Mekedatu. Addressing the gathering before winding up the fast, he said the party would launch a campaign against raising eucalyptus trees which drain the groundwater and would strive for the implementation of inter-State and intra-State river linking projects such as Godavari-Cauvery and the Cauvery-Vaigai-Gundar river linking projects. Exhorting the State government to ensure early disbursement of Rs. 1,400 crore payment that was overdue to the sugarcane farmers in the State, he demanded that the ‘corruption issue’ haunting the farmers at the direct purchase centres while selling their paddy should be weeded out quickly. If the State government fails to address these issues within 50 days, the Tamil Nadu BJP would organise a demonstration in front of the Chief Minister’s residence, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/on-cauvery-issue-everyone-should-abide-by-the-law-annamalai/article35756870.ece
06 August 2021||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||‘Expedite underground sewerage network in Pattukottai’||The Nasuvini Riverbed Farmers Welfare Association has called upon the State government to expedite the underground sewerage network system project for Pattukottai Municipality conceived by the officials a decade ago. In a memorandum addressed to Chief Minister M. K. Stalin, the Association president, V. Veerasenan said that a detailed project report for the creation of underground sewerage network at an estimated cost of Rs. 33.40 crore at Pattukottai was mooted in 2010 when the present Chief Minister served as the Local Administration Minister under the Chief Ministership of late M. Karunanidhi. However, the project remained in cold storage presumably due to the change in guard in the State Administration. When a representation in this regard was made in 2017 to the Thanjavur District Administration, Mr. Veerasenan said, the District Administration responded in writing that a revised estimate of Rs. 146.07 crore had been prepared and sent for the consent of the Revenue Department. He stated that letting out of sewage generated in 33 words of Pattukottai Municipality into the waterbodies within the town and as well as in the watercourses passing through Pattukottai region leads to pollution of groundwater source. He lamented that releasing of untreated sewer into the watercourses which serve as a source for irrigation sometimes result in agriculture activities taking place in polluted water. Pointing out that the population of Pattukottai Municipality was all set to cross 80,000 mark compared to around 73,000 people as per 2011 Census, the number of property tax assessment buildings both domestic and commercial buildings in the town have already crossed 22000. Further, the civic body itself supplies around one crore litre of water daily for consumption as drinking water and for other purposes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/expedite-underground-sewerage-network-in-pattukottai/article35756855.ece
06 August 2021||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||Finance company owners arrested||The owners of a private finance company at Kumbakonam which was raided by the district police last month following a complaint of cheating, have been arrested by a special police team on Thursday. According to the police, a couple, Jabarullah and Fairosbanu of Kumbakonam, lodged a complaint with the police stating that the finance company had failed to repay a sum of Rs. 15 crore to them on the maturity of their deposits. Subsequently, special police teams were formed to investigate the case and the finance company premises raided. While the special team arrested a staff of the company on July 21, the company owners went into hiding. The special teams reportedly traced the owners, M. R. Ganesh and M. R. Swaminathan, at Pudukottai and arrested them on Thursday. They were brought to the District Police Headquarters and interrogated, police added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/finance-company-owners-arrested/article35756860.ece
06 August 2021||THENI,TAMIL NADU||Regularise our services: TASMAC staff||Demanding the State government to appoint a commission to probe into the alleged corruption charges during the AIADMK regime, a majority of the TASMAC staff worked by wearing badges on Thursday. They said that the previous government had allegedly forced them to indulge in malpractice in many ways. As a result, many rules were bent especially on sale price of liquor bottles to the consumers. The TASMAC employees wanted the government to regularise their pay scale, confirm their service and give all the benefits as enjoyed by other employees in government departments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/regularise-our-services-tasmac-staff/article35757245.ece
06 August 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||VOC Port deploys e-cars||VOC Port Trust has become the first major port in the country to deploy e-cars. It has inducted three Tata Xpres-T electric vehicles in the first phase. Port Chairman T.K. Ramachandran flagged of the e-vehicles in the presence of Bimal Kumar Jha, Deputy Chairman, and V. Suresh Babu, Chief Mechanical Engineer, at the administrative office on Wednesday. Executive Vice-President, EESL Group, virtually joined the event. The public sector undertaking joint venture under the Ministry of Power has supplied these vehicles on six-year lease. Similar number of vehicles will be inducted in near future. As a part of wet lease agreement, EESL will be providing charging points at the port, insurance, registration, deployment of drivers and maintenance of vehicles. The monthly recurring cost payable to EESL, excluding electricity consumption charges, will be Rs. 40,000. The EVs being deployed comprise a21.50kWh Lithium ion battery pack, capable of powering the vehicle for 231 km in a single charge. The battery pack would be powered by an AC charger setup that can simultaneously charge three cars with output power rating of 3.3kW per car. The charger can charge the battery from 0 to 100% in eight hours. With zero tail-pipe emission, each electric vehicle would reduce the greenhouse gas footprint by more than 1.5 tonnes of carbon dioxide every year. “As a part of ‘Maritime India Vision2030’, the Ministry of Ports, Shipping and Waterways is committed to lead the world in safe, sustainable and green maritime sector and adhere to globally recognised environmental quality standards. V.O. Chidambaranar Port is equally inspired to induct multi-clean fuel strategy,” he said. The port has planned to launch green initiative for promoting e-mobility in Thoothukudi and on the roads leading to cities like Tirunelveli and Madurai as its corporate social responsibility. A number of charging stations will be established in collaboration with EESL at public places in government parking areas like airports, railway parking, etc. through a pay-per-use model, he said. “We have established 500 KW Rooftop Solar Power Plant at various buildings of the Port and 140 KW Rooftop Solar Power Plant work is in final stage of completion. Additional proposals have also been initiated for installing around 270 KW solar rooftop power plant at various locations of port establishments. A 500KVA shore power supply has been installed to provide electric power to the ships to reduce carbon foot print at berths. All buildings of the port have been provided with LED Lights,” he said. Ambient air quality monitoring stations have been commissioned at three locations, he noted. To suppress dust emanating from port operation, a mobile fogging machine, road sweeping machines and water sprinklers had been commissioned. The port was in the process of establishing 2.8 MW wind farm to meet the comprehensive energy requirements of the port. Feasibility of setting up LNG bunkering facility was also being explored. Mr. Saurabh Kumar said EESL was committed to extending its support in all the energy-efficiency initiatives of the port. In a bid to promote faster adoption of electric mobility, EESL was providing two-wheelers to the employees of government organisations with EMI and salary deduction options.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/voc-port-deploys-e-cars/article35757062.ece
06 August 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||All is not well at CGHS Wellness Centre||Patients dependent on the Central Government Health Scheme (CGHS) Wellness Centre in Tiruchi complain of lack of basic amenities at the centre. The centre, which was set up in 2019 lacks amenities including specialist doctors, diagnostic centres, and has stopped cashless payments at empanelled hospitals, beneficiaries say. When the CGHS was set up in Tiruchi, employees attached to various central government organisations welcomed the move. Until 2019, they had to travel to Chennai for treatment or referrals. The CGHS is applicable for government employees, pensioners and their family members, MPs, former MPs, and other central government officers and freedom fighters. A CGHS card has to be applied for and following approval, treatment can be sought at the centre. Funds are debited from the compensation of those who opt for the CGHS. While CGHS Wellness Centres must have specialist doctors where patients can seek consultation and seek approval for medical treatment, the centre also has empanelled a set of private hospitals where beneficiaries can undergo treatment. “It has become like a dispensary with no other use. Medicines for chronic illnesses are issued, but otherwise most beneficiaries visit private hospitals which are empanelled for want of better facilities. Only those who are unable to go to these private hospitals who suffer,” a retired central government employee said. S. Kamaraj, a retired employee of the BSNL said that they have been instructed to directly visit the empanelled hospitals and not the CGHS.  “We have been given a list of hospitals where we can avail treatment,” he said. While the treatment used to be cashless, it is not, anymore, he added. “Since last year, we have to pay the amount to the hospital upfront, and apply for it to be reimbursed through the CGHS. This is difficult for those who do not have the funds,” he said. Further, the CGHS has a rate card for all diagnostic tests, procedures and medical treatment and the reimbursement is provided in accordance with it. “The cost of treatment differs from hospital to hospital and it is the beneficiaries who are affected as our full amount is not reimbursed,” he said. Amidst a pandemic, these unnecessary norms affect patients’ health, he added. Su. Thirunavukkarasar, Tiruchi MP, who raised the issue in the Lok Sabha on Wednesday, sought the intervention of the Minister of Health and Family Welfare in improving the facilities at the centre, which serves as the only such facility in the State other than Chennai. The centre also lacks the Siddha and Ayurveda facilities, which many beneficiaries prefer, he said. Mr. Thirunavukkarasar urged the Minister to take necessary steps to improve facilities, empanel major hospitals, diagnostic centres, laboratories and set up an AYUSH clinic expeditiously.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/all-is-not-well-at-cghs-wellness-centre/article35756857.ece
06 August 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Surveillance cameras to be installed at refugee camp||The City Police has proposed to install surveillance cameras within the Sri Lankan Tamil refugee camp premises at Kottapattu here to bring it under the scope of cameras-based monitoring round-the-clock. A total number of 10 cameras are proposed to be installed at different places within the camp that houses 471 refugee families. The cameras are to be installed at the entrance, rear side and at vantage points within the camp where a police outpost is already functioning. The gadgets would be installed within a week. The objective behind installation of cameras was to deter any disturbance caused by outsiders and ensure the safety of the refugees, police sources said, adding that police personnel in shifts were being deployed at the outpost. The proposed installation of cameras is part of a slew of efforts taken by the City Police authorities after ascertaining the requirements and grievances of the refugees. Police sources said Commissioner of Police A. Arun inspected the refugee camp on July 1 and had an interaction with the refugees to ascertain their grievances and their requirements. Based on the Commissioner of Police’s interaction, a series of steps were taken to address the grievances of the refugees. As part of this effort, the City Police in association with the Bharathidasan University Youth Red Cross and the SRM Medical College Hospital and Research Centre organised a special medical camp for the refugees last month. The families of the refugees were screened by a team of doctors. This was followed by the creation of a Police Boys and Girls Club for the benefit of the children of refugees. Books for children and play materials were given to the club meant for use by the children. A programme was organised last month wherein free legal guidance was given to the refugees on ways to retrieve their properties in the island nation. A free training programme was organised on typewriting, computer operations and tailoring in association with the Department of Rehabilitation and Pearl Trust last week. Heeding to the request of the refugees to ensure their safety, the City Police arranged for the construction of a portion of a compound wall that had got damaged. The wall was constructed on Wednesday. A police press release said the refugees thanked the City Police for the efforts taken to address their issues and grievances.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/surveillance-cameras-to-be-installed-at-refugee-camp/article35756864.ece
06 August 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Thanjavur Road is bursting at the seams||Frequent traffic snarls on Thanjavur Road near Gandhi Market continue to put vehicle users to hardship. The road, frequented by residents of Edatheru, Palakkarai, Varaganeri, East Boulevard Road, Mahalakshmi Nagar and numerous residential colonies along the East Boulevard Road and buses, load carriers and two-wheelers, is always busy right from 3 a.m. to 11 p.m. Besides going to their workplace, people use the Thanjavur road to visit Gandhi Market and neighbouring meat and banana markets. While a side of the road is occupied by grocery, fruits and vegetable traders, the other side of the road is invariably occupied by pushcarts, load carriers and hawkers, thereby shrinking the public space to a great extent. It has made life difficult for those driving on the road. It is quite common to see vehicles lining up on the road during peak hours. The cascading effect of the traffic snarls extends up to at least 500 meters from Gandhi Market. They move at a snail’s pace, particularly in the mornings and evenings. If encroachers, hawkers and load carriers are a cause for traffic commotion, vehicle users find some of the structures jutting out especially from stalls in the meat and fish market giving them a tough time. Though the buildings are said to be well within their boundary, vehicle users say that it is hindering the traffic movement. There is a view that the road space at the end of the Gandhi Market is highly insufficient to handle heavy vehicular traffic. There has been no change in the width of the road since it was formed several decades ago, though the traffic has increased manifold. “It is not rational to maintain the road without expanding it when it is handling hundreds of vehicles. The officials should have taken steps to widen it at least two decades ago. It is high time to study the issue and take immediate steps to expand the road,” says N. Jamaludeen, a consumer activist.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/thanjavur-road-is-bursting-at-the-seams/article35757242.ece
06 August 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Healthcare at the doorstep||With Chief Minister M. K. Stalin launching the Makkalai Thedi Maruthuvam scheme at Krishnagiri and inaugurating it through video conference at Mondipatti in Tiruchi district on Thursday, State Ministers K. N. Nehru and Anbil Mahesh Poyyamozhi flagged of teams of healthcare workers who would reach out to the beneficiaries at their doorstep here. The Ministers also distributed medicines to some of the beneficiaries under the scheme. Under the scheme, people above 45 years of age and others with infirmities would be screened through routine door-to-door check-ups to detect non-communicable diseases. Those with high blood pressure and diabetes would be provided medicines every month at their doorstep. Physiotherapy will be given to patients suffering from paralysis and others who are in need of such care. District Collector S. Sivarasu and other officials were present. The scheme was inaugurated at Venkatakrishnapuram panchayat in Ariyalur district by Minister for Backward Classes Welfare S. S. Sivasankar. The scheme will be implemented through all the 17 health sub centres under the Kadugur Primary Health Centre. In Kadugur taluk, 5, 136 patients including 2,077 hypertension patients and 2,335 diabetics and 724 with both ailments would be distributed medicines under the scheme every month. Physiotherapy would be extended to 70 persons at their door step in the district, he said. Collector P. Ramana Saraswathi was also present. The Minister also inaugurated the scheme at Perumathur in Veppur panchayat union in Perambalur district in the presence of Collector P. Sri Venkada Priya. In Perambalur district, 26,126 hypertension and diabetes patients would benefit from the scheme. Besides, palliative care would be extended to 162 persons and physiotherapy to another 212 patients in the districts, he added. In Pudukottai, Minister for Law S. Reghupathy inaugurated the scheme at V. Kottaiyur in Tirumayam taluk. He said steps would be taken to implement the scheme in other places in the district in a phased manner.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/healthcare-at-the-doorstep/article35756867.ece
06 August 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Central districts continue to see an increase in fresh cases||The districts in the central region reported 381 fresh cases of COVID-19 on Thursday. The total number of cases reported in the region continued to reflect an increasing trend. Meanwhile, the Health Department said that six more patients had succumbed to coronavirus in the region. Three patients died of COVID-19 in Thanjavur, while two died in Pudukottai and one in Mayiladuthurai districts. The remaining six districts reported no COVID-19 deaths. In Thanjavur, 119 patients tested positive for COVID-19 on Thursday. Meanwhile, Tiruchi district reported 78 cases. Tiruvarur and Pudukottai districts also reflected a sudden spike in COVID-19 cases. In Tiruvarur, 39 fresh cases were reported and in Pudukottai, 38. In Nagapattinam district, 27 patients tested COVID-19 positive, while neighbouring Mayiladuthurai reported 24. Ariyalur reported 21, and Karur, 16 positive cases. Perambalur district reported nine fresh cases, the lowest in the region.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/central-districts-continue-to-see-an-increase-in-fresh-cases/article35756861.ece
06 August 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Apollo begins inoculation of unorganised sector workers||Apollo Hospitals, Tiruchi, began a drive to inoculate construction workers against coronavirus under an initiative of the Labour Department in the State. The department initiated the effort with the support of the Apollo Hospitals Group following the instructions of Chief Minister M. K. Stalin. In Tiruchi, the initiative was inaugurated by K. N. Nehru, Minister for Municipal Administration, Urban and Water Supply and Anbil Mahesh Poyyamozhi, Minister for School Education at the District Collectorate. Rohini Sridhar, Senior Vice President and Head, Medical Services, Apollo Hospitals Group said that around two lakh unorganised sector workers would benefit from the initiative. In Tiruchi alone, 30,000 workers would receive the jab.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/apollo-begins-inoculation-of-unorganised-sector-workers/article35756862.ece
06 August 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Construction of bridge begins||Construction of a bridge across the Tirunelveli – Kanniyakumari four-lane highway over the Tamirabharani – Karumaeniyar – Nambiyar Flood Carrier Channel at Ponnaakudi near here commenced on Thursday. As the flood carrier channel, which is being dug to take the excess water of the Tamirabharani to the rain shadow areas of Nanguneri, Thisaiyanvilai, Radhapuram and Sattankulam, crosses the four-lane national highway at Ponnaakudi near here, the 60-metre-long bridge is being built on an outlay of Rs. 17.09 crore. Speaking to reporters after laying foundation stone for the bridge, Speaker M. Appavu said the Tamirabharani – Karumaeniyar – Nambiyar linking project by digging a 73 km-long flood carrier channel, which was conceived for taking the surplus water of the Tamirabharani to the dry regions of Nanguneri, Radhapuram and Sattankulam areas, would be completed after the first two phases had been executed as planned. In the third phase, digging of the channel up to Moolaikkaraipatti has been completed. Work on the remaining last phase had been expedited to complete the scheme before the onset of forthcoming northeast monsoon so as to take the surplus water now going waste into the sea to the dry regions this year itself to revive farming operations on over 50,000 acres. As part of the third phase, the bridge would be constructed at Ponnaakudi where the channel crosses the four-lane national highway. Similarly, a rail over bridge would be built in the same area. “All works relating to the river-linking scheme will be completed by March 2022,” he said. Referring to the charge leveled by former Radhapuram MLA I.S. Inbadurai that he was realigning the channel for the benefits of his friend, the Speaker said the channel was being dug as per the plan designed in 2007 by the then DMK Government. “Digging of the channel is going on via the lands which were marked in 2007 itself. If any farmer complains that the channel was passing through the middle of his piece of land and appeals to the officials to dig the channel without affecting his farming operations, it will be looked into by the officials. This is a project which is being executed for the well being of the public, especially the farmers living in rain-shadow regions. The project will not be redesigned for benefiting any individual,” he promised. Collector V. Vishnu, MLAs M. AbdulWahab and Ruby R. Manoharan were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/construction-of-bridge-begins/article35756873.ece
06 August 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Medical team examines residents||Speaker M. Appavu launched the scheme ‘Makkalai Thedi Maruthuvam’ in Palayamkottai on Thursday. He flagged off the vehicle at Kakkan Nagar in Palayamkottai, which would visit a predetermined area for screening of patients, who were getting treatment from the primary health centre or the government hospital for any non-communicable disease or disorders. He visited a few houses along with the medical team. Collector V. Vishnu, Palayamkottai MLA M. Abdul Wahab and Nanguneri MLA Ruby R. Manoharan were present Simultaneously, another vehicle started the medical examination of residents at their doorsteps at Samooharengapuram in Radhapuram Assembly constituency. While the vehicles would be operated in every taluk, a vehicle would be deployed in every zone of Tirunelveli Corporation. The visiting medical team would screen the patients already receiving medical treatment from the PHC or the GH and give medications. Bed-ridden patients would get continuous visit by the medical team while those who are in need of further treatment would be referred to the nearest GH or the Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital for further treatment. In Thoothukudi district, Minister for Social Welfare P. Geetha Jeevan launched the scheme at Ottapidaaram in the presence of Collector K. Senthil Raj. Tenkasi Collector S. Gopala Sundararaj inaugurated the ‘Makkali Thedi Maruthuvam’ programme at Kadaiyalurutti. Kanniyakumari Collector M. Aravind inaugurated the scheme at Santhaivilai Primary Health Centre near Thovalai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/medical-team-examines-residents/article35757252.ece
06 August 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Corporation workers stage dharna||Sanitary workers, Amma Unavagam’ workers and other contract workers engaged for destroying mosquito larva by the Corporation staged a dharna here on Thursday. They said the provident fund contribution deducted from their salary to the tune of Rs. 3 crore during 2019, 2020 and 2021 had not been paid properly with the Employees’ Provident Fund Organisation. When the corporation officials were approached for getting clarification, they replied that there was no record for the non-payment of EPFO contribution. It should be paid properly at the earliest besides conducting an internal inquiry. The salary arrears to be paid to the workers from April 1 last should be paid without further delay. The sanitary workers should not be compelled to segregate the garbage. Weekly holiday with wages should be given to the workers and the corporation should supply all the materials required for collecting garbage and cleaning the streets. The expenditure incurred for repairing the battery vehicles, now being used for collecting garbage, should be borne by the corporation, they said. President of Rural Development and Local Administration Workers’ Union Mohan presided over the agitation. As the protest continued, Corporation Commissioner B. Vishnu Chandran held talks with them and assured that he would look into the demands that ended the agitation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corporation-workers-stage-dharna/article35756872.ece
06 August 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Thorny land becomes neatly sliced free house site plots||For the first time in Tamil Nadu, the district administration has given free house sites to the beneficiaries after properly preparing the land earmarked for this scheme and slicing it into plots each measuring about 3 cents. Hitherto, the beneficiaries who receive the free house site pattas, would have to run from pillar to post for at least a couple of months to identify the land allotted for this purpose first, then get it cleaned and surveyed by the revenue personnel for installing marker stones to identify the plot allotted to each beneficiary. Having realized this problem, Collector V. Vishnu has instructed the officials that the free house sites would be hereafter prepared like the housing plots being promoted by a private realtor before being handed over to the beneficiaries. Instead of conducting the free house sites distribution event in a conference hall, he organised a simple function on the neatly marked plots, where Speaker M. Appavu handed over the free house sites to the beneficiaries on Thursday near Valliyoor. “It is like a layout being promoted by a private real estate firm… The beneficiaries, who had submitted petitions seeking free housing plots under the ‘Chief Minister Stalin in your constituency’ programme, can start construction of their dream home on their plot even tomorrow,” Mr. Appavu said while handing over the free house sites. This layout at Kamaraj Nagar near Valliyoor has 121 plots and 51 plots were handed over to the beneficiaries on Thursday. Of this, construction of free houses was started on 14 plots immediately. Mr. Vishnu said the beneficiaries who receive the free house sites after patiently waiting for a lot and waiting for the completion of procedures should not be forced to wait any more for starting the construction of their houses. “If we can give them a plot in a neatly prepared layout, they can start the construction at the earliest straight away instead of wasting their precious time and energy in identifying the land first and then marking their plots after a survey. We’ll follow this new system in the days to come,” Mr. Vishnu said. District Revenue Officer A. Perumal and Sub-Collector, Cheranmahadevi and Siva Krishnamurthy were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/thorny-land-becomes-neatly-sliced-free-house-site-plots/article35757244.ece
06 August 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Clash case altered to murder||The Palladam police on Thursday altered a case in connection to a clash between two gangs in Tiruppur district to murder after a person who was injured during the clash died at hospital. According to the police, Sankaralingam (22) was a bystander who witnessed the clash near Mahalakshmi Nagar on Monday evening. He was allegedly run over by a car by one of the members and was admitted in Coimbatore Medical College Hospital, where he died on Thursday morning. Following this, the police altered the case from section 307 (Attempt to murder) to section 302 (Punishment for murder) of the Indian Penal Code, the police said. While seven members from both the gangs were arrested on Tuesday, the Palladam police on Wednesday arrested Prabu (35), who allegedly drove the car and ran over Sankaralingam. Efforts to arrest Kathir, the lone accused who is absconding, are on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/case-altered-to-murder/article35756807.ece
06 August 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Aquarium to create awareness on fish species in Gudalur||An aquarium to create awareness about endemic fish species that populate the streams that flow through Gudalur and Pandalur has been set up at the Gene Pool in Nadugani. As part of the first step towards ensuring the conservation of the freshwater fish species in the region, 20 species of endemic freshwater fish, including the critically endangered Neolissochilus wynaadensis (Wayanad Mahseer), Devario neilgherriensis (Nilgiri danio) as well as other threatened and vulnerable species such as the Anguilla bengalensis (Indian motted eel), Mastacembelus armatus (the zig-zag eel), and the endemic Balitora mysorensis (slender stone loach), Haludaria fasciata (Melon barb and) Dawkinsia rubrotinctus are to be displayed in the aquarium, which has been named “Aaral.” K. Mahesh Kumar, biologist at the Anaimalai Tiger Reserve (Tirupur Division), told The Hindu a study of the Pandiar and Punnampuzha Rivers, and the streams that flow through Gudalur, revealed the presence of 42 freshwater fish species. “The presence of freshwater fish is a key indicator of the quality of the river,” said Mr. Mahesh Kumar, who added that the aquarium would help people understand the diversity of the freshwater habitats in Gudalur and Pandalur. “The Western Ghats are home to 320 species of freshwater fish in which 43 species are critically endangered, 90 are endangered and 81 species have been classified as being vulnerable (as per IUCN criteria),” said a statement from the Gudalur forest division. The Forest Department stated that 226 species of freshwater fish were found in the Nilgiri Biosphere Reserve. The aquarium had been set up with the fish housed in 15 large tanks and two paludariums (an aquatic tank with terrestrial and aquatic plants as well as fish). “This is a unique and a pioneering attempt in the Nilgiris made possible under the directions of I. Anwardeen, APCCF, Coimbatore Circle, and under the guidance of Kommu Omkaram, District Forest Officer, Gudalur Division, with an objective to preserve freshwater fishes and give awareness particularly of the endemic, rare, vulnerable and endangered species,” a release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aquarium-to-create-awareness-on-fish-species-in-gudalur/article35756891.ece
06 August 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Cultural programme held for President in Udhagamandalam||President Ram Nath Kovind's visit to the Nilgiris ended on Thursday with a cultural programme organised by Adivasi communities at the Government Botanical Garden (GBG). While Mr. Kovind rested at the Raj Bhavan, members of his family visited a few tourism spots, including the Pykara Dam and a tea factory. In the evening, members of a few Adivasi communities performed traditional dances and played music for Mr. Kovind, who was scheduled to leave for Coimbatore on Friday morning. The cultural performance was followed by a group photograph of each of the tribal dance groups with the President, First Lady, Governor Banwarilal Purohit and Tamil Nadu Minister for Industries Thangam Thennarasu. In a press release, it was said that “The Badagas, Kotas, Todas and Kattu Naikkars [sic] performed their traditional dance forms which was appreciated by the President. Each of the dance forms depicted their culture”. Earlier in the day, the President interacted with tea growers, organic farmers and members of Adivasi communities. During the interaction, the President discussed various issues that affected the lives of the farmers and the tribal groups, the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cultural-programme-held-for-president-in-udhagamandalam/article35756889.ece
06 August 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Washermen’s colony turns potters’ paradise||During British rule, Salavanpettai was the most frequented hamlet near the fort in Old Town, Vellore, by the native servants of English officers and Indian sepoys. It was the washermen’s colony, with a row of small water tanks made of brick mortar in front of thatched houses. Despite many British officers moving to the coastal city of Madras with their army of servants, including washermen, Salavanpettai retained its prominence for new settlers — artisans and potters. The neighbourhood has still not lost its old charm of doll making, pottery and terracotta craft. Despite the pandemic, artisans here have been busy with pottery and doll-making for the festival season. “The pandemic affected all of us. We are not alone. We have less orders for dolls this festival, but we cannot abandon our craft that was passed on through generations,” says 47-year-old artisan T. Senthil Kumar, who started to learn the craft when he was 11. Salavanpettai, now part of Vellore Corporation, has around 60 families, a majority of them being potters and doll makers. Most artisans moved to the hamlet from neighbouring districts such as Cuddalore, Villupuram, Tiruvannamalai and Tirupattur in the 19th century, mainly in search of jobs. Pottery remains the key occupation in the hamlet — while 10 families were involved in doll-making before the pandemic, their number has now come down to just three. “Doll-making is a round-the-year job, with various activities to be carried out during different months, depending on the weather. Before the pandemic, we used to sell around 3,000 dolls during the festival season, especially navaratri ,” says T.S. Mukesh, a young engineering graduate and artisan. Areas like Salem, Erode, Madurai, Tiruchi, Chennai, Arcot and Wallajah are key business hubs from where traders flock to Salavanpettai with bulk orders for dolls, which are made based on 47 themes like Krishna, Ashtalakshmi, dasavatharam , Srinivasa and Meenakshi kalyanam , Vinayaka Chaturthi and navaratri every year. Dolls for Christmas too are made, mainly for buyers from Bengaluru and Chennai. With the easing of lockdown norms, artisans hope this festival season will not only sustain their livelihood, but also their dying art.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/washermens-colony-turns-potters-paradise/article35757144.ece
06 August 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Webinar for grievance redressal||The Regional Provident Fund Commissioner (R.O.), Vellore, will be conducting a webinar, ‘ Nidhi aapke nikat’, for the redressal of grievances of subscribers, employers and exempted establishments, at 11 a.m. on Tuesday. Subscribers and employers can register for the webinar by Sunday. The link for the webinar ishttps://meet19.webex. com/meet/pr1266655945 Subscribers can also register grievances pending for over a month through post, e-mail (ro.vellore@ep- findia.gov.in) or phone (0416-2906001/5). The post can be sent to public relations officer, Regional Office, S-1, TNHB, Phase-III, Sathuvachari, Vellore - 632009.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/webinar-for-grievance-redressal/article35757145.ece
06 August 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||23 fresh cases reported in Ranipet, 21 in Vellore||The total number of COVID-19 cases in Vellore district reached 48,176 with 21 new cases reported on Thursday. While 46,781 patients have been discharged, the number of active cases in the district stands at 300. The death toll is 1,095. In Ranipet district, 23 cases were reported and the total stood at 42,051. In Tirupattur district, 12 new infections took the total number of cases to 28,342. 64 in Tiruvannamalai In Tiruvannamalai district, 64 fresh cases took the tally to 52,278. Of them, 51,098 patients have been discharged, and the number of active cases stands at 542.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/23-fresh-cases-reported-in-ranipet-21-in-vellore/article35757146.ece
06 August 2021||August 06 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||161 cases in Erode district||Erode district reported 161 new cases on Thursday taking the total cases to 94,521. While 138 persons were discharged, 1,643 persons continue to be under treatment. One person died raising the toll to 637. A total of 79 positive cases were reported in Salem. According to health officials, 67 cases were indigenous and 20 cases were reported in Salem Corporation limits. Twelve patients have returned from other districts like Namakkal, Erode, Dharmapuri and Kalakuruchi. As per bulletin, four deaths were reported in Salem. In Namakkal, 47 cases were reported. As per bulletin, all cases were indigenous. Two deaths were reported in Namakkal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/161-cases-in-erode-district/article35756895.ece
06 August 2021||August 06 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore reports 220 new COVID-19 cases, three deaths||Coimbatore district on Thursday reported 220 new cases of COVID-19, registering a decrease from Wednesday's 226 cases. The district had 2,117 active cases on Thursday and 187 persons recovered. Three more persons died of the disease, taking the toll to 2,188. The Health Department said the district had a test positivity rate of 2 % on Wednesday when 11,304 swab samples were tested and 226 persons were found positive. Tiruppur district reported 97 fresh cases on Thursday, taking the overall tally to 88,261. Five deaths were reported by the Health Department, the highest among all the districts in the State on Thursday and the overall toll went up to 852. There were 874 active cases and 94 persons were discharged on Thursday. In the Nilgiris, 47 persons tested positive and the total number of confirmed cases stood at 30,755. The toll increased from 181 to 182 while 455 people are undergoing treatment. No major violations in Tiruppur As new restrictions came into force to prevent further spread of COVID-19 across Tiruppur district, no major violations were reported on Thursday. Sources in the Tiruppur City Police said about 500 police personnel were deployed in the city limits to monitor violations. All shops except those that sell medicines and milk downed shutters by 5 p.m. and restaurants switched to only parcel service post 5 p.m. A total of 10 check-posts were set up and police pickets were deployed in 12 locations in the city police limits, the police sources said. Corporation Commissioner Kranti Kumar Pati said four sanitary officers and about a dozen sanitary inspectors would be monitoring shops in all four zones of the Corporation and had been authorised to levy fines for violations. The Corporation teams, along with the teams from the police and Revenue Department, would monitor the compliance to the new restrictions, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-reports-220-new-covid-19-cases-three-deaths/article35756813.ece
06 August 2021||August 06 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore – Engagements||Masonic Medical Centre for Children: Lecture on ‘Neonatal surgery in paediatrics’, 8.15 a.m.  Jansons Institute of Technology: Webinar on ‘Self-Management’, 10 a.m.  Kathir College of Arts and Science: Career counselling webinar, 11 a.m.  Coimbatore Speakers Forum of Toastmasters International: Online meeting for communication skills, 6.30 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-engagements/article35756811.ece
06 August 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Heavy rain causes minor damage to Gol Gumbaz||The grand Gol Gumbaz in Vijayapura, considered the Taj of the South, has suffered minor damage caused by heavy rain. A small portion of the support bracket, also called the Chajja or cornice, has fallen to the ground on the eastern side. The incident happened last week. Bricks have broken into pieces after falling down from a height of around 90 ft. But no one was injured by the fall as the area is out of bounds for the general public and there was no one in the vicinity during the incident. The Gol Gumbaz is an Adil Shahi era monument, built around 1650. It is the resting place of King Adil Shah and his family members. It attracts tourists and archaeologists from around the world, for its grand dome built without pillars. Tourist guides fondly refer to it as Bol Gumbaz, due to its whispering gallery, in which the slightest sound travels across a large distance, without disturbance. It is believed to be an architectural marvel, unparalleled in the Deccan. Archaeological Survey of India officers say that they have taken note of the incident. “A detailed study is under way. A report will be sent to the head office,” according to Senior Conservation Assistant in-charge of maintenance of the monuments in Vijayapura B. Pramod. “We have conducted spot inspection and preliminary survey. A detailed survey will tell us the extent of actual damage and the repairs to be carried out. Repairing ancient monuments is not like modern architecture. All restoration and conservation work needs to be done very slowly, using material that were originally used. At the end of the monsoon season, when there is a fall in humidity in the air, we will begin the repairs. That will strengthen the structure, apart from making it look like as it was,’’ he said. He denied the allegations that the officers had been negligent in maintaining the monument. Superintending Archaeologist of the Dharwad Circle, A.V. Badiger, who is in-charge of heritage structures across North Karnataka, said that repairs will be taken up. The brackets are horizontal projects on all four sides from the main body of the 17th century tomb. The 11-and-a-half ft long structures of stone are made of brick and mortar and are intricately carved, like the other parts of the dome. It will be difficult to repair it as it protrudes downwards from the parapet of the central dome. The Archaeological Survey of India has not been as diligent as it should be, says Vijayapura-based heritage enthusiast and conservation architect Ameen Hullur. The Gol Gumbaz is among the wonders of the world. It is not just an architectural marvel. It is a show piece of Deccan history and cultural heritage. It is an open textbook for sound engineers, structural engineers and also, designers of all kinds. All of us must strive to preserve and conserve it. Repairs need to be taken up as soon as possible and awareness should be created among people about its uniqueness,’’ Mr. Hullur said. He pointed out that Henry Cousens, a 19th century archaeologist who documented the monuments of the Deccan, has described the Chajja as the decorated grand cornice. In his seminal work, Bijapur and its Architectural Remains, with a Historical Outline of the Adil Shahi Dynasty, he calls it “the most daring feat accomplished in the city’’. The cornice had suffered damage in the past too. “Mr. Cousens has recorded that the British government restored the cornice in the front portion at great cost and with infinite labour around 1900,’’ he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rain-causes-minor-damage-to-gol-gumbaz/article35756738.ece
06 August 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||MoU signed||To promote research collaboration in science and engineering between industry and educational institutions, Karnatak Law Society’s Gogte Institute of Technology has signed a memorandum of understand- ing (MoU) with Garud Allied Technologies. Garud Allied Technologies is a city-based primary hardchrome and electroless plating unit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mou-signed/article35756902.ece
06 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||BBMP notices on tax zones trigger outcry||Sulakshana J. (name changed), a resident of Madiwala, was surprised to receive a notice from the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) asking her to pay an additional Rs. 50,000 towards property tax. “I have been paying property tax diligently every year. The notice claims there is a mismatch in the tax zone classification. The Rs. 50,000 includes the difference in tax, penalty, and interest for four years,” she said. Several citizens across the city have received similar notices. The notices simply state that the tax zone reclassification was done in 2016-17 and that citizens now have to pay penalty and interest for not updating the records before paying property tax under the Self-Assessment Scheme (SAS). Many citizens, including Ms. Sulakshana, have pointed out that the BBMP had failed to inform them of the change in tax zone, while civic officials plainly state that a gazette notification had been issued in 2016 itself. Prakash D.R., a property tax expert and president of Osborne Road Area Residents’ Welfare Association, blamed the BBMP for the confusion. He pointed out that the zonal reclassification was withdrawn in April 2016, which meant that the 2008 classification was still effective. “The property tax payment portal mentioned nothing about the zonal reclassification. How can property owners who have been paying correctly for 15 years (since SAS was introduced) go wrong in 2016-17?” he asked, demanding that the BBMP withdraw all the notices issued to property owners who have been diligently paying tax. Revenue officials admit that the issue of demand notices has resulted in a lot of confusion. An official in the South zone, on condition of anonymity, said that every day, at least 10 citizens now visit the civic office seeking some clarity on the issue. The official said that the zonal reclassification had now been corrected on the property tax portal and blocked to ensure it could not be altered. More revenue According to a senior revenue official, over 78,500 demand notices had been issued, which would bring in revenue of more than Rs. 360 crore to the civic body, including Rs. 120 crore in property tax and Rs. 240 crore in penalties and interest. “Already, around 8,000 citizens have paid Rs. 14 crore in dues,” the official said. The official admitted that the civic body was also partly to blame for not updating the property tax software to reflect the zonal reclassification effected. However, the official added that the onus was also on citizens to check if there was any change in the tax zones, given that a gazette notification was published in 2016. “While paying income tax, citizens check for the tax slabs and then make payment. Such due diligence should have been done for property tax as well,” the official maintained. Many citizens have now approached the BBMP seeking exemption of penalty and interest, while agreeing to pay the difference in tax to be paid. “No decision has been taken yet. We will discuss with the Chief Commissioner and Administrator,” the official said. Meanwhile, the Bengaluru NavaNirmana Party (BNP) has started an online petition pointing out to the Chief Minister the BBMP’s “unreasonable move”. Srikanth Narasimhan, co-founder and general secretary of BNP, said the majority of citizens were unaware of the changes in tax zones. There was no alert on the payment portal about the change, and there was no provision to change the details. “Why did the BBMP wait for so long to issue notice to owners who have been accused of underpayment?” he asked. The BNP, in its petition, has demanded withdrawal of the notices issued and waiver of arrears, apart from the implementation of the zonal reclassification from the next fiscal after giving it wide publicity and automatic classification of the zones for properties that have been geotagged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bbmp-notices-on-tax-zones-trigger-outcry/article35756719.ece
06 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Green points’: Students to be rewarded if parents are jabbed||Students of private schools will enjoy double benefits if their parents are vaccinated: not only will they be safe from the health perspective, they will also stand to gain up to four marks in extracurricular activities. D. Shashi Kumar, general secretary, Associated Managements of Primary and Secondary Schools in Karnataka, said they will allot two marks for each parent if they are vaccinated. “We want students to encourage their parents and other family members to get vaccinated. If students step up pressure on their parents, they will be able to ensure that they are vaccinated. This will also help ensure that all the students in our school will be relatively safe if school reopens as their first circle would be vaccinated,” he said. In total, the four marks will be assigned to students under their extra curricular activities for various social projects that they need to undertake. Mr. Kumar said that an advisory will be sent to all their 4,000-member schools. Students will have to submit their parents’ vaccination certificates to the school to avail the marks for the 2021-22 academic year. Sumanth Narayan, founder, Shanthinikethana School, said their school would ensure that students get four ‘green points’ if both their parents are vaccinated. “We will ensure that students who submit their parents’ vaccination certificates get four marks over and above the marks they have scored in their final examination. We decided to add this to the final examination scores as it would give breathing time for parents to complete their vaccination process as some parents maybe delaying the vaccination as they may have got COVID-19 infection recently. Such parents will have to wait for a few months before they get jabbed,” he said. He said that they would give an additional two green marks for students if they are vaccinated once the vaccination drive for children below 18 years is rolled out.  In addition to this, many private schools have decided to also have a lottery where all parents who are vaccinated will be given slips once they produce their certificates. The school managements will pick a few parents who will be given prizes if their name is chosen. Private schools had taken up a similar exercise during the last Assembly elections when students were awarded marks if their parents had exercised their electoral franchise. Parents feel that it was the right move as it would compel all parents to get vaccinated. Rajesh S., an IT professional said: “This is a great move as students will ensure that they step up pressure on their parents and complete the vaccination process at the earliest. It is also extremely easy to set up a vaccination appointment now, so parents who haven’t been jabbed yet can do so without any hassle.”  Students will have to submit their parents’ vaccination certificates to the school to get the marks for the 2021-22 academic year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/green-points-students-to-be-rewarded-if-parents-are-jabbed/article35756726.ece
06 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Congress condemns raid on Zameer’s residence||Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee president D.K. Shivakumar and Congress Legislature Party leader Siddaramaiah on Thursday lashed out at the Narendra Modi government over raids by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) on the residence of Congress MLA B.Z. Zameer Ahmed Khan in Bengaluru. Mr. Shivakumartold reporters in Delhi that the BJP-led Union government had been misusing ED and I-T agencies to harass and target leaders of the Opposition parties. “Where was the ED and I-T wings of the Central government when BJP leaders indulged in ‘Operation Lotus’ through money-laundering and toppled the coalition government,” Mr. Shivakumar sought to know. Mr. Shivakumar’s residence was raided last year by CBI officials in connection with an alleged disproportionate assets case. The KPCC president also questioned as why the Central agencies were not conducting raids on BJP leaders and why only Congress leaders were being targeted. In BJP government there were two types of rules and justice, one for BJP leaders and other for Opposition leaders, Mr. Shivakumar alleged and said the party MLA had the ability to fight the case legally in the court. Mr. Siddaramaiah tweeted that “ED raid on B Z Zameer Ahmed Khan is politically motivated and an attempted by @BJP4India to intimidate leaders from opposition parties. I strongly condemned this undemocratic act of BJP to use institutions like ED, IT etc”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/congress-condemns-raid-on-zameers-residence/article35756747.ece
06 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Second wave dealt a blow to real estate sector’s revival||Buoyed by signs of revival that were seen after the first wave, the real estate sector saw quite a few new launches. But no one expected the second wave of COVID-19 infections to be as vicious as it was and that dealt a severe blow, to the extent that the sector’s performance remained a tad poorer than last year for the same period. According to property consultants, new launch activity was significantly higher during Q2 of this year compared to the same period last year as businesses were better prepared. “The majority of the launches were concentrated in east and north Bengaluru, accounting for 46% and 34%, respectively. The mid-end segment accounted for nearly 49% of the launches during Q2 2021, improving marginally from the last quarter. On the other hand, the share of the affordable segment decreased again to 16% in Q2 2021 from 21% a quarter earlier as the preferences of the buyers change for larger spaces,” said an analysis from ANAROCK Property Consultants. But as for the sales trend, nearly 3,560 units were sold during Q2 2021 — higher than the same period last year. The sales decreased by 59% on quarter due to the adverse impact of the COVID second wave. East Bengaluru accounted for 38% of the overall sales across the city followed by north Bengaluru at 29%. Nearly 27% of Q2 2021 sales came in from the south. Anuj Puri, Chairman, ANAROCK Property Consultants, told The Hindu that Bengaluru has always been a unique real estate market: heavily driven by IT/ITeS industries, it is a city where most of the housing demand comes from end-users. “Amidst ample new supply being launched, Bengaluru’s unsold inventory increased by 2% in a year – from approximately 60,390 units in Q2 2020 to approximately 61,480 units by Q2 2021-end. Interestingly, despite the pandemic, the city saw average property prices rise by 2% - from Rs. 4,975 per sq. ft. in Q2 2020 to Rs. 5,060 per sq. ft. in Q2 2021,” he explained. Suresh Hari, chairman, CREDAI Bengaluru, explained that during the first wave, no one knew what it was. “But the second wave was a very big shocker. Every sector was jolted. New launches were one part, but even existing properties received a big jolt. People didn’t know what was in store the next second, so property not in the mind of anybody,” he said, acknowledging that Q1 performance was markedly better than Q2. Now, the sector hopes for stabilisation. “ There are changes in perception of investment. We expect some stabilisation because it’s established that the pandemic is going to be a cycle. Work from home may not be permanent but many are looking at a hybrid model. So there will be redesigning - altered new design elements, new ideas, etc. There will be interest in self sustained centres. But the commercial sector may need some time, though it will all evolve,” he said. Mr. Puri said the reduction in stamp duty in Karnataka announced recently was only for homes valued between Rs. 35 lakh and Rs. 45 lakh, which is why it is not likely to give a significant boost to housing sales in Bengaluru on the lines seen in Mumbai and Pune. However, smaller towns and cities, like Hubballi, Mysuru, and Belagavi, may gain from the new announcement, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/real-estate-revival-hit-by-second-wave/article35756734.ece
06 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Engineer, pvt. firm employee fall victim to cybercrime||A 45-year-old software engineer became the latest victim of cybercrime in the city and lost Rs. 37.3 lakh after he was promised premium membership on a dating app. The victim, a man from Kammanahalli, while browsing the net, came across an online dating app and tried to enrol as a member in December last year. An unidentified person claiming to be from the dating website called him and lured him to pay for the membership, and since then he started paying towards various fees from his account. He spent all his savings and even borrowed money from a friend to pay until April this year. He soon realised he had been duped, and when his friends started pestering him to repay the money, the victim approached the East division cybercrime police and filed a complaint. The police have obtained the account details of the transactions and efforts are on to track down the accused. Fraudulent ‘friend’ In another similar incident, a 26-year-old private firm employee was trapped by his female social media “friend” who lured him into a private conversation, recorded it, and extorted Rs. 51,000 from him. When the demand for ransom increased, unable to bear the harassment, the victim approached the Whitefield cybercrime police and filed a complaint on Tuesday. In his complaint, the victim said that he became friends with the woman on Facebook in May and they shared their numbers. The duo soon began to chat. Without his knowledge, the woman recorded the chats and later started blackmailing him, threatening to upload the videos. Fearing for his reputation, he transferred Rs. 51,000 into her account. The Whitefield police are now trying to track down the accused based on the details of where the money was transferred to. The Whitefield cybercrime police had unearthed a similar racket and arrested two persons from Rajasthan in April for blackmailing and extorting a 26-year-old IAS aspirant by trapping him online and recording his videos.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/engineer-pvt-firm-employee-fall-victim-to-cybercrime/article35756731.ece
06 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||20 STPs to be upgraded for biological nutrient removal||Several lakes in Bengaluru, such as Hulimavu and Puttenahalli lakes near J.P. Nagar, Subramanyapura lake in Uttarahalli, and Arakere lake on Bannerghatta Road, are under threat because of the presence of water hyacinth. Bangalore Water Supply and Sewerage Board (BWSSB) has proposed to upgrade the existing 20 sewage treatment plants (STP) to include the modifications required for removal of biological nutrients that spur the growth of water hyacinth. According to experts, one of the reasons for its overgrowth is the presence of phosphorus, potassium, and nitrates, known as biological nutrients, in abundance. This is attributed to the flow of sewage into the waterbodies that not only compromises water quality, but also promotes the growth of microphytes and macrophytes such as algae and water hyacinth. One way to control their growth is to prevent sewage from entering waterbodies and to remove biological nutrients through a separate process. B.C. Gangadhar, BWSSB chief engineer (waste water management), said the board was upgrading a 248-MLD (million litres a day) STP at the Koramangala-Challaghatta valley. He said that of the 33 STPs of the BWSSB, 13 have been built over the past three years and have the necessary modifications for removal of biological nutrients. “We have proposed to upgrade the other 20 STPs. The BWSSB had asked the Indian Institute of Science to prepare a report on the modifications required to fulfil requirements as per the norms of the Central Pollution Control Board and the National Green Tribunal. We are expecting the report in a couple of months,” he said. The board has submitted to the State government a Rs. 716-crore proposal — capital cost of Rs. 448 crore and operation and maintenance charges for seven years amounting to Rs. 268 crore — for the modification of these STPs. BWSSB survey The BWSSB is also undertaking a survey to identify drainage lines that are letting out sewage into the storm-water drain network. These lines, he said, would be connected to big lines connecting the STPs. This is likely to be done by the end of December. Experts, however, have questioned whether upgrading the existing STPs would be enough to protect the waterbodies. Nagesh Aras, a core member of Friends of Lakes, pointed out that the STPs with separate processes for removal of biological nutrients should ideally be set up in the valley systems. “Water hyacinth doubles in body mass in 10 days. No amount of removal will help,” he said. V. Ramaprasad, also from Friends of Lakes, pointed to the lack of coordination between the BWSSB, the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP), the Karnataka State Pollution Control Board, and the Karnataka Tank Conservation and Development Board in maintaining water quality and protecting ecology and environment of waterbodies. BBMP chief engineer (lakes) B.T. Mohankrishna said the civic body handles 204 lakes, of which 80 have been developed. “In these developed lakes, we have taken steps to prevent inflow of sewage by creating diversion channels. However, when it rains, sewage may enter the lakes,” he said, adding that the BBMP had constructed 14 STPs of smaller capacity. Five more are likely to be commissioned in four months.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/20-stps-to-be-upgraded-for-biological-nutrient-removal/article35756724.ece
06 August 2021||bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Inter-State red sanders racket unearthed||The Central Crime Branch unearthed an inter-State red sanders racket and arrested two persons. The police also seized 9,135 kg of red sanders worth Rs. 4.5 crore. Based on specific inputs, a police team went to a place in Gottigere, Hulimavu. They arrested Anand Kumar, 51, and Anil Singhi, 47, who were waiting for their clients with a log. The accused told the police that they, along with their associates, sourced red sanders from their contacts in Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka. They stored the logs in a godown on Bannerghatta Road. Police went to the spot and sealed it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/inter-state-red-sanders-racket-unearthed/article35756728.ece
06 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Two booked for killing newborn||The Soladevanahalli police booked a 22-year-old woman and her male friend for allegedly killing a newborn baby boy at a private hospital on Monday. The woman, accompanied by her boyfriend, had come to a private hospital situated in Hesaraghatta for consultation and she was complaining of severe stomach ache. However, before seeing a doctor, the woman suffered severe pain and went to the washroom, where she delivered the baby prematurely. The couple decided to conceal this and threw the baby out of the window of the washroom and escaped. The incident came to light when the hospital staff found the woman missing and later found the newborn’s body on the campus. Based on the complaint, the police traced the woman and admitted her to a hospital as she needed treatment. The police later detained Shashank, 25, from Gudemaranahalli village, on the charges of abetting crime. The police said the two were in a relationship and the woman got pregnant. She was hiding the pregnancy from her family.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/two-booked-for-killing-newborn/article35756729.ece
06 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Custodial death: police give statement to CID||Continuing their investigation into the custodial death of a Congo national at J.C. Nagar police station, officials of the CID on Wednesday recorded the statement of the policemen who arrested Joel Shindani Malu before he allegedly suffered a cardiac arrest while in police custody. The police are awaiting the FSL report to ascertain the exact cause of death. Doctors had opined that he had had a cardiac arrest when he was rushed to a hospital on Sunday night. CID officials recorded the statements of officers of J.C. Nagar station and eyewitnesses when Malu was taken into custody. They also analysed CCTV footage of the violence that broke out in front of the station after people from Africa gathered to protest his death.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/custodial-death-police-give-statement-to-cid/article35756730.ece
06 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||N. Mahesh joins BJP||N. Mahesh, Kollegal MLA who was formerly with the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) which expelled him over violating party diktat in 2019, joined the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Thursday. Mr. Mahesh, who has worked in the Bahujan movement for over 20 years, became an MLA for the first time from the BSP in 2018. However, the BSP expelled him in July 2019 when he, contrary to the party diktat, abstained from the trust vote of H.D. Kumaraswamy and remained Independent till now. “I have joined the BJP for the development of the country, trusting the leadership of Narendra Modi for the country and B.S. Yediyurappa in the State. I am also guided by the ideals of B.R. Ambedkar,” Mr. Mahesh said. At the programme, Mr. Yediyurappa said his aim was to bring the party back to power with 130 to 140 seats in 2023 and Mr. Mahesh, a Dalit from Old Mysore region, had been a shot in the arm for the party. Mr. Yediyurappa said Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai knows the background of Mr. Mahesh and expressed confidence that he would keep in mind that a senior Dalit leader had joined the party, suggesting a larger role for the leader in the government and the party. Mr. Bommai, who later spoke at the event, said Mr. Mahesh joining the party would strengthen the organisation in Mysuru, Chamarajanagar, and Mandya districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/n-mahesh-joins-bjp/article35756744.ece
06 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Manjunatha Prasad is CM’s Principal Secretary||Following the formation of the government headed by Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai, postings of senior IAS officers were reshuffled on Thursday. Senior IAS officer Manjunatha Prasad N., Principal Secretary, has been appointed as Principal Secretary to the Chief Minister. He replaces Ramana Reddy E.V., stated a notification issued by the government. Mr. Prasad is also placed as in charge of the post of Principal Secretary, Department of Information and Public Relations, Bengaluru. Earlier, Mr. Prasad had also served as Commissioner of the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) and Principal Secretary, Social Welfare Department. Dr. Reddy, Additional Chief Secretary (ACS) to the Chief Minister, has been posted as ACS, Commerce and Industries Department. He is also placed in concurrent charge of the post of ACS, Information Technology and Biotechnology Department, Bengaluru. Rajkumar Khatri, ACS, Commerce and Industries Department, has been transferred and posted as ACS, Agriculture Department, Bengaluru. Jawaid Akhtar, ACS, Health and Family Welfare Department, has been transferred and posted as ACS, Forest, Ecology and Environment Department, Bengaluru. He is also placed in concurrent charge of the post of ACS, Health and Family Welfare Department, Bengaluru. Tushar Girinath, Principal Secretary, Cooperation Department, has been transferred and posted as Principal Secretary, Revenue Department.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/manjunatha-prasad-is-cms-principal-secretary/article35756746.ece
06 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||After five months, show set to resume at Ranga Shankara||After a five-month gap on account of the COVID-19 pandemic, Ranga Shankara will restart staging plays from August 15. Dhee Mahi’s queer love story ‘Amma Mattu Suhail’ will be the first play to be staged after the reopening. Directed by theatre artist and musician Karthik Hebbar, it revolves around a gay couple and a mother. Rangaratha’s ‘Malavikagnimitra’, Yuvashree’s ‘Simhachalam Sampige’, and S.N. Sethuram’s ‘Stree’ are some of the other plays in the line-up. The theatre willreopen with COVID-19 restrictions. Only 50% of the seats will be sold. All shows will begin at 6.30 p.m. and end by 9 p.m., till the night curfew lifts in the city. Meanwhile, the second season of Ranga Shankara’s weekend programme ‘RS Connect’ will start on August 6. It will begin with a storytelling session, from 5.15 p.m. to 6.15 p.m., by the Galate Gandharvaru Collective.  The last 15 months have been tumultuous for the theatre community. Artists and technicians were forced to take up other jobs in order to stay afloat. So, this resumption of regular activities offers a bit of reassurance to them. Arundhati Nag, Ranga Shankara founder, however, is cautious of being too optimistic. “When we reopened in January, we did it with posters and banners. But the situation worsened and we had to close again. So, this time we have to see how it goes. We are ready to reopen on August 15. But anything could happen before that,” she said. “We have to take all precautions — sanitising the whole auditorium after each show, allowing only 50% occupancy, and getting the details of our guests for contact tracing. It is not easy for anyone. But I see this as a test of the art community’s tenacity — if we can perform despite all the uncertainties and if the audience continues to support us,” she added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/after-five-months-show-set-to-resume-at-ranga-shankara/article35756721.ece
06 August 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Don’t ban outdoor advertising: association||Amid opposition to the government lifting the ban on hoardings in the city, the Outdoor Advertising Association, Bengaluru, has appealed for no ban and argued that the new BBMP Advertisement Rules, 2019, are adequate for regulation of outdoor advertising. “Billboards are a primary media for out-of-home advertising across the globe, and there is not a single city, be it London, Paris, New York, Sydney, Moscow, or Beijing, that does not have billboards,” the association argued. The association, in a release, stated that the BBMP Advertisement Rules, 2019, were “comprehensive and would provide revenue to all and job opportunities in these financially stressful times”. “The opinion that this will impact the cityscape and have an adverse effect is a preconceived notion. Under the existing signage rules, we see that bus shelters, pedestrian bridges, and police chowkis occupy whole footpaths and also intrude on traffic lanes...,” the statement said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/dont-ban-outdoor-advertising-association/article35756718.ece
06 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Phone-in programme||Bangalore Water Supply and Sewerage Board will conduct a phone-in programme with its chairman N. Jayaram on Saturday. The BWSSB, in a release, stated that Mr. Jayaram would interact with members of the public on various matters. To participate in the programme, dial 080-22945119 between 9 a.m. and 10.30 a.m., a release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/phone-in-programme/article35756727.ece
06 August 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Disruption in power supply||There will be intermittent power supply on Saturday from 10 a.m to 5 p.m in the following areas: Okalipuram, Swathanthra Palya, Dayananda Nagar, Robertson Block, Jakkarayanakere, Hanumanthappa Colony, Platform Road, Okalipuram Stage I and II, Ramachandrapura, Kumara Park, part of Seshadripuram, Nehru Nagar, V.V Giri Colony, Risaldar Street, M.D. Block, and part of Malleswaram.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/disruption-in-power-supply/article35756733.ece
06 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||KSAPS contract workers to support protest||Contract workers of the Karnataka State Aids Prevention Society (KSAPS) will extend support to the protest called by the National Aids Control Employees’ Union seeking wage revision. During the protest period the employees will wear black badges and stop issuing daily, weekly, and monthly reports. They will present a memorandum toDeputy Commissioners, District Health and Family Welfare Officers and Administrative Health Officers between August 9 and 14. They will stage dharna between August 23 and 28 outside the residences of the Chief Minister and the Health Minister and the KSAPS State office.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ksaps-contract-workers-to-support-protest/article35756740.ece
06 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||BJP says no political interference||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai, responding to allegations of ED raids against Congress MLA B.Z. Zameer Ahmed Khan were “politically motivated”, said he was “neither an I-T officer nor an ED officer to know the reason for the raids” and denied any political interference. These are independent agencies carrying out their routine work. “These agencies won’t raid everyone. They raid only those whose dealings are suspect. Moreover, the raid is not final. The case will go to the courts where the agencies need to justify the case and the person gets a chance to defend himself,” he said. Senior Minister J.C. Madhuswamy came down heavily on Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah for defending Mr. Khan. “Mr. Khan has manybusinesses and such search operations are common when agencies suspect some irregularities. He need not fear if his house is in order. To paint that as politically motivated is wrong. The Congress used to misuse the agencies when in power and seems to be thinking the same is happening now,” he said. Meanwhile, BJP Karnataka took to Twitter and asked Mr. Siddaramaiah and State Congress chief D.K. Shivakumar whether defending the accused in the IMA scam, in which thousands of small-time investors were cheated, was not a move against minority interests.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bjp-says-no-political-interference/article35756742.ece
06 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Sugarcane growers call for Statewide protest||The Federation of Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sanghas and Karnataka State Sugarcane Growers’ Association have called for a Statewide protest on August 10 opposing the fixing of meters to irrigation pump sets, and seeking fair and remunerative price for sugarcane. ‘Privatisation move’ Association president Kurubur Shanthakumar told reporters here on Thursday that by amending the Electricity Act, the government wants to privatise power supply and fix meters to irrigation pump sets. “In the long run, this measure is aimed at doing away with free power supply to the agricultural sector,” he added. Regarding sugarcane price, he said there had been a marginal increase of Rs. 10 per annum over the last three years. “The Centre has to immediately increase the price to benefit farmers.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/farmers-call-for-statewide-protest-on-august-10/article35756745.ece
06 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||1,785 new cases in State||The number of new COVID-19 cases reported in the State continued to remain over 1,700 as 1,785 new cases were recorded on Thursday. As many as 414 of them were in Bengaluru Urban. Twenty-five new deaths were also reported, while the number of active cases stood at 24,414 across Karnataka. Bengaluru Urban had five new deaths and 8,560 active cases. The total number of deaths so far is 36,705 in the State. Among the other districts that reported over 100 cases were Dakshina Kannada (337), Hassan (125), Kodagu (100), Mysuru (105), and Udupi (134). The State’s positivity rate stood at 1.1 % and case fatality rate at 1.4%. The total number of cases so far in the State now stands at 29.13 lakh. As many as 28.52 lakh people have been discharged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/1785-covid-19-cases-in-state/article35756732.ece
06 August 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Rousing welcome for KSE, Araga Jnanendra||K.S. Eshwarappa and Araga Jnanendra, who took oath as Ministers in the Basavaraj Bommai Cabinet, received a rousing welcome in Shivamogga on Thursday, when they reached their native district for the first time after taking oath. Mr. Eshwarappa was welcomed by a group of party workers at MRS Circle. Shivamogga Mayor Sunitha Appanna and other leaders of the party were present. They raised slogans praising the BJP, Mr. Eshwarappa and other leaders of the party. The Minister later visited the RSS office and party office in the city. Speaking to the media on the occasion, he said he was not keen on a particular portfolio and he would happily accept the ministry he was allotted. Regarding the differences within the party following Cabinet expansion, he said there were minor differences and they would be sorted out. Shivamogga district unit of the party had organised a meeting at the party office to welcome the two Ministers. As they reached the office, the workers burst crackers. Addressing the meeting Mr. Jnanendra recalled his initial days as a new entrant to the RSS and BJP and said he could represent Thirthahalli constituency with the guidance of many tall leaders. Further, he said he did not believe in lobbying for ministerial berths by meeting the high command in Delhi. “I am more worried about people affected by heavy rains and floods in my constituency than the portfolio I would get”, he said. BJP district president T.D. Megharaj was present.  Eshwarappa says minor differences in BJP would be sorted out Araga Jnanendra says he did not believe in lobbying for ministerial berths by meeting the high command||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rousing-welcome-for-kse-araga-jnanendra/article35757096.ece
06 August 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Youth Cong. workers picket Shivamogga MP’s house||Shivamogga district unit of Youth Congress on Thursday picketed the residence of Shivamogga Lok Sabha member B.Y. Raghavendra, criticising the “anti-farmer and anti-common man” policies of the Union government. The Congress workers staged a protest at Vinoba Nagar Police Chowki and marched to the MP’s house, where the police took the protesters into custody. The protesters raised slogans criticising Mr. Raghavendra for keeping mum on the issues of price rise, farm bills and denial of funds due to the State. The Centre did not respond to problems faced by the public, they alleged. Former legislator K.B. Prasanna Kumar and district Youth Congress president H.P. Girish led the protest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/youth-cong-workers-picket-shivamogga-mps-house/article35757099.ece
06 August 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Crest gates of Bhadra reservoir opened||The crest gates of Bhadra reservoir were opened on Thursday to release water as the water level was about to reach the maximum level following heavy rains in the catchment area. The dam authorities lifted four gates and released 1,600 cusecs to the river. Superintendent Engineer of Bhadra River Project M. Chandrahasa told journalists the increasing water level forced the officers to lift the gates considering the safety of the reservoir. “For the first time, the reservoir is almost full in the first week of August itself. We are monitoring the outflo.” As of Thursday the inflow was 15,206 cusecs and the total outflow, 3,911 cusecs. Bhadra Command Area Development Authority president Pavithra Ramaiah said the farming community was happy as the reservoir was full. There would be sufficient water for agricultural activities. The engineers had issued a warning to people on the bank of the river to shift to safer places and ensure their cattle did not go close to the river.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/crest-gates-of-bhadra-reservoir-opened/article35757094.ece
06 August 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||DC warns against manual scavenging||Shivamogga Deputy Commissioner K.B. Shivakumar has directed the officers in the district to take measures to avoid manual scavenging. “It is a criminal offence to hire people to clean soak pits or underground drains. The officers should use sucking machines,” he said in a meeting with officers on Thursday. All the urban local bodies have got sucking machines. The private people also could hire the machines for cleaning the pits. The urban local bodies could use advanced machines to clean the public toilets. Shivamogga City Corporation could procure them on a pilot basis. The same could be followed in other urban local bodies, he said. The municipal workers, hired through outsourcing agencies, should get the minimum wages fixed by the State government. There were complaints against a few outsourcing agencies on non-payment of minimum wages. All the employees should get other benefits such as ESI and EPF. Earlier a survey was conducted to find out manual scavengers in the district. The State government had taken enough measures to rehabilitate them. They had got ration cards and financial assistance of Rs. 40,000.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/dc-warns-against-manual-scavenging/article35757097.ece
06 August 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Case against man for marrying minor girl||Kadur Police have registered a case against a man who married a minor girl, and those who arranged the marriage. The 34-year-old Bengalurean married the 16-year-old girl a few months ago. The issue came to light on Wednesday, when Child Helpline received a call. The Child Helpline staff visited Dodda Bukkasagar village and collected information about the marriage. They learnt that the girl was two months pregnant. It was the second marriage for the accused. Based on the complaint filed by the Child Helpline staff, Kadur Police booked a case against the accused under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012. The police registered another case under the Prohibition of Child Marriage Act against the parents and others who facilitated the marriage. The girl has been kept under care in a child home registered under the Women and Child Development Department.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/case-against-man-for-marrying-minor-girl/article35757091.ece
06 August 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||127 fresh cases||Hassan reported 127 fresh cases of COVID-19 on Thursday. With that, the total number of cases in the district increased to 1,07,209. As many as 21 students of one college tested positive for the infection. Hassan district administration has imposed prohibitory orders restricting public gatherings, religious and entertainment programmes till August 31. Shivamogga Shivamogga reported 71 cases on Thursday, including 25 from Shivamogga, five from Bhadravati, 17 from Thirthahalli, two from Shikaripura, 11 from Sagar, eight from Hosanagar, one from Sorab and two from other districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/127-fresh-cases/article35757092.ece
06 August 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Curbs on devotees||The management of Chowdeshwari temple at Sigandur in Sagar taluk has prohibited the entry of devotees during the weekend, following the district administration’s guidelines in view of COVID-19 pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/curbs-on-devotees/article35757093.ece
06 August 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Stop eviction, say petty merchants||Representatives of the Pragatipara Chikka Vartakara Sangha have appealed to the Deputy Commissioner to intervene and prevent forcible eviction and harassment of petty merchants of Super Market in Dharwad. A delegation of the sangha, led by sangha’s legal adviser Pandurang Neeralakeri and Congress leader Ismail Tamatgar and others, met Deputy Commissioner Nitesh Patil in Dharwad on Thursday and aired their grievances. They also submitted a memorandum to the Deputy Commissioner, in which they said that how, despite court orders, the Hubballi Dharwad Municipal Corporation (HDMC) was forcibly evicting the merchants without taking proper rehabilitation measures before taking up work on development of Super Market. In 1986, through writ petition 7466/86, Pragatipara Chikka Vartakara Sangha filed a case against HDMC. The High Court of Karnataka then directed the HDMC to build a shopping complex for hawkers. However, when the order was not followed, in 1999, the sangha again filed a petition (No 36737/1999) and the court gave the municipal corporation a deadline of six months to implement the order. The municipal corporation has given an undertaking in court that it will abide by court order. When that also was not followed, the sangha again approached court (Petition No 20405/2004) which ordered the municipal corporation to create hawking and non-hawking zones to help hawkers, they said in the memorandum. The members of the delegation told the Deputy Commissioner that on four occasions, the sangha had approached court and every time, the municipal corporation submitted a blueprint and gave in writing before court that various blocks will be created for petty merchants. In the undertaking given on January 12, 2005, the municipal corporation said that it will earmark space for each member of the sangha and the court had in 2010 upheld the earlier order on ensuring proper rehabilitation. In the memorandum, the sangha has pointed out that as per permit fee fixed for petty shops by the sangha, the members had been paying the permit fee. Moreover, the court had said that the development of Super Market should be taken up without causing any problem to petty shop owners and hawkers. However, violating the court order, the municipal authorities evicted the petty merchants from Super Market area on June 11 through a clearance drive. There will be no problem if shops are first constructed in the space available and then further development work is taken up, the sangha has said in the memorandum.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/stop-eviction-say-petty-merchants/article35756911.ece
06 August 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Temple, dargah on road cleared as residents extend cooperation||The staff of Hubballi-Dharwad Municipal Corporation facilitated implementation of a road widening project by demolishing a temple and a dargah built encroaching upon a road. The demolition drive was carried out under police protection on Wednesday and with the cooperation of the local residents, with whom the authorities had held discussions earlier and convinced them of the need for shifting both religious structures to alternative sites. Considering the sensitivity of the issue, 35 police personnel were deployed for security and two vehicles of the City Armed Reserve Police were also stationed at Heggeri where the demolition drive was carried out. Using earthmovers, both the structures were demolished by the staff. Prior to the drive, the local residents shifted the idol of Huligemma Devi to the Lokur Dyamavva Temple located nearby. Assistant Commissioner of Zone No 10 of Hubballi-Dharwad Municipal Corporation Tirupati Patil said that the temple and dargah were demolished as per a Supreme Court order on clearing religious structures built encroaching upon public places. He clarified that the whole demolition drive was carried out with the cooperation of the local residents. Discussions were held prior to the drive and they were given information regarding why it was being done. And, the residents cooperated with the authorities, he said. After the drive was carried out, the local residents installed the idol of Huligemma Devi at the Lokur Dyamavva Temple.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/temple-dargah-on-road-cleared-as-residents-extend-cooperation/article35756908.ece
06 August 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Passenger train to run from Aug. 12||South Western Railway has decided to run Train No 07367/07368 Arsikere-SSS Hubballi-Arsikere Unreserved Daily Passenger Special Train from August 12, a release said. Accordingly, Train No 07367 Arsikere-SSS Hubballi Daily Passenger Special will leave Arsikere at 4.40 a.m. and reach SSS Hubballi at 12.55 p.m. In the return direction, Train No 07368 SSS Hubballi- Arsikere Daily Passenger Special will leave SSS Hubballi at 3 p.m. and reach Arsikere at 10.25 p.m.  En route , the train will stop at Banavar, Devanur, Ballekere Halt, Kadur, Birur, Nagavangala, Ajjampur, Shivani, Hosdurga Road, Arabagatta Halt, Ramgiri, Nulenuru, Holalkere, Chikjajur, Sasalu, Mayakonda, Kodaganur, Hanumanahalli, Tolahunse, Davangere, Harihar, Chalgeri, Ranebennur, Devargudda, Byadgi, Haveri, Karajgi, Kalsur, Savanur, Yalvigi, Kalas Halt, Gudgeri, Saunshi and Kundgol, in both directions. The composition of the train will be a total of 12 coaches comprising 10 Second Class Coaches and two Second Class Luggage-cum-Brake Van/Disabled-friendly compartments. All passengers are requested to adhere strictly to COVID-19 norms. Ballari train augmented South Western Railway on Wednesday augmented Train No 07337/07338 SSS Hubballi-Ballari-SSS Hubballi Passenger Special Train permanently with five additional Second Class Coaches. The revised train composition is a total of 13 coaches comprising 11 Second Class Coaches and two Second Class Luggage-cum-Brake Van/Disabled-friendly compartments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/passenger-train-to-run-from-aug-12/article35756909.ece
06 August 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Applications invited||Apparel Training and Design Centre, Hubballi, has invited applications from women of all categories for a one-year Diploma in Fashion Designing course. Candidates in the age group of 18 to 35 who have passed PU, ITI or Diploma (above 60%) will be given priority. After completion of training, they will be provided jobs. Applications should be sent to ATDC Vocational Institute, ATI Compound, Behind Canara Hotel, Hosur, Hubballi. For details, call Ph: 9481284036 or 9742777488.    Karnataka-based Chess Era, which conducted online tournaments with Swiss Pairing, is conducting Independence Day Cup from August 16 to 26. The event is being conducted in association with Mysore Chess Centre, RI3181and Rotary Club Mysore East. It will be held in categories of U15, U13 and U10. Every participant will receive a trophy and e-certificates. For more details, visit www.chessera.com or WhatsApp to Ph: 8105408339.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/applications-invited/article35756905.ece
06 August 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||PDO suspended for misusing funds||Kalaburagi Zilla Panchayat Chief Executive Officer Dileesh Sasi on Thursday ordered the immediate suspension of Panchayat Development Officer (PDO) of Nagoor Gram Panchayat Jagadevi Pawar on the charge of he indulging in irregularities while implementing Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/pdo-suspended-for-misusing-funds/article35756903.ece
06 August 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||University odd semester exams to resume on August 11||The odd semester examinations of undergraduate and post-graduate courses of Mangalore University of the academic year 2020-21 will resume on August 11, according to Registrar (Evaluation) of the university P.L. Dharma. The university postponed the examinations, which had resumed on August 2, with effect from August 4, after Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra asked it to do so to prevent the spread of COVID-19, mainly from those students who came from Kerala for the examinations. A decision to resume the examinations on August 11 was taken following a meeting the university, the Department of Collegiate Education authorities and the representatives of student unions had with the Deputy Commissioner on Thursday. Mr. Dharma, in a letter sent to all college principals and chairpersons of postgraduate departments, said that additional examinations will be conducted for such students (including from other States) who are not able to attend the examinations due to COVID-19 and transport-related issues. Meeting The meeting decided that the university should allow the students to appear for the examinations even if they have not paid their fees. And, the fees which are due should be collected before issuing the marks cards. No college should insist that the students pay the fees or fine to issue hall tickets. All COVID-19 protocols should be followed while conducting the examinations. Certificate must Meanwhile, minutes of the meeting issued by the Deputy Commissioner said that those students from Kerala who appear for the examinations should compulsorily produce RT-PCR negative certificate for COVID-19. The Joint Director of Collegiate Education should supervise the examinations conducted by the autonomous colleges and deemed to be universities. Autonomous colleges and deemed to be universities (Yenepoya, Nitte and Srinivasa) should compulsorily obtain permission of the Joint Director of Collegiate Education before conducting the examinations and opening their colleges. The hall tickets should be dispatched via WhatsApp or sent by e-mail. Meanwhile, Mangalore University has been forced to postpone its odd semester examinations thrice due to KSRTC strike, lockdown and finally, instruction from the Deputy Commissioner. The post-graduate students led by the Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP) staged a protest on Mangalore University campus on Wednesday against the postponement of the examinations.  The decision was taken after a meeting the university, the Department of Collegiate Education authorities and the representatives of student unions had with the Deputy Commissioner||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/university-odd-semester-exams-to-resume-on-august-11/article35757070.ece
06 August 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Additional NIA team joins investigation of IS module||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Thursday continued questioning the family members of the former MLA and poet late B.M. Idinabba in Ullal here relating to the investigation of the Islamic State (IS) module unearthed about a year ago. An additional team of nine members from the NIA, which included an officer of the rank of Superintendent of Police, joined the investigation on Thursday. The Mangaluru Police provided necessary logistical support to the NIA team. The house in Mastikatte in Ullal in which Mr. Idinabba’s son B.M. Basha, a realtor, is staying, was among the five places that the NIA teams searched in Karnataka and Jammu & Kashmir on Wednesday. This search was in continuation of investigation of the IS module that was unearthed a year ago when intelligence agencies came across an Instagram channel that was involved in Islamic State-related propaganda. Following the search on Wednesday, the NIA arrested Ammar Abdul Rahman from Ullal, Mangaluru, Shankar Venkatesh Perumal alias Ali Muaviya from Bengaluru, Obaid Hamid from Srinagar and Muzammil Hassan Bhat from Bandipora in Kashmir. The agency has accused these four persons of raising funds, radicalising and motivating others to join the Islamic State. The NIA detained in Mangaluru four accused persons and a woman who were to fly to Afghanistan. The search in Mangaluru on Wednesday was carried out by a team led by a Deputy Inspector-General of Police and it included a Deputy Superintendent of Police, a Police Inspector, a Sub-Inspector and an Assistant Sub-Inspector. Go deep, says BJP Strongly condemning the action of the accused persons in radicalising youth from Dakshina Kannada and Kerala and making them join the IS, Dakshina Kannada district BJP president Sudarshan Moodbidri on Thursday asked the NIA to go deep into the matter and arrest all those who are giving financial and logistical support to the accused persons. “Effective action should be taken to nip in the bud the efforts to spread IS in the region,” he said. Mr. Sudarshan said that the party had demanded that the Union government open an unit of the NIA in Mangaluru. It will reiterate the demand through MP and State BJP president Nalin Kumar Kateel. In a statement, Vishwa Hindu Parishad’s Zilla Prachara Pramukh Pradeep Saripalla said that an unit of the NIA was necessary in the city to effectively curb activities of IS.  Questioning of family members of the former MLA late B.M. Idinabba continues||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/additional-nia-team-joins-investigation-of-is-module/article35756736.ece
06 August 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Gallery launches ‘Art of the Week’ series||City-based S Cube Art Gallery in association with Art Kanara Trust and Mindcraft Studios recently launched its ‘Art of the Week’ series in an attempt to show best works of individual artists. Over the next six months, the gallery will highlight an exemplary work of an artist every week at its Kodialguthu Center for Art & Culture, G.G. Road, Ballalbagh. The painting will be on display along with a profile of the artist during the respective week. Art lovers can visit the gallery from 11 a.m. to 1.30 p.m. or 4 p.m. to 7 p.m. on all days except Sunday, said a release. ‘Art of the Week’ series was formally launched on Saturday by Jyothi Alva, owner and hostess of Kodialguthu House, one of the oldest heritage houses in the city. She unveiled “Mahishasura Pravesha”, a 36x30 acrylic on canvas work by veteran artist Ganesha Somayaji, honorary president, Karavali Chithrakala Chavadi. Ashok Alva of Kodialguthu House was present. Ms. Alva expressed her own keen interest in art. She appreciated that different art activities hosted by Art Kanara Trust in her heritage house was a befitting gesture and said that it has added to the glory of the venue. Mr. Somayaji appreciated the initiative of S Cube Art Gallery to highlight one artist every week and said that it will introduce numerous artists to the public. Journalist Mahesh Nayak hoped the series will help in building a culture of art appreciation in society. S.M. Shivaprakash, secretary, Karavali Chithrakala Chavad,i also spoke. Established in 2014, S Cube Art Gallery is situated at Kodialguthu Center and has a collection of paintings, drawings, graphics, and sculptures.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/gallery-launches-art-of-the-week-series/article35757076.ece
06 August 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Work to rejuvenate tank begins||The process to give a new lease of life to a large tank now filled with vegetation at Kulashekara here began on Tuesday when its rejuvenation work was initiated by Mangalore Urban Development Authority (MUDA). Mangaluru South MLA D. Vedavyas Kamath laid the foundation stone for the tank rejuvenation work in the presence of Mayor Premananda Shetty, MUDA Chairman Ravishankar Mijar and others. Mr. Kamath said that the tank has been in disuse since about six decades and in a state of neglect. Quoting elders in Kulashekara as saying, he said the the Utsava Murty  of the Veeranarayana Temple in the region used to be brought to the tank for  the Avabhrita Snana during the temple’s annual festival. With a view to rejuvenating water bodies in and around Mangaluru, work has started with funds from MUDA, Mr. Kamath said. The works include clearing vegetation, removing silt from the tank and constructing a walking path surrounding it. Mr. Mijar said that many tanks and water bodies in Mangaluru have been in a state of neglect for years. Mr. Kamath has plans to give a new lease of life to all these water bodies, he said and added that MUDA agreed to support the initiative taken to rejuvenate Kulashekara tank in the interest of public good. The authority will foot the bill for the tank’s complete rejuvenation and development, he said. Corporation Standing Committees chiefs Sandeep Garodi and Leelavathi Prakash, Chief Whip in the corporation council Sudhir Shetty Kannur, councillors and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/work-to-rejuvenate-tank-begins/article35757074.ece
06 August 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Kateel seeks modern building for Mangaluru Central Rly. Station||Dakshina Kannada MP and State BJP president Nalin Kumar Kateel on Monday urged Railway Minister Ashwini Vaishnav to direct the Railways to construct a new spacious building of international standards for Mangaluru Central Railway Station. Meeting the Minister in New Delhi, Mr. Kateel said that the present century-old building was inadequate to handle increased numbers of trains as well as passengers. The old building severely lacks passenger amenities and has become inadequate, he said. There is also a need to speed up construction of new platforms, [Nos 4 and 5] and the pitline at the central railway station here to facilitate handling of more trains, he told Mr. Vaishnav. Though funds were made available for the construction, the work has not gained momentum, he said. Mangaluru Junction Railway Station too lacks facilities, he said and urged the Minister to direct the Ministry to upgrade the station providing modern amenities to passengers. Both the central and Mangaluru Junction railway stations attract heavy footfall and generate considerable revenue for the Railways, he pointed out. He also demanded the construction of a new four-lane railway overbridge at Vivekananda College Road, Nehru Nagar, in Puttur Town and a foot overbridge at Meenakaliya, Baikampady, on the railway line to New Mangalore Port. Besides demanding reintroduction of the earlier Mahalakshmi Express between Mangaluru and Miraj via Hassan that was running before gauge conversion, the MP demanded introduction of new trains from Mangaluru to Tirupati and Mangaluru and Chennai, both via Hassan. Mr. Kateel also sought the merger of Hassan-Mangalore Rail Development Corporation Ltd. that was founded for the construction of the broad gauge line between Hassan and Mangaluru, with the South Western Railway. The entity, a joint venture of the Railways and the State government, has completed its purpose and it should be merged with the Railways, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kateel-seeks-modern-building-for-mangaluru-central-rly-station/article35757066.ece
06 August 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||‘Remove party workers from ward committees’||Stating that more than 90% of those in the provisional list of 600 ward committee members of 60 wards were affiliated to Bharatiya Janata Party, Congress and other political parties, the former Mangaluru City South MLA J.R. Lobo on Wednesday asked Mangaluru City Corporation Commissioner to take suo motu action to remove such names. Talking to reporters here, Mr. Lobo said that among the norms followed by the corporation for selecting a ward committee member includes that the person should not be affiliated to any political party. The corporation has obtained affidavits in this regard from each one of those who has applied for becoming ward committee member. Mr. Lobo said that a cursory look at the provisional list of members of the 60 wards shows that a majority of the members are affiliated to the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party. There are also members affiliated to the Congress and other political parties. “It is strange that officials have overlooked the norms and have included party workers as members of ward committees,” he said. However, members of non-government organisations are also part of committees in some wards. After 1,278 people applied to be part of committees consisting of 10 members each in the 60 wards, a committee headed by Commissioner Akshy Sridhar scrutinised them and released ward-wise provisional list of members. “We will place our objections before the corporation,” he said and added that the Congress was against party workers becoming ward committee members. Applications of many eligible applicants have been rejected without hearing, he added. Mr. Sridhar told The Hindu that the corporation is following the guidelines laid out by the Supreme Court in constituting ward committees. The provisional list of members has been released after scrutiny of applications by the committee which met six times between March 26 and June 18. Objections can be sent either to the office of the Zonal Commissioners or the main corporation office by August 15. They can also be emailed to:mccwardcommit- tee@gmail.com.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/remove-party-workers-from-ward-committees/article35757067.ece
06 August 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||38 Sri Lankan nationals shifted to Bengaluru jail||The 38 Sri Lankan nationals, who were arrested in the city in June in connection with illegal immigration and trafficking in human beings, were shifted to the Central Prison in Bengaluru on Wednesday. These 38 were among a group of Sri Lankan nationals who landed in Thoothukudi of Tamil Nadu on boats on March 17 this year. As vigilance had been intensified in Tamil Nadu during the Assembly elections, these 38 left by road for Bengaluru and then, reached Mangaluru. They had paid 10 lakh Sri Lankan rupees to agents for going to Canada. Before they could leave Mangaluru, the city police, in association with Tamil Nadu Police, arrested them. The Tamil Nadu Police had earlier arrested another batch of Sri Lankan nationals in their State. On July 24, the National Investigation Agency took over investigation of these two cases in which some arrested persons were found to have had links with the LTTE. After orders from the jurisdictional NIA court in Bengaluru, the city police shifted the 38 Sri Lankan nationals from Mangaluru District Prison to Bengaluru on Wednesday. A team of 30 policemen escorted the Sri Lankan nationals, Police Commissioner N. Shashi Kumar told reporters on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/38-sri-lankan-nationals-shifted-to-bengaluru-jail/article35756739.ece
06 August 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||No BJP member in provisional list of ward committees: Kannur||Denying the allegation of the former Mangaluru City South MLA J.R. Lobo that 90% of the members in the provisional list of the 60 ward committees are Bharatiya Janata Party activists, Dakshina Kannada District BJP General Secretary and whip in the Mangaluru City Corporation council Sudhir Shetty Kannur said on Thursday that no BJP activist is part of any ward committees. “I challenge Mr. Lobo to show the names of BJP members in the provisional list,” Mr. Kannur said and accused Mr. Lobo of making false allegation to scuttle the efforts by the BJP-ruled corporation council to constitute ward committees. While stating that the party was committed to keeping ward committees apolitical, Mr. Kannur said that family members of BJP activists can become members of ward committees. To another allegation by Mr. Lobo about some members of Sevanjali Trust run by Mangaluru South MLA D. Vedavyas Kamath being in the provisional list of committees of some wards, Mr. Kannur said that Sevanjali Trust has been involved in lot of social activities and it is not a political arm of Mr. Kamath. Members of the trust are not associated with the BJP or any other political party, he added. Mr. Kannur said that many Congress activists, including those who contested in ward nos 56, 33 and 28, are in the provisional list. The BJP will file objections to it and seek removal of these activists. Stating that the ward committees have been constituted in a transparent manner, Mr. Kannur said that a four-member committee of officials headed by Commissioner Akshy Sridhar scrutinised applications and has released the provisional list of 10 members for each one of the 60 wards. People can submit objections by August 16, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/no-bjp-member-in-provisional-list-of-ward-committees-kannur/article35757071.ece
06 August 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Enhanced train connectivity sought between Karnataka Coast and Kanyakumari||The Kanyakumari District Railway Users’ Association has urged the Railway Ministry to merge Nagercoil-Mangaluru Central-Nagercoil Ernad Express and Mangaluru Central-Madgaon-Mangaluru Central Intercity Express and extend the same up to Vasco-da-Gama. This merger, said association secretary P. Edward Jeni, would not only connect the Karnataka Coast with Kanyakumari, the southern most-end of the country, but also with the state of Goa. There was no direct connectivity between Karnataka coast and Kanyakumari at present, he said in a representation to the Ministry.  Commercial activities The connectivity between Karnataka coast and Kanyakumari could be boosted by diverting some more trains via Konkan Railway network, Mr. Jeni said. Such measures besides boosting commercial activities between the regions, would also enhance tourism opportunities as both the places were known for their tourism potential, he said. For example, train no. 16381/16382 Mumbai CSMT-Kanyakumari-Mumbai CSMT, which is now being short-terminated at Pune for want of occupancy, could be diverted on the Konkan Railway network via Mangaluru Junction and Ernakulam. While the existing train lacks patronage because of long hours of travel, the diversion would reduce journey hours and save the only service between Mumbai and Kanyakumari, he said. The association also demanded extension of train no. 11021/11022 Dadar-Tirunelveli-Dadar tri-weekly express that operates via Belagavi, Yeshwantpur and Salem till Kochuveli. Extending train no. 22113/22114 Mumbai LTT-Kochuveli-Mumbai LTT that plies via Mangaluru Junction till Kanyakumari would also enhance connectivity between Karnataka coast and Kanyakumari. He also demanded extension any one of the overnight services between Mangaluru Central-Thiruvananthapuram-Mangaluru Central to Kanyakumari. Katra connectivity Mr. Jeni suggested merging of Train No 16317/16318 Kanyakumari-Katra-Kanyakumari weekly Himagiri express and train no. 16687/16688 Mangaluru Central-Katra weekly Navayuga express and rerouting them via Konkan network instead of the present circuitous route via Vijaywada and Nagpur. This would not only reduce the travel time, but also provide another connectivity to Kanyakumari, he said.  ‘The connectivity between Karnataka coast and Kanyakumari could be boosted by diverting some more trains via Konkan Railway network’||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/enhanced-train-connectivity-sought-between-karnataka-coast-and-kanyakumari/article35757077.ece
06 August 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Five deaths in Udupi, Dakshina Kannada||Dakshina Kannada reported three COVID-19 deaths and 337 new cases on Thursday. Of the deceased, one each were from Bantwal, Puttur and Sullia taluks. With 213 patients discharged, the number of active cases stood at 3,213. The test positivity rate came down to 3.71%. A fine of Rs. 1,00,79,617 has so far been collected in 82,994 cases of norms violation. Udupi district reported two deaths and 134 new cases. With 79 patients discharged, the number of active cases increased to 1,332. There are eight cases of mucormycosis.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/five-deaths-in-udupi-dakshina-kannada/article35757072.ece
06 August 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Mysuru to get more cycle tracks||Even as it could not make it to the 11 cities shortlisted under the Centre’s ‘Cycles4Change’ Challenge, Mysuru, the city that boasts of introducing the country’s first public bicycle sharing (PBS) system - TrinTrin - will soon see its cycling infrastructure ramped up, making Mysuru a “model cycling city”. Mysuru was one among eight cities in the State which took part in the challenge, an initiative of Smart Cities’ Mission, for establishing a safe and cycling-friendly city. Bengaluru, Hubballi-Dharwad, Mangaluru, Tumakuru, Davangere, Kalaburagi and Belagavi were the other cities listed in the challenge. Only Bengaluru made it to the shortlist and is now eligible for a grant of Rs. 1 crore for improving its cycling infrastructure. The 11 shortlisted cities are Bengaluru, Warangal, Bhubaneswar, Chandigarh, Kohima, Nagpur, New Town Kolkata, Pimpri-Chinchwad, Rajkot, Surat, and Vadodara. The Cycles4change Challenge was launched in June last year and the cities registered had been asked to take up cycling-friendly initiatives as a part of “COVID-19 safe” strategy. Each shortlisted city was assured the special grant for introducing initiatives with assistance from national and international experts. Mysuru City Corporation, which had taken up the challenge, is going ahead with its plans of improving cycling infrastructure regardless of Mysuru not being shortlisted. With funds from the Directorate of Urban Land Transport (DULT), it is establishing more cycle tracks for making cycling safe and convenient for users. The MCC had sent a proposal to the DULT seeking funds for developing cycle lanes and they are going to become a reality soon with the budget approved for the same. “Eight to nine kilometres of cycling lanes are going to come up in Mysuru to enable safe cycling. Tenders will be invited and the tracks are going to be developed soon,” MCC Commissioner Lakshmikanth Reddy told The Hindu . Mysuru’s first bicycle track was developed on Lalitha Mahal Road, one of the city’s busiest roads. No new track was developed after this one though a few were planned after the PBS was launched. The first track was developed much before the PBS was introduced here. The track was developed on one side of Lalitha Mahal Road that also ensured good shade as it was laid alongside the tall trees on the road surrounded by many heritage buildings. The stretch was identified for developing the track since cyclists had difficulty in commuting on the busy road. Such lanes had become indispensable on other busy roads for increasing cycling culture and encouraging more people to use the under-utilised PBS. The track expansion did not take off as planned by the MCC in the past. It was proposed to expand the track till Bannur Road (an increase of about 4 km) from Lalitha Mahal Road. The same track was also proposed for expansion till Vani Vilas Double Road covering a distance of about 4 km, from the start of Lalitha Mahal Road stretch, for hassle-free cycle movement. Dock-less system TrinTrin’s docking stations here may soon become a thing of the past as the country’s first public bicycle sharing (PBS) system introduced in Mysuru a few years ago is going dock-lesswith the bikes fixed with GPS devices for ease of use. Once it becomes operational, the cycles can be picked up and dropped off anywhere in the city. MCC Commissioner Lakshmikanth Reddy told The Hindu that a proposal in this regard had been sent to the Directorate of Urban Land Transport (DULT) seeking funds. Mr. Reddy said the number of cycles under TrinTrin are also going up from 450 to 1,000 with the plans of making the sharing system dock-less.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mysuru-to-get-more-cycle-tracks/article35757090.ece
06 August 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Activists stage demonstration||Activists of the Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha, Hasiru Sene, and Karnataka Sena Pade staged a demonstration in the city on Thursday urging the government to take up Mekedatu project on priority. They urged Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai, who had recently vowed that the project would be pursued at all costs, that he should walk the talk on the project. KRRS said though the project entails submergence of over 12,000 acres of land it would help tap additional 66 thousand million cubic feet of water and enable power generation. The farmers said the project will help meet the drinking water requirements of Bengaluru and contrary to the perception, will also help farmers in Tamil Nadu. KRRS and Hasiru Sene said many projects announced for Karnataka tends to remain on paper but all elected representatives should sink political differences and back the project. The Kannada Sena Pade members said the project will have no negative bearing on the Tamil Nadu’s share of Cauvery water.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/activists-stage-demonstration/article35757101.ece
06 August 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Mekedatu project: AAP asks Bommai to take ‘bold’ decision||The Aam Aadmi Party has demanded that the Basavaraj Bommai government hold the groundbreaking ceremony immediately and keep a strict deadline of one year for completion of the Mekedatu drinking water project. Though the project plan was ready several years ago, it was not implemented due to lack of political will of the governments that ruled the State in recent years. “This is a good opportunity for the new Chief Minister to assert himself and not to succumb to pressure from the Union or Tamil Nadu governments. He should hold the ground breaking ceremony immediately,” said Malavika Gubbivani, district convener, AAP, Mysuru. She added that the project was a matter of prestige for the people of Karnataka and the Chief Minister should take a bold decision. She said the Mekedatu project was for drinking water purpose and the water would not be used for agriculture and hence, the farmers of Tamil Nadu would not be put to hardship. “The BJP and the Congress in T.N. were carrying false propaganda against this project,” she said. The AAP participated and supported the protest held under the collective leadership of Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha, Hasiru Sene, and AAP Mysuru district unit in front of the Deputy Commissioner’s office on Thursday demanding the implementation of Mekedatu project.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mekedatu-project-aap-asks-bommai-to-take-bold-decision/article35756912.ece
06 August 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||‘Raid on Zameer not politically motivated’||Senior BJP leader J.C. Madhuswamy on Thursday said the Enforcement Directorate (ED) raid on former Minister and Congress Leader B.Z. Zameer Ahmed Khan cannot be termed “politically motivated” since the central agencies were carrying out investigation based on their information. Mr. Madhuswamy, who was inducted into Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai’s Cabinet on Wednesday, visited Sri Suttur Mutt here with his family and sought the blessings of Sri Shivarathri Deshikendra Swami. Later, speaking to reporters, the Minister rubbished Congress leaders terming the raids as “vendetta politics”. “Unlike me, Mr. Khan is a businessman besides being a politician. The raids could be part of an investigation into his financial transactions. Only the agencies can tell give the reason for their act,” he said. Mr. Madhuswamy took strong exception to former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah calling the raids “politically motivated”. “We need to respect the institutions and not cast aspersions whenever the government changes. If the Congress is now accusing that the ruling parties mishandle the central agencies, it gives an impression that the party (Congress) was doing it when they were in power and therefore making accusations based on their experience,” he said. On Mysuru region being left out in the Bommai Cabinet, he expressed confidence that Mysuru would be suitably represented in the Ministry in the days ahead. To a query, Mr. Madhuswamy said he was ready to work in any Ministry given to him by the Chief Minister. “I was keen on Minor Irrigation in the previous B,S, Yediyurappa government. But, now, I am ready to work in any portfolio.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/raid-on-zameer-not-politically-motivated/article35756914.ece
06 August 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||MGP’s session on saving Mysuru’s waterbodies||Mysore Grahakara Parishat (MGP), as part of its efforts on environment protection, has organised a talk on “Status of lakes and waterbodies in and around Mysuru” on August 8 at 4 p.m. Ecologist U.N. Ravikumar, who is actively involved in wetland conservation, rainwater harvesting, sustainable sanitation and biodiversity conservation, will give the presentation virtually on the topic. The talk will be followed by an interaction. Those interested to join the programme can call 0821-2515150 for registration and forward their questions to e-mail mygrapa@gmail.com The questions from the participants during the virtual programme are usually not entertained due to paucity of time, a release from MGP said. Interested persons can use the link https://meet.google.com/dhj-ooox-tem (code dhj-ooox-tem) to join the programme. Also, persons desiring to become members of MGP can call 0821-2515150 between 5 p.m. and 9 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mgps-session-on-saving-mysurus-waterbodies/article35757088.ece
06 August 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||‘Maximum representation for BCs in Cabinet’||BJP leader K.S. Eshwarappa on Thursday lashed out at Leader of the Opposition in the Assembly Siddaramaiah for his remarks that backward classes (BCs) were not given due representation in the new Karnataka Cabinet. Mr. Eshwarappa told reporters here that Mr. Siddaramaiah fancies himself to be a leader of the backward classes. But when he was the Chief Minister, he never gave them adequate representation nor did he patronise or nurture any Kuruba community member (to which Mr. Siddaramaiah belongs) to emerge as a leader. Seven MLAs “For the first time in the history of Karnataka, the BJP has given representation to seven MLAs from backward classes in the Cabinet,” Mr. Eshwarappa added. Mr. Siddaramaiah had remarked that all efforts of Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai with the party high command on Cabinet formation had yielded nothing, alluding to a Kannada proverb akin to digging a mountain to find a rat. Mr. Eshwarappa likened Mr. Siddaramaiah to an ‘ili’ (rat) who fancies himself to be a ‘huli’ (tiger). “I have not seen a bigger rat in the Congress than Mr. Siddaramaiah. His restlessness had increased after the Congress was ousted in the last Assembly elections,” said Mr. Eshwarappa. He also took a dig at his detractors who did not fancy his chances of becoming a Minister, and said now everybody knows how the party high command had assessed him. He, along with his family members, was in Mysuru to visit Sri Chamundeshwari temple. He also called on Suttur mutt seer Shivarathri Deshikendra Swami.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/maximum-representation-for-bcs-in-cabinet/article35756741.ece
06 August 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||‘Raw deal for Mysuru in Cabinet formation can hit tourism’||For the second successive time after the BJP came to power in the State, Mysuru has not been given a representation in the Cabinet despite having three party legislators from the district. The district was ignored in the B.S. Yediyurappa Ministry and now in the Basavaraj Bommai government. Besides the Ministerial aspirants, the lack of representation for Mysuru despite being one of the key destinations and politically-strong centres has upset the stakeholders of the tourism industry, especially the hotel industry. “The BJP has completely neglected the old Mysuru region and especially Mysuru. The Maharajas of Mysuru ruled the State keeping Mysuru as their headquarters. Mysuru, reckoned to be a model in various fields in the State, has been meted out a raw deal which is unfair. This can have an impact on the development of the region, especially tourism promotion,” argued Mysuru Hotel Owners’ Association president C. Narayana Gowda. Mr. Gowda, in a statement here, said Mysuru is a tourist destination and in the must-see list of tourists. Tourism needs development as lakhs of people are dependent on the industry for their livelihood. The local issues can be better addressed if an elected representative is given an opportunity in the Ministry, he felt. It gives an impression that the BJP government is functioning against the aspirations of the people of Mysuru by denying a representation to the district or the region in the Ministry, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/raw-deal-for-mysuru-can-hit-tourism-promotion/article35756915.ece
06 August 2021||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Stress on developing education, infrastructure||Deputy Commissioner R. Ragapriya has stressed on the need for developing education and infrastructure in Yadgir district. She was addressing a meeting here on Thursday. Dr. Ragapriya reiterated that necessary land for the construction of science centre, central college, Ekalavya school, Sainik school and a university of horticulture should be identified immediately and proposal sent to the government for further action. Meanwhile, officials told the Deputy Commissioner that a proposal has been sent to the government to sanction 100 acres of land for a Sainik school in Kakkera village. Another 20 acres of land for the Ekalavya school and five acres for the science centre are required.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/stress-on-developing-education-infrastructure/article35756904.ece
06 August 2021||August 06 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Zameer, Baig premises raided||The ED, Bengaluru, which began the probe into the case in 2019, transferred the case to the head office in Delhi in 2020, as it was a sensitive and high profile case, sources said. The agency that had largely kept quiet for nearly a year and a half sprung into action on Thursday. Mr. Khan was questioned by multiple agencies — SIT of Karnataka police, CBI, and ED in connection with the case, but none has charged him of any offence till date. He sold a property on Serpentine Road, Richmond Town here, spread over 14,924 sq ft for a consideration of Rs. 9.38 crore to Mohammed Mansoor Khan, a transaction declared in the 2018 poll affidavit. Mr. Khan has consistently denied any other business links with IMA other than the property sale. However, N.R. Ramesh, spokesperson, BJP, Bengaluru, told mediapersons on Thursday that he had lodged a complaint with ED that the property sale transaction was worth nearly Rs. 90 crore and most of it was done in black and amounted to fraudulent diversion of depositors’ money from IMA. Sources in ED also said that the agency was probing certain transactions which they suspect may have involved routing of money to Mr. Khan. Meanwhile, Mr. Baig, whom Mohammed Mansoor Khan blamed for the collapse of his business as he was forced to pay him Rs. 400 crore, was arrested by the CBI in November 2020 and is presently out on bail.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/zameer-baig-premises-raided/article35756750.ece
06 August 2021||August 06 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Correction||The name of one of the MLAs in the headline of a report that appeared in these columns on Thursday should read as Arvind Bellad and not as published.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/correction/article35756906.ece
06 August 2021||August 06 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Awaiting their turn||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/awaiting-their-turn/article35757104.ece
06 August 2021||Alappuzha,KERALA||Alappuzha posts 1,240 cases||The district logged 1,240 COVID-19 cases on Thursday. The test positivity rate for the day was recorded at 11.76%. Of the fresh cases, 1,219 patients contracted the disease through local transmission, while the source of infection of 21 others remains unknown. The 1,240 cases include 129 reported from Alappuzha, 53 from Mararikulam South, 51 from Panavally, 46 from Aryad, 37 from Muhamma, 34 each from Cherthala South and Thuravoor, 33 from Mannancherry, 31 from Cheriyanad, 30 from Nedumudi, 27 each from Punnapra North and Bharanikavu, 23 from Pathiyoor, 24 from Kayamkulam and 20 each from Cherthala and Vayalar. Meanwhile, 944 people who were undergoing treatment for the disease in the district tested negative. The active COVID-19 caseload in the district stands at 10,552. 1,077 in Kottayam Kottayam continued to witness a sharp rise in fresh COVID-19 cases with 1,077 persons testing positive on the day. Of the fresh cases, 1,070 persons, including three health workers, contracted the virus through local transmission. The test positivity rate (TPR) stood at 10.36%. With 132 cases, Kottayam municipality reported the highest number of cases, followed by Ettumanur, which recorded 46 cases. As many as 949 persons recovered from the disease during the day, bringing down the total active cases to 7,849. Meanwhile, 40,550 persons remain under quarantine for suspected symptoms of the disease. 536 in Pathanamthitta In Pathanamthitta, 536 persons tested positive for the disease during the day. Among them, all but two contracted the virus through local transmission. The contact source of six cases is yet to be ascertained. The TPR for the day was 8.3%. With 34 cases, Thiruvalla reported the highest number of cases, followed by Pandalam, which reported 31 cases. Meanwhile, the decease claimed four lives in the district. With 267 recoveries on the day, Pathanamthitta currently has 5,826 active cases. ( With inputs from Kottayam and Pathanamthitta bureaus )  With 949 patients recovering from disease, active cases in Kottayam stand at 7,849.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/alappuzha-posts-1240-cases/article35757046.ece
06 August 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||After 3 months, houseboats resume cruises in Alappuzha||After a three-month hiatus, houseboats and shikara boats resumed cruises on the backwaters of the district on Thursday. The sector restarted operations, which came to a halt in May when the government declared a Statewide lockdown following the second wave of the COVID-19 pandemic, after the district administration granted permission to the boats to resume operations under strict conditions. An order in this regard was issued by District Collector A. Alexander on Wednesday. 15 boats on first day M. Malin, secretary, District Tourism Promotion Council (DTPC), said that at least 15 houseboats had conducted services on the first day of resumption of operations. “Only domestic tourists came for backwater cruises on Thursday. We are receiving a lot of enquiries and expect more tourist arrivals in the coming weeks,” Mr. Malin said. Officials said that only those employees who had received both the doses of the COVID-19 vaccine were allowed to operate the boats. Tourists arriving in Alappuzha for backwater cruises should either produce a COVID-19- negative certificate after an RT-PCR test taken not more than 72 hours prior to their visit or a COVID-19 vaccination certificate of at least one dose. The houseboats are allowed to operate from two houseboat terminals at the Punnamada Finishing Point and Pallathuruthy. Boarding passes are issued by the DTPC at both the terminals. Shikara boats Boarding passes for shikara boats are issued from the DTPC office in Alappuzha. “Vessels will not be allowed to operate without boarding passes. Besides, houseboats and shikara boats should be disinfected every day prior to conducting services. Houseboats should pay a user fee of Rs. 100 a day to the DTPC for disinfection. The fee for shikara boats is fixed at Rs. 20,” said an official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/houseboats-resume-cruises-in-alappuzha/article35757033.ece
06 August 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Hospital to come up at ITBP’s Nooranad camp||A 10-bed hospital will be constructed at the Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) battalion camp at Nooranad here. Kodikkunnil Suresh, MP, who met ITBP Director General Surjeet Singh Deswal in New Delhi recently to discuss various development projects at the Nooranad unit, said the ITBP had already allocated the necessary funds to build the hospital. The facility would have five doctors. Mr. Suresh urged the Director General to hasten the process of setting up a Kendriya Vidyalaya (KV) and develop the parade ground. “The Director General has promised that the ITBP will ensure the hospital and school benefit local residents. It has handed over the land for the school to the KV authorities,” the MP said. Rs. 97 crore so far Mr. Suresh said the Union Home Ministry had sanctioned Rs. 97 crore between 2014 and 2021 for projects at the unit. “The government has initiated several projects, the majority of them aimed at improving basic infrastructure facilities at the camp,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hospital-to-come-up-at-itbps-nooranad-camp/article35757042.ece
06 August 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Centre told not to pass fisheries Bill||Kerala Congress working chairman and former Union Minister P.C. Thomas has urged the Centre not to pass the proposed Indian Marine Fisheries Bill, 2021, in its present form. In a letter sent to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Mr. Thomas said the provisions in the Bill went against the interests of the fisher community. “Section 4 of the proposed Bill bans the traditional and small-scale fishers from deep-sea fishing. Due to the unavailability of fish in other parts of the sea, several fishers venture into the deep sea to make a living. The Bill allows authorities to punish the violators. Further, the definition of small-scale fisher in the Bill itself is problematic. When the Bill becomes a law, small-scale fishers could be allowed to use only vessels less than 24 metres in length,” he said. Mr. Thomas said the Bill in its present form would destroy the small-scale fisher sector.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/centre-told-not-to-pass-fisheries-bill/article35757043.ece
06 August 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Literary fest||The PG Department of English of SD College here will organise an all Kerala intercollegiate literary festival, titled Xpressions, from August 9 to 13. Author and academic Khyrunnisa A. will inaugurate the online event. Actor and scriptwriter Renji Panikkar will inaugurate the valedictory ceremony.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/literary-fest/article35757047.ece
06 August 2021||Chennai,KERALA||Tamil Nadu records 1,997 new cases||In a day in the state 1,997 more persons tested positive for COVID-19 infection, taking the tally of those infected so far to 25,69,398. Six districts including Coimbatore, Erode, Chennai, Thanjavur, Tiruvallur and Chengalpattu had the most number of cases. In Coimbatore 220 new infections were identified and in Erode, another 161 persons tested positive. In Chennai 196 persons were newly infected and in Chengalpattu another 130 persons were diagnosed as positive. In Thanjavur 119 and in Tiruvallur 106 more persons were detected positive. On Thursday as many as 1,943 persons were discharged after treatment. So far, 25,15,030 persons have been discharged, according to the daily bulletin from the Directorate of Public Health. Among the six districts that had the highest number of infections, the number of those discharged post treatment was in three digits in four districts except for Tiruvallur and Chengalpattu. As on date 20,138 persons are on treatment either at home or in health facilities. In Chennai 1,887 persons are currently under treatment. In the district so far 5,39,105 persons have been infected of which 5,28,891 persons have been discharged. In the district so far 8,327 persons have died of the infection. Kerala on Thursday registered 22,040 new cases from 1,63,376 samples. The test positivity rate (TPR) was 13.49%, higher than the previous day’s 11.37%. There were 1,77,924 active cases. COVID-19 claimed 24 lives in Andhra Pradesh on in the 24 hours ending Thursday morning. It was the highest single-day death toll reported in 16 days. Also, 2,145 new infections were reported in the State taking the cumulative tally to 19,76,141. The death toll increased to 13,468 with a mortality rate of 0.68%. The TPR of 85,822 samples tested was 2.50%. Prakasam reported five new deaths Chittoor and Krishna four each, West Godavari and Kadapa three deaths each, East Godavari two, Guntur, Visakhapatnam and Anantapur one death each. East Godavari reported 428 new infections. It was followed by Chittoor (369), Nellore (304), Krishna (251), Guntur (181), Prakasam (160), West Godavari (108), Kadapa (103), Visakhapatnam (89), Kurnool (54), Anantapur (36), Srikakulam (34) and Vizianagaram (28). Seventy per cent of the State's active cases were just in five districts including East Godavari (3,334 cases), Krishna (3,158 ), Chittoor (3,142), Nellore (2,514) and Prakasam (2,218). Telangana recorded 582 cases on Thursday and three patients died. There were 83 new cases in Greater Hyderabad. Karnataka added 1,785 cases on Thursday. Twenty-five new deaths were reported. The State’s test positivity rate was 1.10 %.  (With inputs from Thiruvananthapuram, Vijayawada, Hyderabad and Bengaluru bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tamil-nadu-records-1997-new-cases/article35757001.ece
06 August 2021||CHENNAI,KERALA||Thamizhil Archanai begins in 47 temples||Minister for Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments P.K. Sekar Babu on Thursday inaugurated Annai Thamizhil Archanai in 47 major temples in the State. At the request of devotees, priests will chant the ‘potris’, or archanai, in Tamil.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/thamizhil-archanai-begins-in-47-temples/article35757050.ece
06 August 2021||Idukki,KERALA||A year on, landslip-hit Pettimudy still bears the scars, trauma||It was once a lively settlement of estate workers complete with a tea shop and a grocery shop. Those who did not work with Kanan Devan Hills Plantations Ltd., which ran the plantation, also lived there — jeep drivers, daily wage earners, and those doing odd jobs in Munnar town. Some had been staying there for four generations. Pettimudy now looks deserted, shorn of life, inhabited only by heaps of rocks and debris that came tumbling down the Kurisumala hills, wiping out three estate lanes on August 6, 2020. Caught in red tape The landslip killed 66 people and altered the landscape. Four persons still remain untraced and have since been declared dead on official records. Their families are yet to be issued their death certificates and the due compensation is still trapped in red tape. Only 12 escaped Only 12 persons escaped the landslip that occurred around 10.30 p.m. The outside world came to know of the tragedy only by 7 a.m. the next day when two workers informed the watchers at the Eravikulam National Park, the entry point to Pettimudy. It also took a long time for the National Disaster Response Force and other rescue agencies to reach the spot as pouring rain and uprooted trees blocked the small road. Poor communication facilities and bad weather hampered the rescue operation, which extended to 19 days, involving officials, local people, and NGOs. Sixty-six bodies, including those of children, were recovered. Most of the workers were asleep when the tragedy struck, making an escape well nigh impossible. Manoj Galaxy, a Ham radio operator who was on the spot throughout the rescue operation, underscored the significance of timely communication in such times. During the operation, Ham radio was used for communication since there was no mobile connectivity. Workers shifted The company has shifted all workers to safer spots now and houses have been built for families of eight victims at Kuttiyarvalley, for which the government provided land. Many families are yet to recover from the shock. Two sons of Shanmughanandan, Dineshkumar, 22, and Nithishkumar, 20, who came to Pettimudy for a relative’s birthday celebration, lost their lives in the landslip. The body of Dineshkumar is yet to be recovered. Shanmughanandan, who now lives at M.G. Colony, Munnar, used to come to Pettimudy almost every day for months to search for Dineshkumar. This week, he was at Rameshwaram to perform religious rites for his sons. On the first anniversary of the tragedy, he will be back at the site. “Life became meaningless after their loss,” he says. Gravity of tragedy Manojkumar, who participated in the rescue operation, said one had to be at the site to gauge the gravity of the tragedy. Vehicles and other belongings lay underneath heaps of debris. The Pettimudy river had transported bodies as far as 14 km away, aided by the gushing water from the hills. The river is quiet now. The 66 bodies were buried in separate graves in a ground nearby, with each name engraved on marble slabs. Memorial planned A memorial to them is set to come up soon. Selvam, an estate worker, says no one is staying at the Pettimudy estate lanes now. Those from the Rajamala division are doing the plantation work. The area is almost devoid of human presence. Gopika, a Plus Two student, escaped only because she was studying in Thiruvananthapuram then. But she lost her parents and 14 relatives. She passed Plus Two with A grade in all subjects when the result was announced on July 31, days before the first anniversary of the tragedy. That should kindle some hope in the survivors.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-year-on-landslip-hit-pettimudy-still-bears-the-scars-trauma/article35757006.ece
06 August 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||Shop owner ends life in Idukki||A shop owner in Idukki district committed suicide on Thursday reportedly due to lockdown-induced financial stress. The deceased was identified as Kuzhiyampat Damodharan (60) who ran a grocery shop at Pallikkunu near Senapathy in the district. He is suspected to have consumed poison. The police said that according to the family of the deceased, Damodaran left his house early morning on the day to open the shop. However, it was later discovered that the store remained closed and he was not answering phone calls. His relatives and other shopkeepers later found him unconscious inside the shop. A bottle of poison was retrieved from the place. Though Damodaran was rushed to a private hospital at Thookupalam, he was declared brought dead. Loans taken According to his family, Damodaran had been running the store for several years. However, the business turned dull since the pandemic began. He had taken loans from various sources to keep the business running, they said. The police said that the body was shifted to the Adimali taluk hospital for post-mortem examination. This is reportedly the second instance of a shop owner in Idukki district taking the extreme step following lockdown-induced financial stress.  (Suicide Prevention Helpline: Disha - 1056, 0471-2552056)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/shop-owner-ends-life-in-idukki/article35757044.ece
06 August 2021||KANNUR,KERALA||Tourist centre to be developed in each local body in Kannur||Public Works and Tourism Minister P.A. Mohamed Riyas on Wednesday said that steps would be taken to develop at least one tourist centre in each local body in the district. He said Kannur, blessed with natural beauty, including mountains, the Arabian Sea, rivers, and lakes, had immense tourism potential. The Minister was speaking at a meeting of local body presidents conducted online in connection with tourism development in the district. Mr. Riyas said Kannur could play a pivotal role in the tourism map of the State. The tourism sector, which was facing a crisis owing to the pandemic, should be revived. That would be possible by promoting local tourism, he said. Rural tourist attractions needed to include cultural heritage, food, ancient sites, historical relics, and agricultural practices, he said. The Minister said tourism development should be done in such a way as to benefit the local people as well. Plans should be formulated according to local characteristics. For this, training would be given to those selected at the local body level. The potential of the Kannur Airport should be utilised to make the district a better tourist destination. He said an information centre would be set up at the airport to introduce visitors to the major tourism destinations in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tourist-centre-to-be-developed-in-each-local-body-in-kannur/article35756969.ece
06 August 2021||KASARAGOD,KERALA||Collector relaxes curbs in Kasaragod||District Collector Bhandari Swagat Ranveerchand has relaxed COVID-related restrictions imposed in all areas except local bodies with containment zones and micro containment zones in the district. The Collector said that shops, markets, banks, offices, financial institutions, factories, industrial establishments and tourist resorts could function from Monday to Saturday, from 7 a.m. to 9 p.m., in accordance with the COVID protocol. Only one person would be allowed within a 25 sqft space. Hotels and restaurants could make online deliveries until 9.30 p.m. Information on the vaccination of employees in all these institutions and the number of people allowed to be present at a time should be clearly displayed. It was the responsibility of the business owner to prevent crowding and congestion, said Ms. Ranveerchand. She said all public sector institutions such as government offices, public sector undertakings, companies, autonomous bodies, and commissions could open from Monday to Friday. Only those who had taken at least one dose of the COVID vaccine, and who had an RT-PCR negative certificate taken within 72 hours would be admitted to these places. This provision does not apply to children with adults. Travel would be allowed for essential purposes such as vaccination, COVID test, other treatments, purchase of medicines, marriage of close relatives, death, examination, and travel. All public and private vehicles could be operated in strict compliance with the COVID protocol. All university exams, sports selection trials, competitive exams and recruitment rallies could be held. Activities of schools, colleges, tuition centres and movie theatres were not be permitted, she said. Accommodation in hotels and resorts was permitted in strict compliance with the COVID protocol in bio-bubble mode. However, dining inside hotels was not allowed. Malls could work only for online deliveries. Public events and political, social and cultural events would not be permitted. Funerals and marriages could be attended by up to 20 persons. Strictly adhering to the COVID-19 criteria, a maximum of 40 persons would be allowed to enter places of worship. The police, local self government departments and sectoral magistrates should take steps to prevent crowding in shops. There would be a complete lockdown in the district on August 8 Sunday, the Collector said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/collector-relaxes-curbs-in-kasaragod/article35756976.ece
06 August 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Kochi metro’s airport extension likely to be a metro-lite system||The Centre’s approval for the Kochi metro’s second-phase extension to Kakkanad (Infopark) is in the “final stage”. But a metro-lite network is more probable for the third-phase extension mooted from the metro’s Aluva terminal station to the international airport, participants said at the director board meeting of Kochi Metro Rail Limited (KMRL) held online on Thursday. Metro-lite system is preferred worldwide, especially in European cities, since it can be readied at less than half the capital expense of a conventional metro. They can be ‘at grade’ (at the ground level, like a tramway) or even elevated, but with a much lighter viaduct than the metro, official sources said. The Centre is non-committal about sanctioning a conventional metro, although the district administration said land acquisition for the Kakkanad extension would be completed by December. Water Metro The participants also took stock of the progress of efforts that are on to ensure sound integration of the hybrid system, in which the ferries will source power from lithium-titanate-oxide (LTO) batteries and, if need arises, from a diesel-powered generator on board. The first ferry built by the Cochin Shipyard is expected to get the mandatory certificates in a few days, following which it will begin commercial service on the Vyttila-Kakkanad route. Discounted fare Taking into account concerns among the public that the Water Metro’s minimum fare of Rs. 20 and the per-km fare of Rs. 4 are exorbitant, the KMRL managing director (who also happens to be the MD of Kochi Water Metro Limited) has been authorised to announce discounted fares, depending on demand. The board members further discussed ways to operate the ferries, if needed, through inland waterways that pass through Ernakulam district. This can be done if indigenous hydrogen fuel cells are readied, depending on which ferries can operate 500 km or even longer. Hydrogen, which is non-polluting and can be sourced from the coastal belt, is emerging as the cleanest source of energy. It was also decided to reach out to bus, autorickshaw, taxi car, and other stakeholders so that multiple mobility apps could be brought under KMRL’s Kochi-1 app. This will enhance patronage for the metro and other modes of transport.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kochi-metros-airport-extension-likely-to-be-a-metro-lite-system/article35756982.ece
06 August 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Steady climb in breakthrough infections in Ernakulam||Ernakulam is witnessing a steady increase in breakthrough infections (vaccinated people testing positive), according to estimates by the Health Department. Around 9,229 (nearly 19%) breakthrough infections were detected in July out of the total 49,049 COVID-19 cases. As many as 18,159 of the infections were among the partially vaccinated in the district after it launched the vaccination drive. The number among those fully vaccinated was 4,837. A breakthrough infection is a case of illness in which a vaccinated individual becomes sick from the same illness that the vaccine is meant to prevent. However, breakthrough infections were detected only in 0.96% of the about 18.84 lakh, who had received vaccination as on August 1. “Hospitalisation is minimal in such cases even though the number of breakthrough infections is increasing. It has been mainly caused by the Delta variant,” said M.I. Junaid Rahman, the nodal officer for COVID-19 management, Indian Medical Association, Kochi. “Breakthrough infections have been mostly detected in people aged above 45 years. The symptoms were seen subsiding two to three days after infection unlike the persistence of symptoms for more days found among people not vaccinated,” he said. Since the vaccination drive started, around 12,570 breakthrough infections were reported as on July 23 among those who had received the first dose, while the corresponding figure among those who were fully vaccinated was 3,218. Nearly 42.68% of the target population had received the first dose. Around 12.53% had received both the doses. As per latest official figures, around 50.48% of the target population in the district has received at least one dose. Nearly 17.90% of people have been fully vaccinated. Eighty-three persons who died of the infection had been partially vaccinated. Among the deceased, eight had been fully vaccinated. The fatality rate was found less among the vaccinated. Call for caution The health authorities said vaccinated people could also get infected and spread the disease. Vaccination should not be a reason to go easy on physical distancing, mask use and sanitising, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/steady-climb-in-breakthrough-infections-in-ernakulam/article35756997.ece
06 August 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||No special prosecutor in House ruckus case||The Opposition demand for a special prosecutor in the politically sensitive Assembly ruckus case has been turned down by the government. K. Balachandra Menon, Deputy Director of Prosecution, Thiruvananthapuram, will appear for the State when the withdrawal petition filed by General Education Minister V. Sivankutty; K.T. Jaleel, MLA; and four former Left Democratic Front MLAs comes up for hearing. R. Rekha, Chief Judicial Magistrate (CJM), Thiruvananthapuram, will consider the case on August 9. The CJM had earlier dismissed the State government’s plea to withdraw the criminal case booked against the six accused. The Minister will have to face trial in the criminal case if the CJM rejects the withdrawal petition. Incidentally, Mr. Menon had written to the State government seeking clarification on who should appear for the case as the government had earlier asked a senior public prosecutor to argue its case. The Director General of Prosecution has issued orders asking the Deputy Director of Prosecution, Thiruvananthapuram, to appear before the CJM court on Monday, said M.S. Girish Panchu, Director of Prosecution (Administration). The earlier order appointing S. Jailkumar, assistant public prosecutor, to appear in the case became infructuous with his retirement from service, he said. Cong. demand Regarding the demand of Congress leader Ramesh Chennithala for the appointment of a special prosecutor, Mr. Panchu said such appointments were done only in cases involving serious and heinous offences. The State government had issued a circular in 2017 detailing the cases in which special prosecutors could be appointed. Generally, no special prosecutor is appointed in cases of lesser offences. The Assembly case did not qualify for the appointment of a special prosecutor, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/no-special-prosecutor-in-house-ruckus-case/article35757007.ece
06 August 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||MVD develops drowse detection system||A ‘driver drowsiness detection and fatal accident prevention system’ developed by a team of officials of the Motor Vehicles Department (MVD), who are in the final year of part-time B.Tech course at the Cochin University of Science and Technology (Cusat), could help avert fatal road accidents. It is a combination of six commonly available devices, of which the prominent one is a night vision camera that records facial changes. It keeps tab of yawning and frequent closure of eyes by the driver, and they are analysed using software that banks on a micro computer, following which the vehicle slows down and stops, said Arun C.D., Motor Vehicle Inspector (MVI), Ernakulam RTO, who was part of the six-member team who developed it as part of their final year project. “Initially, a red light turns on to alert the driver, and an alarm goes off. The accelerator function stops, hazard warning lamp lights turn on, emergency braking display board on the vehicle turns on [to warn other motorists], and the engine exhaust brake gets activated, if the driver fails to regain alertness, following which the vehicle grinds to a halt,” he added. Testing concept The team used a Maruti-800 to test the concept. “We are trying to get patent for the technology, and preliminary steps are over to get it published in an international journal,” said Deepu N.K., MVI, Perumbavoor. The six devices cost the team around Rs. 30,000. “The price will come down considerably if vehicle makers install the system at the manufacturing stage. It will especially come in handy for drivers of long-distance buses, lorries, and cars. Accidents like the one involving a Volvo bus at Avinashi near Coimbatore in 2020 [which has been attributed to the lorry driver dozing off], which claimed 19 lives, can be prevented if a system which does real-time monitoring of the driver is installed. The response time is quite fast, and a vehicle whose driver dozes off can be brought to a halt in seconds, as the night vision camera can capture six frames per second. This can be improved and customised for further research,” Mr. Deepu added. Accidents The innovative system comes at a time when sleep- or fatigue-induced accidents are passed off as due to negligent driving in police records. Many drivers have confessed that accidents occur as they doze off while behind the wheel. Premium vehicles warn drivers when their systems detect unusual zig-zagging of vehicle or variation in grip over the steering wheel. But they do not bring the vehicle to a halt, MVD sources said. The other team members are MVIs Noufel A. and Vijesh P.V. and Assistant MVIs Vineeth V.V., and Renjith S. Their guide was Jayesh S., Assistant Professor at Cusat. Among those who witnessed a demo of the system was Minister for Transport Antony Raju and Additional Transport Commissioner Pramoj Sankar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mvd-develops-drowse-detection-system/article35757240.ece
06 August 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Stress on natural drainage of water from Mullassery canal||Experts have suggested effecting natural drainage of water by gravity to the nearest outlet in Mullassery canal to prevent flooding in KSRTC bus station and South railway station areas in the city. The proposal was mooted by experts from the Irrigation Department who prepared an action plan for the 1.4-km-long canal that runs through the city. The Rs. 10-crore canal restoration project was accorded administrative sanction the other day. The team of experts led by R. Baji Chandran, superintending engineer, Irrigation Department, also suggested modifying the existing raised bed of the canal near the KSRTC bus station by effecting proper gradient towards the backwaters to avoid flooding. An expert investigation had revealed that the entire stretch of the canal was covered by slabs. The initial 820-metre reach of the canal from the KSRTC bus station up to T.D. Road needs to be reconstructed. The bed level has to be lowered at least to that of the nearby Perandoor canal to ensure unobstructed flow of water, according to a detailed project report prepared by the team. The bed level of the Mullassery canal has to be lowered by an average of one metre and width retained at 3 metres. At present, the width of the waterbody ranges from 12 metres near the mouth of the backwaters to 3 metres in some areas, it was found. In reaches where the canal has gone narrower, it has to be widened to accommodate discharge. The canal starts from Perandoor canal near A.L. Jacob railway overbridge and moves towards the west along Mullassery Canal Road. It cuts across Chittoor Road, M.G. Road, T.D. Road, Market Road, and Park Avenue Road to flow into the backwaters near Marine Drive. Most portions of the canal are covered by concrete slabs and are being used as roadway, parking space, and access to commercial establishments and residential complexes, experts reported in the action plan. The nearly 600-metre stretch of the canal near its mouth at the backwaters is in open condition. Several shops have come up on top of the canal along A.K. Seshadri Road, it was reported.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/stress-on-natural-drainage-of-water-from-mullassery-canal/article35756984.ece
06 August 2021||Kochi,KERALA||2,373 more COVID-19 cases||As many as 2,373 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Ernakulam on Thursday. Nearly 2,310 persons got infected through local contact. The source of infection in 55 cases has not been ascertained. The test positivity rate was 10.97%. The regions in which positive cases were higher than 40 included Vengola (92), Thrikkakara (89), Payipra (72), Kottuvally (58), Vazhakulam (58), Karumaloor (55), Kalamassery (53), Chellanam (53), Nellikuzhi (52), Thripunitura (51), Edathala (46), and Pallipuram (43). Some of the regions that reported fewer than five cases were Kadamakudy, Kalady, Puthrika, Ponekkara, Manjapra, Mudakuzha, Ernakulam North, Koothattukulam, Perumpadappu, Edakkatuvayal, Karuvelipadi, Palakuzha, Okkal and Puthenvelikkara, according to an official release. Tests Around 21,626 COVID-19 tests were conducted on Thursday. As many as 21,632 persons are under treatment for the disease in the district. Vaccination target Thirteen local bodies in Ernakulam have ensured vaccination of the target population above 45 years. They include Piravom municipality and Manjapra, Kanjoor, Chellanam, Pampakuda, Palakuzha, Elanji, Thirumaradi, Maradi, Ayavana, Valakam, Ramamangalam, and Vadavucode panchayats, according to an official communication. Those who were tested positive in the last three months and those who refused to receive the vaccination were not part of the list. Concerted efforts by ASHA workers and people’s representatives had helped in reaching out to the maximum number of people. Various campaigns were also launched to ensure vaccination of the target population, it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/2373-more-covid-19-cases/article35756995.ece
06 August 2021||Kochi,KERALA||When time stood still at Pallikkara||When their relentless siege of the Indian goal won the Germans a penalty corner in the dying seconds of the Olympic hockey bronze medal match at Tokyo on Thursday morning, a collective gasp went up at Parattu, the house of Indian goalkeeper P.R. Sreejesh in the idyllic village of Pallikkara, near here. Then time stood still as Sreejesh made that historic save and raised his arms in triumph. And the house erupted in celebration of the hero who played a crucial role in bringing Indian hockey Olympic laurels after 41 long years. Within moments, television channels were to flash his new sobriquet ‘the Saviour’, which may stick for the rest of his life. “Conceding a penalty corner in the last seconds in such a crucial match can be so nervy, But then the joy was much more when he saved it,” said P.V. Raveendran, father of Sreejesh. His mother Usha, his wife Aneeshya, seven-year-old daughter Anusree, and four-year-old son Sreeansh were also there to celebrate the moment. Hardly 10 minutes later, a beaming Sreejesh came on a video call to share the moment with his family. Before the match, Sreejesh had called his family around 5 a.m. “He was confident even then. He was able to move on from that defeat against Belgium in the semifinal,” said Mr. Raveendran. The family had to turn away well-wishers who wanted to watch the match with them in view of the pandemic situation. But they could not any longer as people kept coming and were received with fireworks and sweets. The crackers stocked ahead of the semifinal match came in handy. Elsewhere, S. Jayakumar, who forced Sreejesh’s switch from the athletic track to the hockey turf during his formative years at GV Raja Sports School in Thiruvananthapuram, could hardly express his joy in words. “He is aggressive on the pitch, not willing to concede a quarter. The match today was effectively Sreejesh vs Germany after a point and he prevailed,” Mr. Jayakumar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/when-time-stood-still-at-pallikkara/article35757014.ece
06 August 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Kitex serves legal notice on labour officers||Kitex Garments has sent notices seeking compensation from the Ernakulam District Labour Officer and the Assistant Labour Officer at Perumbavoor allegedly for bringing “discredit” to the company. The notice has been issued implying that the officers “misused” their powers to declare that the company was not paying minimum wages even as the High Court had stayed the payment of revised minimum wages, said a communication from Kitex Garments on Thursday. It also alleged that the labour officers had claimed that the company had violated rules on 73 counts, and that reports of the department were leaked to newspapers with the intention of bringing a bad name to the company. The company claimed the reports hurt its reputation and the allegations by the officials should be withdrawn within 15 days and that an amount of Rs. 5 crore should be paid as compensation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kitex-serves-legal-notice-on-labour-officers/article35756987.ece
06 August 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Three arrested on charge of plotting theft||The Rural police on Thursday arrested three persons on the charge of plotting a theft, in Perumbavoor. The arrested are Mathew Panackal, 63, of Koyilandy, Nizar Koorapaili, 29, of Kodavoor, and Manaf Kallidichi, 36, of Kunnukara. The Perumbavoor police arrested a man on the charge of stealing a motorcycle. Ananthu Kulangathu, 22, of Thodaparambu allegedly stole a bike in Perumbavoor on June 30.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/three-arrested-on-charge-of-plotting-theft/article35756989.ece
06 August 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Physics, chemistry easy: candidates||Many candidates wore a smile on their faces after appearing for KEAM-2021, the State entrance exam for admissions to engineering and pharmacy courses, amid the pandemic situation here on Thursday. The relatively easy papers in the morning and afternoon sessions eased their tension, as hundreds appeared for the exam at 41 centres across seven taluks in Ernakulam. The aspirants were admitted into exam halls after getting their body temperature checked. They were told to wear face masks and ensure physical distancing. Only 20 candidates were permitted inside a hall. The exam halls were disinfected a day before by Fire and Rescue Services personnel. The young aspirants said physics and chemistry papers were easy. Time management was key to both sessions. However, there were a few difficult questions in both papers. Separate halls were readied for those who tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. They turned up for the exam wearing PPE kits. The authorities had requested the help of the police to ensure that parents did not crowd in front of exam centres. The decision to allot 41 centres was taken to ease crowding while restricting the centres within the city limits. Candidates were directed to bring lunch, as they were not allowed to go outside the centres. KEAM was held amid the COVID-19 situation for the second consecutive year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/physics-chemistry-easy-candidates/article35756990.ece
06 August 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Man arrested on charge of duping job aspirants||The Central police on Thursday arrested a man, an alleged repeated offender, on the charge of cheating job aspirants in the guise of overseas recruitment. The arrested is Riju Abraham, 35, of Pindimana near Kothamangalam. The petitioner, on the advice of a friend, had allegedly transferred Rs. 1 lakh to the accused in March last year for a job in Canada. The petitioner was promised the trip within three months. However, when the visa was not forthcoming, the petitioner sought a refund. The accused allegedly kept abdicating, following which the petitioner lodged a complaint with the Central police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/man-arrested-on-charge-of-duping-job-aspirants/article35756991.ece
06 August 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||19 Navy, CG officers qualify as observers||As many as 16 officers of the Navy and three of the Coast Guard graduated as observers, airborne tacticians, and were awarded wings at a ceremony held at naval air station INS Garuda on Thursday. Two officers graduated as Qualified Navigation Instructors (QNIs) and were awarded instructional torches. Rear Admiral A.N. Pramod, Deputy Commandant, Indian Naval Academy, was the chief guest for the event and awarded the Instructor Badge to QNIs and Golden Wings to the new observers. Assistant Commandant Gopi Krishnan was awarded the Uttar Pradesh Trophy on being adjudged ‘first in the overall order of merit’ and the Flag Officer Commanding-in-Chief, Eastern Naval Command, Trophy for being adjudged the ‘best in flying’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/19-navy-cg-officers-qualify-as-observers/article35756993.ece
06 August 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Maternity leave: HC sets aside termination order||The Kerala High Court on Thursday criticised the action of the Kerala Women and Child Development Department in terminating the services of J. Vandana Sreemedha, a counsellor on contract at the Kollam District Child Protection Office, for taking maternity leave immediately after her appointment. Allowing a petition by her against the termination of her contract, Justice Devan Ramachandran observed that “life as a new mother is like being on a roller-coaster and being a working mother is tougher. The minutiae of motherhood can never be properly contemplated and it involves navigation through myriad daily issues, which ultimately determine the health and future of the child. The mother’s constant proximity to the child is scientifically proven to be absolutely unexpendable and this is why the provision for maternity leave are now internationally accepted.” The court pointed out that the petitioner had been serving the office as counsellor on contract for several years with a day or two breaks and every time her contract was extended. Therefore, the competent authority had a duty cast upon on them to verify whether, in such circumstances, the petitioner was entitled to the benefits of maternity leave. But shocking, instead of doing so, the Director had held prosaically that the petitioner’s request could not be acceded to and held that her absence was unauthorised. The court set aside the termination order and directed the Director to reinstate the petitioner in service forthwith and reconsider her application for leave and pass appropriate order in two weeks.  Petitioner had been serving as counsellor on contract for years at Kollam District Child Protection Office.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/maternity-leave-hc-sets-aside-termination-order/article35757035.ece
06 August 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Man arrested under POCSO Act||The Nedumbassery police arrested a man under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act from Kanjoor near Kalady on Thursday. Ratheesh Chandran, 40, of Kanjoor, a popular folk artiste, was accused by a minor girl of trying to capture her obscene video using his mobile phone surreptitiously. The accused runs a two-wheeler workshop, and the girl had approached him for getting her punctured bike tyre mended. “The girl then caught him trying to capture her video and forcibly took the mobile phone. She then rushed it to her father who lodged a police complaint,” said Nedumbassery police sources. The accused was charged with Sections 11 (v) and 12 of the POCSO Act and IPC Sections 354 and 119 of the Kerala Police Act. He was arrested on Monday and had since then been remanded.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/man-arrested-under-pocso-act/article35756986.ece
06 August 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Girl falls to death from 10th-floor||A teenage girl died after reportedly falling from the terrace of a 10-storey apartment complex on Chittoor Road near the South railway station here around 8.30 a.m. on Thursday. She was identified as Irene Roy, 18, a resident of the ninth floor of Santhi Thotekat Estate. She had reportedly gone to the terrace to exercise along with her younger brother and another woman, a relative. “She was sitting on a bench on the terrace after the workout and while leaving, reportedly stumbled against it and fell,” said Central police sources. Though she was rushed to hospital, she succumbed to her injuries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/girl-falls-to-death-from-10th-floor/article35756985.ece
06 August 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Kadamakudy tourism scheme||Minister for Tourism P.A. Mohamed Riyas will announce a comprehensive tourism scheme in Kadamakudy and formally inaugurate the Varapuzha-Kadamakudy Road on August 14. The tourism projects envisaged include a Rs. 1-crore island-living museum, which will shed light on the pristine and unique environment of Kadamakudy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kadamakudy-tourism-scheme/article35756992.ece
06 August 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Bail terms of Karayi brothers to continue||The Kerala High Court on Thursday declined for the time being to lift one of the conditions of the bail granted to Karayi Chandrasekharan and Karayi Rajan, CPI(M) leaders and seventh and eighth accused respectively in the murder of Mohammed Fazal, a National Development Front activist, at Thalassery in October 2006. CBI probe Justice Ashok Menon, however, said if the CBI investigation continued beyond three months, the condition that they reside within the limits of Ernakulam district until the disposal of the case would stand vacated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bail-terms-to-continue/article35756994.ece
06 August 2021||Kochi,KERALA||HC directs VACB to conduct further probe||The Kerala High Court on Thursday directed the Vigilance and Anti-Corruption Bureau (VACB) to conduct and complete the further investigation in three months into the charge of corruption against Bishwanath Sinha, former Managing Director of the Kerala Cooperative Bank and now Principal Secretary, Electronics and Information Technology. Justice R. Narayana Pisharady passed the order while dismissing a petition filed by Mr. Sinha challenging the Muvattupuzha Vigilance court’s order rejecting the final report for dropping the charges and directing the VACB to conduct further investigation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hc-directs-vacb-to-conduct-further-probe/article35756998.ece
06 August 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Kayaking to boost tourism in Vembanad||As the lakeside villages of Kottayam look to bounce back from the pandemic-induced slumber, tourism in Vembanad Lake is now moving over from boat cruises to self-guided kayak expeditions. Adding a fresh layer of experience to the backwater tourism sector, the District Tourism promotion Council is launching a fleet of 26 kayaks at the SN Pavilion in Kumarakom. The agency has already invited bids from licensed operators to run the service, which is slated to begin in a few months. “We have in hand about 30 kayaks and three Shikara boats and of these, as many as 26 kayaks, including 13 single-seaters, will be stationed at Kumarakom. Based on the response, a decision on deployment of the remaining boats will be taken later,” said Bindu Nair, secretary, District Tourism Promotion Council (DTPC), Kottayam. Since the kayak operations involve some initial costs, the agency is waiting for the tourist footfalls to pick up before launching the service. “The plan was to kick off the service with the Onam season. But in the absence of international tourists, the operations will be viable only if we have the student groups around,” said the official. The launch of kayaks, among a slew of other measures, is expected to give the much-needed push to the tourism business in the region, which has been grounded to a halt since the COVID-19 outbreak last year. The fall in business has affected the rural economy badly, leaving the stakeholders such as artisans, tour guides, restaurants offering ethnic cuisine and the local transport operators in dire straits. Hillside destinations Meanwhile, the authorities have also decided to open up the hill-side destinations of Illikkal Kallu and Aruvikkuzhy waterfalls in Kottayam in view of the Onam season. The stakeholder agencies are now betting heavily on the vaccination drive, which is almost complete in the tourism sector, to accelerate the consumer confidence needed to drive up tourist footfall.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kayaking-to-boost-tourism-in-vembanad/article35757037.ece
06 August 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Six wards in Kozhikode district to have strict restrictions||Weekly infection population ratio (WIPR)-based restrictions for containing COVID-19 came into force in Kozhikode district on Thursday. Wards 34, 35, and 43 in Koyilandy municipality and 1, 26, and 32 in Mukkom municipality will have to face strict curbs as their WIPR is above 10. Only shops selling drugs and other essential things will be allowed to remain open between 7 a.m. and 2 p.m. Hotels and restaurants will have only home delivery. The wards will be barricaded and travelling will be banned. Police and secretaries of local bodies have been asked to ensure this. Residents of such wards, however, have been allowed to travel for emergency medical services and for buying essential stuff. The help of rapid response teams can be sought for emergency purposes. Vehicular traffic on public roads is banned and those who travel by national highways and State highways that passes through such wards should not stop vehicles there. Travelling is completely banned between 7 p.m. and 5 a.m., except for emergency medical needs. Shops in other regions can function as usual between Monday and Saturday. But entry is restricted to people who have taken at least one dose of the vaccine in two weeks, or those with an RT-PCR negative certificate in 72 hours, or people who have tested negative for SARS-CoV-2 a month ago. These conditions are applicable to the staff of various firms as well. There will be complete lockdown on Sundays. Meanwhile, 2,406 fresh COVID-19 cases were reported from the district on Thursday, of which 2,383 were due to local transmission of the infection. The source of 20 others is not known. Kozhikode Corporation accounted for 415 locally acquired infections, Koduvally 93, Maniyoor 78, Kakkodi 77, Koyilandy 66, Atholi 55, and Unnikulam 53. As many as 2,386 people recovered from the infection and the active caseload is 25,598. A total of 16,535 samples were tested and the daily test positivity rate is 14.79%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/six-wards-in-kozhikode-district-to-have-strict-restrictions/article35756974.ece
06 August 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Health officer heads home after action-packed tenure||From leading the last rites of Nipah victims to managing bird flu and now trying to contain COVID-19 for the past one-and-a-half years, R.S. Gopakumar has had an action-packed tenure as the health officer of the Kozhikode Corporation in over four years. On Friday, he will bid farewell to the city to join duty in the Thiruvananthapuram Corporation. It was Dr. Gopakumar’s first job in government service when he joined the city corporation in January 2017. Led from the front He is reported to have played a major role in fast-tracking the renovation of S.M. Street later that year. However, it was during the Nipah outbreak in 2018 that Dr. Gopakumar’s work gained attention. He led from the front in performing the last rites of some of the victims. Dr. Gopakumar also played the role of a mediator when a section of crematorium workers and local residents raised objections to the funeral of infected persons. Dr. Gopakumar received a good service entry by the State government for the work. Dr. Baburaj, the character played by actor Indrajith in the Aashiq Abu flick Virus, was inspired by him. When bird flu struck Kozhikode in 2020, he was part of the containment measures. Dr. Gopakumar has been active in the team of health workers in the civic body trying to manage the pandemic. Zika outbreak Now, he is shifting to the State capital, also his hometown, due to personal reasons. The ongoing Zika virus outbreak there is also believed to have been a reason for the transfer. A farewell event has been scheduled before his departure.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/health-officer-heads-home-after-action-packed-tenure/article35756965.ece
06 August 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Relief for NRIs as UAE effects new travel exemptions||Thousands of Non Resident Indians (NRIs), especially from Kerala, hope to rejoin their jobs and reunite with their families as the United Arab Emirates (UAE) allowed entry of expatriates with valid residency visas who have taken both doses of approved COVID-19 vaccine from Thursday. However, they would have to cross multiple hurdles to make their way back to the UAE. Many of them now have to renew their visas since expatriate residents who reside outside for more than six months continuously will have their residency visas automatically cancelled. That means they would have to apply for a new entry permit to enter the West-Asian country again. Employees stranded would have to obtain approval letters from their employer or sponsor, which must be submitted at the airport immigration counter. Likewise, the entry permits would be applicable for family visits and even transmit passengers from India. Incidentally, the new relaxation in rules does not allow expatriates to re-enter the UAE even if they are in the 30-day grace period after their visa expiry. As such, their employer or sponsor, including spouse and parents, will have to cancel their existing visa and apply for a new entry permit. Residency visa holders should get approval from either the General Directorate of Residency and Foreigners Affairs (Dubai-issued visa holders) or the Federal Authority of Identity and Citizenship (for visas issued in all other emirates). Tracking device Those flying to Abu Dhabi and Ras Al Khaimah must quarantine at home and wear a tracking device for 10 days. They must also take RT-PCR tests on the fourth and the eighth day. However, passengers arriving in Dubai and Sharjah do not require quarantine but must take RT-PCR tests at these airports. A negative result of a PCR test conducted within 48 hours from the date of departure is also mandatory. For taking preventive measures against COVID-19, the General Directorate of Residency and Foreign Affairs has also stated that applications could be rejected. Also, tourist visa holders from India have not been permitted to enter the UAE directly. But they should undergo quarantine in a third country for at least 14 days. Transit passengers must have taken RT-PCR tests no later than 72 hours from the time of departure. Previously, the UAE had announced exemptions for its citizens and their first-degree relatives, EXPO2020 participants and golden visa holders. Also, vaccinated and unvaccinated travellers from key sectors, including doctors, nurses and technicians, had been allowed entry into the UAE. Departure flights Meanwhile, with the UAE’s issuance of new travel protocol, Cochin International Airport Ltd  started departure flights early morning on Thursday. UAE Airlines Air Arabia and Emirates operated one service each to the Gulf country on the day.   (With input from Kochi bureau)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/relief-for-nris-as-uae-effects-new-travel-exemptions/article35757004.ece
06 August 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Partiality by sectoral magistrates alleged||A section of Information Technology (IT) entrepreneurs owing allegiance to the IT and Allied Employees Confederation has appealed to the State government to introduce better supervision over sectoral magistrates. The leaders of the confederation claimed that many of the newly appointed sectoral magistrates from various government departments were partial in their actions while enforcing the COVID-19 protocol. T.P. Chandran and A.P Sudheeshan, functionaries of the confederation, said the worst affected were those working at the Digital Seva Common Service Centres (CSCs) under the Union Ministry of Information Technology. According to them, many entrepreneurs who offered CSC services were being heavily fined by sectoral magistrates, who also initiated legal action against them. The confederation leaders said Akshaya entrepreneurs should be allowed to function without interruption or official meddling in the name of checking. “We were also offering important IT services sought by customers to clear various applications during the lockdown period,” they said. “Many people depended on CSCs to register their slots for vaccination and submit various applications for school admissions, insurance renewal, passport, PAN cards and different scholarships,” said a leader of the confederation. He said the centres were kept open in places where there were no Akshaya centres offering the same services. In a memorandum submitted to the Chief Minister and the district administration, the confederation leaders said biased action by sectoral magistrates tarnished their public image and dragged them into legal complications. They said such actions would seriously affect the lives of hundreds of entrepreneurs who were going through an acute financial crisis since the outbreak of the pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/partiality-by-sectoral-magistrates-alleged/article35756978.ece
06 August 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Calicut varsity launches admission portal||The University of Calicut has launched a portal for admissions to undergraduate, postgraduate and other courses, including Ph.D. Students may log in tohttps://admission.uoc.ac.inand get the details. Vice Chancellor M.K. Jayaraj on Thursday opened the portal. A release said several filters had been included to help students choose colleges and courses. There are details about Google Maps location, hostel facilities and websites. The students can choose courses on the basis of college and vice-versa through the link titled course details. The portal will be helpful in understanding the eligibility and indexing criteria for allotment, which would help expedite the admission process. There is an option to know details about the minimum index marks for last year’s admissions in the reservation category. It has all the phone numbers and email IDs of colleges and admission nodal officers and students can get things done without visiting the institutions. V.L. Lajish, director of the computer centre, said the portal was launched in a short time, considering the COVID-19 situation. The portal has option to remit all types of fees. OTP a must University authorities said one-time password would be a must for admissions to undergraduate courses. The student should give either their number or that of their parents while registering with the portal. Only with the OTP thus given can the students get CAP ID and password.  There are details about Google Maps location, hostel facilities and websites||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/calicut-varsity-launches-admission-portal/article35756968.ece
06 August 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Accused in Chevayur gang rape case still at large||Even after a month-long search, the police are yet to trace Indiesh Kumar, the second accused in the Chevayur rape case in which a 21-year-old differently abled girl was sexually assaulted by a gang of three inside a parked bus. Though the police have claimed that the search is on for the accused, human rights activists and women’s welfare association leaders have alleged that Kumar is exploiting his political connections to evade arrest. A women’s organisation leader said the accused was convicted in a stabbing case earlier in which three persons had sustained serious injuries. He had undergone imprisonment in the case, she added. It was on July 5 that the girl was reportedly assaulted by three persons after she was taken to a parked bus at Mundikkalthazham. Kunnamangalam natives Gopish and Shameer, the other accused, have been arrested. The police have been searching for Kumar in suspected hideouts and the houses of his relatives and friends in Kozhikode and other locations. The girl, found suffering from mental illness, has been hospitalised after the incident. As her mother was also found suffering from various mental and physical ailments, her protection was taken up by the Department of Social Justice.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/accused-in-chevayur-gang-rape-case-still-at-large/article35756975.ece
06 August 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Teachers to challenge govt. move to add Plus Two seats||A section of higher secondary school teachers are planning to challenge the government move to add more Plus Two seats this year as it will be against a High Court order calling for verification of the alleged lack of facilities in classrooms. Against the backdrop of high pass percentage in Class X examinations and the general shortage of seats in the northern districts, Minister for General Education V. Sivankutty recently said that more seats would be allotted in higher secondary schools for the current academic year. However, Joshy Antony, president of the Kerala Aided Higher Secondary Teachers’ Association, told The Hindu on Wednesday that the High Court in July last year had addressed the condition of classrooms in the State while disposing of a petition he had filed. Mr. Antony had pointed out in the plea that when Plus Two courses were launched in 1991, the maximum number of pupils fixed for a higher secondary batch was 50. The government on May 27, 2019, ordered a marginal increase by 20%. The seats were enhanced by another 20% on June 28 the same year. Class dimensions Mr. Antony said Rule 6 of Chapter IV of the Kerala Education Rules had fixed the dimension of a classroom as 8 sqft of floor space and 8 cubic ft of air space per pupil. For higher secondary schools, the dimension should be 6x6x3.7 metres. In 1991, the government had ordered that the dimension of a classroom would be 12x6x3.7 metres and the maximum strength should be 60. Six years later, it was reduced to 9x6x3.7 metres for subjects and 6x6x3.7 metres for languages when the maximum student strength was 50. On June 11, 2002, the government fixed the maximum strength at 50, while ordering the same dimensions for classrooms. Mr. Antony claimed that the enhancement of seats in 2019 without a corresponding increase in facilities had caused hardship to students and teachers alike. It was difficult to accommodate 60 to 65 students when there is shortage of space. Court’s stance In an order issued on July 27, 2020, single judge P.V. Asha, however, found merit in the government counter-affidavit that there would be sufficient space for teachers and students in accordance with successive orders. But, the court also said that the “matter requires consideration by the government after actual verification.” “In view of the present scenario of the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic, immediate action would be practically impossible. Therefore, appropriate action shall be taken before the commencement of classes in the next academic year 2021-22,” it said. Mr. Antony said that no steps had yet been taken to verify the condition of classrooms so far and the seats were being increased.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/teachers-to-challenge-govt-move-to-add-plus-two-seats/article35756966.ece
06 August 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Two drivers found dead||Two autorickshaw drivers who were reportedly going through an acute financial crisis since the outbreak of the pandemic were found dead in two separate locations in Kozhikode on Thursday. The deceased were identified as Manoj, a native of Atholi, and Hareesh Babu of Vadakara. Manoj’s body was found in his house by Thursday noon. He was reportedly struggling to repay huge bank loans. Babu’s body was found at a lodge in Vadakara. The Vadakara and the Atholi police registered two cases of unnatural deaths. Eight such unnatural deaths have been reported in the district within a week. Those in distress or having suicidal tendencies could seek help and counselling support by contacting Thanal, Kozhikode — 049527600 (phone) or 7902281306 (WhatsApp).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/two-drivers-found-dead/article35756972.ece
06 August 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Trouble brewing in IUML over ED notice||A day after reports emerged that the Enforcement Directorate (ED) served a notice on Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) State president Panakkad Syed Hyderali Shihab Thangal in connection with a probe into a money laundering case, his son Syed Mueen Ali Shaihab Thangal, who is also Muslim Youth League vice president, has criticised party general secretary P.K. Kunhalikutty, MLA, for the alleged financial mess in Chandrika daily, the party organ. Replying to questions at a news conference here on Thursday, Mr. Shaihab Thangal accused Mr. Kunhalikutty of the alleged money transactions in Chandrika for which the ED issued notice to the Thangal. Mr. Kunhalikutty had been dealing with the funds of the party for more than 40 years and that the Thangal family did not have the tradition of dealing with money, he said. He said the party revolved around Mr. Kunhalikutty and that he, along with former Minister V.K. Ebrahim Kunju, was responsible for the financial crisis in Chandrika . Shameer, the finance director of Chandrika , was a close associate of Mr. Kunhalikutty, the Thangal alleged. Meanwhile, the press meet held at the League House was abruptly called off following protests from IUML activists. The meeting was convened by Mohammed Shah, State president of IUML-affiliated Kerala Lawyers Forum.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/trouble-brewing-in-iuml-over-ed-notice/article35757003.ece
06 August 2021||New Delhi,KERALA||Stories of Wayanad, all the way to Toronto film festival||Sound designer-turned-filmmaker Nithin Lukose says his feature debut Paka is heavily influenced by his childhood memories of listening to his grandmother’s stories on his hometown Wayanad and its people. The Malayalam film, which translates to The River of Blood in English, is set to be screened at the Toronto International Film Festival’s (TIFF) Discovery segment that will open on September 9. Nithin, an alumnus of the Film and Television Institute of India, got into sound designing after an internship with Oscar-winner Resul Pookutty and worked on films such as Thithi and Sandeep Aur Pinky Faraar before taking the directorial plunge. The 36-year-old said he knew that whenever he would make his first film, it would be connected to the place and people he grew up with. “In 2019, when I went back home, I got this idea of making a film in my place and while writing also, I felt convinced that my first film should be set in my hometown, among the people, culture and the space that I really know,” the director told the PTI. “Then I started thinking about the story I wanted to tell and I spoke to my father and my grandmother. She is 88 and she has also acted in the film. She had told me stories of the past, where a lot of migration took place in Wayanad. I would say it is half real and half fiction. I have shot with people I know like my friend and cousins,” he added. Tale of feud and love The official logline of the film describes Paka as a tale of a river that swells with the blood of two feuding families and a young couple who tries to overcome this hatred with their love. Produced by Anurag Kashyap and Raj Rachakonda, the film has an ensemble cast that includes Basil Paulose, Vinitha Koshy and Jose Kizhakkan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/stories-of-wayanad-all-the-way-to-toronto-film-festival/article35756967.ece
06 August 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Free medicine scheme launched||The Kerala Brahmana Sabha (KBS) and the Lion Guard Charitable Trust jointly launched a project offering free medicines to patients from indigent families on Thursday. The project aims to cover 100 Brahmin families in Palakkad district by offering them medicines costing Rs. 1,000 in the first phase. KBS State president and Kerala State Welfare Corporation for Forward Communities director Karimpuzha Raman inaugurated the scheme at Noorani near here. Mr. Raman said that Rs. 12 lakh had been kept aside for the first phase of the scheme. Lion Guard Charitable Trustees N.K. Sivaram and Jyoti Sivaram were among those present. KBS State general secretary N.V. Sivaramakrishnan, treasurer K.V. Vasudevan, north zone president N.S. Sundara Raman, secretary M.R. Krishnan, headquarters joint secretary T. Santhanagopala Krishnan and council member N.A. Ganesan spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/free-medicine-scheme-launched/article35757134.ece
06 August 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Muthalapozhy harbour a deathtrap: Opposition||The Opposition told the Assembly on Thursday that the Adani Group’s failure to prevent silting by periodical dredging had turned the harbour mouth at Muthalapozhy into a deathtrap for traditional seafaring fishers. Moving an adjournment notice to discuss the issue, Congress legislator M. Vincent said the State government had unabashedly covered up for the Adani Group’s failure in a statement to the Centre. The whitewash had cost the lives of 60 fishers so far, he said. (The government had contracted the Adani Group to construct the Vizhinjam shipping terminal.) Construction blamed Leader of the Opposition V.D. Satheesan said Adani’s breakwater construction had upset the seasonal back-and-forth shifting of silt at Vizhinjam and Muthalapozhy. The company was locked in a dispute with the Harbour Engineering Department over who should regularly desilt the harbour mouth to maintain a safe passage for fishing boats through the seasons. Mr. Satheesan said silting had drastically reduced the depth of the harbour mouth. The underwater sandbar caused strong conflicting currents and powerful eddies that sucked fishing boats into their vortex. Quoting Fisheries Department figures, Mr. Satheesan said over 60 fishers had died. Many more had suffered debilitating injuries after their boats capsized. Lakhs of rupees worth of fishing equipment and boats were destroyed in the accidents. However, neither the government nor the harbour contractor had moved a little finger to mitigate the danger. Scores of fisherfolk families had lost their breadwinners. Their survivors had no choice but to put to sea again, knowing their chance of making a safe landfall was thin. Mr. Satheesan said Kerala singularly lacked a marine rescue system despite a 550-km-long coastline. The police and Fisheries Department rescue boats existed only on paper. They had no crew, marine rescue experts or fuel. Mr. Satheesan said the government should institute a permanent dredging system to prevent harbour mouths from silting up. ‘Exaggerated’ Fisheries Minister Saji Cherian said the Opposition had exaggerated the number of fishing accidents at Muthalapozhy. He said the Adani Group had resumed dredging. The administration would create a safe and deep waterway for boats. Speaker M. B. Rajesh rejected the adjournment notice.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/muthalapozhy-harbour-a-deathtrap-opposition/article35757224.ece
06 August 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Nearly a lakh appear for KEAM exam||Notwithstanding the pandemic, nearly a lakh students appeared for the State entrance examination for engineering and pharmacy courses (KEAM 2021) on Thursday. Around 90% of the higher education aspirants who downloaded admit cards turned up for the examination held across 418 centres. This was considerably higher than last year’s attendance of nearly 85%. The examination, which was conducted amid fears of a third COVID-19 wave, went ahead smoothly with office of the Commissioner for Entrance Examinations (CEE) coordinating arrangements with various departments to enforce physical distancing and minimise travel woes. Screened Students were thoroughly screened at the gates of each examination venue before being permitted entry. Separate facilities including bathrooms were reserved for COVID-19-infected and quarantined students. A total of 1,07,596 out of 1,12,097 students had downloaded their admit cards prior to the examinations. Among the 1,07,596 of those who registered to appear for Paper 1 (Physics and Chemistry), 98,621 students (91.66%) took the examination. As many as 73,943 (88.77%) out of the registered 83,294 students appeared for Paper 2 (Mathematics). While admission to B.Pharm course is regulated on the basis of marks obtained in Paper 1, engineering aspirants were required to appear for both papers. According to CEE A. Geetha, 234 COVID-19-infected people appeared for the examination. Another 248 quarantined students and 20 attendees who registered a high body temperature were also allotted separate facilities. In Kerala, the examinations were conducted across 415 centres in 77 taluks. The higher number of centres (compared to last year’s 340) enabled safe distance between candidates. Only 20 students were accommodated in each classroom. Among the three centres outside Kerala, the highest attendance was recorded in Dubai where 337 appeared for Paper 1 and 276 for Paper 2. In Mumbai, there were 141 and 128 students who appeared for the two papers respectively. The attendance stood at 250 and 233 respectively in the Ghaziabad centre that was identified for students from New Delhi and nearby places. Answer key The office of the CEE published the answer key for the examinations on its websitewww.cee.kerala.gov.in. Candidates have been provided time until 5 p.m. on August 14 to submit complaints regarding the answer key. Demand drafts issued in the name of the CEE must also be submitted through mail or directly. A fee of Rs. 100 will be charged for each question.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/nearly-a-lakh-students-appear-for-keam-entrance-exam/article35756971.ece
06 August 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||22,040 new cases in State||The State’s COVID-19 case graph, which has been on a high plateau of 20,000 to 22,000 cases daily for the past one week, remained unchanged on Thursday registering 22,040 new cases when 1,63,376 samples were tested over the past 24 hours. The test positivity rate registered on the day was 13.49%, higher than the 11.37% on Wednesday. The active case pool was rising steadily and now stood at 1,77,924, with 20,046 recovering on Thursday. Death toll The case fatality is continuing to rise and now stands at 17,328, with the State adding 117 deaths to the official toll. On Thursday, the number of patients newly admitted to hospitals was 2,607. Total hospitalisations now stands at 29,358. ICU occupancy figures have not shown a significant increase till now. ICU occupancy has actually shown a slight dip from the past two days to 1,981, while those requiring ventilator support has also dipped to 749. Malappuram reported the highest number of new cases at 3,645, followed by Thrissur 2,921, Kozhikode 2,406, Ernakulam 2,373, Palakkad 2,139, Kollam 1,547, Alappuzha 1,240, Kannur 1,142, Thiruvananthapuram 1,119, Kottayam 1,077, Kasaragod 685, Wayanad 676, Pathanamthitta 536, and Idukki 534.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/22040-new-cases-in-state/article35757010.ece
06 August 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||1,119 new cases, 1,154 recoveries in capital||The capital district showed signs of another spike in COVID-19 cases with the test positivity rate increasing to 8.64% on Thursday. A total of 1,119 fresh cases were reported, taking the total number of active cases to 10,654. As many as 1,154 people recovered from the illness during the last 24 hours. Among the fresh cases, 1,031 have been attributed to contact transmission. The source of infection is unknown in 86 cases. Two health workers Two health workers were among those who tested positive. The district administration has currently placed 32,353 people in quarantine as part of efforts to check the spread of the disease. District Collector Navjot Khosa declared new containment zones in Kochuvila, Alamcode, Velamkonam, Kanjiramkonam and Palace wards in Attingal Municipality; Moothamkonam, Koraliyode and Chirakkani wards in Nedumangad Municipality; and Pullannikode, Nadayara, Thachankonam and Papanasam wards in Varkala Municipality. Special intensified restrictions will be imposed in the containment zones on Sunday. Shops dealing with food, groceries, fruits and vegetables, diary products, meat and fish, animal fodder poultry and cattle field, and bakeries will function from 7 a.m. to 7 p.m. in these areas. Fair price shops including ration outlets are permitted to function on all days until 5 p.m. Restaurants and hotels will be allowed to function from 7 a.m. to 7.30 p.m. with home delivery services only. Dine-in and take-away services have been prohibited. E-commerce entities and delivery services for essential items will be permitted to operate from 7 a.m. to 2 p.m. on all days. Interacts with traders Dr. Khosa, who interacted with traders online, urged them to cooperate with the revised regulations to control the COVID-19 spread. She called for restraint as the district neared the Onam festivities. Shops must display its total area and the number of people who can be permitted to enter at a rate of one person per 25 square feet. Consumers must wear face-masks and ensure physical distancing. They should be screened using thermal scanners and their details must be registered at the entrance. Adequate staff must be delegated for crowd control outside and within the premises. Consumers and employees should ideally have taken both doses of the COVID-19 vaccine. Those permitted entry should least have been administered one dose, should possess COVID-19 negative certificates from RT-PCR tests conducted within 72 hours or have recovered from the disease a month ago. Shop owners and employees should have received the vaccination.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/1119-new-cases-1154-recoveries-in-capital/article35757228.ece
06 August 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||House unites against power Bill||The Kerala Assembly on Thursday unanimously passed a resolution demanding the Centre to withdraw the Electricity (Amendment) Bill, 2021. The resolution presented by Minister for Electricity K. Krishnankutty and passed by the ruling Left Democratic Front and Opposition United Democratic Front members noted that the proposed amendments would render cost-effective electricity inaccessible to farmers and weaker sections of society. It would bring about a situation where private players corner the profits at the cost of the public sector and lead to hike in tariffs, it said. Furthermore, the proposed amendments encroach upon the powers of State governments in matters pertaining to electricity and seeks to vest total control in the Centre. In going ahead with the Bill, the Centre had ignored the objections raised by Kerala. Usurping the powers of States in this matter would serve only to weaken the federal structure, the resolution said. On Concurrent List Electricity is on the Concurrent List of the Constitution, and as such, the Centre has the responsibility to discuss the Electricity (Amendment) Bill, 2021 with the States and arrive at a consensus. Several States had expressed their strong objection to the amendments at the meeting convened by the Minister of State for Power in July 2020. Although the Minister had assured that the government would not proceed without discussing the Bill with the States, the amendments now proposed are different from the ones then presented, the resolution said. Mr. Krishnankutty pointed out that Kerala had also conveyed its objections to the proposals in two separate letters in March and July this year. Free rein The move to delicense power distribution will give free reins to private companies in the power supply sector. They do not have the responsibility of investing in infrastructure, which would also lead to their speedy withdrawal when profits dip. This would create uncertainty in the sector.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/house-unites-against-power-bill/article35756999.ece
06 August 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Kudumbashree pins its hopes on Onam sales||Karthika Food Products, a five-member Kudumbashree unit in Kottukal panchayat that has been struggling to survive in the wake of COVID-19, is looking forward to sales from sarkara varatti (jaggery-coated banana chips) and banana chips that have been included in the Supplyco’s Onam kits this year. The unit is among the 11 Kudumbashree units in the district that are supplying the munchies for inclusion in the Onam kits to be distributed to ration card-holders. The Kudumbashree has received orders for 2.37 lakh packets of sarkara varatti and 5,000 packets of banana chips of 100 gm each in the district, bringing much relief to the units. Karthika Food Products used to manufacture food products such as banana and jackfruit chips, banana powder, sarkara varatti chips, and tapioca chips and powder for sale in Kudumbashree trade fairs, monthly markets, and so on, says its president Latha V. They even employed 10 women to help them with the manufacture of the food products. COVID-19, though, hit their business hard, with sales falling drastically. The only sales were at the Agro Super Bazaar at Pazhavangady. Restrictions “The business has been brought to its knees. Each time we got ready to resume business and made purchases of raw materials and ingredients, restrictions put a stop to that. Stuff just got spoilt. The farming that we undertook as a joint liability group brought some money, but the rains have played spoilsport,” says Ms. Latha. Even the plantain that she cultivated was damaged in the rain and could not be used for making the chips. The plantain for the chips were bought from outside vendors. Ms. Latha is now pinning her hopes on earnings from the sale of chips. Navajith M., district programme manager, marketing, Kudumbashree District Mission, says a 100-gm packet of chips will fetch Rs. 29.12, including GST. In all, sales of Rs. 65 lakh are expected from the Onam kits. The chips are supplied by the units directly to the Supplyco depots in Thiruvananthapuram, Neyyattinkara, Nedumangad, and Attingal. A Kudumbashree unit has started a packaging business too in order to help units that do not have packaging facilities. Cloth bags Besides these units, the Onam business will also benefit manufacturers of cloth bags who are supplying bags used for the Onam kits. Twenty-one Kudumbashree units have received orders for a total of 1.95 lakh cloth bags. They expect to earn Rs. 25.35 lakh from the sale of the bags.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kudumbashree-pins-its-hopes-on-onam-sales/article35757219.ece
06 August 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Cooperative Act to be amended||Minister for Cooperation and Registration V.N. Vasavan has said that the Kerala Cooperative Societies Act will be amended to introduce timely changes. A subcommittee has prepared a draft report on this. The amendments would be introduced after holding discussions with cooperators aligned to both the LDF and the UDF, he informed the Assembly on Thursday. He was responding to questions by UDF legislators on the lack of safeguards in the cooperative sector against the background of the Karuvannur Service Cooperative Bank loan scam. Misappropriation Dismissing the Opposition’s allegation that around Rs. 350 crore had been siphoned off from the Karuvannur bank, the Minister said an ongoing probe had detected a misappropriation to the tune of Rs. 104.24 crore. This included Rs. 102.55 crore sanctioned as loan (including its interest) and Rs. 1.69 crore embezzled from the retail stores operated by the bank. Pointing out that its managing committee has been dissolved, he said its members, bank secretary T.R. Sunil Kumar, branch manager M.K. Biju, an employee C.K. Jils and Rubco Commission agent Bejoy were found guilty of wrongdoing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/government-to-amend-coop-act-vasavan/article35757038.ece
06 August 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Chief Secretary contradicted Health Minister: Oppn.||Leader of the Opposition V.D. Satheesan said in the Assembly on Thursday that the Chief Secretary had “disrespected” the legislature by issuing an order contradicting a Rule 300 statement made on the floor of the House by Health Minister Veena George. Raising a point of order, Mr. Satheesan said Ms. George had informed the House on Wednesday that the government had lifted the curbs on non-essential retail, some in-person services and public travel from July 5. The Opposition benches had welcomed the statement. The UDF felt it was high time Kerala learnt to live with COVID-19. Pandemic mitigation and economic revival should march in tandem. The Minister’s statement notwithstanding, the Chief Secretary promulgated an order that reinstated the curbs the government said it had eased, Mr. Satheesan said. “As per the order, a person venturing out to buy two kg of rice should furnish a Rs. 500 RT-PCR negative certificate or risk arrest and heavy fine,” Mr. Satheesan said. “It is a clear example of unempathetic bureaucratic hegemony. The Chief Secretary’s order ran against the founding spirit of Parliamentary democracy,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/chief-secretary-contradicted-health-minister-oppn/article35757223.ece
06 August 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Nod for draft alignment of NH 66 stretch||The government has given its sanction for the draft alignment of the Vazhimukku-Kaliyikkavila stretch of National Highway 66. Preparation of a detailed project report is under way and land for the road development has to be acquired, Minister for Public Works P.A. Mohamed Riyas has said. Replying to a submission by K. Ansalan, MLA, on Thursday, the Minister said the development of the Vazhimukku-Kaliyikkavila stretch was included in the second phase development of the four-laning of the Karamana-Kaliyikkavila National Highway. Nearly 24.7 hectares of land would need to be acquired. The funds for the acquisition would be provided by Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board (KIIFB). The support of KIIFB’s technical resource team had been sought for measuring the land to be acquired. Steps would be taken to complete the project in a time-bound manner. The Minister said the issue of the road development had come up at a meeting of MLAs in the district, and directions were given to officials the same day to intervene.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/nod-for-draft-alignment-of-nh-66-stretch/article35757225.ece
06 August 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Since pandemic, 237 lottery draws suspended||As many as 237 lottery draws have been suspended owing to the lockdown restrictions necessitated by the two COVID-19 waves in the State, Finance and Lotteries Minister K.N. Balagopal has said. The crisis in the lottery sector has severely hit the State’s revenue, he told the Assembly on Thursday, adding that efforts are being made to bring lottery sales on track by conducting at least three draws every week with the easing of the curbs. Welfare schemes Replying to questions by Vazhoor Soman, P.S. Supal, V.R. Sunil Kumar and Muhammed Muhsin (Communist Party of India), Mr. Balagopal said the government did not intend to launch any new lottery in the bleak scenario. Elaborating on the welfare schemes undertaken by the government for lottery agents, the Minister said an immediate assistance of Rs. 1,000 each was distributed to all active members of the Kerala State Lottery Agents and Sellers Welfare Fund Board during both lockdowns. Agency prize hiked While active members and pensioners were provided lottery tickets worth Rs. 3,500 and Rs. 2,000 respectively during the first wave, they were provided tickets worth Rs. 3,000 and Rs. 1,000 respectively this year. As part of boosting lottery sales, the government has increased the lottery prize allocation by 1.5%. In addition, the agency prize has been hiked by 2% for amounts other than Rs. 100 and from 10% to 20% for Rs. 100. A 0.5% increase had also been effected in each agency discount slab, Mr. Balagopal said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/237-lottery-draws-suspended/article35757039.ece
06 August 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Now, Kerafed to procure raw coconut directly from farmers||Kerafed, the apex cooperative federation of coconut farmers, is taking steps to directly procure raw coconut from farmers, Agriculture Minister P. Prasad informed the Assembly on Thursday. In the first phase, procurement will be carried out in three districts where prices have fallen below the procurement price of Rs. 32 per kg, the Minister said, replying to a calling attention motion moved by Kurukkoli Moideen of the Indian Union Muslim League. Procurement centres will be opened at the Kerafed regional office at Anayara in Thiruvananthapuram, the Kerafed office at Poochinnipadam in Thrissur, and the Coconut Processing and Marketing Society in Perumpadappu block, Ponnani, Malappuram. In the three districts, the price of coconut had plummeted to Rs. 31 a kg. If needed, more centres would be opened, Mr. Prasad said. The Centre is yet to accede to the State’s repeated demand for a Kerala-specific minimum support price (MSP) for raw coconut. Such a step is essential if coconut farmers are to benefit, he said. Nodal agencies The State government, in the Budget for 2021-22, had raised the procurement price of coconut to Rs. 32. The government had also appointed Kerafed and the Kerala State Coconut Development Corporation as nodal agencies, he said. Mr. Moideen had called the attention of the Minister to the necessity of procuring raw coconut on panchayat basis .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kerafed-to-procure-raw-coconut/article35756977.ece
06 August 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||KPCC campaign seeks ouster of Sivankutty||Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee president K. Sudhakaran on Thursday launched a two-month campaign to force the resignation of General Education Minister V. Sivankutty who faced the prospect of trial in the 2015 Assembly ruckus case. The campaign includes neighbourhood level meetings, sit-in protests, signed petitions and torchlight processions. Mr. Sudhakaran said Mr. Sivankutty’s continuation in government was a challenge to the rule of law. Moreover, his actions offered the wrong example to students.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kpcc-campaign-seeks-ouster-of-sivankutty/article35757140.ece
06 August 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||HF biobank opened at SCTIMST||Balram Bhargava, Secretary, Department of Health Research and Director General, Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR), virtually inaugurated the country’s first heart failure (HF) biobank at the National Centre for Advanced Research and Excellence in HF at the Sree Chitra Tirunal Institute for Medical Sciences and Technology (SCTIMST) here on Thursday, a pressnote issued hre said..||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hf-biobank-opened-at-sctimst/article35757221.ece
06 August 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Counters for glass waste collection||The city Corporation will set up temporary counters at various places in the city on Friday for the public to offload bottles and glass waste as part of its decentralised waste management programme under the ‘My City, Beautiful Ciy’ project. The waste can be rid of at these counters from 8 a.m. to 12.30 p.m. Glass tube and tubelight will not be accepted with such waste. Mayor Arya Rajendran has appealed to the people to make use of the facility.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/counters-for-glass-waste-collection/article35757226.ece
06 August 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Centralised allotment for PG courses sought||The Save University Campaign Committee has urged the Higher Education Department to evolve a centralised allotment process for admission to postgraduate (PG) courses in universities. The petition comes against the backdrop of a section of PG aspirants raising complaints against the clashing of dates of entrance examinations conducted by the University of Kerala and Sree Sankaracharya University of Sanskrit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/centralised-allotment-for-pg-courses-sought/article35757227.ece
06 August 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||UG, PG seats to increase in colleges||The Higher Education Department has issued orders to grant permission for a hike in the number of seats for undergraduate (UG) and postgraduate (PG) courses in arts and sciences collegeson Thursday. The move is set to pave way for a considerable increase in the number of seats for the second consecutive year. This is in anticipation of a greater intake in higher education institutions in Kerala amid travel restrictions and safety concerns that could prompt several students to drop their plans to study elsewhere. Universities have been permitted to finalise the number of seats that can be hiked in each institution in accordance with their facilities. While a ceiling of 70 seats has been fixed for the UG programmes, science PG courses can have a maximum of 25 seats and arts and commerce PG programmes can have as many as 30 seats. Any additional number of seats above the maximum limits that had been granted previously for courses will continue. The seat hike will be made without creating additional burden on the exchequer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ug-pg-seats-to-increase-in-colleges/article35757011.ece
06 August 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Ration cards for those in rented houses||People who live in rented houses will be issued ration cards on the strength of their own affidavits, Minister for Food and Civil Supplies G.R. Anil has said. The cards would be issued even if the house owner declines to support the application, the Minister said in his reply to a debate on the demand for grants pertaining to Food and Civil Supplies in the Assembly on Thursday. Instances where cards were not issued to applicants after house owners declined to give the nod had prompted the government to take the decision. “The government's policy is that ration cards should be issued to everyone,” he said. Steps have been taken to issue priority category ration cards surrendered by ineligible holders to eligible applicants. Priority cards would be issued to patients this month and to other eligible applicants by September and October, he said. The State had so far spent Rs. 5,000 crore on the distribution of 10.16 crore free provision kits as part of ensuring food security during the COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ration-cards-for-those-in-rented-houses/article35757012.ece
06 August 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Thrissur likely to miss Pulikkali yet again||Pulikkali, one of the most vibrant events of the Onam celebrations in Thrissur, is unlikely to be held for the second year in a row due to COVID-19 restrictions. The colourful street pageant, which used to bring the curtain down on the Onam celebrations in the cultural capital, used to be held on the fourth Onam day. Pall of gloom A pall of gloom has gripped the main tiger ‘dens’ as it is not feasible to conduct the event by maintaining the COVID-19 protocols. People will enter the city in groups if the event is conducted in the Swaraj Round. It will be a hectic task for the police to control the crowd. The people of the region are still trying hard to digest the way Thrissur Pooram was held this year without spectators. Online last year The pandemic spoiled last year’s Pulikkali too. Last year it was held online. Before that the Pulikkali was cancelled in 2018 too due to the devastating floods. Pulikkali is an inevitable part of the Onam celebrations here. Dancers with their bodies painted in yellow and black will prance around the streets mimicking the movements of tigers. They will dance to the rustic beats of the drums. The tiger faces painted on their pot bellies will vibrate as they move in feral dance steps. Roaring fans will encourage them. Possibilities Demands are now being raised to hold the Pulikkali as a ritual. But a final decision has not been taken. The Pulikkali groups are also checking the possibility of conducting the event in a lower-scale in their respective areas by maintaining the COVID-19 protocols.  It is one of the most vibrant events of the Onam celebrations in Thrissur||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pulikkali-unlikely/article35757222.ece
06 August 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Congress up in arms against PRD’s video on Kuthiran tunnel||Congress activists staged a protest in front of the Thrissur Collectorate on Thursday against a video prepared by the Public Relations Department (PRD) and the district administration on the Kuthiran twin tunnels. The protesters alleged that the video ignored the efforts of the United Progressive Alliance (UPA) and the United Democratic Front (UDF) governments in making the tunnel roads a reality. The Congress workers burned a CD containing the video. “It was the UPA and the UDF governments that commenced the work of the twin tunnels,” said District Congress Commitee (DCC) president M.P. Vincent. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan was trying to glorify the role of his son-in-law (Public Works Minister Mohamed Riyas). The PRD and the district administration were also campaigning for them, said Mr. Vincent.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/congress-up-in-arms-against-prds-video-on-kuthiran-tunnel/article35757137.ece
06 August 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Ayurveda visionary’s contribution hailed||The vision of Ashtavaidyan E.T. Narayanan Mooss has helped the traditional Ayurveda reach new heights, Shashi Tharoor, MP, has said. Delivering remembrance address (virtual) at a function by the Vaidyaratnam group on the occasion of the first death anniversary of its former managing partner E.T. Narayanan Mooss on Thursday, Mr. Tharoor said he possessed deep knowledge in all departments of Ayurveda.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ayurveda-visionarys-contribution-hailed/article35757138.ece
06 August 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Test held under tight security||The KEAM 2021 was held in Thrissur on Thursday amid tight security and by maintaining COVID-19 protocols. Candidates were permitted to enter the examination hall after thermal scanning.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/test-held-under-tight-security/article35757135.ece
06 August 2021||August 06 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Trap on road||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/trap-on-road/article35757041.ece
06 August 2021||August 06 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Shopping time||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/shopping-time/article35757230.ece
06 August 2021||August 06 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||High hopes||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/high-hopes/article35757238.ece
06 August 2021||BENGALURU,ANDHRA PRADESH||ED searches premises of Baig, Zameer in IMA scam case||Enforcement Directorate (ED) raided properties belonging to R. Roshan Baig, former MLA, and B.Z. Zameer Ahmed Khan, Congress MLA, in connection with the Rs. 4,000 crore IMA scam. Thousands had invested in a Ponzi scheme that went bust in June 2019. Raids began early on Thursday on six properties linked to Mr. Baig and over three premises of Mr. Khan. An ED team from New Delhi carried out the searches. The raids were continuing when reports last came in. Mr. Khan’s brother Shakeel Ahmed Khan was taken from the MLA’s residence by ED for questioning. However, ED sources were tight-lipped on whether he had been detained and on recoveries made during the raids against the two leaders. While Mr. Baig has been chargesheetedin the case by the CBI, Mr. Khan though was questioned by multiple agencies, including ED, before for a property transaction with IMA founder Mohammed Mansoor Khan, he has not been charged by any agency till date. The ED, Bengaluru, which began the probe into the case in 2019, transferred the case to the head office in Delhi in 2020, as it was a sensitive and high profile case, sources said. The agency that had largely kept quiet for nearly a year and a half sprung into action on Thursday. Mr. Khan was questioned by multiple agencies — SIT of Karnataka police, CBI, and ED in connection with the case, but none has charged him of any offence till date. He sold a property on Serpentine Road, Richmond Town here, spread over 14,924 sq ft for a consideration of Rs. 9.38 crore to Mohammed Mansoor Khan, a transaction declared in the 2018 poll affidavit. Mr. Khan has consistently denied any other business links with IMA other than the property sale. However, N.R. Ramesh, spokesperson, BJP, Bengaluru, told mediapersons on Thursday that he had lodged a complaint with ED that the property sale transaction was worth nearly Rs. 90 crore and most of it was done in black and amounted to fraudulent diversion of depositors’ money from IMA. Sources in ED also said that the agency was probing certain transactions which they suspect may have involved routing of money to Mr. Khan. Meanwhile, Mr. Baig, whom Mohammed Mansoor Khan blamed for the collapse of his business as he was forced to pay him Rs. 400 crore, was arrested by the CBI in November 2020 and is presently out on bail. The CBI filed a chargesheet against him in the case in April 2021 in which they accused that the depositors’ investments in IMA had been diverted to Mr. Baig, then a Minister in the Siddaramaiah-led Congress government to continue its illegal activities. Congress suspended him from the party after the scam broke out and though he wanted to join BJP, the party high command blocked his entry due to his tainted image, making him a political pariah. Competent authority in IMA and other scams on July 6 attached around 20 movable and immovable properties of Mr. Baig, estimated to be worth over Rs. 15 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ed-searches-premises-of-baig-zameer-in-ima-scam-case/article35756630.ece
06 August 2021||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Will not compromise on Mekedatu project: CM||Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Thursday reiterated that there would be no compromise on implementing Mekedatu balancing reservoir, a drinking water project, in the Cauvery basin of the State. “Tamil Nadu has always made a political capital of the inter-State dispute, we are not interested. They are trying to politicise everything. Entire political system in Tamil Nadu has been opposing the project,” Mr. Bommai said. ‘Will apprise leadership’ On Tamil Nadu BJP president K. Annamalai, a former IPS officer who has served in Karnataka for many years, opposing the project, the Chief Minister said, “I will apprise the central leadership. We have spoken with Union Jal Shakti Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat regarding the project. Let anybody protest, let anybody gone on dharna,” the Chief Minister said. Tamil Nadu had been opposing the project for political gains and not for any other objectives. The project was proposed by the Karnataka government for providing drinking water to residents of Bengaluru and surrounding districts and for power generation and not for increasing irrigation area, Mr. Bommai told presspersons. Tamil Nadu has unanimously passed a resolution urging the Union government not to accord permission to Karnataka for Mekedatu project. Mr. Bommai said the Karnataka government had submitted a memorandum to Mr. Shekhawat and the Centre had assured the State of granting all clearances for the project. “I am hopeful of the Centre clearing the DPR of the project. After obtaining all clearances, the work on the project will start. There is no compromise. If anybody is protesting against it, we are not concerned about it and we are not taking it seriously,” the Chief Minister said. Resolution A few days ago, Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M.K. Stalin chaired an all-party meeting in Chennai which passed a resolution saying no construction must be undertaken at Mekedatu without the permission of the downstream States as per the Supreme Court’s judgment. The Karnataka government insisted that the Centre had no reason to stall it since drinking water was a major project component. The Opposition Congress in Karnataka too supported the implementation of the project. Meanwhile, urging the State government to take up Mekedatu project, Karnataka State Sugarcane Growers’ Association president Kurubur Shanthakumar said Karnataka should plan to utilise 189 tmcft of the Cauvery waters allocated by the Supreme Court. Even in the 1960s when the State was planning a reservoir across the Kabini, Tamil Nadu had opposed the project, he said. “On the lines of how Karnataka built Kabini reservoir from its own funds and despite opposition from Tamil Nadu, the State should take up Mekedatu project to utilise 100 tmcft of water that flows in excess of allocation to Tamil Nadu.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/will-not-compromise-on-mekedatu-project-cm/article35756637.ece
06 August 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Three country-made rifles seized from fields in Piler||The police on Thursday seized three country-made rifles that were hidden in the fields at Bontinenivaripalle village in the Piler rural police circle and took a person into custody. Acting on a tip-off, Circle-Inspector S. Murali Krishna, along with the police of Bhakarapeta and Chinnagottigallu stations, conducted flash raids in the forest-fringe villages in the Piler circle. The accused has been identified as Changalrayalu, 55, the owner of the field. In two other separate incidents, the Piler rural police unearthed illicit liquor dumps and the material required for brewing the contraband in two forest-fringe villages in Devarakonda and Chittejarla panchayats of Chinnagottigallu mandal. Two people– Cheekati Hari (30) and M. Siddareddy (65) – were taken into custody. Inspector Murali Krishna said it had come to the notice of the police that some persons were pilfering power from the poles in the fields. They were allegedly using uninsulated cables and placing them at low level, making animals vulnerable to electrocution. He said such violations would be booked under the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972, which attracts imprisonment up to ten years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/three-country-made-rifles-seized-from-fields-in-piler/article35757113.ece
06 August 2021||DONABANDA (KRISHNA DT.),ANDHRA PRADESH||Children of migrant workers from Odisha enrolled in school||More than 100 tribal children from Odisha, who were working in the quarry units, along with their parents, were counselled and some of them were enrolled in the school run by the National Child Labour Project in Krishna district on Wednesday. The students were among the 25 children admitted to the NCLP School, also known as Special Training Centre (STC), at Donabanda village. NCLP Krishna district Project Director D. Anjaneya Reddy, who visited the camps, where the about 200 Odisha tribal families have been provided shelter, interacted with the parents and convinced them to admit their wards to the school. “Following the directions of Collector J. Nivas, we are running 16 NCLP schools in slums, quarry units and in villages. About 500 dropouts and other children have been enrolled in the NCLP schools,” said Mr. Anjaneya Reddy. Free transportation Chandan, a fifth class student, used to come his school by walk from the camp, about 8 km away. As the school was located at far off places, he stopped coming to school. But, he was enrolled again as the school management agreed to provide free transportation, said Mr. Anjaneya Reddy. Priyadarshini Mahila Society coordinator K. Basavapunnaiah, who is running the NCLP school, said transportation would be provided for all tribal children free of cost. The parents agreed to send their children to the school after it is reopened. “We cut stones at quarries and earn Rs. 300 per day. Some times, we take our children there. Thanks to the NCLP school, our children will continue their studies now,” said Mulla Modili, a parent. NCLP district coordinator B. Prasunamba said many children were anaemic and they would be provided with midday meals and other nutritious diet. “Some students who were admitted to the school earlier discontinued their studies, but we enrolled them again,” she said. COVID-19 protocols Mr. Anjaneya Reddy also distributed masks, eggs and dry ration to the parents. He asked the school teachers to visit the camps and ensure that the children attended their classes regularly. He also asked the school staff to follow the COVID-19 protocols after the school was reopened. Mr. Basavapunnaiah said the school had been sanitised. Masks and sanitisers would be distributed to all students and their parents.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/children-of-migrant-workers-from-odisha-enrolled-in-school/article35757318.ece
06 August 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Amazon expands fulfilment network in Telangana||The Amazon India has launched a new specialised fulfilment centre and expanded an existing facility, both located near Hyderabad, in Telangana. Located in Mulugu mandal of Siddipet district, the new FC has a floor area of around 2 lakh square feet. It will offer over 6 lakh cubic feet of storage capacity for stocking products from the large appliances and furniture category, which includes air conditioners, refrigerators, washing machines and televisions besides furniture, ahead of the upcoming festive season, the company said. The new FC will benefit over 35,000 sellers in the State and contribute to creating direct and indirect work opportunities besides ensuring faster deliveries to customers. With this, Amazon’s infrastructure footprint in the State comprises a floor area of nearly 1 million sq ft and storage capacity of 5 million cubic feet. On the FC that has been expanded, Amazon said it is a specialised FC and located in Medchal mandal. The expansion resulted in increase of more than 4 lakh cubic feet of storage capacity and nearly 1 lakh sq ft of floor area. “Our continued investment in TS will have a multiplier impact on the local economy and provide an impetus to ancillary businesses,” said director, Amazon Transportation Services, Abhinav Singh. The release quoted Industries and IT Minister K.T. Rama Rao saying “Amazon India’s investment in Telangana is a testament to the State’s appeal as a business and innovation hub.” At the national level, Amazon said it plans to increase storage capabilities by close to 40% this year. The firm said its infrastructure in Telangana includes five FCs with 5 million cubic feet of storage space, with a floor area of 1 million sq ft, and two sort centres with more than 100,000 sq. ft. of processing area.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/amazon-expands-fulfilment-network/article35756940.ece
06 August 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Telangana wants August 9 Godavari board meet put off||Uncertainty shrouds the possibility of the emergency meeting of the Godavari River Management Board (GRMB) as Telangana, one of the two member States, has expressed its inability to attend the meeting scheduled for August 9 by the board, as communicated to the two States on Wednesday. Telangana has informed the river board on Thursday, through a letter, that it has two important cases coming up in the Southern Zone Bench of the National Green Tribunal and the Supreme Court on August 9. It has a contempt case against Andhra Pradesh inNational Green Tribunal for alleged works on Rayalaseema Lift Irrigation Scheme (RLIS) in violation of the Tribunal’s earlier orders. On the other hand, Telangana also has its petition – on withdrawing its writ petition in the matter of Krishna river water sharing to allow Centre refer the matter of adjudicating the share of water among Telangana and AP to a new tribunal under Section 3 of the Intet State River Water Disputes Act, 1956, or to the existing Krishna Water Dispute Tribunal (KWDT-II) headed by Justice Brijesh Kumar – coming up in the Supreme Court on that day. Citing the two reasons, Engineers-in-Chief (General) of Irrigation Department, Telangana, C. Muralidhar wrote to Chairman of GRMB J. Chandrashekhar Iyer on Thursday that “it’s not possible to attend the August 9 meet and the next date of the meeting may be fixed in consultation with the Special Chief Secretary (Irrigation) of Telangana at the earliest possible”. “With the other member State AP making its stand clear at the coordination committee meeting held on August 3 that it needs clarity on certain issues such as inclusion of some projects in the board’s purview schedules, which it contends not necessary, and reservations over submitting details of some projects as also on the transfer of one-time seed money, the full board meeting would be an exercise in futile until the governments of the Members States take some decisions”, a senior engineer in the Irrigation Department told The Hindu . Agenda for GRMB The agenda for the 10th meeting of GRMB includes approval and putting in place an appropriate organisational structure to perform the functions that were mandated by notification, identifying the category of posts to be filled with officers serving in the Union government and on deployment of personnel of CISF at all the projects that were mentioned in the schedules of the notification. Further, transfer of one-time seed money of Rs. 200 crore each to be deposited by the two States to the river board’s account, handing over of all projects, reservoirs, dams, barrages and other structures mentioned in the schedules, on deputation of requisite staff and about getting the unapproved projects appraised and approved within six months from July 15.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/telangana-wants-august-9-godavari-board-meet-put-off/article35756626.ece
06 August 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Telangana objects to stand of A.P.||Telangana has registered its protest with the Krishna River Management Board (KRMB) and objected to the attitude of Andhra Pradesh over the inclusion of a Telangana-native Central Water Commission (CWC) engineer in the board’s team to visit the Rayalaseema Lift Irrigation Scheme (RLIS) worksite to find violation, if any, of the NGT’s earlier order. In a letter addressed to Chairman of the KRMB M. P. Singh on Thursday, Engineer-in-Chief (General) of Irrigation C. Muralidhar faulted AP on filing a petition before the National Green Tribunal stating that the composition of the visiting team including Devendra Rao, a native of Telangana, was not in consonance with the orders of the gazette issued on July 15 notifying the purview of the river board. According to the July 15 notification, no official/engineer from either Telangana or AP is to be part of the river board as Members (from board’s side). AP has contended in NGT that the same would apply to any inspection team too. Stating that the objection of AP was very unfortunate, Mr. Muralidhar said AP’s view amounted to questioning the credibility of the entire team as the decision would not be made on any individual member’s view but the panel as a whole since it would comprise officials from KRMB and CWC. He also reminded the KRMB Chairman that Telangana did not object to the inclusion of M. K. Srinivas, an AP-native engineer with CWC, in the team to inspect Kalwakurthy and Palamuru-Rangreddy Lift Irrigation schemes’ pump houses. “Attributing intentions to CWC officers by AP is very unfortunate and unethical. The objection on such grounds is strongly protested and which, in fact, seems to be only the delaying tactics to postpone the NGT proceedings,” Mr. Muralidhar said and requested the KRMB Chairman to go ahead with the visit and submit report to the NGT on the due date – on August 9 —, so that the Tribunal could take action in the contempt petition.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ts-objects-to-aps-stand/article35756951.ece
06 August 2021||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Online forgery’ comes to light in Kadapa Registration Department||The Department of Stamps and Registration in Andhra Pradesh is perplexed at the surfacing of a scam in the Kadapa Rural Sub-Registrar’s office, reportedly involving document writers and Internet centres, causing loss of stamp duty to the government exchequer. The culprits allegedly made use of the chinks in the Comprehensive Financial Management System (CFMS), which was hitherto considered fool-proof. The scam was detected on Monday when a document writer submitted a few papers for registration of a landed property, which included a challan confirming the payment of stamp duty into the CFMS. Growing suspicious, Joint Sub-Registrar J.M.V. Prasad checked the CFMS website, which revealed that the amount paid was actually Rs. 1 and not the required stamp duty in full. ‘Graphically edited’ Mr. Prasad immediately alerted the higher-ups, who found that the challan downloaded from the website had been “graphically edited” at an Internet centre and the full amount was falsely shown as paid into the CFMS account. “Normally, the 14-digit challan number once generated cannot be used again. We generally check for the challan number and payment status online, but the CFMS website seldom reveals the actual amount paid. This small loophole, perhaps, came in handy for the culprit,” opined a State-level official from the department, requesting anonymity. All these years, the department was under the impression that the CFMS website could not be tampered with, until this simple case of online forgery proved them wrong. FIR filed Based on a complaint filed by Mr. Prasad, the RIMS police filed an FIR. “We have, in turn, asked the Registration Department to conduct an in-house inquiry and arrive at the number of documents and the money involved so that we can proceed further,” said Circle Inspector Narendra Reddy. Clarity on the magnitude of the offence is expected to emerge by Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/scam-detected-in-kadapa-rural-sub-registrar-office/article35756635.ece
06 August 2021||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Three arrested for ‘murdering’ moneylender||The Yerraguntla police have arrested three persons in connection with the murder of Kullu Ramasubbaiah, a moneylender from Potladurthi village in Yerraguntla mandal, whose body was found under a river bridge in Chapadu mandal. Ramasubbaiah was kidanapped on July 28 and his body was found a week later. His wife Kullu Vasantha had filed a missing complaint with the police, expressing suspicion on Sheikah Shavali (32), P. Mabu Shariff (28) and Sheikh Shashavali (25), who had borrowed money from her husband. During the investigation, the accused confessed that they had borrowed Rs. 16.4 lakh from Ramasubbaiah and repaid Rs. 9 lakh. With Ramasubbaiah pestering them to repay of the remaining amount, the trio devised a plan to kidnap him, They demanded a ransom of Rs. 10 lakh from his wife and then killed him. “Some villagers saw the accused taking Ramasubbaiah in their car, based on which the latter’s wife lodged a complaint,” Additional Superintendent of Police (Operations) M. Deva Prasad said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/three-arrested-for-murdering-moneylender/article35757116.ece
06 August 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Settlement of R&R package brooks no delay’||CPI State secretary K. Ramakrishna and leaders of other Left parties on Thursday demanded that the Central government finalise the financial assistance for settling the R&R package for the Polavaram project displaced people before the end of the ongoing Parliament sessions. The leaders, including M. Venkateswara Rao and Dega Prabhakar of the CPI, K.V.V. Prasad of the A.P. Rythu Sangham, and Chalasani Srinivas of the A.P. Intellectuals’ Forum, staged a dharna in front of the Andhra Pradesh Bhavan in New Delhi. Several people affected by the irrigation project also participated in the dharna. Addressing the gathering, Mr. Ramakrishna said, “The Central government should take a decision on the R&R financial package for the displaced people. At least 95 habitations were affected due to the backwaters from the cofferdam of the project in July. The lives of the affected people will be worse if the R&R package is delayed further.” Convener of the Adivasi Associations Chanda Lingayya said that a majority of the four lakh affected families in East and West Godavari districts were tribals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/settlement-of-rr-package-brooks-no-delay-says-cpi/article35757177.ece
06 August 2021||Kochi,ANDHRA PRADESH||The unwanted guests at online classrooms||Not so long ago, a vulgar audio message popped out right in the middle of an online history class for the Plus One students of SDPY Higher Secondary School, Palluruthy. The speaker was found to have logged in using the ID of a girl student but had his video masked. And then amidst the stunned silence, he left as quickly as he had turned up. Shortly thereafter, the student concerned alerted the teacher that someone else had logged in using her ID. “Two weeks ago there was a similar intrusion in a name that was not in our student rolls. We initially thought a student might have logged in using a parent’s ID, in which case the students are required to announce their names immediately on logging in. But the user left as soon as his credentials were sought. That teachers have not yet met Plus One students owing to the pandemic-induced closure of schools makes identity verification even tougher,” said Joy Joseph, the history teacher at the school. Outside intrusions into live classroom sessions are being widely reported from schools across Kerala. There have been instances of teachers being caught off guard by conversations in Hindi during online sessions. Warning clips “Probably students are sharing links of classroom sessions with others or even their anonymous partners from the numerous online games to which many of them are addicted to. In most cases, the identity of the intruders goes untraced. Schools are now sharing among students audio clips of cyber police officials warning that indiscriminate sharing of classroom links might inadvertently make them partners in cybercrime,” said Sreenath G., an IT Resource Person training teachers. Students logging in using their parents’ IDs has complicated the problem, prompting many schools to insist that students log in using their own IDs. Creating email IDs with parental control also enables parents to keep track of their online activities, said Mr. Sreenath. Mahitha Vipinachandran, a school psycho-social counsellor, said problems caused by outside intrusion during online classroom sessions were often raised during the interactions with teachers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/the-unwanted-guests-at-online-classrooms/article35756634.ece
06 August 2021||KOCHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||IB officers tortured ISRO scientists: CBI||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) informed the Kerala High Court on Thursday that Intelligence Bureau (IB) officers had physically tortured and harassed the then Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) scientist Nambi Narayanan and others during interrogation in connection with the ISRO espionage case. In a statement opposing the bail pleas of former Gujarat Director General of Police (DGP) R.B. Sreekumar, two former police officers and a former IB officer in the espionage frame-up case, the CBI pointed out that though the custody of the accused was given to the local police, they were “physically” in the custody of the IB officers. The CBI also pointed out that Mr. Sreekumar and Mr. Narayanan had known each other for long, since Mr. Sreekumar had been Commandant, Central Industrial Security Force, at the Vikram Sarabhai Space Centre, Thiruvananthapuram. They were not on good terms. D. Shashikumaran, another former ISRO scientist, deposed before the CBI on July 4, 2021, that he was taken into custody on November 22, 1994, and taken to a police club at Peroorkada, where he had to undergo endless physical torture. Mr. Shashikumaran had stated before the CBI that former Kerala police officer Siby Mathews and Mr. Sreekumar did not personally assault him. However, “Jayaprakash, Punnen and some Nair, etc” who interrogated him had “physically assaulted” him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ib-officers-tortured-isro-scientists-cbi/article35756631.ece
06 August 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Quota should be neutral to religion’||The representatives of Dalit outfits on Thursday urged the Centre to enact a law to ensure that the Dalits Christians and Muslims get the benefits of reservation in jobs. “Quota for SCs and STs should be neutral to religion as the socio-economic condition of those who got converted continue to suffer from social stigma and are subjected to atrocities, they said during a roundtable organised by the Dalit Hakula Porata Samiti in the wake of Madras High Court’s directive that employees who have secured a job under the community quota but changed their religion later should be removed from their posts. DHPS State general secretary Karavadi Subba Rao demanded amendment to the Constitution (Scheduled Castes) Order, 1950 to extend the benefits of reservation in government jobs and educational institutions to Dalit Chirstians and Muslims. Andhra Pradesh Congress Committee vice-president Sripathi Prakasam spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/quota-should-be-neutral-to-religion/article35757114.ece
06 August 2021||ONGOLE/NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Prakasam tops State in day’s fatalities||With five deaths due to coronavirus infection in the last 24 hours ending 9 a.m. on Thursday, Prakasam district topped the State in daily fatalities. Nellore registered zero deaths in the said period, taking the total toll in the district to 965. The virus has claimed 1,978 lives in South Coastal Andhra Pradesh till date, according to a health bulletin released by the State government on Thursday. The cumulative COVID-19 infection count in the region went up a little less than 2.66 lakh as 464 persons tested positive in the last 24 hours. As many as 507 patients recovered during the period as recoveries continued to outnumber the single-day tally. The number of active cases increased to 2,514 in Nellore as 304 persons contracted the infection, while 240 patients recuperated during the period. In contrast, the number of active cases dipped by 112 to 2,218 in Prakasam district as 267 patients got cured in the last 24 hours during which only 160 persons got infected. Recognising the importance of oxygen therapy for COVID-19 patients, the Nellore district administration has decided to make available 4,200 beds with oxygen facility to deal with the expected third wave of the pandemic. Shortage of oxygen was glaring during April and May this year when patients poured into hospitals, Nellore Collector K.V.N. Chakradhar Babu said, while receiving medical equipment worth Rs. 13 lakh from the Siemens company representatives on Thursday. “So far, 1,466 oxygen concentrators have been collected from philanthropists and sent to COVID-19 hospitals. Many companies donated medical equipment worth more than Rs. 4 crore so far,” the Collector said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/prakasam-tops-state-in-days-fatalities/article35757109.ece
06 August 2021||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Nirmala Sitharaman to visit Ponduru village tomorrow||The district administration is making elaborate arrangements for the visit of Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman to Ponduru village on Saturday. The village, located 23 km away from the district headquarters, comes under Amadalavalasa Assembly constituency. Collector Shrikesh B. Lathkar and Superintendent of Police Amit Bardar have been monitoring the arrangements on a daily basis for the visit, the first to the district after Ms. Sitharaman became the Union Minister.  The village is known for its khadi products, that are being exported to many countries. The hand-spun and hand-woven khadi here was appreciated by Mahatma Gandhi when he was presented with the fabric in 1942 when he stopped at the Dusi railway station near here. Ms. Nirmala Sitharaman will visit an exhibition and interact with the artisans. Banks and various government departments will also participate in the exhibition which would highlight the government schemes and benefits to the common people. GI tag sought Srikakulam MP Kinjarapu Rammohan Naidu met Ms. Nirmala Sitharaman recently in New Delhi and urged her to establish a village khadi textile park at Ponduru to revive the khadi sector in the district. The move would help artisans get remunerative prices for their products, he said. “Ponduru khadi has to be given special recognition with GI tag to get higher prices for their products. Youngsters from weavers’ families will continue in the profession when they are assured of a livelihood,” said Mr. Rammohan Naidu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/nirmala-sitharaman-to-visit-ponduru-tomorrow/article35757185.ece
06 August 2021||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Union Minister urged to set up ESIC hospital||The Bharatiya Janata Party OBC Morcha national executive member Duppala Ravindra Babu on Thursday urged the Union Minister for Labour and Employment Rameswar Teli to establish a 100-bedded integrated ESIC hospital in Srikakulam town and an ESI dispensary in the Pydibhimavaram industrial zone immediately to benefit nearly 2.6 lakh workers. Mr. Ravindra met the Union Minister in Delhi and submitted a memorandum. “Workers are forced to go to Visakhapatnam for treatment in the absence of an assured ESIC medical facility nearby. The government should consider the establishment of an integrated ESIC hospital in Srikakulam and a model dispensary in Pydibhimavaram as it has already been sanctioned in 2016,” he said. He also urged the Union Minister to establish clinics in Tekkali and Palasa where many cashew industries were located. Mr. Rameswar Teli assured Mr. Ravindra Babu that senior officials of the Labour and Employment would study the status of the pending proposals and take necessary steps, according to a release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/union-minister-urged-to-set-up-esic-hospital/article35757183.ece
06 August 2021||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Protect saplings, urges MLA||MLA Dharmana Prasada Rao on Thursday urged the residents to participate in the development of greenery in the entire town to enhance visual appeal and reduce temperature. He participated in a plantation programme in Kargil Park of APHB Colony. He said the government was giving top priority to plantation of saplings but their protection was a big challenge. He said residents should protect the trees planted in their areas to ensure greenery.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/protect-saplings-urges-mla/article35757181.ece
06 August 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kerala’s shops come to life under new rules||Kerala on Thursday took tentative steps towards a slow recovery from economic woes brought about by COVID-19. The government eased most restrictions on commuting and the non-essential retail and service sectors, in a bid to restore lost livelihoods. The relaxations triggered intense activity with shops, markets, street vendors, salons, beauty parlours, clothing shops, fancy stores and jewellers admitting customers from 7 a.m. Police stepped up enforcement of mask use and physical-distancing. Sectoral magistrates said retailers would face steep fines if they did not assign a minimum of 25 sq. ft. to a customer. They closed a grocery supermarket in Thiruvananthapuram for allowing a large number of customers through the back entrance. The bustle appeared to hide the not-so-obvious economic woes. A real estate agent said changing business patterns, including work from home and online transactions, left pricey commercial spaces vacant. Street vendors had risen in number, and shop sales fell drastically. Many small-scale industries shut shop. Impractical, says Oppn. The stipulation that only vaccinated persons be allowed into shops was criticised by the Opposition United Democratic Front. Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president K. Sudhakaran said the stipulation was impractical. The government had not made vaccination certificates mandatory for liquor stores and bars. Kerala on Thursday registered 22,040 new cases from 1,63,376 samples. The test positivity rate (TPR) was 13.49%, higher than the previous day’s 11.37%. There were 1,77,924 active cases. Cumulative deaths stood at 17,328, with the State adding 117 recent deaths. The cumulative case burden now stood at 34,93,603 cases. COVID-19 claimed 24 lives in Andhra Pradesh on Thursday. Also, 2,145 new infections were reported. The number of recoveries increased to 19,42,371 and the recovery rate slightly came down to 98.29%. The TPR of 85,822 samples tested was 2.50%. Prakasam reported five new deaths Chittoor and Krishna four each, West Godavari and Kadapa three deaths each, East Godavari two, Guntur, Visakhapatnam and Anantapur one death each. East Godavari reported 428 new infections. Seventy per cent of the State's active cases were just in five districts including East Godavari (3,334 cases), Krishna (3,158 ), Chittoor (3,142), Nellore (2,514) and Prakasam (2,218). Karnataka added 1,785 cases on Thursday. Twenty-five new deaths were reported. The total number of deaths so far is 36705 in the State.The State’s test positivity rate was 1.10 % and case fatality rate at 1.40%. The total number of cases so far in the State now stands at 29.13 lakh.In a day in the state 1,997 more persons tested positive for COVID-19 infection, taking the tally of those infected in Tamil Nadu so far to 25,69,398. Six districts including Coimbatore, Erode, Chennai, Thanjavur, Tiruvallur and Chengalpattu had the most number of cases. Till date 2.26 crore persons in the State have received vaccines to protect them against COVID-19 infection. As many as 39,79,578 senior citizens have also been inoculated taking the total vaccinations in the State to 2,26,01,212. According to the daily update provided by the Directorate of Public Health since May 1, when private COVID vaccination centres began functioning 16,34,959 vaccines have been administered.  (With inputs from Vijayawada, Bengaluru and Chennai bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/keralas-shops-come-to-life-under-new-rules/article35756641.ece
06 August 2021||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Dial TTD EO’ programme tomorrow||The ‘Dial TTD EO’ programme will be held at TTD administrative buildings in Tirupati on Saturday. The programme which features on the first Friday of every month has been rescheduled to August 7. Devotees can air their grievances and give suggestions during the one hour interaction with TTD Executive Officer K.S. Jawahar Reddy by dialling 0877-2263261 between 9 a.m. and 10 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/dial-ttd-eo-programme-tomorrow/article35757115.ece
06 August 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Stolen two-wheelers seized||The Tirupati Urban police on Thursday arrested two persons and recovered 14 stolen motorcycles worth Rs. 20 lakh. Two minors were also detained in this connection. Addressing the media on Thursday, Deputy Superintendent of Police (Tirupati west sub-division) B. Narasappa said the P. Adisekhar and K. Manikanta and two minors were allegedly involved in several bike theft cases. Addicted to vices, the accused resorted to stealing vehicles to fund their lifestyle. They were picked up at Ramanujapalli on the city outskirts abutting the Chennai-Bengaluru highway. The minors have been sent to a juvenile home.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/stolen-two-wheelers-seized/article35757111.ece
06 August 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘A.P. Weatherman’ felicitated||Members of Tirupati-based Rayalaseema Rangasthali, a theatre and fine arts association, and Swami Vivekananda Trust on Thursday felicitated Sai Praneeth, who has become famous as ‘AP Weatherman’. A resident of Tirupati and a techie by profession, Mr. Praneeth has been providing accurate weather updates to farmers in particular. He figured in the recent edition of ‘Mann ki Baat’, Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s radio address. Rangasthali members G. Gopinath Reddy, Ponaganti Bhaskar, Vivekananda Trust representative G.S. Prasad appreciated Mr. Praneeth for his services beyond his call of duty. He was presented with a shawl, a portrait and books of Swami Vivekananda on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ap-weatherman-felicitated/article35757187.ece
06 August 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Flash flood alert as radial gate of Pulichintala gets washed away||One of the radial gates of KL Rao Sagar Pulichintala Project was washed away in the early hours of Thursday, resulting in flooding of villags downstream. Following the continuous flood in the Krishna during the past several days, the 16th hydraulic operated radial gate of the project was washed away while officials were trying to lift it at around 3 a.m. This caused a free flow of the floodwater downstream and forced authorities to lift other gates to reduce pressure on the dam and arrange a stop log on the failed gate. To install a stop log, the water level in the reservoir having 45.77 tmcft storage capacity had to be brought down and released to Prakasam Barrage whose storage capacity is 3.07 tmcft. The outflow at the Pulichintala project was at 5.05 lakh cusecs and it is likely to increase to six lakh cusecs against the inflow of 2.01 lakh cusecs. Water Resources Minister Anil Kumar Yadav, Guntur Collector Vivek Yadav, Government Whip and MLA S. Udaya Bhanu and others visited the project. Krishna District Collector J. Nivas also rushed to the project. Meanwhile, irrigation officials are making efforts to fix the leak by placing a stop log in place of the 16th radial gate. Officials say that the water level in the Pulichintala project need to brought down and inflows reduced for installation of stop log. An official said that equipment to install the stop log would be arranged by Friday morning and once the works began, it would take around 18 hours to complete the work. Flash flood alert A flash flood alert has been issued at the Prakasam Bararage in Vijayawada and areas downstream by the authorities. The flood level is most likely to rise to the first flood warning level (3.96 lakh cusecs) by around 11.30 p.m. on Thursday. As of 7 p.m., the outflow at Prakasam Barrage was 1,03,250 cusecs and inflow was at 1.12 lakh cusecs. At the same time, The outflow at the Pulichintala project was at 5.05 lakh cusecs and it is likely to increase to six lakh cusecs against the inflow of 2.01 lakh cusecs. A high alert was sounded in the mandals alongside the Krishna river between Jaggaiahpeta and Avanigadda in view of the flash flood. All the ghats on Krishna, including Vedadri and Muktyala pushkar ghats, were closed. People were asked not to venture into the river and residents of low lying areas were asked to move to safer places. Andhra Pradesh State Disaster Management Authority Commissioner K. Kanna Babu said that 24-member team of NDRF personnel was deployed alongside the Krishna for rescue operations when needed. Flooding in Guntur Guntur District Collector Vivek Yadav has alerted the revenue and police officials to stay on high alert in view of the alarming flood situation. “Tahsildars of Atchampet, Bellamkonda, Amaravathi, Thullur, Tadepalli, Duggirala, Kollipara, Kollur, Bhattiprolu and Repalle have been informed to be alert in view of more than 5 lakh cusecs already released from Pulichintala, and probable release of more than 5 lakhs cusecs from Prakasam Barrage by Thursday evening. All secretariat staff have been told to be involved in the vulnerable villages by creating 24/7 control rooms for reporting. Residents are being alerted by beating tom tom in the vulnerable habitations,” said Mr. Yadav. The Collector said that all necessary preparedness for evacuation of Public and Animals were being taken.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/radial-gate-of-pulichintala-project-in-ap-washed-away/article35756628.ece
06 August 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sindhu arrives in city to a rousing welcome||Ace shuttler and Olympic medallist P.V. Sindhu arrived to a rousing reception in city by the State government, on Thursday. She was received by Minister for Youth Advancement, Tourism and Culture M. Srinivasa Rao, Deputy Chief Minister Dharmana Krishna Das, Special Chief Secretary (Youth Advancement) Rajat Bhargav, Krishna Collector J. Nivas, Vijayawada Mayor R. Bhagyalakshmi and other officials and players. “I feel very happy to be here,” she said and expressed her gratitude to Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy for the support extended to her by the government. “The Chief Minister had assured full support before I left for the Tokyo Olympics,” she said. Ms. Sindhu said that she was proud to have achieved a medal for the country and dedicated the medal to her fans and supporters. She also thanked her parents and attribu`ted her success to them. Mr. Srinivasa Rao said it was a matter of great pride for the country and especially for Andhra Pradesh that Ms. Sindhu had won a medal at the Tokyo Olympics. He said youngsters should draw inspiration from the young achiever who had brought home two medals in the Olympics consecutively. He said the Chief Minister had approved two acres of land to the player for establishment of a badminton academy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sindhu-arrives-in-city-to-a-rousing-welcome/article35757320.ece
06 August 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Jagan calls for a conscious effort to improve greenery||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy launched the ‘Jagananna Pachhathoranam - Vana Mahotsavam’ at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences - Mangalagiri (AIIMS-M) on Thursday by planting a sapling and administering a pledge to plant more trees and nurture them in order to transform the State into ‘Green Andhra Pradesh’. On the occasion, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said the government launched the programme of planting more than five crore saplings as a part of its efforts to increase the forest cover to 33% from the existing 23%. Observing that that there would be no pure air without greenery, he said trees were also crucial for good rainfall. Appealing to the people to grow trees for a better ecosystem, he emphasised the need to put one’s knowledge of the importance of environment protection first acquired during schooling to productive use. Minister for Energy and Environment and Forests and Science and Technology B. Srinivasa Reddy, Mangalagiri MLA Alla Ramakrishna Reddy, Secretary (Environment and Forests) G.S.R.K.R. Vijay Kumar, Principal Chief Conservator of Forests N. Prateep Kumar, Guntur District Collector Vivek Yadav, and AIIMS-M Director Mukesh Tripathi were among those present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jagan-calls-for-a-conscious-effort-to-improve-greenery/article35757122.ece
06 August 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||HC reserves judgment on MPTC and ZPTC elections||A Division Bench of the Andhra Pradesh High Court comprising Chief Justice Arup Kumar Goswami and Justice J. Uma Devi reserved its judgment on an appeal filed by the State government against the cancellation of the MPTC and ZPTC elections. Appearing for the State Election Commission (SEC) during a hearing on Thursday, senior counsel S. Niranjan Reddy said Justice M. Satyanarayana Murthy should not have cancelled the election process at the instance of a political party (Jana Sena) which has not raised any contentions on the Model Code of Conduct (MCC) and because all office-holders of the SEC prior to the present commissioner Nilam Sawhney understood the requirement of the Supreme Court order in the matter and complied with it at the time of announcement of the election schedule in January 2021. He asserted that the SEC had exercised its powers as per the guidelines of the MCC and strictly followed the statute regarding the elapse of time for the conduct of elections, which was a composite process having different phases covering urban local bodies, MPTCs and ZPTCs. Mr. Niranjan Reddy objected to the passing of strictures on such a high constitutional office (SEC) and that personal observations on the conduct and suitability of the commissioner were unwarranted. He insisted that there should be no further hold-up of the elections as the results had already been declared and the ballot papers kept in safe custody at a huge cost and it was in the interest of all political parties to have the process concluded. Model Code of Conduct Advocate-General S. Sriram informed the Bench that there was no pleading in the writ petition filed by the Jana Sena that new welfare programmes were launched between January and April 2021 and in fact, the State was in adherence to the MCC from March 2020 to April 2021 when no new schemes could have been be initiated without the prior approval of the SEC. The single judge should, therefore, have taken the factual pleadings into account before ordering the cancellation of elections, the A-G said, claiming that many errors of fact and law were found in the impugned judgement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/hc-reserves-judgment-on-mptc-and-zptc-elections/article35757123.ece
06 August 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||COVID-19 claims 24 more lives in State||COVID-19 claimed 24 lives in the State in the 24 hours ending Thursday morning. It was the highest single-day death toll reported in 16 days. During the past day, 2,145 new infections were reported in the State taking the cumulative tally to 19,76,141. The death toll increased to 13,468 with a mortality rate of 0.68%. The number of recoveries increased to 19,42,371 and the recovery rate slightly came down to 98.29%. During the past day, 2,003 patients have recovered leaving 20,302 active cases. Positivity rate The overall positivity rate of the 2.49 crore samples tested so far stands at 7.92% and the daily positivity rate of the 85,822 samples tested in the past day was at 2.50%. Prakasam reported five new deaths, while Chittoor and Krishna reported four deaths each in the past day. West Godavari and Kapada reported three deaths each and East Godavari reported two. Guntur, Visakhapatnam and Anantapur reported one death each, while four districts saw no COVID death. Meanwhile, East Godavari reported 428 new infections. It was followed by Chittoor (369), Nellore (304), Krishna (251), Guntur (181), Prakasam (160), West Godavari (108), Kadapa (103), Visakhapatnam (89), Kurnool (54), Anantapur (36), Srikakulam (34) and Vizianagaram (28). Seventy per cent of the State's active cases were just in five districts including East Godavari (3,334 cases), Krishna (3,158 ), Chittoor (3,142), Nellore (2,514) and Prakasam (2,218). The district tallies are as follows: East Godavari (2,79,192), Chittoor (2,32,690), West Godavari (1,70,379), Guntur (1,68,871), Anantapur (1,56,460), Visakhapatnam (1,52,904), Nellore (1,35,365), Prakasam (1,30,592), Kurnool (1,23,418), Srikakulam (1,20,851), Kadapa (1,10,840), Krishna (1,10,123) and Vizianagaram (81,561).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/covid-19-claims-24-more-lives-in-state/article35757118.ece
06 August 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||APFDCL chairman assumes office||Monditoka Arun Kumar on Thursday assumes office as Chairman of Andhra Pradesh Forest Development Corporation Limited. (APFDCL). Minister for Energy, Forest and Environment, Science and Technology Balineni Srinivasa Reddy administered the oath of office to Mr. Arun Kumar. Speaking to the media after taking charge, Mr. Arun Kumar thanked Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy for showing confidence in him by giving him the post. Mr. Arun Kumar.said that he would strive for the development of forests across the State and follow the footsteps of the Chief Minister to make Andhra Pradesh a green Andhra Pradesh. Government Adviser ( Public Affairs) Sajjala Rama Krishna Reddy, Panchayat Raj Minister Peddireddy Ramachandra Reddy, Irrigation Minister Anil Kumar Yadav, Civil Supplies Minister Kodali Venkatswara Rao, Transport and I&PR Minister Perni Venkatramaiah, Endowments Minister Vellampalli Srinivas, Education Minister Adimulapu Suresh, CM events Coordinator Talasila Raghuram, MLAs Monditoka Jagan Mohan Rao, Malladi Vishnu, Rakshana Nidhi and other public representatives were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/apfdcl-chairman-assumes-office/article35757324.ece
06 August 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Probe illegal mining in Kondapalli forest area’||The TDP has urged Union Minister of Environment, Forest and Climate Change Bhupender Yadav to direct an inquiry into the alleged illegal mining and quarrying of gravel in the Kondapalli reserve forest area in Andhra Pradesh. In a letter to Mr. Bhupender on Thursday, the TDP accused YSRCP’s Mylavaram MLA Vasantha Krishna Prasad of carrying out the illegal activity through his henchmen in violation of the Andhra Pradesh Forest Act, 1967, the Andhra Pradesh Mines and Minerals (Development and Regulation) Act, 1957, and Right to Environment as guaranteed under Right to Life under Article 21 of the Constitution. “Further, mining in the reserve forest is against the Forest (Conservation) Act, 1980,” the TDP said in the letter. ‘Toymakers worst-hit’ Stating that the Kondapalli reserve forest area was home to a rich and diverse species of flora and fauna, the TDP said that a particular tree, commonly known as ‘Tella Poniki’ in Telugu and white sander in English, was the lifeline for the world famous Kondapalli toymakers. “Due to the felling of this species of the tree to pave the way for illegal mining, the livelihood of the toymakers is under threat,” the TDP alleged in its letter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/probe-illegal-mining-in-kondapalli-forest-area/article35757125.ece
06 August 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Govt. trying to sweep its lapses under the carpet’||The suspension of three officials of the Finance Department on the charge of leaking sensitive information to the media is nothing but an attempt to “sweep the government’s failures under the carpet,” TDP Polit Bureau member Yanamala Ramakrishnudu has alleged. The officials were made scapegoat, Mr. Ramakrishnudu said in a statement on Thursday. The employees were being targeted “in a bid to cover up the financial lapses,” he added. “The Cabinet is the custodian of public money. The State Assembly, the constitutional institutions such as the Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG), and the Union Finance Ministry have been kept in the dark about the expenditure incurred by the government,” the former Finance Minister alleged. The State government had not maintained transparency in expenditure and had pushed the State into a deep crisis, he alleged.  The YSRCP government had set a bad precedent by mobilising Rs. 34,650 crore as loans through various corporations, the TDP leader alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govt-trying-to-sweep-its-lapses-under-the-carpet/article35757129.ece
06 August 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||15,990 held in ID liquor cases this year||Prohibition and Excise Department has booked 24,919 cases and arrested 15,990 persons for involvement in manufacture and supply of illicitly distilled (ID) liquor in the State till July this year. In a release, the Special Chief Secretary (Revenue, CT, Excise, Registrations and Stamps Department) Rajat Bhargava said that the government took a serious note of illicit distillation in the State and was committed to curbing it. He said so far this year 3.14 lakh litres of ID arrack had been seized and 1.08 crore litres of fermented jaggery was destroyed. Also, 2,040 vehicles of the persons involved in the illegal activity were seized. In 2020, a total of 35,990 cases were booked and 30,532 persons were arrested. He said 4.54 lakh litres of ID arrack and 4,315 vehicles were seized. Punishment increased He said punishments had been increased from five years to eight years. Instructions had already been issued to enlist the assistance of village and ward volunteers and Mahila police in controlling ID liquor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/15990-held-in-id-liquor-cases-this-year/article35757321.ece
06 August 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||State BJP leaders meet Union Ministers||A delegation of the BJP leaders from Andhra Pradesh led by its State president Somu Veerraju met Union Minister of State for External Affairs V. Muraleedharan in New Delhi on Thursday, and apprised him of the steps taken for strengthening the party in the State. They also took the “autocratic style of functioning of Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy” and the BJP’s fight against it to the Union Minister’s notice. Earlier in the day, Mr. Veerraju and others called on Union Minister of Tribal Affairs Arjun Munda and thanked him for sanctioning 28 Eklavya Model Schools for A.P.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/state-bjp-leaders-meet-union-ministers/article35757124.ece
06 August 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||255 MPDOs will be promoted, says Peddireddi||Panchayat Raj and Rural Development Minister Peddireddi Ramachandra Reddy has stated that the State government has resolved a 25-year-old issue regarding promotions to the Mandal Parishad Development Officers (MPDOs) in the State. Addressing a press conference on Thursday, Mr. Ramachandra Reddy said 255 MPDOs would get promotions this year as ZP CEOs, Deputy CEOs, Divisional Development Officers, Project Managers, Additional Project Directors etc. based on their seniority. There were about 18,500 officers working in the Panchayat Raj department in 12 different cadres. With the MPDOs getting promotions, the employees working in the cadres below them would also get promotions, he said. The Minister said that the MPDOs had brought the issue to the notice of the former government but it did not pay any attention. Referring to the Amara Raja Batteries issue, the Minister said that they didn’t want the company to relocate to another place from their district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/255-mpdos-will-be-promoted-says-peddireddi/article35757323.ece
06 August 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rs. 30,000 crore target set for APCOB: Kanna Babu||Agriculture Minister Kurasala Kanna Babu has said the State government has set a turnover target of Rs. 30,000 crore for APCOB (Andhra Pradesh State Cooperative Bank) for the current financial year. The Minister participated in the bank foundation day celebrations on Thursday. He said it was heartening to note that APCOB turnover touched Rs. 21,000 crore last year. A Human Resources (HR) policy was prepared for the Primary Agricultural Cooperative Societies (PACS) in the State. A proposal was sent to the Central government to take forward the PACS computerisation project. Principal Secretary (Agriculture, Marketing and Cooperation) Y. Madhusudhan Reddy, NABARD Chief General Manager Sudheer Kumar Jennavar and others spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rs-30000-crore-target-set-for-apcob-kanna-babu/article35757322.ece
06 August 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Selected candidates’ list on APPSC website||The Andhra Pradesh Public Service Commission (APPSC) has displayed on its official websitehttps://psc.ap.gov.inthe list of provisionally selected candidates for recruitment to the post of Technical Assistant (Geophysics) in AP Ground Water Sub-Service. The list is also available on the notice board of the Commission’s office.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/selected-candidates-list-on-appsc-website/article35757325.ece
06 August 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Naidu decries ‘police action’ against Uma’s convoy||TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu has accused the State government of deliberately resorting to provocative activities when TDP leader Devineni Umamaheswara Rao was accorded a reception from the public on being released from the Central Jail on bail. Mr. Naidu said the YSRCP’s atrocities touched new peaks when the police locked the Anjaneya Swamy temple at Hanuman Junction only to prevent Mr. Umamaheswara Rao from offering puja there. “The YSRCP leaders and the police are making a mockery of the laws . How can the police park their vehicles in the middle of the national highway to create hurdles for the convoy of the TDP leader? It is shameless to indulge in such tactics, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/naidu-decries-police-action-against-umas-convoy/article35757127.ece
06 August 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Distribution of land ownership cards on Aug. 15||The State government has chalked out a plan to distribute land ownership cards under the ‘YSR Jagananna Shaswata Bhoo Hakku’ programme in 100 villages in the State on August 15 coinciding with the Independence Day. It proposes to disburse the cards in 1,000 villages on October 2 (Gandhi Jayanti). A Cabinet Sub Committee on the scheme met under the chairmanship of Panchayat Raj Minister Peddireddi Ramachandra Reddy on Thursday. Addressing the meeting, Mr. Ramachandra Reddy said the Survey of India had set up 70 CORS substations in the State. Apart from the villages, a pilot project had been launched at Tadepalligudem as part of plan to conduct survey in the urban areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/distribution-of-land-ownership-cards-on-aug-15/article35757126.ece
06 August 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Phase-I houses to be built by June 2022’||The State government is taking all steps to meet Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy’s target of enabling every poor family in the State to have a house of their own, Tourism Minister Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao said on Thursday. The Minister held discussions with officials and MLAs on the ‘Navaratnalu’ programme and housing schemes for the poor, at the Zilla Parishad hall here on Thursday. MLAs Vasupalli Ganesh Kumar (Visakhapatnam South), Adeep Raj (Pendurthy), Tippala Nagi Reddy (Gajuwaka) spoke about problems being encountered in the construction of houses for the poor, in GVMC limits. The Minister said that the houses sanctioned in Phase-I would be completed by June 2022. Under Phase-2, 956 layouts were designed and sanctioned to 58,056 beneficiaries. A total of 2.58 lakh houses were pending in GVMC limits as there were court cases pending against them. The government was sanctioning Rs. 1.08 lakh for each house apart from providing sand free of cost to the beneficiaries. A total of 93 bags of cement were being provided for each house at a subsidised rate. He assured the MLAs of solving the problems brought to his notice. Joint Collector M. Venugopal Reddy, JC Kalpana Kumari, RDO Penchala Kishore, Housing PD Srinivasa Rao, Housing PD Srinivasa Rao, AP Education Welfare and Infrastructure Development Corporation Chairman Malla Vijay Prasad, and VMRDA Chairperson A. Vijayanirmala participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/phase-i-houses-to-be-built-by-june-2022/article35757329.ece
06 August 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||High drama prevails at Endowments Dept.||Assistant Commissioner of the Endowments Department hurled sand at Deputy Commissioner V. Pushpavardhan at his chambers and swore at him on Thursday. The incident was caught by CCTV cameras. Ms. Santhi alleged that Mr. Pushpavardhan, transferred here recently, was subjecting her to mental harassment. Refuting this, Mr. Pushpavardhan said he had taken the matter to the notice of the police and higher officials. Sources said the suspension of a fellow officer by Mr.Pushpavardhan triggered Ms. Santhi’s outburst.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/high-drama-prevails-at-endowments-dept/article35757330.ece
06 August 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Floor leaders to protest tax hike||Strongly opposing the new property tax plan of the GVMC, floor leaders of various political parties said that they would disrupt the council meeting scheduled to be held on August 7, on property tax bill. GVMC floor leaders from the Telugu Desam Party (TDP), Jana Sena Party (JSP), and other political parties attended the culmination of the 24-hour hunger strike of CPI(M) leader and Ward 78 corporator B. Ganga Rao at Gandhi Statue near the GVMC building on Thursday. TDP floor leader Peela Srinivasa Rao said despite resistance from citizens, residential associations and various parties, the State government seems to go ahead with the proposal. By approving the proposal, the State government would burden the public, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/floor-leaders-to-protest-tax-hike/article35757332.ece
06 August 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vizag sees 89 new cases||As many as 89 persons had tested COVID-19 positive in the last 24 hours, ending Thursday morning, while during the same period, 90 COVID-19 patients had recovered completely from the virus. The COVID-19 cumulative tally has increased to 1,53,414. Similarly, the death toll has increased to 1,056 after one more person succumbed to the infection in the last 24 hours. Tecoveries increased to 1,50,801, while the active cases stand at 1,557.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vizag-sees-89-new-cases/article35757331.ece
06 August 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Former UGC chairman made GITAM Chancellor||Noted genetic engineering and biotechnology scientist, and former chairman of University Grants Commission and Padma Shri awardee Dr. Virander Singh Chauhan has been appointed Chancellor of GITAM Deemed to be University. This was announced by GITAM president M. Sribharath, who handed over the appointment letter to the new Chancellor at his residence in Delhi on Thursday. Dr. Chauhan is also known for his contributions towards developing a recombinant vaccine for malaria. An alumnus of Delhi University, Dr. Chauhan began his career at St Stephen’s College. He then went to Oxford on a Rhodes scholarship. He began teaching at IIT Kanpur in 1982 before starting to work with the International Centre for Genetic Engineering and Biotechnology.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/former-ugc-chairman-made-gitam-chancellor/article35757335.ece
06 August 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two police officers suspended||Deputy Inspector General (DIG) Visakha Range L.K/V Ranga Rao has suspended two police officers from the service here on Thursday. R. Narasimha Murthy, a Sub-Inspector at Kothavalasa police station in Vizianagaram district, was suspended for allegedly being involved in an Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) case. Inspector P.V. Ramana, attached to the Visakhapatnam Range, was also suspended. Mr. Ramana had earlier worked as Inspector of II Town police station in Srikakulam. The police officer was allegedly negligent in discharging his duties while investigating a case registered at the police station earlier this year under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. An inquiry confirmed his negligence, sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/two-police-officers-suspended/article35757333.ece
06 August 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Nirmala Sitharaman coming today||Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman will be on a two-day visit to Visakhapatnam and Srikakulam from Friday. She is scheduled to arrive in Visakhapatam at around 5.50 p.m., from New Delhi on Friday and after a night halt in the city, she will proceed to Ponduru in Srikakulam on Saturday at 8.30 a.m. to participate in the National Handloom Day celebrations. At Visakhapatnam, she is likely to visit a vaccination centre at Chinna Waltair on Saturday evening. She is scheduled to leave for Delhi on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/nirmala-sitharaman-coming-today/article35757336.ece
06 August 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Skill courses a top priority of CTUAP, says V-C||Central Tribal University of Andhra Pradesh (CTUAP) Vice-Chancellor T.V. Kattimani on Thursday said that skill-oriented courses would be given a top priority in accordance to the guidelines framed under the National Education Policy (NEP). Participating in a programnme organised to mark teh second anniversary of teh university, Mr. Kattimani said that the government was planning to construct the university as per international standards as the required land was being identified in the district. University in-charge Registrar Hanumanthu Lajipathirai and Administrative Officer N.V.S.Suryanarayana along with other officials were present in the programme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/skill-courses-a-top-priority-of-ctuap-says-v-c/article35757180.ece
06 August 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Land for waste management project||Parvatipuram MLA Alajangi Jogarao on Thursday told the Parvatipuram municipal officials to establish a solid waste management project immediately since Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy was keen to make the Clean Andhra Pradesh (CLAP) programme a success in the State. Along with Municipal Chairman Bonu Gowriswari, he visited the proposed site near the Thotapalli project on the outskirts of Parvatipuram in the district. Five acres of government land was sufficient for the project, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/land-for-waste-management-project/article35757182.ece
06 August 2021||August 06 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Brimming again||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/brimming-again/article35757327.ece
06 August 2021||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||Couple ends life after only daughter’s death||Depressed over the untimely death of their only daughter due to sudden cardiac arrest 10 days ago, a middle-aged couple from Hyderabad allegedly committed suicide by jumping into the Godavari near Reddypalem in Burgampahad late on Wednesday night. Police identified the deceased as Lakshmana Chary, 52, a tailor, and his wife Hymavathi, 48, residents of ECIL. Sources said that the couple came to their relative’s house in Paloncha town two days ago, after their daughter’s death in Hyderabad. They had left their relative’s house on Wednesday night leaving behind a suicide note saying they were taking the extreme step unable to cope with the loss. The Paloncha police registered a missing case based on a complaint filed by their relative on Wednesday night and launched a search to trace them. Some local youths spotted the bodies of the couple floating in the Godavari at Reddypalem late on Thursday evening and alerted the police, who retrieved the bodies from the river.  [Roshini - Suicide Prevention Helpline: 040-66202000]||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/couple-ends-life-after-only-daughters-death/article35756942.ece
06 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Tech fails to stop manual scavenging||Tuesday’s incident wherein two daily wage labourers met their horrible end in a sewerage line throws focus on how despite the much vaunted technological advancement in maintenance of sewer lines, use of manual labour remains the norm. If not for the deaths, the brazen violation of human dignity would have gone unnoticed, as is the case in all such instances where labourers are engaged to enter sewage manholes. The body of the second worker, Anthaiah, is yet to be fished out, and authorities have given up their search in the sewerage pipeline. When the news last came in, the search had shifted to a lake 15 km away in Pasumamula village, where the body is hoped to have arrived along with the sewage flow. The two workers were summoned to the location close to the midnight on Tuesday, for fixing the rope of bucket cleaning machine inside the pipeline through manhole. They died one after the other when they entered the manhole. “Usually the work is in daytime, but he went in the night, for the greed of mere Rs. 100 more. Instead of Rs. 600, he was promised Rs. 700,” Gowri, wife of one of the workers, told the media. In order to clear chokages in sewer lines, mini jetting machines are deployed, which pump high pressure air into the pipeline. However, in the present instance at Padmavathi Colony, the issue was not chokage, but silt deposited inside the pipeline to clear which bucket cleaning machines are ideal, say officials from GHMC. “The machines require fixing of rope inside the manhole with a bucket tied on the other end. The rope along with the bucket travels to the next manhole where it is pulled up,” an official informed, while asserting that GHMC had not given permission to the contractor to work in the night, nor engage manual labour. There has not been any promise of compensation for the workers from either the government or GHMC till news last came in. No statement has been issued nor any visit was paid by Mayor Gadwal Vijayalakshmi or GHMC Commissioner D.S. Lokesh Kumar to the location so far, which explains the denial mode of the GHMC.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/tech-fails-to-stop-manual-scavenging/article35756946.ece
06 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||High COVID-19 prevalence pulls health officials to Karimnagar district||Considerably high number of COVID-19 cases in Karimnagar has made the Telangana government to send a team of State Health department officials to district on Thursday to plan measures for containing spread of coronavirus and seasonal diseases. The officials and the district administration held series of meetings with health staff, and medical officers from Primary Health Centres (PHC), conducted field visits. From the past several days, the daily new infections in the district have been second only to Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) — which is an urban locality. In fact, the daily case load in Karimnagar was highest of all the 33 districts on two days at least: on July 26 and August 2. The new infections in the districts ranged from 60 to 75 in a day in the past one week. Risk factors The district is at risk as political activity has picked up in Huzurabad Assembly constituency, located in the district, after former Health Minister Eatala Rajender has quit as its MLA. Leaders from all political parties have held political events and meetings where people were seen not maintaining COVID-19 precautions. The constituency continues to be centre of political attention. Among several risk factors, senior officials in the Health department have pointed out increased political activity as potential reason for another spike in COVID cases. Incidentally, one of the places that the senior officials visited on Thursday was Jammikunta, which is part of Huzurabad constituency. Besides this district, considerably high number of cases are being recorded in Khmamam and Warangal Urban. The three districts were among the nine districts visited by a high-level team of health officials from July 11 to 13. High number of cases were recorded in the nine districts. Senior officials from the team said that congregation of people at functions or other occasions without maintaining COVID appropriate behaviour has led to coronavirus spread among 10-15 family members in these localities. Karimnagar district Collector R.V. Karnan, the State’s Director of Public Health Dr G. Srinivasa Rao, Director of Medical Education (DME) Dr K. Ramesh Reddy, held meetings with the PHC medical officers on Thursday. Officer on Special Duty (OSD) to the Health department Dr T. Gangadhar said that the Chief Minister has directed Health officials to visit the district where high number of cases are being recorded. The senior officials formed into two groups and visited Jammikunta rural, Jammikunta urban and Manakondur. They spoke to the patients with virus. In Manakondur, the officials met family members of two COVID-19 victims, went through medical records, to know reasons for the deaths. Field visits Dr Srinivasa has directed the health staff to conduct 8,000 to 9,000 tests in a day. With focus on villages where high number of cases are recorded, medical officers were asked to spend 50% of their time in field visits to villages to contain the spread and bring the case count to zero. The DME too has asked PHC doctors to visit villages to identify cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/high-covid-19-prevalence-pulls-health-officials-to-karimnagar-district/article35756926.ece
06 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||MD held for fiscal fraud||Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Wednesday arrested V. Hima Bindu, MD of M/s VMCSL, for indulging in money laundering and causing a loss of around Rs. 3,316 crore to a consortium of public sector banks. ED initiated money laundering investigation on the basis of FIR filed by CBI against M/S VMCSL. M/s VMCSL had taken loans from a consortium of banks and the present dues outstanding to all the banks is worth Rs. 3,316 crore. Forensic audit revealed that VMCSL circulated loans to various related entities to inflate its books of accounts. Forensic audit also revealed that M/s PISL (related entity) was given 3% commission amount by M/s VMCSL for all receipts from M/s BSNL without any specific role of M/s PISL in BSNL tenders. It further revealed that M/s VMCSL had opened various Letters of Credit (LCs) worth Rs. 692 crore in the name of fake/dummy entities, which were subsequently devolved. V. Hima Bindu through her company and with the active assistance of her brother V Satish (MD of M/s PISL), in order to dodge the banks, created false or exaggerated operational revenues by generating fake sales/purchase invoices through the companies controlled by their directors/family members, the ED said. “Hima Bindu siphoned off a part of proceeds of crime by remitting it to the overseas entities controlled by her family members,” they said. On July 20, searches were conducted by ED on the residential premises of Hima Bindu, Satish and V. Madhavi and lots of incriminating documents and digital data in the form of 40 external hard discs, six mobiles and two laptops have been recovered. The prime accused was not responding to the ED summons, not supplying the documents of her companies and transactions on one pretext or the other and blatantly lying regarding their foreign transactions, the officials said. “Hence, Hima Bindu has been arrested and has been produced before the PMLA Special Court and remanded to judicial custody till August 18,” the ED said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/md-arrested-for-money-laundering/article35756943.ece
06 August 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Vasalamarri, a typical KCR-style statement||Dalit Bandhu scheme design itself gave some jolt to the opposition parties preparing strategies for the Huzurabad bypoll but the bigger shock was the sudden announcement of the TRS government’s flagship scheme to begin at Vasalamarri, a village adopted by Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao in Aler constituency represented by Gongidi Sunitha. It was a typical KCR’s style statement that caught the opposition parties, officials, Telangana Rashtra Samithi leaders and even the beneficiaries unawares. He stamped validity to the decision immediately releasing the Government order after visiting the village on Wednesday at a short notice. The suddenness in the visit is quite unusual for a Chief Minister given the administrative and security logistics that go into any such visit. The Chief Minister has not only stumped the opposition parties that were critical accusing him of announcing the scheme to garner votes in the bypoll with government’s money but also checkmated those challenging it in the court under the pretext of misusing the CM’s prerogatives. Another apparent reason is that the CM has sensed the bypoll announcement coming soon from the Election Commission. The Chief Minister also had an issue of credibility of the implementation of the scheme. He had to prove it that it was not just an election stunt. To ensure its success in Huzurabad where more than 40,000 Dalit voters are waiting eagerly would be a little bit difficult while satisfying just 76 families in a small village would be far more easy. Ever since the scheme hit the headlines, TRS MLAs from other constituencies are facing the heat from voters with sign boards appearing asking them to resign so that the scheme will be expedited in their constituencies. Social media is abuzz with demands and memes on the same. The announcement would also dilute it a bit. Officials say they won’t be surprised if the Chief Minister adds a few more villages to the scheme before finally launching it in a big way in Huzurabad on August 16 as announced earlier. “It will also lessen the likely heartburn among other eligible Dalit families in other constituencies,” an official said. TRS leaders are unwilling to accept it as a strategy emerging from the fear of political and legal obstacles. Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) MLA from Aler constituency, Gongidi Sunita, revealed that the Chief Minister had enquired about implementing the scheme from Vasalamarri ever since he adopted the village. However, the scheme was under a different name – Dalita Chaitnya Jyothi — when the CM originally thought of it. “So there is no surprise.” Congress spokesperson, Shravan Dasoju, however, doesn’t accept it as a clever strategy and says it reflected Chief Minister’s fear of Huzurabad elections outcome. “He is desperate to win at any cost and was apprehensive of courts or Election Commission questioning the motive of launching Dalit Bandhu from a constituency going for bypoll,” he argued. The Centre for Good Governance has already taken up the issue at various levels asking them to stop the government from implementing the scheme in Huzurabad but it had no objection in other constituencies. It says the motive was clear when K. Chandrasekhar Rao himself argued that there was nothing wrong in governments taking political mileage from the schemes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/a-typical-kcr-style-statement/article35756958.ece
06 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Governor stresses on self-reliance in pharma and chemical sectors||Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan has exhorted the scientific community to make a dedicated effort for the country to become self-reliant in Advanced Pharmaceutical Ingredients (APIs) and Key Starting Materials (KSM) to reduce dependence on other countries under the Atmanirbhar initiative propagated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday. The country has to strive to regain the global leadership role in science and technology with all the stakeholders joining to promote research especially in ‘applicational oriented research’ and increased funding through different sectors. “This would help us stay ahead in the global competitive market through patent applications, trademark filings and Intellectual Property Rights (IPR) to make the country a knowledge superpower,” she said. Participating in the 78th Foundation Day celebrations of CSIR-Indian Institute of Chemical Technology (IICT) virtually, Dr. Soundararajan said there has to be improved linkages for an expanded research based eco-system among the institutions and the academic bodies. Patting the ‘prestigious’ research institute for its crucial role in promoting chemicals and pharmaceuticals, and also in making indigenous COVID vaccine as well as drugs, she wanted the scientists not to become ‘complacent’. “Reflect on the past progress and re-strategise for the future by promoting all round research development towards becoming a global institute of excellence,” said the Governor. She particularly mentioned about the pioneering waste to wealth project successfully taken up at the Bowenpally vegetable market which found a mention in the Prime Minister’s radio address few months ago. CSIR Director General Shekhar C. Mande pointed out that the IICT had not lost touch with the society despite being involved in high end research in chemicals and pharmaceuticals. “Generic pharma industry owes a great deal to scientists who made expensive HIV/COVID drugs affordable,” he said. The DG has reminded Cipla Foundation Managing Trustee Rumana Hamied that her grandfather and renowned scientist Khwaja Abdul Hamied has been instrumental in convincing the British rulers to set up this lab and has been associated with it for close to two decades. Ms. Hamied pointed out one lakh face masks being made by the women voluntary agencies in association with IICT have been distributed free in Telangana and has generated Rs. 65 lakh to the four groups involved. “We are hoping our masks become fashionable and we are ready to help any SHGs with seed capital and marketing in making them,” he said. CSIR-IICT Director S. Chandrasekhar said the institute in 200 acres has been playing a prominent part in drugs and vaccine research during the pandemic apart from technology transfer of processes to the chemical and pharma industries. Annually 500 research publications are made and 100 enrol for the PhDs. Senior scientist M. Chandrasekharam also spoke. Later prizes were given to various personnel among whom John Mondal bagged the young scientist prize for the work on scientist catalysis and fine chemicals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/governor-stresses-on-self-reliance-in-pharma-and-chemical-sectors/article35756932.ece
06 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Disburse stipend for jobless too: Eatala||Former Health minister Eatala Rajender has demanded that the TRS government begin implementing the election promise of disbursing unemployment stipend of Rs. 3,116 each to eligible beneficiaries across Telangana just as it had been doing by issuing ration cards, farmers’ loans waiver, ‘Dalit Bandhu’ cash benevolence of Rs. 10 lakh and others with alacrity in the backdrop of the much-anticipated byelection to the Huzurabad constituency. “All the promises made as a prelude to the 2018 general elections have been forgotten for the last three years but Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has suddenly decided to implement them for which I am happy. I demand that other assurances also be taken up in similar spirit and provide benefits to the poor irrespective of caste,” he said, at a press conference, following his discharge from a corporate hospital on Thursday. Mr. Rajender had to cut short his ‘Praja Deevena Yatra’ — walkathon for people’s blessings — abruptly a few days ago after he fell sick and he successfully underwent a knee operation and was treated for fever and cold too. “The government has already spent close to Rs. 150 crore of disbursements in the guise of various schemes in an effort to lure voters. Everyone knows Mr. Rao has no love for people but for their votes,” he charged. The BJP leader urged political parties and people at large to ruminate over the prevailing political climate in TS where the ruling party had been intimidating Opposition and those opposing them making use of the police. “Mr. Rao’s own vindictive attitude is a threat to democracy and the efforts to diminish the democratic principles should be thwarted by all. He has forgotten about the people involved in the agitation for the separate State and has been rewarding backstabbers with posts,” he said. The Chief Minister had never garlanded the statue of B. R. Ambedkar in the last eight years, failed to keep the promise of having a Dalit chief minister, taken away the deputy chief minister post from Dalits and had not appointed a single official from the weaker sections in his office. “It shows the kind and extent of respect he has for the downtrodden,” he remarked. The former minister demanded that the same welfare schemes be made applicable to nomadic tribes as their lives were in a pitiable state. “Mr. Rao is spending thousands of crores earned illegally to win the election at any cost but people of Huzurabad cannot be turned against me. Even Harish Rao knows I am not a drama artiste but a serious politician with sincerity and commitment. I will resume the walkathon soon,” said Mr. Rajender.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/disburse-stipend-for-jobless-too-eatala/article35756954.ece
06 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||SCR freight up by 50%||South Central Railway’s special focus on enhancing freight loading is continuing to yield positive results in spite of the challenges posed by COVID-19 pandemic in this current financial year with 9.528 million tonnes (MTs) transported in July, more than 50% compared to last year’s loading of 6.341 MTs during the same time. Major commodity – coal – has seen a revival in loading and has gained momentum with 4.139 MTs loaded last month, a 66% increase; and cement loading is another major contributor to the total freight, picking up by 53% with 2.811 MTs being loaded. Similarly, special focus being given to support the agricultural sector for transportation through railways has resulted in foodgrains and fertilizers loading registering 0.794 MTs and 0.735 MTs, respectively, informed senior officials on Wednesday. The entire freight loading has been on an upswing in the first four months, April-July, when the cumulative loading has touched 38.164 MTs, which is 54% more compared to the same period in the last financial year. During the period, the loading consisted of 18.455 MTs of coal, 10.63 MTs of cement, 2.56 MTs of foodgrains, and 2.038 MTs of fertilizers. General Manager Gajanan Mallya informed that factors such as increasing the average speed of goods trains, ensuring availability of wagons, restoring old traffic, attracting new freight customers, active business development units at headquarters and divisional levels have been showing results as the same is being monitored regularly. Senior officials are on the standby to deal with any issues being faced by freight customers to be attended to immediately and assured that railways would continue supporting all segments of freight to provide safe, economical and fast transportation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/scr-freight-up-by-50/article35757202.ece
06 August 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Siva Sivani Group celebrates 60th Foundation Day||The Siva Sivani Group of Institutions (SSGI) celebrated its 60th Foundation Day recalling its achievements in leadership, innovation and excellence in teaching in the presence of faculty and alumni who joined online from various parts of the world. President and Chief Executive of SSGI, Aarti Samapthy, who addressed the gathering reflected on the history and journey of SSGI and recalled the dream of its founder late S P Sampathy. She said it was the first private autonomous B-school in the combined Andhra Pradesh and Telangana and approved by AICTE. The SSGI, she said stands for its diversity, rich culture and scholarly achievements and is also the first to offer the whole range of academic programmes from Kindergarten (K.G) to Doctoral studies in the Telugu speaking States. Vidya Yeravdekar, Pro-Chancellor, Symbiosis International (Deemed University) and Principal Director, Symbiosis, who was the chief guest, spoke about the journey of Symbiosis, her stint with the education system and the parallel between the initial establishment of SSGI and Symbiosis. Mementos were presented to all the staff while those who were associated with SSGI for more than 10 years were also felicitated for their support and contribution. The faculty members shared their experiences and their journey with SSGI. Vice-president and deputy chief executive, Sailesh Sampathy and associate vice-president, Deepika Sampthy also spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/siva-sivani-group-celebrates-60th-foundation-day/article35756936.ece
06 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||GHMC responsible for deaths: Bezawada Wilson||Ramon Magsaysay award winner and activist against manual scavenging Bezawada Wilson castigated GHMC’s attitude post the tragic death of two labourers in the sewer line, and termed it irresponsible. “It is every government department’s bounden duty to respect the right to life of every individual as enshrined in Article 21 of the Constitution. By denying to own the responsibility, GHMC is conveying the message that any future deaths in this manner too, are welcome,” Mr. Wilson said. “GHMC is the principal employer of the workers, and it is the job of the corporation officials to supervise the work. While awarding the tender, it was GHMC’s duty to check the capacity of the contractor to do the job without engaging manual labour. Further, the onus of ensuring that the labourers are provided safety gear too, lies with GHMC officials,” he said. As per the provisions of the Prohibition of Employment as Manual Scavengers and their Rehabilitation Act 2013, engaging manual labour in handling of human excreta in its raw form is prohibited. A team from his Safai Karmachari Andolan has already visited the location and collected details, based on which action will be taken for legal recourse, Mr. Wilson said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ghmc-responsible-for-deaths-bezwada-wilson/article35756947.ece
06 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Flood discharge in Krishna up||Discharge of flood at all Krishna Basin dams in the two Telugu States has gone up again on Thursday, despite the receding inflow and outflow at the upstream dams Almatti and Narayanpur in Karnataka, as the water storage in them is being maintained at near capacity/full reservoir level. According to Irrigation Department authorities, the discharge at Nagarjunasagar which was around 99,000 cusecs, has gone up to nearly 2.73 lakh cusecs. Inflow and outflow, including the water release to canal systems, was being maintained at over 2.85 lakh cusecs and the storage at 310.8 tmc ft against its capacity of 312 tmc ft. Water level was 589.6 ft against FRL of 590 ft. The increase in discharge at Nagarjunasagar has made the task of installing a stop-lock gate in place of the spillway gate number 16 of Pulichintala project in Andhra Pradesh difficult. The gate was washed away during its operation in the early hours on Thursday. At Srisailam, the discharge was over 1.11 lakh cusecs from the 4 spillway gates lifted for 10 ft height each at 6 a.m. besides another nearly 63,000 cusecs from the power houses of Andhra Pradesh and Telangana. By 6 p.m., it has gone up to 1.39 lakh cusecs from 5 spillway gates and another 64,000 cusecs from the two power houses as the inflow remained at over 2.05 lakh cusecs. In the upstream, at Jurala the discharge was over 1.76 lakh cusecs, including nearly 1.51 lakh cusecs from the 25 spillway gates and 26,000 cusecs from power generation, against the inflow of 1.82 lakh cusecs. At Tungabhadra dam in Karnataka, the discharge of flood to river was over 20,000 cusecs against the inflow of nearly 24,000 cusecs as the storage of water was being maintained at over 97 tmc ft against its capacity of 100.86 tmc ft. At Almatti and Narayanpur in Karnataka, the inflow and outflow was 80,000 cusecs each and 1.3 lakh cusecs each.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/flood-discharge-in-krishna-goes-up/article35756952.ece
06 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||582 COVID cases reported in Telangana||Telangana recorded 582 COVID-19 cases on Thursday, taking the total to 6,47,811. While 1,07,329 samples were put to test, results of 8,744 were awaited. Three COVID patients died. Of the 582 new infections, the highest of 83 was from GHMC, followed by 61 each from Karimnagar and Warangal Urban, 45 from Khammam, and 39 from Nalgonda. No case was recorded in Narayanpet and Kamareddy, and only one infected case was detected in Jogulamba Gadwal. From March 2, 2020 to August 5 of this year, a little over 2.25 crore samples were examined and 6,47,811 were detected with coronavirus. Of the total cases, 8,744 were active cases; 6,35,250 have recovered; and 3,817 have died.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/582-covid-cases-reported-in-telangana/article35756924.ece
06 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||T-Hub, HCL tie-up on emerging tech||Startup ecosystem enabler T-Hub and HCL Technologies have announced a collaboration to explore emerging technologies like Quantum Computing and DeepTech. As part of the collaboration, T-Hub will connect HCL’s Open Innovation Program eSTiP with select startups. “This partnership will enable HCL to leverage T-Hub’s innovation expertise and ecosystem of start-ups, corporates and investors to accelerate its open innovation initiatives,” T-Hub said in a release. Also, HCL will look to curate solutions of the startups for its clients and for focused programme statements, while gaining access to T-Hub’s events and demo days. Value for customers T-Hub Chief Executive Officer Ravi Narayan said, “With this partnership, we are focusing on aiding HCL in its vision of strengthening the approach of creating value for its customers and partners through some disruptive startups, whereas also providing our startups with growth opportunities.” “Our partnership with T-Hub cements our ecosystem innovation journey with additional investments in Quantum Computing experiments as the technology continues to evolve,” said Kalyan Kumar, Chief Technology Officer and Head-Ecosystems of HCL Technologies. As Quantum Computing continue to mature and become commercially viable, “We hope our continued engagement will bring insights into relevant startups, academia, business collaborators and other innovation ecosystem players,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/t-hub-hcl-tie-up-on-emerging-tech/article35756930.ece
06 August 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Narayana student bags gold in Chemistry Olympiad||Adarsh Reddy of Narayana Educational Institutions group bagged gold medal in the 53rd International Chemistry Olympiad 2021 conducted from Kansai, Japan. Only four students across the country were part of the Indian presence and two of them bagged gold medals, a statement from Narayana Group Managing Director P. Sindhura Narayana said. The final round was held from July 25 to August 2 virtually due to the prevailing pandemic situation and 81 countries across the world participated in the contest and four from each country were shortlisted for final round. Adarsh Reddy said that the achievement was possible due to the guidance from Narayana teachers. He said that the academic programme in Narayana is designed so meticulously that he could get good hold on fundamentals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/narayana-student-bags-gold-in-chemistry-olympiad/article35756938.ece
06 August 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||MANUU pedagogy lessons for Bihar madrasa principals||Principals of madrasas of Bihar were trained in new pedagogy to improve creative thinking, critical approach and trigger intellectual abilities of students enrolled there at a five-day training programme organised by the Maulana Azad National Urdu University (MANUU). Principals from 950 madrasas from 30 districts of Bihar attended the week-long training. Secretary of the Minority Welfare Department Safina Noor, while addressing the valedictory on Thursday, said that about 75% girls were enrolled in madrasas and they should be given special attention. Project director from MANUU Prof. Mohd Shahid said that the quality of education in 2,500 madrasas was being strengthened through 50 madrasa resource centres. Over 7,000 madrasa teachers will be trained in new pedagogy where focus would be on triggering intellectual abilities of students while taking care of the cultural background and Islamic context. Earlier, Minority Welfare Minister of Bihar Mohammad Zama Khan, in his inaugural address, stated that the Adolescence Education Programme in madrasas of Bihar is a unique initiative for inclusive development, which is not exemplified in any other part of the country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/manuu-pedagogy-lessons-for-bihar-madrasa-heads/article35756944.ece
06 August 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Youth mowed down by bus||A 20-year-old youngster died and his friend suffered severe injuries after a speeding RTC bus hit their two-wheeler from behind at Jawaharnagar on Thursday morning. According to the police, the accident occurred around 8 a.m. at BJR Nagar when victim Robinson Oraon and injured Susheel Oraon (24), both from West Bengal, who worked at a marble godown in Dammaiguda, were going to Dammaiguda from Vampuguda. The city bus belongs to Hakimpet depot. While Robinson suffered severe injuries and died on the spot, Susheel was rushed to a private hospital. Robinson’s body was shifted to Osmania General Hospital morgue for autopsy. A case was registered and a probe is on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/youth-mowed-down-by-bus/article35756948.ece
06 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Hyd doctor given patent for innovative medical device||Dr Yalaka Rami Reddy, Interventional Gastroenterologist at the Gleneagles Global Hospitals, was granted ‘patent by the Government of India’ for developing a unique surgical device titled Composite Polypectomy Snare which would make colonoscopy intervention process easier than its existing form, as per a press release. Complexities involved Dr Rami Reddy said, “There are certain complexities in the existing devices used to snare polyps from inside the colon region in a human body, and the challenges I personally faced or many young or novice endoscopists face compelled me to innovate this medical device which is not just easy to handle, it also reduces the time taken to perform colonoscopy on complicated polyps”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/city-doctor-given-patent-for-innovative-medical-device/article35756928.ece
06 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||E-cycles for food delivery||Food delivery platform Swiggy in partnership with Hero Lectro Cargo (HLC) is rolling out a pilot project in Hyderabad under which the latter’s electric-cycles are to be deployed for last mile food delivery. Hero Lectro WINN cargo e-cycles are to be used for food deliveries under the project, with which last-mile delivery service provider Fast Despatch Logistics and A.S. Group, a firm in the public bike sharing space, are also associated. The initiative, from this month, is in line with Swiggy’s commitment to increase the adoption of electric vehicles in its delivery fleet. It said the move will also benefit the riders by increasing their earnings as a result of lower maintenance and vehicle running costs. Setting the backdrop for the pilot project are rising fuel prices. “The affordable, purpose-built cargo bicycles will not only enable us to reduce our carbon footprint but also help reduce the cost of delivery per km for our delivery partners. Nationally, by 2025, our aim is to cover deliveries spanning 8 lakh kms everyday through EVs,” said SVP, Business Operations at Swiggy, Shivcharan Pulugurtha.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/e-cycles-for-food-delivery/article35756941.ece
06 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||HC notices over VCs’ appointment||Telangana High Court has issued notices to State government and others over the appointment of Thangeda Kishen Rao and T. Ramesh as vice-chancellors of Potti Sriramulu Telugu University and Kakatiya University respectively. A retired principal of a government college filed a PIL petition, contending that the appointments were made in violation of UGC regulations. The hearing was posted for October 27.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/hc-notices-over-vcs-appointment/article35756949.ece
06 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||KTR urges Centre to revive CCI plant||Industries and IT Minister K.T. Rama Rao has urged the Central government to take steps to revive the Cement Corporation of India (CCI) unit at Adilabad. In a letter addressed to Union Major Industries Minister Mahendra Nath Pandey, he said the State government was prepared to extent cooperation if the Centre decided to revive the plant. The plant was set up at a cost of Rs. 47 crore in 1984 and the campus was spread over a sprawling 772-acre stretch, including a township constructed on over 170 acres. The plant catered to the cement needs of north Telangana, Vidarbha and Marathwada regions. However, its operations stopped in 1996 because of lack of funds and it was closed in 2008 after the employees were offered voluntary retirement scheme. The employees however approached the court which ordered a status quo on the issue. There were still 75 employees on the rolls, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/revive-cci-plant-ktr/article35756960.ece
06 August 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Former UGC Chairman is new GITAM Chancellor||Former University Grants Commission (UGC) Chairman and Padmashri awardee Virander Singh Chauhan has been appointed as the Chancellor of GITAM. The appointment letter was handed over to him by GITAM president M. Sribharath in New Delhi on Thursday. Dr. Chauhan is known for his contributions towards developing a recombinant vaccine for malaria. An alumnus of Delhi University, Dr. Chauhan began his career at St. Stephen’s College and then went to Oxford on a Rhodes scholarship. He taught at IIT Kanpur before working as a senior scientist with a UN organisation, the International Centre for Genetic Engineering and Biotechnology. As the Executive Chairman of NAAC (National Assessment and Accreditation Council) for 6 years, he constantly stressed on inculcating a strong ethical framework in India’s academic environment and empowering women.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/former-ugc-chairman-is-new-gitam-chancellor/article35756934.ece
06 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||page 6 Brf Bandi meets PM||TS BJP president and Karimnagar MP Bandi Sanjay Kumar met Prime Minister Narendra Modi during the parliamentary committee meeting of OBC MPs and congratulated him on the government’s decision to provide 27% quota to OBCs and 10% to economically backward sections for the medical seats in the national pool on Thursday. The Prime Minister explained the various initiatives taken for the benefit of OBCs and also enquired about the party activities in TS, said a party spokesperson.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/page-6-brf-bandi-meets-pm/article35756956.ece
06 August 2021||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||600 cusecs released from Palair||To serve the two-lakh-acre ayacut under the Nagarjunasagar Project left bank canal in the composite Khammam district, nearly 600 cusecs of water was released from Palair reservoir in Kusumanchi mandal into the main irrigation canal on Thursday. Palair MLA Kandala Upender Reddy switched on the button at the head regulator near Palair in the presence of Collector V P Gautham on Thursday morning, marking the formal release of water from the balancing reservoir into the irrigation canals. The move was expected to scale up farming operations in the command areas of the Nagarjunasagar left canal system’s second zone spread in 16 mandals of the district in the present agricultural season. The water level in the Palair balancing reservoir on Thursday stood at 22.45 feet as against Full Reservoir Level of 23 feet, sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/600-cusecs-released-from-palair/article35757206.ece
06 August 2021||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||3 arrested for businessman’s murder||Three persons were arrested on Thursday for the murder of 40-year-old businessman Md. Abdul Majid at Fasalwadi on July 30. According to DSP A. Balaji, the accused were identified as Mohammed Hamed Khan, Mohammed Imran and Syed Tabrej. They had some financial dispute with the victim and decided to eliminate him. On the night of July 30, they came to Mr. Majid’s water plant and stabbed him to death. Later, they ran away to Hyderabad. The DSP appreciated Circle Inspector Shivalingam and Sub-Inspector Subhash for arresting the accused in record time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/3-arrested-for-businessmans-murder/article35757204.ece
06 August 2021||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||Illegal buildings demolished||Acting tough against illegal constructions, municipal authorities have demolished structures built without permissions or violating the permissions. Structures were demolished at Balajinagar in 30th ward and border stones were removed at a venture in Ramachandra Reddy colony.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/illegal-buildings-demolished/article35757205.ece
06 August 2021||YADADRI-BHUVANAGIRI,TELANGANA||Celebrations erupt in adopted village||Celebrations erupted at Vasalamarri village of Turkapally mandal in the district, with the news of the government releasing its maiden order on ‘Dalit Bandhu Scheme’ proceeds for the village’s 76 Dalit families on Thursday. The residents in the Dalitwada were seen singing and dancing, pouring sugar into mouths and calling Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao, “a god”. The Chief Minister, who toured his adopted village Vasalamarri on Wednesday, had declared sanction of ‘Dalit Bandhu Scheme’ for all the Dalit families in the village, and said the earlier proposal to launch the scheme at Huzurabad on August 16 would only be an official formality. He had also promised that the families would be receiving their benefit in the bank accounts from Thursday. Following the direction, the Scheduled Castes Development Department released the order, acknowledging District Collector Pamela Satpathy’s official proposal for implementation of ‘Telangana Dalit Bandhu’, and permitted an amount of Rs. 7.60 cr for the benefit of all the 76 Dalit households. Soon, at Vasalamarri, cadres of the ruling Telangana Rashtra Samithi joined the celebrations with drum beating, dances by folk artistes, smearing the Dalitwada in pink colour and they bathed portraits of K. Chandrasekhar Rao with milk. “KCR’s Dalit Bandhu Scheme, and the day, would be written in golden letters for starting a revolution for socio-economic development of Dalits,” the ruling party cadre announced. Ms. Satpathy, later in the day, confirmed the receipt of Rs. 7.60 cr from the Telangana Schedules Castes Cooperative Development Corporation Limited. She added that officials concerned would visit Vasalamarri and organise a meeting with the 76 Dalit families, to create awareness and guide them in choice of entrepreneurship plans and then the Rs. 10 lakh would be credited to the respective bank accounts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/celebrations-in-adopted-village/article35756959.ece
06 August 2021||New Delhi,||‘Can’t find how leak in riots case happened’||An enquiry has failed to establish how the details of investigation into a Delhi riots case were shared with media, Delhi Police has told the High Court in a status report on accused Asif Iqbal Tanha’s plea alleging that the content of chargesheets was leaked even before cognisance was taken by the court. Justice Mukta Gupta on Thursday said she would read Delhi Police’s separate enquiry report received by her in a sealed cover and listed Mr. Tanha’s plea for hearing on August 11. Advocate Rajat Nair, appearing for Delhi Police, informed the court that the status report was also filed in the matter. In the status report, police said that while a “detailed enquiry” was conducted into the allegations, it could not be found how the alleged leakage took place.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/cant-find-how-leak-in-riots-case-happened/article35756837.ece
06 August 2021||Dehradun,||Hockey star’s family faces casteist slurs||Police have arrested a man in Uttarakhand’s Haridwar district for allegedly mocking and passing casteist remarks against the family of Vandana Katariya who was part of India’s women hockey team which lost a semifinal match at the Tokyo Olympics. Soon after the Indian team went down to Argentina in the semifinal, two men allegedly danced and burst firecrackers outside Katariya’s house in the Roshnabad area of Haridwar in a gesture of mockery on Wednesday evening, an officer at SIDCUL police station said. When some members of Katariya's family came out of house hearing the noise, the two men also passed casteist remarks against them, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/hockey-stars-family-faces-casteist-slurs/article35756850.ece
06 August 2021||GURUGRAM,||Rewards for Olympic medallists from Haryana||Haryana government on Thursday announced cash rewards of Rs. 4 crore and Rs. 2.5 crore to the Tokyo Olympics silver and bronze medallists respectively from the State, besides jobs and plots on concessional rates. Ravi Dahiya from Haryana’s Sonipat has won the silver medal in the 57-kg weight category freestyle wrestling competition in the Olympic Games and two of the hockey team players, Sumit and Surender Kumar, also hail from the State. Congratulating Mr. Dahiya for making India proud with his feat, Mr. Lal said he played well, but narrowly missed the gold medal. “It would have been good had we been discussing about gold now, but he lost by just three points. It depends upon the performance of the player during the game on a particular day. He lost by a whisker. He played well. Would have been good had he brought gold, but still he has added to the country’s medal tally with a silver medal,” said Mr. Lal, speaking to the media persons after the event. Besides the cash reward, Mr. Dahiya would be appointed to the post of Class-I officer and also given a plot of Haryana Sahari Vikas Pradhikaran at concessional rates.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/rewards-for-olympic-medallists-from-haryana/article35757107.ece
06 August 2021||GUWAHATI,||Assam decision a relief for 22,000 Gurkhas facing ‘foreigner’ test||Assam’s decision not to let Gurkhas undergo the citizenship test through the Foreigners’ Tribunals (FTs) has come as a relief for at least 22,000 members of the community in the State. The Himanta Biswa Sarma Cabinet on Wednesday decided not to prosecute the Gurkhas under the Citizenship Act and withdraw all cases against members of the community in the FTs. The Bharatiya Gorkha Parishangh (BGP) on Thursday welcomed the decision and thanked the Chief Minister for solving the problem the community has been facing since 1997. D-voter tag According to the BGP, at least 22,000 Gurkhas in the State have been marked D-voters (doubtful voters) arbitrarily in the electoral rolls since 1997, and some 2,500 cases relating to citizenship were being heard at various FTs. About 500 cases have been disposed of since the notification for the National Register of Citizens (NRC) process began in December 2013. Some tried by the FTs were declared foreigners in ex parte (one-sided) decisions and thrown into detention camps. “The Cabinet decision will come as a huge relief for the families of Gurkha people who have been prosecuted under the citizenship law. It will also remove the tag of illegal immigrants or foreigners from members of the community who are original inhabitants of Assam and are bona fide Indian citizens,” BGP national general secretary Nanda Kirati Dewan said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/assam-decision-a-relief-for-22000-gurkhas-facing-foreigner-test/article35756849.ece
06 August 2021||Moradabad (U.P.),||Attempt to displace Muslims in Moradabad area||The district authorities on Thursday said they will take legal action if needed against the people attempting to displace some Muslims who have bought houses in a locality here. Some Hindu residents in the Lajpat Nagar area of the city are on protest and have put up posters declaring that their houses are on sale over some Muslims buying property in the locality. They are demanding that the purchase of houses by Muslims be cancelled. Officials of the civil administration and the police visited the area and urged the agitators to end their protest. But the residents were adamant, saying they cannot live together with members of the other community.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/attempt-to-displace-muslims-in-moradabad-area/article35756851.ece
06 August 2021||Mumbai,||Consider card for those fully vaccinated to allow travel by local trains: HC to govt.||The Bombay High Court on Thursday suggested that the Maharashtra government consider a common card to identify those fully vaccinated and allow them to travel by local trains. A Division Bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice G.S. Kulkarni was hearing a bunch of public interest litigation petitions seeking permission for lawyers, court staff and journalists to commute by local trains. Maharashtra Advocate General Ashutosh Kumbhakoni told the court that the State Disaster Management Authority would issue a letter based on which the Railways would issue passes for those fully vaccinated, permitting them to take the local train. The court then said, “One-third of the population is still susceptible to the virus. Then, this one-third population should be separated from the two-third, or from the fully vaccinated. At least provide them with a card identifying them as fully vaccinated. You can have a common card that can be used as an ID for everything allowed for the fully vaccinated, even foreign travel.” The Bench went on to say, “As we celebrate the country’s independence on the 15th, let us hope on 16th we will get independence from all these issues too [restrictions on travel, trade imposed in the State in view of the pandemic]. You can’t compare Mumbai with any other city in this State. Its complexion is totally different. It is a city with special needs, so why not constitute an expert committee to consider local train travel, other social issues so that citizens are not forced to approach the High Court for everything. Let the State machinery be geared up to tackle these different issues affecting your citizens.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/consider-card-for-those-fully-vaccinated-to-allow-travel-by-local-trains-hc-to-govt/article35757024.ece
06 August 2021||Mumbai,||Cong. questions CBI silence in Sushant Singh case||Questions have been raised over the year-long investigation by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) into the death of Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput as the probe agency has failed to reach to any conclusion so far. The case had become a political controversy prior to Bihar Assembly polls. The Congress, which is part of the MVA government, questioned the CBI’s silence in the case. “It has been more than 300 days since the AIIMS panel denied the murder angle in the Sushant Singh case. The CBI is still deliberately silent on this matter. Who is pressurising CBI? What progress has been made in one year in the Sushant Singh case by the CBI, which made it a very prestigious case? What is the current status of the inquiry?” asked Maharashtra Congress general secretary Sachin Sawant. Mr. Sawant asked if there was any order from the Centre to “deliberately keep the investigation in Maharashtra pending and inconclusive”. “The CBI should clarify this immediately,” he demanded.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/cong-questions-cbi-silence-in-sushant-singh-case/article35757025.ece
06 August 2021||Mumbai,||‘602 bedridden vaccinated’||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Thursday told the Bombay High Court that 4,715 bedridden people had registered for the COVID-19 home vaccination programme and 602 had been vaccinated. Senior advocate Anil Sakhare appearing for the BMC told a Division Bench that only a fitness certificate was left to be given to those vaccinated. He said the policy to vaccinate bedridden people started on July 30 and a two-member team, which included a doctor and a nurse, had been visiting the homes of those who registered with an ambulance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/602-bedridden-vaccinated/article35757028.ece
06 August 2021||Mumbai,||‘It has serious implications’||Cyber-hacking revealed in the Bhima-Koregaon case by Boston-based computer forensics firm Arsenal Consultancy shows that the Pegasus spyware attack can have serious implications for police functioning and the rule of law, senior retired police officers said. Julio Ribeiro, former DGP, Punjab; Vikash Narain Rai, former DGP, Haryana; and S.R. Darapuri, former Inspector General of Police, Uttar Pradesh, addressed an online press conference and raised serious concerns on the impact of surveillance and planting of evidence.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/it-has-serious-implications/article35757031.ece
06 August 2021||Mumbai,||Deshmukh probe: State told to give papers to CBI||The Bombay High Court on Thursday issued a notice to the Maharashtra government to provide documents to the CBI in the probe against former Home Minister Anil Deshmukh. A Division Bench was hearing an application filed by the agency seeking a direction to the State to share documents after it alleged that a CBI official was threatened by a police officer. The application said, “The CBI had written to the State Intelligence Department , seeking details of a communication sent by IPS officer Rashmi Shukla on the issue of corruption in police transfers and postings, but it refused to provide the documents, claiming they were part of an ongoing investigation.” Additional Solicitor General Anil Singh, appearing for the CBI, told the court that the State was not cooperating and claimed some CBI officers were threatened by an ACP. The Bench then issued a notice to the State and directed it to reply to the allegation. “Find out what the situation is. Please do not create an unfair situation in which we have to take them [police] to task.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/deshmukh-probe-state-told-to-give-papers-to-cbi/article35757030.ece
06 August 2021||Mumbai,||PIL alleges Israel tour was used to gather info on Pegasus||The Bombay High Court on Thursday issued notices in a plea by activists alleging that a delegation of selected senior officials of the Directorate General of Information and Public Relations (DGIPR) were sent to Israel to study advanced web media, breaching mandatory conditions. A public interest litigation (PIL) petition filed by Laxman Bura and Digambar Gentyal alleges that the tour was undertaken to acquire the spying software Pegasus. The PIL sought issuance of directions to the DGIPR for taking action against the delegates who went on the Israel study tour conducted between November 15, 2019 and November 25, 2019; the officials of the DGIPR involved in the process of sanctioning the proposal for the tour; and the delegates who came to be selected for it. The PIL contends that large amounts of money have been wasted on the said tour without requisite permissions and authorities have grossly misused their powers and access to public funds for other ulterior motives. A Division Bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice G.S. Kulkarni issued notices to DGIPR and officials and the matter is adjourned for four weeks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/pil-alleges-israel-tour-was-used-to-gather-info-on-pegasus/article35757029.ece
06 August 2021||PATNA,||Have been denied justice for last five years: Bihar BJP leader||A senior Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader in Bihar on Thursday attacked the ruling NDA government headed by Chief Minister Nitish Kumar for its repeated claim of “rule of law and good governance” in the State. BJP is a partner in the ruling alliance led by the JD(U) in Bihar since November 2005. Meeting with Minister Vineeta Mishra, State vice-president of the women’s wing of the BJP in Bihar, met senior leader and Law Minister Pramod Kumar at the State party headquarters and demanded justice for her dead daughter. At the meeting during the party’s Sahyog Karyakaram (co-operation programme), she broke down while narrating her ordeal in following the case for the last five years. “ Bihar mein hamari sarkar rahte bhi paanch saalon mein nayay nahi mila hain (despite having our government in Bihar, we were denied justice for the last five years),” she said. The BJP leader’s daughter died in 2016 at her husband’s house after alleged harassment and torture by his family. The BJP leader lodged an FIR at the local Gandhi Maidan police station in Patna under Sections 306, 304 B, 34 and other Sections of the Indian Penal Code against the husband and other family members. She alleged, in her complaint, that her daughter was murdered for dowry. Ms. Mishra told presspersons later that she had been following the case since then. “I met the Chief Minister, the then Deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi, State Director General of Police, Superintendent of Police and other officials a number of times, but nothing has happened. Today I met our senior party leader and State Law minister and submitted a petition stating that I’ve been running from one place to another seeking justice for my daughter for the last five years. He has assured me justice,” she said wiping her tears. ‘People feel helpless’ “I’ve been with the BJP for the last 20 years and there is a BJP-led NDA government in the State. But I have sill been denied justice for so long,” she said. “The administration and the police hardly listen to us and the common people feel helpless.” Each time she approached the Chief Minister for justice, she was informed by his office that her complaint had been forwarded to the DGP, she said.  I met the Chief Minister, the then Deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi, State Director General of Police but nothing has happened Vineeta MishraSenior BJP leader||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/have-been-denied-justice-for-5-years-bjp-leader/article35756848.ece
06 August 2021||Tehran,||Iran backs move to lift sanctions, but won’t bow to pressure: Raisi||Iran’s new conservative President Ebrahim Raisi said Tehran backs any diplomatic move to lift U.S. sanctions but will not bow to pressure, as he took the oath of office on Thursday. Mr. Raisi, who won a June 18 election marked by record abstention, takes office with Iran facing an economy battered by U.S. sanctions, a grinding health crisis and thorny negotiations on its nuclear programme. “Sanctions against the nation of Iran must be lifted,” Mr. Raisi told his swearing-in ceremony in Parliament. “We will support any diplomatic plans that will realise this goal.” But he stressed that “the policy of pressure and sanctions will not cause the nation of Iran to back down from following up on its legal rights”. The 60-year-old former judiciary chief officially began his four-year mandate on Tuesday, when he was inaugurated by supreme leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei. On Thursday, he was sworn in before Iran’s Parliament, to which he will present his Cabinet list early next week, state television reported. “Today I am the servant of all the republic and more than 80 million of people,” Mr. Raisi told Parliament, stressing that his administration will be one of “national consensus”. Mr. Raisi’s presidency is due to consolidate power in the hands of conservatives, following their 2020 parliamentary election victory, which was marked by the disqualification of thousands of reformist or moderate candidates. The swearing-in ceremony was attended by around 80 foreign dignitaries, according to state TV, including Afghan President Ashraf Ghani and Iraq’s President Barham Saleh. EU nuclear deal negotiator Enrique Mora was also present. Meanwhile, the U.S. on Thursday urged Iran to return to talks quickly on reviving the nuclear deal. “We urge Iran to return to the negotiations soon,” State Department spokesman Ned Price said.“If President Raisi is genuine in his determination to see the sanctions lifted, well that is precisely what’s on the table in Vienna,” he said, referring to indirect talks on reviving the 2015 nuclear accord.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/iran-backs-move-to-lift-sanctions-but-wont-bow-to-pressure-raisi/article35756684.ece
06 August 2021||August 06 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Britain will not recognise a Taliban govt. that takes power by force’||The U.K’s Permanent Representative to the United Nations, Barbara Woodward , says Britain is not prepared to recognise a Taliban government that uses force to come to power. Ms. Woodward discussed U.K.-India cooperation at the UN, multilateralism, China, and climate action, in an interview . Edited excerpts:  On counterterrorism, the U.K. Defence Minister, Ben Wallace, said the British government will work with whoever comes to power in Kabul, providing they adhere to international norms. The Taliban have already broken these norms with its ongoing brutal campaign. Will the U.K. recognise a Taliban government that takes Kabul by force, overpowering the Afghan security forces and overthrowing the civilian government? ...We’re delighted to be working so closely with India during their Security Council presidency but actually during their tenure on the Security Council. And as you say, really strong support for counterterrorism, maritime security, and peacekeeping, which are the three big themes of the Indian presidency... On the particular question around Afghanistan, we have, of course, been following events in Afghanistan and the growing advances of the Taliban, their attacks on cities, their violence, the breaches of international humanitarian law. So there’s a real concern there for the UK, for India, for other countries, particularly the neighbouring countries. And I think the answer is no, we would not be prepared to recognise a Taliban government that took power by force [and] that was committed to terrorism. So, we are working alongside partners at the moment, to try and make sure that we can return Afghanistan to a pathway towards security and prosperity [and] that we don’t lose the progress of the last 20 years, particularly with respect to women’s rights — so a real focus for us at the moment. In the U.K.’s Integrative Review of Security, Defence, Development and Foreign Policy, released earlier this year, there was a strong Indo-Pacific ‘tilt’. Is Britain willing to join the Quad? We were delighted to articulate our Indo-Pacific tilt in the Integrated Review. I think it’s been captured again in the U.K. India 2030 Roadmap, India awarding Britain the status of ‘Comprehensive Strategic Partnership’ , and the recognition overall. Of course, 41% of global GDP is going to come from the Indo-Pacific, so that’s what’s behind our look at the Indo-Pacific tilt. We have been talking to ASEAN about ‘dialogue partner ’ status. We have, of course, really strengthened, I think, our relationship between the U.K. and India, starting at the very top with the Roadmap, and Prime Minister Modi and Prime Minister Johnson. So at the moment, we are very happy with the way things are going with our own Indo-Pacific tilt, but also with the architecture that is building up in the region. So, I think no immediate plans to join [the Quad], but very happy to stay closely engaged in how things are developing there. The U.K. supports a permanent seat for India on the Security Council. But given that Security Council reform is a General Assembly issue, how specifically can the U.K. help with this, at the moment? So, yes, the U.K. has been — and been proud to be — a sponsor of... supporter of India’s permanent membership of the Security Council for the last 20 years. We’ve been very consistent in that. But you’re right, Security Council reform is a challenging business and I think there are two aspects to that. The first is the reform of how the Security Council works... And then the second question, of course, is the membership of the Security Council, on which there are competing views and various obstacles to reforming that. And yes, I know it’s a General Assembly issue and there are really, sort of, two competing groups... one where India is one of a few countries which are supported for permanent membership. And then there’s another group of countries which feel that there shouldn’t be such a thing as permanent membership. And that needs to be sorted out, discussed and resolved in a way that doesn’t lock us in to the current geopolitical scenario but, somehow, keeps us agile in the future. Because, part of the reason, as you know, that Security Council reform is such a touchstone question here at the UN, is that people feel that we were locked into a post-1949 world and here we are in 2021. The U.K. is hosting this year’s UN climate change conference, COP26, in Glasgow. What can India and the U.K. do together specifically — but also realistically — to put the world on a better climate action path this year? This is also a priority in the U.K.-India relationship. I know that Prime Minister Modi and Prime Minister Johnson have raised the level of ambition on climate change, and we are very excited by the potential that India has shown in leading on solar capacity, having quadrupled your own wind and solar capacity; and we partner with India in the Indian-led International Solar Alliance, which is really accelerating the uptake of solar. So that’s the adoption of new technology, where I think India is really at the forefront. Perhaps slightly slower progress on net zero emissions. [We] very much welcome the net zero commitment on Indian Railways by 2030, but obviously, we need to see if we can broaden that out... That can be accelerated by sharing technology by capacity building, but also by ensuring that there is enough finance raised to support this and we in the U.K. are working hard to raise the £100 billion that was committed at Paris, but more importantly to raise additional private sector funding that would allow us to move more quickly with mitigation and adaptation. And then we’ll come to Glasgow. And again, very much hope that Prime Minister Modi will be able to make a commitment that will, I think, have a real impact on not only across India, but across large swathes of developing economies to help us get to net zero, and keep temperature rises below 1.5 degrees.  (Full interview is available at https://bit.ly/ukenvoy)   No immediate plans to join [the Quad], but very happy to stay closely engaged in how things are developing there||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/britain-will-not-recognise-a-taliban-govt-that-takes-power-by-force/article35756418.ece
06 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||U.K. eases COVID norms for travellers from India||The United Kingdom has moved India to the ‘amber’ category, reopening travel visas for Indian citizens. The U.K. had placed India under the ‘red’ category in view of a surge in COVID-19 cases. This category came along with a stringent quarantine requirement, which would also be relaxed under the new set of rules. A statement from the British High Commission informed that as part of the ‘amber’ list, visitor visas would be available to Indian travellers, along with “other long-term visas that have remained open”. In the new system, “travellers arriving in England could complete a 10-day quarantine at home or in the place they are staying”. The relaxation of the quarantine rules has come as a relief to Indian travellers as under the ‘red’ category rules, the mandatory quarantine had to be spent in a hotel at the personal expense of travellers. In addition, travellers could choose to pay for a private COVID-19 test on Day 5 of the quarantine and end their quarantine if the result turned out negative. The ‘amber’ category rules, however, demand that travellers “must take a COVID-19 test in the three days before travelling to England” and book and pay for COVID-19 tests to be taken after arrival in England. They are also expected to complete a passenger locator form.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/uk-eases-covid-norms-for-travellers-from-india/article35756451.ece
06 August 2021||Port Louis,||No plan to house Indian military base on Agalega island: Mauritius||Mauritius has denied a report that it has allowed India to build a military base on the remote island of Agalega, with a government official telling AFP that no such agreement exists between the two nations. Earlier this week, news broadcaster Al Jazeera reported on the construction of an airstrip and two jetties to house an Indian military base on Agalega, located about 1,000 km north of the archipelago’s main island. But on Wednesday, the Mauritian government denied any plans to allow a military installation on the Agalega island, home to about 300 people. “There is no agreement between Mauritius and India for the creation of a military base in Agalega,” Ken Arian, a communications adviser to Prime Minister Pravind Jugnauth, said. Mr. Arian said that although work was under way on two projects agreed during Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s 2015 visit to Mauritius — a three-kilometre air strip and a jetty — they would not be used for military purposes. Chagos island The report raised fears of a repeat of the 1965 decision by Britain to separate the Chagos Islands from Mauritius and set up a joint military base with the United States on Diego Garcia, the largest of the isles. The decades-old move has sparked protests by Chagossians, who accuse Britain of carrying out an “illegal occupation” and barring them from their homeland. Britain insists the islands belong to London and has renewed a lease agreement with the United States to use Diego Garcia until 2036. Diego Garcia played a strategic role during the Cold War, and then as an airbase, including during the war in Afghanistan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/no-plan-to-house-indian-military-base-on-agalega-island-mauritius/article35756422.ece
06 August 2021||August 06 2021 00:00 IST,||A year after Beirut blast, Lebanon is reeling under economic, political crises||On August 4, the first anniversary of the Beirut blast, residents of the city took out a march with a mock guillotine outside its port that was ripped apart by the explosion. Elsewhere in the city, protesters clashed with police with stones and fireworks. They wanted answers and the guilty to be punished. A year after the blast, one of the biggest non-nuclear explosions in history that killed more than 200 people and injured about 7,000 others, it’s still not clear who was responsible for the incident. Authorities have said the blast occurred after a fire at a warehouse that had stored ammonium nitrate, a highly explosive material. But it’s not clear who stored ammonium nitrate in a warehouse in the middle of Beirut’s densely populated city centre or for what. While these questions are yet to be answered, the blast has worsened the country’s economic and political crises, further deepening the public resentment. Political deadlock Amid mounting public anger after the blast, Prime Minister Hassan Diab announced his resignation in August last year. But a year later, Lebanon’s political elite still hasn’t formed a government, and Mr. Diab is continuing in his caretaker capacity. Three leaders were appointed as Prime Minister-designates since the blast and two of them stepped down. In September, PM-designate Mustapha Adib abandoned his weeks-long efforts to form a government as he failed to reach a consensus with the major political blocs. In October, former Prime Minister Saad Hariri was appointed by the President as the new Prime Minister-designate. Nine months later, Mr. Hariri stepped down without a Cabinet. Mr. Hariri said he failed to reach an agreement on portfolio allocation with President Michel Aoun. Mr. Aoun later released a statement on Twitter, saying Mr. Hariri was not ready to discuss amendments to his proposals. After Mr. Hariri’s failure, billionaire businessman and former Prime Minister Najib Mikati was tasked with forming the next government. In effect, Lebanon doesn’t have a fully functional government for almost a year. This is mainly because the country has a fractious political system in which key positions are allocated for different sects. According to Lebanon’s post-civil war Constitution, the country’s President should be a Maronite Christian, PM a Sunni and Parliament Speaker Shia. Political parties largely represent the different sects and often fail to reach common ground on governance issues. The political deadlock continued even as Lebanon’s economy fell into its worst crisis in decaSdes. The 2020 blast, which ripped through the capital’s residential areas, caused damages worth $15 billion. Even before the blast, Lebanese economy was facing a steep contraction. It dates back to the 2019 financial crisis, which saw the country defaulting on its bonds for the first time since its independence in 1943. Economic free fall According to the World Bank, Lebanon’s GDP per capita fell by 40% in dollar terms between 2018 and 2020, while real GDP contracted by 20.3% in 2020, pulling the Mediterranean country into “one of the most severe global crises episodes”. Already, Lebanon is witnessing scarcity of medicines and other goods. It is also facing frequent power cuts as the government doesn’t have funds to import fuel. Inflation has shot up more than 110%. Unemployment rate soared to 40% late last year, according to the Bank. Crime is up and protests are the new normal. The inability of Lebanon’s political class to form a government and initiate economic and political reforms seemed to have aggravated the crisis. The UN and France organised a virtual conference of donors recently to raise funds to help Lebanon. Donors pledged about $370 million in fresh aid, but it’s not clear whether it would be of any significant help for an economy that’s in free fall. The World Bank says Lebanon’s situation is worse than the 2008 financial crisis in Greece or the 2001 meltdown in Argentina and that it could take 12 to 19 years for Lebanon to come out of it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/a-year-after-beirut-blast-lebanon-is-reeling-under-economic-political-crises/article35756420.ece
06 August 2021||Lahore,||Mob attacks Hindu temple in Pakistan, damages idols||A mob attacked a Hindu temple in a remote town in Pakistan’s Punjab province, damaging idols and burning down parts of it, prompting Chief Justice Gulzar Ahmed to express “grave concern” over the incident and fix the matter before court for hearing on Friday. Police said the mob attacked the Hindu temple at Bhong city of Rahim Yar Khan district, some 590 km from Lahore, on Wednesday in reaction to an alleged desecration of a Muslim seminary by a minor Hindu boy. The eight-year-old Hindu boy last week had allegedly urinated at a library of the seminary that caused tensions in Bhong, where Muslims and Hindus have been living peacefully for decades. A police officer said the boy was arrested last week and booked under the blasphemy laws but subsequently released on bail for being a minor. “The attackers were carrying sticks, stones and bricks. They smashed the deities while raising religious slogans,” District Police Officer Asad Sarfraz said. He said a part of the temple was also burnt down. Mr. Sarfraz said the law enforcement agencies have controlled the situation and managed to disperse the mob. “Rangers have been called and deployed around the Hindu temple,” he said. India on Thursday summoned the Pakistani charge d’affaires and lodged a firm protest over the “reprehensible incident” of ransacking of a Hindu temple in Punjab province there, and said incidents of violence and persecution of minorities have continued unabated in Pakistan. On Wednesday, ruling Pakistan Tehreek-i-Insaf MP Dr Ramesh Kumar Vankwani posted videos of the temple attack on Twitter, requesting law enforcement agencies to stop its “burning and vandalising”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/mob-attacks-hindu-temple-in-pakistan-damages-idols/article35756423.ece
06 August 2021||Islamabad,||Pakistan has other ‘options’, PM Khan’s adviser tells U.S.||Upset over U.S. President Joe Biden’s reluctance to telephonically contact Prime Minister Imran Khan, Pakistan’s National Security Adviser Moeed Yusuf has said that Islamabad has other “options” if the American leader continues to ignore the country’s leadership. “The President of the United States hasn’t spoken to the Prime Minister of such an important country who the U.S. itself says is make-or-break in some cases, in some ways, in Afghanistan — we struggle to understand the signal, right?” Mr. Yusuf said in an interview with the Financial Times of London, according to the Dawn newspaper here. “We’ve been told every time that... (the phone call) will happen, it’s technical reasons or whatever. But frankly, people don’t believe it,” he said. “If a phone call is a concession, if a security relationship is a concession, Pakistan has options,” he added, refusing to elaborate. The U.S. State Department, however, has assured Islamabad that Washington recognises Pakistan’s vital role in restoring peace in Afghanistan and wants Islamabad to play that role. “Pakistan has much to gain and will continue to have a critical role, and be well-positioned to have a role in supporting the outcome” in Afghanistan, said U.S. State Department spokesperson Ned Price. “We’ll continue to work and to communicate closely with our Pakistani partners on this,” he added. “The cold shoulder from Washington comes as the Taliban has captured swaths of territory across Afghanistan in a ruthless offensive emboldened by the U.S. pullout,” the report added. The British newspaper said that while Mr. Yusuf did not elaborate on his options, “Pakistan has cultivated deep ties with its ‘iron brother’ China, which has invested billions in infrastructure projects as part of its Belt and Road Initiative.” “There are still a number of world leaders President Biden has not been able to speak with personally yet. He looks forward to speaking with Prime Minister Khan when the time is right,” a Biden administration official told the paper.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/pakistan-has-other-options-pm-imran-khans-adviser-tells-us/article35756416.ece
06 August 2021||Tel Aviv,||Israeli Minister threatens Iran with military action||Israel’s Defense Minister warned on Thursday that his country is prepared to strike Iran, issuing the threat against the Islamic Republic after a fatal drone strike on a oil tanker at sea that his nation blamed on Tehran. The comments by Benny Gantz come as Israel lobbies countries for action at the United Nations over last week’s attack on the oil tanker Mercer Street that killed two people. The tanker, struck off Oman in the Arabian Sea, is managed by a firm owned by an Israeli billionaire. The U.S. and the U.S. similarly blamed Iran for the attack, but no country has offered evidence or intelligence to support their claims. Iran, which along with its regional militia allies has launched similar drone attacks, has denied being involved. Speaking to the news website Ynet , Mr. Gantz responded to whether Israel was prepared to attack Iran with a blunt “yes.” “We are at a point where we need to take military action against Iran,” Mr. Gantz said. “The world needs to take action against Iran now.” Iran did not immediately respond to Mr. Gantz’s comments. However, in a letter Wednesday to the UN Security Council, its chargé d’affaires in New York described Israel as “the main source of instability and insecurity in the West Asia and beyond for more than seven decades.” “This regime has a long dark record in attacking commercial navigation and civilian ships,” Zahra Ershadi wrote. “In less than two years, this regime has attacked over 10 commercial vessels carrying oil and humanitarian goods destined to Syria.” Ms. Ershadi’s comments refer to an ongoing shadow war being waged since 2019 that has seen both Iranian and Western-linked ships attacked.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/israeli-minister-threatens-iran-with-military-action/article35756421.ece
06 August 2021||August 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Why are government schools not the first choice?||The public education system is the primary option for millions of students in India. These institutions have become more important as the pandemic takes a toll on the economy, putting fee-charging schools beyond the reach of many and forcing thousands to move to government schools. The Patna High Court recently asked for data on how many IAS and IPS officers have enrolled their wards in government schools. Anita Rampal and Uma Mahadevan discuss public education in a conversation moderated by G. Ananthakrishnan . Edited excepts: About 51% students are in government schools and nearly 10% in aided schools, yet there seems to be a bias against such schools amongst wider sections of the middle class. What factors underline such a bias? Anita Rampal:People feel there are not enough teachers in these schools, or the schools may not be functioning regularly. They get carried away by the notions of a branded private school, even though it may not have good teachers. Also, private schools brand themselves [in a particular way]: they say they are English medium and parents feel that is good. But children don’t learn better in a second language, they learn better if they begin to first read and write in the first language. Then, they also learn English better as a second language. Government schools are not just of one kind. In Delhi, there are about seven-eight kinds of differently resourced government schools. Now, the ordinary government school is the poorest and is also getting the poorest children. Uma Mahadevan:There are different kinds of government schools: there are Kendriya Vidyalayas (KVs), which are very well-resourced, with good infrastructure and good teachers. There are Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalayas, which are islands of excellence and competitively looked at for admissions. There are residential schools run by different State governments which are again well-resourced, have good infrastructure, spacious classrooms. Then, there are other model schools. We also have municipal schools and the typical government schools run by the different Zilla Panchayats, which are not always as well resourced but often tend to get the poorer students. We should also look at the basic safety, well-being and hygiene factors in these schools. There is no reason why they cannot have well functioning toilets, drinking water and proper compound walls. To that extent, there is some work that should be done in improving the image of these schools. We then come to pedagogy, teacher development, the level of community participation, the parent committees, etc. Ten years since the Right to Education law, have structural issues been addressed? UM:It’s an ongoing process. Structural issues are vast. We are a very large country with different kinds of education systems in different States. And we have different kinds of issues — some areas may have a higher tribal population or different kinds of local issues that need to be addressed. But over the years, the RTE has contributed tremendously in filling our classrooms and in making education accessible to children who would otherwise have been at risk of slipping out or being pushed out of the education system and into situations like child labour or child marriage. We need to look long and hard at what we have been able to achieve and what remains to be achieved. The fact that there is a lot that remains to be done should not take away from the considerable work that has been done. AR:I agree that we must look at what has been done, but also, barely 15% of the schools can be called as compliant with the RTE. That is also a reason why children are being pushed out. Section 29 of the RTE explains what kind of education every child has a right to. There is no school complying with that, including elite schools. It talks about discovery and activities which are child-centred. And on developing the potential of every child, not calling them ‘slow learners’, not testing them in a centralised way. We have abandoned that understanding. Are the victims of this phenomenon predominantly in government schools? AR:Yes. And poor children who don’t have tuition, parents to support them at home, or books. During COVID-19, 60-70% children had nothing. There was no attempt to go to them and see what they needed. But we say they have a ‘learning loss’ and poor ‘learning outcomes’. UM:It’s true that we should be conscious of not using the language of deficit. The RTE gave us the approach of looking at the child not as a bucket to be filled but as a person who is growing and bringing to the class rich and valuable experiences and the ability to learn. The RTE also gave us the approach of formative assessments. It is not the child who is unable to learn; assessments need to help us find ways to help children learn better. Some people prefer English. People don’t want a school which does not offer English. UM:English is seen as aspirational, which is fine, but for it to become the medium of instruction would cut away a child from what she already knows, such as concepts. Education begins as a journey from the familiar to the unfamiliar. Education in the mother tongue in the primary years helps a child build on prior knowledge and concepts. Do we have adequate capacity at the secondary and higher secondary levels in government schools? The net enrolment falls sharply beyond the primary level. Could this be increased with better access to quality public schooling? UM:Definitely, especially for girls. The fact that there is a drop in net enrolment from primary to secondary should be viewed with concern. We need to understand the obstacles: transportation, location, etc., which may be preventing teenagers, especially girls, from accessing secondary education. AR:It’s important that the public education system becomes a common school system. A KV has a small percentage of children coming from different socio-economic backgrounds. The notions of equity are more rooted there. Children get a chance to study with children from different socio-economic backgrounds. But in private schools, that’s not the case. We were shocked that a 12-year-old child could tell us, ‘why do these children have to have the same textbooks as us? You should teach them to make gol gappas and shoes’. This child is unquestioned by the school. When the school itself reproduces inequities, the government should not be talking of centres of ‘excellence’. Delhi takes a test for the Rajkiya Pratibha Vikas Vidyalaya (schools of the Delhi School Education Directorate). Why take a test at Class 6 and only then admit children? A government teacher’s job is secure, with an attractive salary and perks and retirement benefits, compared to teachers in private schools. Yet people hesitate in choosing a government school. What can raise the morale of these institutions? UM:While all that is true, the work of a government school teacher can be lonely and difficult. It’s highly creative work. There’s a lot more that we need to do in terms of empowering school leaders, school heads, school communities, the entire teaching community, as well as the non-teaching community. The midday meal cooks in a school also contribute to building a healthy and happy school environment as, say, the chemistry teacher. So, there’s a lot that we need to do to value the work of teachers and staff, make their work visible, so that families recognise that. We also need to create better professional networks for teachers, because the best teachers continuously learn from each other. AR:Teachers’ professional development is a very weak area. Even students who do a four-year B.El.Ed course and start teaching feel the in-service training they later get is quite dismal. Teachers’ professional development is poor. We don’t find investment in terms of resources or in the planning of institutes. Now, 95% of teacher education is in private hands and most of it is substandard. Even today, almost half the regular teacher vacancies are filled by guest or ad hoc teachers. How can the promise of wider access to government schools be realised? UM:We should make a micro plan for every school, a larger plan for schools at the district level, and then at the State level. Then basic needs — drinking water, rainwater harvesting, school gardens, dining areas — need to be taken up before we can even start talking about levels of learning and teaching. The role of local bodies should be enhanced. Local bodies can take ownership, and school development committees can be linked with elected local bodies, so they can support the needs of schools. AR:I agree, but let’s not say learning can come later and this can come first. These are all important aspects of making a good school. In terms of funding, it’s not just a matter of cess, it’s also priority areas. Right now, we have a priority area like a National Testing Agency. Why do we have something at the national level which decides what should happen at the local level? It should be more decentralised. Where are we finding investments in public institutes for teacher education? We have not found it for many years. For government servants, and those in transferable jobs, there is a lot of paperwork, admission hassles and even the problem of compatibility of State boards. Is that a barrier due to which people don’t generally go to a State government school? UM:That is something that parents keep in mind, because when people are transferred between States or to Delhi, the language, the second language, the board, the syllabus all come into the picture. Also the ability of a child to adjust to a new way of teaching and a new syllabus. AR:Some years back, when a lot of curriculum renewal was happening in different States, the Ministry had asked me to look at how Kerala was doing its curriculum review, because its assessments were very different. It was creatively assessing children, which other States had not done. I documented this in some of the poorest districts in Kerala. What I found fascinating was that there were people who had earlier sent children to private schools and were now shifting them to government schools. They were not people very high up in the government hierarchy, but there were people from government offices too. They saw that their child was learning much better because they were not forced into the English medium. And during the pandemic we have seen thousands of students moving to government schools in many States. AR:Yes. If people who have lost livelihoods are seeking government schools, such schools should try to show their commitment to good quality education — not leave them as segregated silos for the poorest. The courts have asked civil servants to send their children to government schools. Is this a logical course to pursue? AR:You can’t take punitive measures and say, ‘why didn’t you put your child there?’ But trying to say, ‘why can’t we do it when all other countries have managed’ is something that we should take up seriously.  Barely 15% of the schools can be called as compliant with the RTE. Anita Rampal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/why-are-government-schools-not-the-first-choice/article35756414.ece
06 August 2021||August 06 2021 00:00 IST,||A guide to resolving the Assam-Mizoram issue||The violent stand-off between the Assam and Mizoram armed policemen at Vairengte in Mizoram, on July 26, about six kilometres from Lailapur, Assam which took six lives and left over 50 injured is the culmination of a long-standing border dispute. History and a boundary Almost one and a half centuries ago and 17 years before the Lushai hills was annexed to British Assam in 1892, the ‘inner line’ boundary of the Lushai hills was ‘fixed’ in 1875 on the southern border of Assam’s Cachar district. In line with the colonial practice of ‘fixing’ borders, this boundary was however not ‘precise’ as it was drawn largely using natural markers such as rivers and hills. In post-independent India, the Mizoram government has accepted this boundary in preference over the subsequent revisions made by the colonial government when the Inner Line Permit under the Bengal Eastern Frontier Regulation, 1873 was extended to the Lushai hills district in 1930 and 1933. Unlike the 1875 boundary, which involved a proxy of Suakpuilala, one of the Lushai chiefs, the Mizoram government perceives that the boundary instituted by these revisions sidestepped them and amounted to unilateral superimposition — driven as it were by ‘administrative convenience’. These revisions are also seen to conspicuously fail to recognise the Mizo’s long-standing historical rights to use the un-demarcated southern border of Cachar as their hunting ground, for jhum cultivation, and as sites of their resource extraction including rubber and timber. The enclosure of about 509 square miles of the Lushai hills under the Inner Line Reserve Forest area via the Assam Forest Regulation, 1877, is being cited as one of the glaring exemplars of ‘encroachment’ by the Assam government into the Lushai hills (now Mizoram). However, considering that borders cannot be driven by perception but by institutionalised rules and laws, Assam’s government continues to refuse to accept Mizoram’s standpoint. Assam’s stand Seen from this standpoint, the Assam government considers Mizo plantation and settlements in the Inner Line Reserve Forest areas as an ‘encroachment’. Such a standpoint is oblivious to the fact that Seipuia, a Lushai chief, established a village, Seidpur, on a hill nearly 10 miles from Silchar, the capital of Cachar. The Jalenga tea estate located in Tlangpui village and Paloi tea estate near Vairengte — both in Cachar — took their names after Zalenga and Palawia, two Lushai chiefs. Given that the Lushai (also known as old Kukis — Hrangkhawl, Biete, Ralte, etc.) are among the earliest settlers of Cachar, many villages in Cachar (and Karimganj) have Lushai settlements. Sporadic incidents of evictions or arrests by the Assam officials were reported in the 1970s and 2000s. A recent allegation of ‘encroachment’ happened in October 2020 when Assamese officials burnt down Mizo huts and other settlements in the Singla Reserve Forest which led to border clashes and a 12-day blockade of National Highway 306. Although Assam Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma is partially right in claiming that the dispute is about ‘reserve forest’ and not ‘land’, what is at the heart of this dispute is the contending approaches of the Assam and Mizoram governments to ‘borders’, namely ‘state-centric’ and ‘people-centric’ approaches. Mr. Sarma and the Assam government represent a continuum of the colonial ‘state-centric’ approach to borders which gives premium to legal, juridical and administrative recognition and protection of the border. Colonial state-making and state-expansion entail a ‘fixing’ of borders. The discovery of oil, tea, rubber and coal around the middle of the 19th century in the ‘outer limits’ of Assam proper and the concomitant attempt to commercialise these commodities impel the regulation of trade and commerce between the British and their competitors. The enclosure of land in these ‘outer limits’ by declaring them either as ‘forest reserve areas’ or imposing an inner line permit raj system stem from this. This development leverages a new land-use regime which is principally driven by efforts to augment State revenues. Forest conservation and the protection of tribal/indigenous land interests are peripheral concerns. One of the unintended consequences was the large-scale migration of labour from various parts of British India into Cachar, Hailakandi, and Karimganj. The ‘encroachment’ and ‘enclosure’ of their land and forest ‘commons’ reinforced the steely resolve of the tribal groups such as the Lushais to ‘protect’ their land. The series of raids since the mid-1840s, which culminated in the famous raid of Alexandrapore tea garden in Cachar in early January 1871, stems from this. In this raid, James Winchester, a British tea planter, was killed, and Mary Winchester, his daughter, captured. The British launched the Lushai Expedition (1871-72) partly to secure Mary’s release. The recent overtures by Mr. Sarma to approach the Supreme Court of India, and raise a 4,000-strong commando battalion to ‘protect’ the ‘forest reserve’ areas need to be seen against this backdrop. Parading a bullet-proof armoured vehicle is intended to drive home this message. The muscular display of power also becomes fully evident in the way in which a contingent of about 200 Assam armed policemen along with Karimganj forest officials overran the central paramilitary outpost, marched and ‘encroached’ deep into Mizoram’s border at Vairengte a day after the dispute had already flared up. Critics squarely blamed Mr. Sarma for this misadventure and political upmanship which cost the lives of five of of Assam’s armed policemen and a civilian and left over 50 people injured. It remains to be seen if the immediate valorisation, ex gratia payment of Rs. 50 lakh and securing jobs to each family of the ‘martyrs’, and Rs. 1 lakh relief to the injured edify his image as a ‘decisive’ Chief Minister or expose him as a regional bully. The last image has gained traction given that Assam has a long-standing border dispute with Arunachal Pradesh, Meghalaya and Nagaland. Mizoram’s approach In contrast to the above, Chief Minister Zoramthanga and the Mizoram government advocate a ‘people-centric’ approach which seeks to give a premium to the historical and traditional rights of the local indigenous people on the one hand and to the principle of uti possidetis juris (‘as you possess under law’, including customary law) on the other hand. Mr. Zoramthanga and his predecessors have made concerted attempts to forge a consensus around this approach. The two-member boundary committee report of 1973 and the memorandum prepared by the Joint Action Committee, non-governmental organisations and all-political parties in Mizoram in 2018, which has been submitted to the Prime Minister of India, are pointers to this. At the negotiating table Given that ‘borders’ are contested social constructs, ‘mental maps’ which are given subjective meanings and interpretations, the endeavours by Mr. Sarma and Mr. Zoramthanga to ‘fix’ the Assam-Mizoram border and resolve the dispute need to be sensitive to the historical context in which local land owners and protectors have transformed overtime as ‘encroachers’ of land across the two States. Such a resolution should be sensitive to the possibility of fluid and overlapping sovereignty, where forest ‘commons’ are seen not simply as sites of revenue-extraction but as powerful symbols of identity and sustainable livelihood resources for the local people. Deep historical knowledge, sensitivity and an accommodative spirit need to inform Mr. Sarma and Mr. Zoramthanga even as they sit down peacefully to enter into dialogue and negotiation under the neutral supervision of the Centre. It is about time that the Centre sets up a permanent inter-governmental forum to involve important stakeholders in order to effectively manage border and territorial conflicts. Any quick-fix solution driven by temporal electoral considerations should be avoided if we were to resuscitate and sustain interdependent Assam-Mizoram borders and beyond. Kham Khan Suan Hausing is Professor and Head of the Department of Political Science, University of Hyderabad, Hyderabad, Telangana. The views expressed are personal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-guide-to-resolving-the-assam-mizoram-issue/article35756404.ece
06 August 2021||August 06 2021 00:00 IST,||India-Nepal flood management needs course correction||Nitish Kumar should be credited for bringing ‘disaster management’ into the popular imagination in Bihar. In his early days as Bihar Chief Minister (2005-2010), he made a few noticeable structural changes, with renewed approaches in infrastructure augmentation for dams and reservoirs, detention basins, embankments and channel improvement. Non-structural measures were also adopted in later years such as floodplain management, flood forecasting and warning, flood insurance and financial compensation. However, despite the efforts made on the ground, people continue to suffer with perennial flooding in north Bihar (the Mithilanchal region). Already facing a humanitarian crisis of sorts following the novel coronavirus pandemic, this year’s extra rainfall and floods have been a moment of reckoning. Unfortunately, this chronic issue which is making over five crore people of the north Bihar in India and Tarai in Nepal so vulnerable, does not seem to get the attention it deserves by policymakers on both sides of the border. This year, on May 4-5, Bihar’s Disaster Management Department released two documents titled: “Pre-Flood Preparedness” and “Flood Control Order 2021”. The aim was to help the local administration in terms of preparedness and having in place a relief support system. However, a solution to the issue of chronic flooding lies in revisiting the old plans and arrangements between India and Nepal. This is because flood control in Bihar is just not possible till a dedicated intergovernmental panel is formed through a bilateral mechanism between India and Nepal, that in turn can study, assess and offer solutions to this shared crisis. Fundamentals of flooding Historically, Bihar has been known to be India’s most flood-prone State. The Flood Management Improvement Support Centre (FMISC), Department of Water Resources, Government of Bihar estimates that 76% of the population in north Bihar faces the recurring threat of flood devastation. About 68,800 sq. km out of a total geographical area of 94,163 sq. km, or about 73.06% of the land area is flood affected. A large part of north Bihar, adjoining Nepal, is drained by a number of rivers that have their catchments in the steep and geologically nascent Himalayas. Originating in Nepal, the high discharge and sediment load in the Kosi, Gandak, Burhi Gandak, Bagmati, Kamla Balan, Mahananda and Adhwara Group wreak havoc in the plains of Nepal’s Tarai and Bihar. The FMISC says: “About 65% of the catchment area of these rivers falls in Nepal/Tibet and only 35% of the catchment area lies in Bihar. A review by Kale (1997) indicated that the plains of North Bihar have recorded the highest number of floods during the last 30-years. In the years 1978, 1987, 1998, 2004 and 2007[,] Bihar witnessed high magnitudes of flood. The total area affected by floods has also increased during these years. [The] Flood of 2004 demonstrates the severity of the flood problem when a vast area of 23490 Sq Km was badly affected by the floods of Bagmati, Kamla & Adhwara groups of rivers causing loss of about 800 human lives, even when Ganga, the master drain was flowing low.” Cooperation of the past Unlike the indifference shown by Kathmandu on matters of floods and water management in recent years, the history of cooperation between India and Nepal for embankments starting in the 1950s is worth looking at. When work on the Kosi embankments started in January 1955, a group of retired Nepali soldiers came over voluntarily to join hands with Indian volunteers and start the work. Such a progressive government-citizen interface could not sustain itself and water cooperation between the two countries for a common cause waned. Consequently, not much has happened barring the use of water resources for hydroelectric generation. Recasting water management For the people of Madhubani, Darbhanga, Sitamarhi, Sheohar, Saharsa, Supaul, Purnea, Araria, Madhepura, Katihar, Samastipur, Muzaffarpur, Bettiah, Motihari and Begusarai, the flood is a part of their lives. In fact, infrastructural interventions such as building embankments and re-routing streams have disturbed the conventional pattern of slow water flow. Earlier, without so many artificial barriers, the flow of water used to aid farming in the region. The Kosi Treaty of 1954, under which the embankments in Nepal were established and maintained, was not futuristic and did not make enough provisions for the maintenance of embankments and the rivers changing their course. The deposition of stones, sand, silt and sediment has led to river beds rising, changing course and causing unimaginable losses. Between the mid-18th and mid-20th centuries, the Kosi is said to have shifted over 100 kilometres westward, resulting in large-scale human displacements. Also, there is a need for greater sensitisation on climatic imbalances and sustainable development. Ironically, the same flood-affected regions also face the issue of drought and a sinking water table. Notwithstanding Kathmandu’s wavered approach on the matters concerning water management with India, it would not be apt to blame Nepal for releasing water from its rivers that cause flooding on the Indian side; and on their part, for believing that India is reaping the benefits from all projects that were taken up in the past. Clearly, course correction is needed to reestablish water cooperation as a common cause and draw inspiration for joint action from the 1950s. For a policy refresh As early as in 1937, the transition from the traditional method of flood control to the embankment-based British system was thought out. To control the floodwater at Barahakshetra in Nepal, a high dam was thus planned and finally built after the devastating Kosi flood in 1953. Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru visited the flood-affected areas in 1953 and announced a visionary Kosi scheme for the safe resettlement of the affected people. Lalit Narayan Mishra, former Union Cabinet Minister, was the first prominent political leader from the Mithila region who unwaveringly tried improving infrastructural capabilities with the Kosi Project and other initiatives to control the flooding. In the mainstream political and policy establishments, greater attention needs to be given to this annual calamity and its devastating effects on lives and livelihoods. India and Nepal need to be in dialogue to end the crisis of flooding every year. With a long-term strategy of water management cooperation between India and Nepal, the matter should be looked into. Atul K. Thakur is a policy analyst and columnist||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/india-nepal-flood-management-needs-course-correction/article35756407.ece
06 August 2021||August 06 2021 00:00 IST,||New opportunity for storytelling||The pandemic has taught us many things, but two of them stand out for us. The first is how we need to be there for each other in times of crisis and the second is how stories form connections and unite us. It was over a year ago that the pandemic terribly affected film industries around the world, including our own. One evening, during a brainstorming session, we decided to help unite the incredible creative community of Tamil cinema to send a much-needed message of solidarity and resilience with Navarasa . We needed the daily wage earners in the industry, shaken by the pandemic, to feel reassured that their industry won’t let them down. Greenlighting films can take a long time and we were surprised by how quickly Netflix understood what we were trying to do with this nine-film anthology. We were inspired by the amount of work that a streaming service was ready to put in, its attention to detail, focus on quality and most importantly, how respectful it was of the creators who came on board and gave them space and trust to produce their work. Language agnostic As viewers, the language of a story stopped mattering to us a long time ago; we have become language agnostic. Many people around us, just like us, have discovered many regional Indian films, as well as cinemas from South America, Spain or Korea. On streaming, as viewers, we are more open to watching content that we know nothing about. Minimum demand for commitment and time gives us the freedom and energy to explore. If the story doesn’t grab our attention, we are free to discover another story in another language. This has made us agnostic of where the stories are from in terms of cultures and geographies. The canvas that streaming offers is probably the most important thing for storytellers. With Navarasa , it was clear to us that we have the complete freedom to narrate our stories, without being restricted to a two-hour-plus format, or without breaking the film into two halves or being limited by the audience of a specific geography. Streaming enables us to tailor our stories to a film or a series and still remain honest to it. For instance, we could craft the story for each rasa (emotion) and do it creative justice. Without deviating from what the story needs or without designing the film for all audiences, filmmakers today can still reach the right audiences for their content, in their homes, across the world. Even stories rooted in a specific culture have found a worldwide reach with streaming. This is why streaming services are liberating for a filmmaker and for audiences across the world who may have never get to watch these incredible stories that bridge their understanding of cultures. Future of storytelling We have three observations to share. First, streaming services are pushing filmmaking towards a higher quality of storytelling and enabling us to compete with the finest filmmakers in the world in terms of quality and storytelling, which is fueling our desire to do even better work. Second, streaming services have made us aware of and opened up the possibility to collaborate with incredible actors, directors and technicians across the world. This will bring unprecedented opportunities to everyone in filmmaking. We will see more fusion in production and talent, which will lead to more exchange of ideas and craft, and make the processes of editing, writing, research, costume designing and sound mixing more collaborative. It will become easier to draw talent from everywhere because they will know that the story they are working for will be seen in their geographies too. Third, the demand for content will continue to grow and all storytelling mediums will continue to grow with it. With the Internet shrinking the world, now it is the turn of stories and streaming to make it truly one world. Jayendra Panchapakesan and Mani Ratnam are filmmakers||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/new-opportunity-for-storytelling/article35756409.ece
06 August 2021||August 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Not always fair game||Good intentions do not always make for good legislation. The Tamil Nadu government’s effort to protect its youth from the temptations of online gambling by amending a colonial gaming law to ban online rummy and poker, has not survived judicial scrutiny. Its amendment to the Tamil Nadu Gaming Act, 1930, has been struck down by the Madras High Court, which found the prohibition unreasonable because it sought to bring even games predominantly of skill under the label of gambling, if there was an element of betting or even prize money or any other stake involved. The State’s intention was acceptable to the extent that it sensed the danger involved in allowing addictive games. However, it erred in failing to make a distinction between games of skill and games of chance, and in seeking to treat as ‘gaming’ anything that involved stakes, contrary to judicial pronouncements circumscribing the term to games that are based on chance. In an audacious move that the court found completely unacceptable, the amending Act sought to “turn the statute on its head” by replacing a section that provided exemption to ‘games of skill’ from its purview with one that said it would apply to even games of skill if played for wager, bet, money or stake. The court rightly found that this would actually render illegal even offline games that were played for prize money. It said, “What was once the exemption or escape provision has now been given the most claustrophobic stranglehold and has the possibility of bringing about the most ridiculous and unwanted results if applied in letter and spirit.” One of the problems of political populism is that the state takes its paternalistic role too seriously. It assumes that large sections of society require guidance, lest their ideas of freedom lead them to uncharted zones where lack of restraint and self-control land them in debt and penury. Notions of individual freedom and choice tend to be forgotten. Another problem is that the moral element is predominant in such laws, often to the detriment of the reasonableness of their provisions. Some activities are associated with sin more than with commerce, and these are susceptible to the government’s regulatory reach and banning instincts. The court, while understanding the law’s intent, has rightly questioned the lack of proportionality in banning something that could have been regulated. It notes that excessive paternalism could descend into authoritarianism and curb an activity individuals are free to indulge in. It could not sympathise with the State’s contention that online games were invariably open to manipulation and no distinction need be made between games of chance and those of skill. However, it did remember to observe that appropriate legislation regulating betting and gambling activities is still possible, but something that conforms to constitutional propriety.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/not-always-fair-game/article35756398.ece
06 August 2021||August 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Pandemic of distrust||President Joe Biden and the director of the CDC warned this week that the COVID-19 crisis in the U.S. was becoming a “pandemic of the unvaccinated”. This underscores the growing divergence across U.S. States and communities in terms of the prevalence and intensity of the Delta variant infection, depending on the extent to which these cohorts had been vaccinated. Approximately 30% of the adult population has yet to be vaccinated, along with 58% of those in the 12-17 years age group. The country has reached this troubling impasse despite a strong start. To date, 348 million doses have been given so far. This came on the back of the firm commitment by the Biden administration to follow the science in the tackling of the pandemic, and quickly secure pledges from vaccine manufacturers — including Pfizer, Moderna and Johnson & Johnson — to supply 700m doses by the end of July 2021, enough to cover 400m people. Using everything from consistent high-level messaging by the President and his team to get vaccinated, to lottery tickets and cash gifts offered by local and State governments to those willing to step and get a shot, the country has powered through to the point where 193 million Americans have received at least one dose, and at least 165 million people have received all the required doses. Yet, it is now increasingly clear that there are two cohorts of adults resisting vaccines: the first, who are averse to getting vaccinated in all circumstances — preponderantly those who are rural, white, politically conservative, and evangelical Christian, according to surveys; and the second that are open to considering getting vaccinated but would like to wait for some time before committing to it. The second cohort is, like the first, mixed to an extent, but primarily consists of a diverse urban group, younger in age, often Democratic, and includes minorities such as African Americans, and Latino Americans. Regardless of the reasons for resisting, the statistics paint a grim picture, of 95% or higher of COVID-19 hospitalisations and deaths being of unvaccinated people; and of the highest toll affecting States with lower-than-average vaccination rates, including the likes of Florida and Texas. The Biden administration has an unenviable, multi-pronged task at hand. On the one hand, it must continue to put out facts and data as well as advocacy messaging for ever-widening vaccine reach, and this includes working alongside social media platforms to clamp down on rampant misinformation. On the other hand, it needs to avoid succumbing to any and all pressures to relax precautions, for example the disastrous — and now reversed — guidance supplied by the CDC on May 13 to the effect that people need not wear masks if they had been vaccinated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/pandemic-of-distrust/article35756399.ece
06 August 2021||August 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Man’s first walk in deep space||Astronaut Alfred Worden took man’s first walk in deep space to-day, floating effortlessly like a feather nearly 320,000 km. from earth as he retrieved two film canisters from the rear of the streaking Apollo-15 spacecraft [Houston, August 5]. The canisters contain nearly two miles (3.2 km.) of high resolution film covering nearly 20 per cent of the lunar surface. A television camera relayed clear pictures to earth as Worden, bundled in a stiff pressure suit and attached to a 25-foot life-line, made three 15-foot trips to the camera bay, twice to extract the film and once to inspect equipment. He stepped through the open hatch at 15-40 G.M.T. (21-10 I.S.T.) and was back inside the cabin just 18 minutes later, the 10th man to take a walk in space, and the first to do so that far from his home planet. “It’s remarkable,” Worden exclaimed in the breath-taking vista of the sun, stars, sky and moon around him. Worden had an emergency pack on his back in the event of his life-line being severed during the walk. Worden’s heart beat rose from 70’s to about 130 a minute as he moved out — his first time outside Endeavour since launch from Cape Kennedy 10 days ago.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/mans-first-walk-in-deep-space/article35756408.ece
06 August 2021||New Delhi,||No e-way bills from Aug. 1 for GST return non-filers||Taxpayers who have not filed GST returns for two months or quarters up to June 2021 will not be able to generate e-way bills from August 15, GST Network has said. The move, experts said, would help increase Goods and Services Tax collections in August as pending GST returns are expected to be filed. The Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs (CBIC) had earlier suspended the blocking of electronic way (e-way) bill generation for non-filers of GST returns, to give taxpayers compliance relief during the COVID pandemic. In an advisory dated August 4 to taxpayers, the GSTN said, “The government has now decided to resume the blocking of EWB (e-way bill) generation facility on the EWB portal, for all the taxpayers… from August 15”. Any taxpayer who has not filed two or more returns in GSTR-3B up to June 2021, or has not filed 2 or more statements in GST CMP-08 for the quarters up to April to June 2021, will not be able to generate e-way bill after August 15.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/no-e-way-bills-from-aug-1-for-gst-return-non-filers/article35756392.ece
06 August 2021||new delhi,||‘BSNL, MTNL losses, liabilities shrank in FY21’||State-owned telecom firms BSNL and MTNL have narrowed their losses and reduced liabilities in 2020-21, Parliament was informed. In a written reply to a question in the Rajya Sabha, Minister of State for Communications Devusinh Chauhan submitted that the losses of BSNL narrowed to Rs. 7,441 crore in 2020-21 from Rs. 15,500 crore in 2019-20. MTNL reported a total loss of Rs. 2,554 crore for the last fiscal year compared with Rs. 3,811 crore in 2019-20, Mr. Chauhan added. “The government approved a revival plan for BSNL and MTNL on October 23, 2019, which is under implementation. BSNL and MTNL have turned Ebitda positive during 2020-21,” Mr. Chauhan said.  The government had offered a combined revival package of about Rs. 69,000 crore to BSNL and MTNL.  The data shared by Mr. Chauhan showed total liabilities of BSNL had come down to Rs. 81,156 crore in 2020-21 from Rs. 87,618 crore in 2019-20. MNTL’s total liabilities had fallen to Rs. 29,391 crore (Rs. 30,242 crore).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/bsnl-mtnl-losses-liabilities-shrank-in-fy21/article35756394.ece
06 August 2021||CHENNAI,||Chemplast to spend Rs. 620 crore on expansion||City-based Chemplast Sanmar Ltd. will spend Rs. 620 crore on development and expansion over a period of two to three years, according to a top official. “We hold a strong position in the South,” said chairman Vijay Sankar .  “Last year, we made a combined operating profit of Rs. 900 crore. Cash accrual at the company level is substantial. Capex will be met through internal accruals.” MD Ramkumar Shankar said there were two major projects. “The first is a brownfield project to increase the annual production capacity of specialty paste PVC resin by 50% to 1.01 lakh tonnes at an investment of Rs. 256 crore,” he said. “We will also invest Rs. 340 crore in custom manufacturing and Rs. 20 crore in debottlenecking.” The firm will raise Rs. 3,850 crore via an IPO and offer for sale to pare debt and boost growth. The price band is fixed at Rs. 530-541 a share. The issue opens on August 10.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/chemplast-to-spend-rs-620-crore-on-expansion/article35756383.ece
06 August 2021||CHENNAI,||SF Holdings Q1 profit surges 80% to Rs. 5.13 cr.||Sundaram Finance Holdings Ltd. (SF Holdings) reported first quarter net profit grew 80% to Rs. 5.13 crore while revenue rose 13% to Rs. 10.50 crore. SF Holdings primarily operates as a holding company owning a portfolio of businesses engaged in various aspects of automotive manufacturing. While performance of portfolio companies is improving, they are still below FY20 on account of the downturn in the automotive industry, SF Holdings said. “We remain optimistic on the recovery and growth of the automotive sector in the medium term and consequently, we expect a recovery in the future results,” director Harsha Viji said in a statement. T.T. Srinivasaraghavan, chairman, said: “The down-turn has given us an opportunity to further consolidate our long-term holdings in our portfolio. We have bought out foreign partners in Wheels India and Brakes India for Rs. 450 crore.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/sf-holdings-q1-profit-surges-80-to-rs-513-cr/article35756385.ece
06 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||SC to rule on Amazon-FRL spat today||The Supreme Court will deliver on Friday its judgment in a petition filed by e-commerce major Amazon, against the proposed Rs. 24,713-crore merger deal between Future Retail Ltd. (FRL) and Reliance Retail. A Bench of Justices Rohinton F. Nariman and B.R. Gavai reserved the case for judgment on July 29 after marathon virtual hearings for almost a week. One of the questions highlighted in the case concerns the validity and enforceability of a Singapore-based Emergency Arbitrator’s award, which restrained FRL from completing its Reliance Retail deal, under Indian laws.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/sc-to-rule-on-amazon-frl-spat-today/article35756387.ece
06 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Domestic flyer traffic rose 57% m-o-m in July’||Domestic passenger traffic grew almost 57% in July to 49 lakh passengers, compared with the previous month, according to ICRA. The number of flight departures also shot up to 47,200 in July, registering a month-on-month growth of 49%, said ICRA. The average daily departures in July stood at 1,500 compared with 1,100 in June as COVID-19 infections demonstrated a declining trend. However, the July departure figures were behind April figures of almost 2,000 departures. The average number of passengers per flight during July was 104 against an average of 98 passengers per flight in June, according to ICRA.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/domestic-flyer-traffic-rose-57-m-o-m-in-july/article35756388.ece
06 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||Australian envoy Abbott meets PM, FM||The Australian Prime Minister’s special envoy to India Tony Abbott called on Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday and discussed the need for the two sides to re-engage on the India-Australia Comprehensive Economic Cooperation Agreement (CECA). The former Australian PM, who is India this week to push economic ties and initiate discussions on CECA, also met Finance and Corporate Affairs Minister Nirmala Sitharaman. “Australia views India as a long-standing, valued and trusted partner,” Mr. Abbott was cited as having said at his meeting with Ms. Sitharaman, as per a finance ministry statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/australian-envoy-abbott-meets-pm-fm/article35756389.ece
06 August 2021||mumbai,||‘Krsnaa Diagnostics to expand base in rural markets’||Pune-based diagnostics firm Krsnaa Diagnostics Ltd. may utilise about Rs. 150 crore from the proceeds of its Rs. 1,213-crore initial public offering to expand rural presence, an analyst said. “About Rs. 150 crore will be deployed in capex in 4 or 5 PPP projects,” said Parvati Rai, head of research, KRChoksey Group. “The firm will will set up about 30 diagnostic centres mostly in rural areas.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/krsnaa-diagnostics-to-expand-base-in-rural-markets/article35756390.ece
06 August 2021||August 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Late charge helps Aditi stay joint second||Birdies on three of the last four holes saw Aditi Ashok retain the joint-second spot after two rounds of Olympic Games golf in Tokyo on Thursday. Aditi shot a bogey-free five-under 66 for an aggregate of 133, a tally matched by the Danish duo of Nanna Koerstz Madsen (64) and Emily Kristine Pedersen (63). America’s Nelly Korda, who shared the second spot with Aditi at the start of the day, fired a stunning Olympic course record of 62 to open a four-stroke lead at 129. Diksha Dagar, the second Indian in the fray, followed her first-round 76 with a 72 to share the 53rd spot at 148. Aditi’s consistent showing so far were reminders of her resolute performance in the first two rounds in the 2016 Olympics in Rio. Making her debut in the Games, Aditi had rounds of 68 to be tied eighth at the halfway stage. However, she faded away with rounds of 79 and 76 and eventually finished 41st. Storm threat Meanwhile, a potential Pacific storm that could bring torrential rain and wind to the area is threatening Saturday’s scheduled final round. This could reduce the competition to 54 holes. The officials intend to continue as planned and monitor the storm before making a final decision. Talking about the improved scores on Day Two, Aditi said, “This whole week there’s going to be so many girls making birdies, especially because the weather’s warm and the conditions are favourable. “I think, whatever holes I get to play, whether it’s 54 or 72, I’m not really going to sit on anything, I’m just going to try and be as aggressive and make more birdies.” Asked whether a podium-finish had crossed her mind, Aditi responded, “For sure. Everyone’s thinking about it and it’s definitely at the back of my mind. Once on the course, I’m not really thinking much about it. I’m just trying to hit the best shot I can hit.” Visibility in India Responding to the visibility of the event in India, Aditi said, “Hopefully people back home are watching it a lot more. A few of my friends are staying up to watch, which is cool. The Olympics are huge. “In a regular event people just wouldn’t follow it as much, even if it was a LPGA event or a Major. So, I think the buzz has been good so far.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/late-charge-helps-aditi-stay-joint-second/article35756675.ece
06 August 2021||Tokyo,||India clinches bronze, bridges a 41-year gap with its golden past||They fought like warriors and will return home as legends, having ended India’s 41-year wait for an Olympic hockey medal. On Thursday, India beat Germany 5-4 with a lionhearted performance to win the bronze. This is India’s 12th Olympics medal in men’s hockey, the most in Games history, but the first since the gold in Moscow 1980. The Germans made their intentions clear within 90 seconds of the start as a swift move led to a goal-line scramble and Timur Oruz slipped the ball in. The opening 10 minutes saw action mostly in the Indian circle. Goalkeeper P.R. Sreejesh produced two stunning saves with less than 20 seconds left in the first quarter, but the ball had struck a defender’s leg. The Germans reviewed and won a penalty corner despite the buzzer going off. They earned two more penalty corners and the timer for the break period had to be reset twice. India equalised in the second minute of the second quarter. Nilakanta Sharma found Simranjeet Singh, who beat the goalkeeper with a solid strike. In the 24th minute, Nilakanta, however, lost the ball and Germany cashed in for a 2-1 lead, Niklas Wellen converting a Christopher Ruhr pass. Off the very next minute, Oruz dispossessed Surender Kumar before squaring for Benedikt Furk to score Germany’s third goal. India then mounted a splendid comeback. Goalkeeper Alexander Stadler just managed to keep out a thumping Rupinder Pal Singh drag-flick in the 27th minute. But, Hardik Singh coolly put the deflection into the back of the net. India got penalty corner two minutes later and Harmanpreet Singh scored his sixth goal of the tournament to make it 3-3. Rupinder found the target in the 31st minute off a penalty stroke. The Indians went 5-3 ahead with perhaps their best field goal of the tournament. Gurjant Singh made a stirring run down the right and served a delectable assist for Simranjeet. Drama at the death Germany got a lease of life in the 48th minute when Lukas Windfeder got on the scoresheet. Sreejesh then denied Germany a penalty corner in the 54th minute. There was more drama as Germany forced another penalty corner with just 10 seconds left and the timer was off for nearly 10 seconds. Sreejesh made a last-gasp save and gave India the bronze medal. In the gold medal match, Belgium pipped Australia 3-2 in a shootout after the regulation period had ended 1-1. This is the first Olympic gold for the Belgian men’s hockey team. It had won a silver at Rio 2016 and a bronze at Antwerp 1920.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/india-clinches-bronze-bridges-a-41-year-gap-with-golden-past/article35756653.ece
06 August 2021||August 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Gritty Ravi Kumar Dahiya does India proud with a silver||Ravi Kumar Dahiya finished with the silver medal after losing 7-4 to World champion Zaur Uguev of Russia in the keenly-fought men’s 57kg freestyle final on Thursday. The 23-year-old Ravi became the second Indian wrestler, after Sushil Kumar, to get a silver medal in the Olympics. He had lost to Uguev in the semifinal of the World wrestling championships in Nur-Sultan, Kazakhstan, in 2019. Worlds silver medallist Deepak Punia went down fighting to San Marino’s Myles Amine 4-2 in an 86kg bronze medal match to end his campaign on a disappointing note. In the much-anticipated gold medal contest, Uguev took an early lead by pushing Ravi out of the circle twice. Ravi, a Worlds bronze medallist and a two-time Asian champion, caught up with the Russian through a fine takedown from the left. Uguev soon restored his lead to go into the second period with a 4-2 advantage. The Russian surprised Ravi with one of his fine moves to extend his lead to 5-2 before inflating it with another takedown. Ravi gave his best to break the solid defence of Uguev and reduce the margin to 7-4. The Indian wrestled his heart out in the closing seconds but could not stop Uguev from achieving the rare honour of being a World and Olympic champion. For a change, Ravi became emotional after losing the bout. On Wednesday, Ravi had beaten Pan American silver medallist Colombian Oscar Tigreros 13-2, Bulgarian Individual World Cup bronze medallist Georgi Vangelov 14-4 and double Worlds medallist Kazakh Nurislam Sanayev ‘by fall’ to reach the final of the Olympic Games. Lead lost After managing a 2-1 lead in the opening period of his bronze medal match, Deepak held on to his slender lead for most part of the second period. However, the perseverance of Amine, a European bronze medallist, paid off as he broke the Indian’s resistance to manage a takedown with less than 10 seconds to go. Deepak’s challenge was in vain and he left the wrestling hall in a state of shock.   THE RAVI KUMAR DAHIYA FILE   Age: 23  Residence: Nahri Village, Sonipat district, Haryana  Weight category: Freestyle 57kg  Achievements: Gold in 2020 and 2021 Asian championships in Delhi and Almaty respectively Silver in Tokyo Olympics in 2021 Bronze in World championships in Nur-Sultan in 2019; Silver in World under-23 championships in Bucharest in 2018. Second Indian wrestler to get an Olympic silver after Sushil Kumar Fifth Indian wrestler to secure an Olympic medal Has won the 20th individual medal for India in the Olympics since 1900  Compiled by Y.B. Sarangi||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/gritty-ravi-kumar-dahiya-does-india-proud-with-a-silver/article35756664.ece
06 August 2021||August 06 2021 00:00 IST,||The best is yet to come, says coach Reid||Taking pride in the Indian men’s team historic bronze medal winning feat on Thursday, chief coach Graham Reid underlined that the side had the ability to achieve greater glory. The Australian said the togetherness of the mentally resilient and physically fit unit held it in good stead. “Last 15 months (through the pandemic) was a unique experience. Our mental resilience would have increased. I would give 9.5 out of 10 for mental resilience,” said Reid during a virtual press conference. Reid said after the semifinal loss to Belgium it was important for the team to shift its focus to the bronze medal match against Germany. “The first hurdle was the mentality of not allowing you to feel sorry for yourself, put missing out on gold and silver behind and focus on the bronze medal match. The team did it together.” Reid spoke about a technique he followed before the match. “When we zoomed out, we pictured ourselves with a medal around our neck tonight. We zoomed back in to see what we needed to do to win. “It was a fantastic performance (against Germany) apart from the first seven-eight minutes when we were a little asleep. Playing from 3-1 down many teams would struggle mentally. But winning 5-4 was a great performance. “We have not seen the best of this team yet.” Reid praised forward Simranjeet Singh, who was not in the original squad of 16 but played a crucial role through the event and scored twice in India’s victory over Germany. “I asked him three goals and he gave me two,” Reid said. Like a true team man, Simranjeet gave credit to the whole team for his goals. “When I got chance I tried to give my best. Any of the 11 players can score. Mine was just the finishing job, the full back started the goals,” said Simranjeet. Drag-flicker Harmanpreet Singh spoke about the players’ mental toughness. “We made lot of sacrifices. Our focus was to remain mentally strong and it helped us… It is a proud and emotional moment. Everybody wanted to win. That’s why everybody was aggressive. We thought this is the last time. Let’s do our best instead of regretting later. “At the (Games) Village, everybody waited to congratulate us,” said Harmanpreet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/mental-resilience-the-key-says-reid/article35756650.ece
06 August 2021||Chennai,||India’s embrace of total hockey||Stumped as I am to pitch upon the appropriate epithet to describe my feelings towards the momentous victory of India over the formidable opponent Germany in the bronze-medal match at the Olympic Games in Tokyo, I am overwhelmed that, after 41 years of anxious waiting, the Indian hockey team will be decorating itself with a medal. The dedication and determination of these boys have drawn us out of those dark days where Indian hockey struggled to cope with the swift movements of European teams. The credit for this transformation should go to the Australian coach, Graham Reid, who has ensured that this team goes toe-to-toe with any opposition it meets, matching their pace, precision and panache and then outrunning and outmanoeuvring them in key positions of the pitch. Ideal illustration A 5-4 scoreline against four-time Olympic champion Germany — a European pioneer of the total game with a hefty mix of Deutsch brawn thrown in — is the ideal illustration of the progress made by India. Manpreet Singh and his men have defeated three European teams in Germany, Great Britain and Spain, playing such total hockey where their intensity and tempo have overawed their rivals. While moving up or dropping deep to neutralise attacks on their citadel, the Indians have moved in cohesion, invariably outnumbering their opponents. This win is Indian hockey’s revival story, it’s the story of India adapting to and mastering the modern style of the game. The players and support team have done their part and it’s the duty of the country to show this sport the love it deserves.  Hockey needs money, attention and nurseries. Nurseries in every corner, the revival of the traditional tournaments and the resurrection of the sport in lands it once dominated before ceding the space to cricket. August 5, 2021, will be etched in the history of Indian hockey and like any other fan of this sport in this nation, I am not able to keep my emotions in check. It is the right reward for all of us after all those years of heartbreak.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/this-win-is-indian-hockeys/article35756651.ece
06 August 2021||Nottingham,||‘Wherever I go, I believe in my skills’||India pacer Mohammed Shami, who wreaked havoc with his fiery spell on day one of the first Test against England here, said it doesn’t matter to him where he is playing as he backs his skills irrespective of the conditions. India dismissed England for 183 on day one of the match with Jasprit Bumrah claiming four and Shami scalping three wickets. “I don’t know why I wasn’t getting (wickets) in England (laughs). But it doesn’t matter if it’s England, Australia or wherever, I believe in my skill and back myself,” Shami said at the end of the day’s play. Executing plans “Even when I’m bowling in the nets, I try to assess the conditions and make plans accordingly and try to execute them while playing the match,” he added. “Test matches are all about patience. Forget what has happened in the past, we have to think about the present situation, we don’t have to think much. “ Test matches are very simple — the more you focus on the basics, the more you’ll have the chances to succeed. If you overthink, you will tend to leak runs,” said Shami.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/wherever-i-go-i-believe-in-my-skills/article35756678.ece
06 August 2021||Chennai,||Bowlers at their best for Royal Kings again||For the second match in succession, Nellai Royal Kings built on its disciplined bowling effort to chase down a modest total with ease, this time against Salem Spartans, on Thursday to seal its third win of the TNPL here at the M.A. Chidambaram Stadium. Chasing 121, like in its clash against Dindigul Dragons, skipper B. Aparajith set it up with a composed 38 before R. Sanjay Yadav delivered with an unbeaten 41 (26b, 3x4, 3x6) to help the Royal Kings win by eight wickets. With this loss — its fourth from six games — Spartans became the first team to be knocked out of the tournament. Positive start Aparajith started positively in the PowerPlay with a few boundaries before consolidating. He hit left-arm spinner Ganesh Moorthi for a six over long-off before slicing one to Vijay Shankar who held it nicely on the line in the same area. Sanjay Yadav, with some powerful hits down the ground, added 54 with Pradosh Ranjan Paul for an unbroken thrid-wicket stand. Earlier, electing to bat, Spartans struggled with the bat yet again as it managed only 120/8, trying to hit its way to a big score. Opener Akshay Srinivasan was stumped off left-arm spinner N.S. Harish with a brilliant piece of wicketkeeping from B. Indrajith, who started donning the gloves only from this tournament. Vijay Shankar started off with two boundaries off pacer Trilok Nag — a pull over mid-wicket and lofted drive over mid-off — to get going. Nellai's bowling was well served by pacer V. Athisayaraj Davidson and spinners Harish, Sanjay Yadav and Aparajth. Vijay found a few sixes before perishing. Aparajith was bold in his captaincy and impressive with his off-spin, bowling three of the last six overs for just 14 runs and getting two wickets.  The scores: Salem Spartans 120/8 in 20 overs (Vijay Shankar 41, S. Abishiek 25, N.S. Harish 2/12, B. Aparajith 2/23, V. Athisayaraj Davidson 2/24) lost to Nellai Royal Kings 121/2 in 18.3 overs (B. Aparajith 38, R. Sanjay Yadav 41 n.o.) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bowlers-at-their-best-for-royal-kings-again/article35756753.ece
06 August 2021||Nottingham,||Anderson double revives England before rain mars play||The wily old James Anderson once again got his ‘bunny’ Virat Kohli in a mesmerising spell that undid India’s solid opening stand to leave the visitors tottering at 125 for four against England on a rain-curtailed day two of the opening Test. The 39-year-old Anderson (13.4-7-15-2) swung it in England’s favour with successive precision deliveries that got Cheteshwar Pujara (4) and Virat Kohli (0) as India from 97 for no loss slumped to 112 for four in a space of less than six overs. Standing tall The in-from K.L. Rahul (57 batting off 151 balls) is still standing tall amid ruins alongside Rishabh Pant (7 batting) but the advantage that India got in the opening session was neutralised by Anderson’s spell and the pressure also led to an unfortunate run out of Ajinkya Rahane (5). Rahul’s classy Test match batting would surely be a relief for the Indian team management after the talented Karnataka batsman lost his place in the longest formats due to a prolonged bad patch. He could have also been Anderson’s third victim but was dropped in the slips, his only batting glitch on the day. The nine fours, mostly drives, were majestic and the control over his own mind while selecting the bad balls under overcast conditions was exemplary. Equals Kumble’s record But Anderson did take the cake on the day the pacer with the highest number of Test matches under his belt (163rd game) equalled Anil Kumble’s record of 619 scalps. He matched Kumble’s record after fooling the Indian captain once again in the corridor of uncertainty. It was a fuller delivery that Kohli played for the inswinger but it held its line to take a healthy edge into Jos Buttler’s gloves. Both Kohli and Anderson would have a sense of deja vu thinking about what happened in 2014. A ball before, the artist was at work as he got Pujara forward with one that was shaping into him but deviated away when he pressed forward for Buttler to take a low catch. The manner of dismissal is sure to increase the cobwebs in Pujara’s mind as this series is certainly going to have a bearing on his international future.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/anderson-double-revives-england-before-rain-mars-play/article35756671.ece
06 August 2021||Barcelona,||Barcelona announces Messi’s departure||Barcelona said on Thursday that Lionel Messi will not stay with the club after Spanish league financial regulations made it impossible for a deal to be reached between the club and the player. Barcelona said in a statement that a deal for a new contract had been reached but financial “obstacles” made it impossible for the player to remain with the club. “Despite club and player reaching an agreement and their clear intention to sign a new contract today, this cannot happen because of financial and structural obstacles,” the club said. It blamed “Spanish league regulations” for not allowing the club to sign a new contract with the player. His previous one had ended on June 30. “As a result of this situation, Messi shall not be staying on at FC Barcelona,” it said. “Both parties deeply regret that the wishes of the player and the club will ultimately not be fulfilled.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/barcelona-announces-messis-departure/article35756692.ece
06 August 2021||TOKYO,||Gines Lopez scales a new high||Spain’s Alberto Gines Lopez became the first Olympic sport climbing champion, winning the men’s combined event, on Thursday. The 18-year-old beat American Nathaniel Coleman into second place, with Austrian Jakob Schubert taking the bronze. Gines Lopez finished with 28 points, edging out Coleman after completing more holds than his title rival in the closing lead event. Gines Lopez took control by winning the speed competition and sealed gold despite finishing last of the seven finalists in the bouldering, with a fourth-place effort in the lead enough for gold.  It was an impressive performance from Gines Lopez, who is usually a bouldering and lead specialist and had only qualified in sixth position. The final field was cut to seven climbers when Frenchman Bassa Mawem pulled out injured after suffering an injury during qualifying. The women’s combined final takes place on Friday. There will be four gold medals, rather than two, on offer at the Paris 2024 Olympics, with the speed event becoming a separate discipline.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/alberto-gines-lopez-triumphs/article35756674.ece
06 August 2021||Tokyo,||Sanchez Jaime creates karate history||Spain’s Sandra Sanchez Jaime won the first-ever Olympic Games karate gold medal in Tokyo on Thursday, becoming her country’s oldest ever Olympian at 39 years and 323 days. She ensured her name would be in the sport’s history books by beating Japan’s Kiyou Shimizu in the women’s kata final. Sanchez Jaime, 39, took the historic title with a higher athletic score than the home favourite and two-time former world champion Shimizu after the two karatekas were all square on 19.60 on the technical score. “It is crazy. I am so emotional, I am feeling so many things together. I am happy, but I want to cry,” she said. “ Bronze medals went to Italian Viviana Bottaro and Mo Sheung Grace Lau from Hong Kong. Later on Thursday France’s Steven Da Costa beat Turkey’s Eray Samdan in the men’s-67kg kumite final. Da Costa, whose twin brother, older brother and father are all in the family karate ‘business’, was adding this to his 2018 World championship gold. In the last final of the night, Ivet Goranova of Bulgaria beat Ukraine’s Anzhelika Terliuga to claim women’s-55kg kumite gold.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sanchez-jaime-creates-karate-history/article35756682.ece
06 August 2021||Milan,||Valentino Rossi rides off into the sunset||Italian motorcycling icon Valentino Rossi called time on a career spanning 26 years on Thursday, with the seven-time MotoGP champion announcing he would retire at the end of 2021. The swashbuckling rider who called himself “The Doctor” dominated the first decade of the 21st century winning seven world titles in MotoGP’s elite category. His sheer love for racing saw him carry on until 42 and he departs with 115 victories including a record 89 in MotoGP, 235 podiums including 199 in MotoGP, also a record, and the longest career of any rider in the sport’s premier class. Son of a motorbike racer Rossi started in 125cc with Aprilia in 1996. He won the title the following season, then moved up to 250cc where he won a title with Aprilia in 1999. Rossi was runner-up in his first season in 2000 before taking the final world title raced in the 500cc format a year later with Honda. He added six more in the new MotoGP class in 2002, 2003, 2004, 2005, 2008 and 2009, the first with Honda, the rest with Yamaha. But he was eclipsed as Spaniard Marc Marquez, who won the world titles in 2013, 2014, 2016, 2017, 2018 and 2019. Rossi’s last race victory dates back to 2017 at the Dutch Grand Prix, with his last pole position in 2018 and most recent podium the following year. Last season he finished 15th in the standings, unprecedented for a rider who had not finished outside the top 10 at any level since his debut in 1996. Final chance The 2021 season was to have been his final chance to turn the tide. Demoted to Yamaha-SRT, the satellite team of the Japanese manufacturer, he had to regain his flare or bow out. After nine races, he is only 19th. Talkative, funny, charming but also relentless, in competition, “Vale” nevertheless developed long-running feuds with a few of his main rivals. “He’s a great guy but it is better to be in his camp,” said French rider Johann Zarco. At the start of his career, Rossi had strained relations with compatriot Max Biaggi, who he edged for the 2001 title. Later there was the rivalry with Spaniard Jorge Lorenzo, who was his teammate at Yamaha, and who Rossi held off to take his last title in 2010. Most of all, there was Marquez, 14 years his junior.  Rossi factfile Nickname: The Doctor Race number: 46 Date of birth: Feb. 16 1979 Place of birth: Urbino, Italy Seasons in GP racing: 26 World Championship titles: 9 (6 in MotoGP, 1 in 500cc, 1 in 250cc, 1 in 125cc) Grands Prix contested overall: 423 (115 wins out of 235 podiums)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/valentino-rossi-rides-off-into-the-sunset/article35756705.ece
06 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||Esha Singh tops women’s air pistol||Esha Singh topped the women’s air pistol with a total of 244.4 in the National shooting selection trials at the Dr. Karni Singh Range here on Thursday. The 16-year-old qualified in the fourth place with a score of 574, but proved too strong as she pushed Neha to second place by a 2.5 point margin. The 47-year-old Padma Devaram of Railways finished third in the final, ahead of Rhythm Sangwan, Shri Nivetha, Shweta Singh, Ruchita Vinerkar and Aadhya Tayal. Rhythm Sangwan topped in both the junior and youth events. Naveen topped in both the men’s and junior events, after shooting 580 in qualification. He pipped qualification topper Sarabjot Singh (584) by 0.2 point in the junior section, with a total of 244.9. Former world No.1 Jitu Rai qualified for the final with a score of 578, but eventually placed seventh. Shiva Narwal shot the best final to top the youth event with 249.3, as he beat Parmod by 5.9 points. His total was much superior to the men’s world record of 246.5, set in 2019.  The results: 10m air pistol: Men: 1. Naveen 242.6 (580); 2. Dharmendra Singh 240.2 (579); 3. Ravinder Singh 219.1 (577). Juniors: 1. Naveen 244.9 (580); 2. Sarabjot Singh 244.7 (584); 3. Vijayveer Sidhu 223.7 (581). Youth: 1. Shiva Narwal 249.3 (577); 2. Parmod 243.4 (574); 3. Varun Tomar 221.4 (577).   Women: 1. Esha Singh 244.4 (574); 2. Neha 241.9 (575); 3. D. Padma 219.3 (569).   Juniors: 1. Rhythm Sangwan 240.3 (578); 2. Devanshi Dhama 239.8 (564); 3. Esha Singh 215.2 (574).   Youth: 1. Rhythm Sangwan 240.9 (578); 2. Varidhi Goray 238.3 (563); 3. Devanshi Dhama 216.2 (564).   50m rifle 3-position: Junior men: 1. Sartaj Singh Twiana 446.8 (1147); 2. Sanskar Havelia 442.5 (1150); 3. Nitish Kumar 432.2 (1141).   Junior women: 1. Ashi Chouksey 454.0 (1151); 2. Ayushi Podder 443.5 (1169); 3. Shruti Parihar 433.7 (1141) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/esha-singh-tops-womens-air-pistol/article35756804.ece
06 August 2021||MUMBAI,||TTFI makes camps mandatory||The Table Tennis Federation of India (TTFI) has decided to make it mandatory for all the top paddlers to attend national training camps in future and bar personal support staff of individual paddlers at the national camps. “The TTFI Executive Committee felt the sanctity of the national camps should be maintained and the players should train together under national coaches going forward, so it will be compulsory for all the paddlers to attend national camps without their personal coaches or trainers or sparring partners,” said TTFI secretary Arun Banerjee. The decision is in the aftermath of the pre-Olympic training camp which saw only two of India’s four Tokyo-bound paddlers attending for its entire duration. While A. Sharath Kamal and Sutirtha Mukherjee trained along with other Indian paddlers in Sonepat ahead of leaving for Tokyo last month, Manika Batra attended the camp for three days in June along with her coach and trainer. Sathiyan’s choice G. Sathiyan, meanwhile, preferred to train under his personal coach S. Raman in Chennai, without travelling to Sonepat at all. According to Raman, also an Olympian, weighing everyone in the same scale cannot work for an individual sport like table tennis. “Mandatory attendance at national camps works while creating a developmental structure but it cannot work for professionals in individual sport. “For the top-ranked paddlers who are either playing overseas or are going through rigorous personal training programmes, it is unfair to make them attend national camps,” Raman told The Hindu on Thursday. “A short team-bonding activity ahead of a multi-disciplinary or a team championship is fine but a thumb-rule can never work in Indian table tennis.” From Chetan Baboor to Sharath, All the top paddlers have trained on their own and with more Indians excelling in the international arena, the same modus operandi should be persisted with.” Almost a dozen Indian paddlers are contracted with various clubs across Europe. Raman added that the uproar over personal coach travelling with paddlers — as it happened with Manika and her coach Sanmay Paranjape during the Olympic — is uncalled for. “Personal coaches accompanying players in individual sport is not a new thing. It is in vogue for many years in other racquet sports. “It only helps in bringing the best of each top-ranked player. For the rest, there could be a common coach.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ttfi-makes-camps-mandatory/article35756708.ece
06 August 2021||August 06 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Players’ fitness levels unbelievable’||Edwards Alloysius, India’s goalkeeper at the 1996 Atlanta Olympics, lauded the men’s team for its “fantastic display” at the Tokyo Olympics. “The team spirit the boys showed and their level of fitness were unbelievable. They matched the fittest teams in Tokyo,” Alloysius said. Exceptional “The overall performance was exceptionally good. The loss to Belgium was not unexpected given its allround superiority. But credit to the Indian team for holding the rivals at bay for almost three-quarters of the match,” he said. “It was a great comeback by the team after the humiliating loss to the Aussies in the league phase. It showed courage and conviction while battling it out for a medal,” said the former India captain. “Coach Graham Reid was brilliant and successfully moulded the team into a champion outfit. He has repaid the faith shown in him by Hockey India,” said Alloysius. He was particularly happy with the performance of P.R. Sreejesh, saying the custodian was under immense pressure as there was no goalkeeper of his calibre to replace him. “Though he struggled a bit when blocking ground-level goalbound shots, Sreejesh was outstanding when making aerial saves,” he said. “The biggest positive from this performance is that the Government departments as well as private players will show greater interest in recruiting hockey players. This has not been the case in the recent past,” said Alloysius. “The authorities concerned should make every effort to ensure that we can cash in on this great show. With India hosting the World Cup too, long-term plans are needed for the sport to take off again,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/players-fitness-levels-unbelievable/article35756645.ece
06 August 2021||August 06 2021 00:00 IST,||You have made us proud, boys!||This is a great, great victory! Our midfielders did a wonderful job, and the entire team was outstanding. It was a collective effort that contributed to the historic win. Goalkeeper P.R. Sreejesh did really well in the last few seconds during penalty corners. My mind went back to the 2016 Rio Olympics when India conceded a goal in the last few seconds against Germany (Sreejesh was in goal then too). This time, Sreejesh did a great job. The Indians’ fitness levels were very high. Their ball trapping and ball control was also quite impressive. The Germans generally play physical hockey and the Indians were up for the challenge. The fact that India scored three goals off counterattacks against a team strong in defence reflected its quality and confidence. India’s penalty-corner specialist Harmanpreet Singh was outstanding, the team had probably the best goalkeeper and also the best attack. Full credit to coach Graham Reid for shaping the players into a strong unit. The podium finish is important for the revival of Indian hockey. To inspire the younger generation, India’s Tokyo show should be promoted and all the players who made this possible should get due recognition. A promotional video of about 10-20 minutes, highlighting the best goals, the best saves, and the best moments will serve as motivation for those looking to take up hockey as a career.   (As told to K. Keerthivasan)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/you-have-made-us-proud-boys/article35756647.ece
06 August 2021||TOKYO,||Didn’t get what I came for: Dahiya||Ravi Kumar Dahiya could not hide his disappointment at not winning the gold. “I am happy but didn't get what I came for,” he said after losing to Zavur Uguev of the Russian Olympic Committee in the final. “We’ve been working for so long towards this (Olympics), and after I qualified, my target was the gold medal. I’ve got silver now, maybe I deserve only this now. Going forward I will work harder and win the gold,” he said. Aggressive weight cut Dahiya drastically limited his food intake and slept for two hours on Wednesday night. He worked out again on Thursday morning and just about managed to make the weight limit. The aggressive weight cut seemed to have taken a toll on him as he was feeling weary after the bout. Dahiya, however, did not give any excuses. Uguev a good wrestler “Uguev is a good wrestler and has been a World champion a few times. We studied and worked on the opponent, but fell short somewhere. “We will work on it again and try for gold next time,” he said. Incidentally, Dahiya had lost to Uguev at the World championships too.  We studied and worked on the opponent, but fell short somewhere. We will work on it again and try for gold next time||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/didnt-get-what-i-came-for-dahiya/article35756655.ece
06 August 2021||August 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Parchment shocks Holloway||Grant Holloway, the World champion in 110m hurdles, and the only man to go under 13s this year, had a healthy lead at the halfway stage in the final on Thursday but landed hard after the eighth barrier and lost his rhythm. Seizing the opportunity, Jamaica’s Hansle Parchment came through strongly to win in a season-best 13.04s and pull off one of the biggest shocks in athletics at Tokyo. Holloway’s silver came 13.09. “It’s unbelievable that I caught this guy (Holloway). I’m really grateful.” said Parchment. Glory for Gardiner World champion Steven Gardiner ran a smart race to take the 400m gold in 43.85s and become the first man from the Bahamas to win an individual Olympic gold. And in a repeat of the 2019 Doha Worlds, Colombia’s Anthony Zambrano was second in 44.08. American Ryan Crouser produced the greatest series in shot put history as he defended his title with a 23.30m best which was very close to his world record (23.37m). All his throws either equalled or bettered the Olympic record of 22.54m while his compatriot Joe Kovacs won silver (22.65m). Also breaking the Olympic record was Canadian Damian Warner who became the fourth man in history to break 9000 points in decathlon while triumphing with 9018 points. Frenchman Kevin Mayer, the World record holder, was second with 8726.  And Belgian Nafissatou Thiam, a two-time World champion, became the second woman in history to win back-to-back Olympic heptathlon titles — after Jackie Joyner-Kersee (1988 and 1992) — with 6791 points. Portugal’s Pedro Pablo Pichardo was in a world of his own in the triple jump. All his jumps easily beat the rest of the field and his gold came with 17.98m with China’s Yaming Zhu taking silver in 17.57. Shaky While Pichardo was very steady, American Kate Nageotte was very shaky. She missed the opening height of 4.50m twice but bounced back to win the pole vault title with a 4.90m, pushing World champion Anzhelika Sidorova to silver. Nothing was expected of the three Indians in the 20km race walk and while Sandeep Kumar — the National record holder with 1:20.16s — finished 23rd in 1:25.07, Rahul Rohilla (1:32.06) and K.T. Irfan (1:34.41) took the 47th and 51st spots. Stano’s day out Italy’s Massimo Stano staved off a strong challenge from Japanese favourites Koki Ikeda and Toshikazu Yamanishi to take the title in 1:21.05s in Sapporo. World champion USA, home to six of world’s 10 fastest men this year, finished sixth in its 4x100m relay heats and failed to qualify for the final. Jamaica was the fastest overall going into the final while China, surprisingly, was second.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/parchment-shocks-holloway/article35756660.ece
06 August 2021||KOLKATA,||‘Ravi Dahiya will not back out from any kind of bout’||For his life dedicated to wrestling, Ravi Kumar Dahiya has been rewarded well by destiny, feel two coaches who have contributed in shaping the career of the Olympic silver medallist during his formative years at the Chhatrasal Stadium in Delhi. Ramphal Mann and Virender Kumar, who have seen the gradual progress of Dahiya from being a wiry kid to a champion wrestler, were effusive in their praise of Ravi for adding another glorious chapter to the history of Indian wrestling. Talented & hardworking “Ravi came to the Chhatrasal Stadium in 2004-05 and till the time I retired in 2016, I hade always found him to be a talented and hardworking guy. He was an obedient student, who followed instructions and implemented them well. A no-nonsense person who was only worried about his wrestling and nothing else in life,” Mann said. “Today God has rewarded him for his dedication. He is a simple guy and must have acquired the best wishes of so many people to succeed in life.” Ravi, who comes from a humble background with his father doing farming on a rented field in Nahri village in Sonepat district of Haryana, impressed the coaches from his early days. “He was very determined to do something noteworthy. If someone is determined, no one can stop him. I always had the belief that he would do something special and today he showed it,” said Virender, who runs an academy in Delhi. Ready to fight “Ravi is not the one who backs out from any kind of bout. No matter how strong the opponent is, he gets ready to fight with him. He can fight the whole day. In case his opponent gathers a lot of points, he does not get hopeless. “He knows how to cover up the deficit. His determination to win is different from that of others.” Virender said Ravi was a keen learner. “If something is told to him, then he practises until he masters it. I am very happy for his success,” said Virender.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ravi-dahiya-will-not-back-out-from-any-kind-of-bout/article35756666.ece
06 August 2021||August 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Vinesh Phogat to return empty-handed||Top seed Vinesh Phogat’s dream of getting an Olympics medal remained unfulfilled in her second successive Games. Vinesh, who had exited the Rio Games in tears after picking up a knee injury during a bout, started brightly defeating Rio Olympic bronze medallist Sofia Mattsson 7-1 in the first round before losing to former World champion and current European champion Belarusian Vanesa Kaladzinskaya ‘by fall’ in the women’s 53kg quarterfinals on Thursday. Anxious wait The Indian, a World championships bronze medallist, spent a few anxious hours before learning about her exit from the bronze medal contention following Vanesa’s loss to Chinese Qianyu Pang in the semifinals. Had Vanesa made it to the final, Vinesh would have got into the repechage round to fight for a medal. The 26-year-old Indian, considered a strong medal contender, relied on counter-attacks to flip and take down Sofia for a 4-0 lead. She fetched another point off a push-out to register a 5-0 lead at the break. Vinesh gained two more points as she counter-attacked the legs of the Swedish for another takedown. She conceded only one point while heavily defending Sofia’s attacks. Vinesh met her match in Vanesa in the last eight. The Belarusian went ahead through a takedown in the first minute, but Vinesh equalised by flipping her opponent to make it 2-2. Vanesa moved swiftly sideways to go 4-2 up and enjoyed a 5-2 lead at the breather. Fighting back Vinesh fought back to effect a takedown. But Vanesa was awarded two points instead. The Indian won a challenge and the score was revised to 5-3 from 7-2. Vinesh tried to catch up but Vanesa extended her lead to 7-3 off another counter. With 35 seconds to go, the Indian gave her all but the Belarusian replied by pinning Vinesh on the mat and ending the bout at 9-3. Anshu Malik lost her first repechage round match to Rio Games silver medallist Valeria Koblova of Russia 5-1 to see the end of his Olympic campaign.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/vinesh-phogat-to-return-empty-handed/article35756668.ece
06 August 2021||TOKYO,||USA a match away from fourth straight gold||Kevin Durant and Team USA trounced Australia on Thursday in the men’s basketball semifinals and will play for their fourth consecutive Olympic gold medal when they take on France in the final. The Americans overcame an early deficit and ran away with the game for a 97-78 rout, while France needed a blocked shot in the final second to edge Slovenia 90-89. The Americans, champions at the previous three Games, got off to a rocky start, shooting poorly and racking up fouls that let Australia build a 15-point lead in the second quarter. The United States rallied in the second half, opening with 12 unanswered points. A barrage of three-pointers and dunks widened the gap to 19 points by the final buzzer. The Americans have historically been the team to beat, with 15 men’s basketball gold medals since 1936. But the team in Tokyo has proven to be vulnerable, dropping two-straight exhibition games in July and suffering its first Olympic defeat since 2004 against France earlier in the event. But it all came together in the semifinals, Durant leading the way with 23 points. Slovenia’s Luka Doncic of Dallas Mavericks had a triple double — 16 points, 18 assists and 10 rebounds — but came up short against France.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/usa-a-match-away-from-fourth-straight-gold/article35756676.ece
06 August 2021||Chennai,||Sreejesh’s save a lasting image, says Muneer Sait||The lasting image for Muneer Sait from the dramatic emotion-filled Olympic hockey bronze medal clash on Thursday was goalkeeper P.R. Sreejesh producing a spectacular save in the dying moments off a German penalty corner. Himself an accomplished goalkeeper in the 60s and 70s — he won a bronze in the 1968 Mexico Olympics — Sait said India’s jinx-breaking medal win in Tokyo would give a huge fillip to the game in the country. “If Sreejesh had not made that save I don’t know what would have happened. India played with great heart, skill and spirit after going 3-1 down. In Simranjeet Singh, we have a very promising centre-forward. He is sharp in front of the goal and doesn’t hesitate to shoot,” Sait said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sreejeshs-save-a-lasting-image-says-muneer-sait/article35756755.ece
06 August 2021||Warsaw,||Sprinter defected after family advice||A Belarusian Olympic sprinter who feared reprisals at home after criticising her coaches at the Tokyo Games said Thursday that her grandmother advised her not to return to Belarus but she urged her fellow citizens “not to be afraid.” Krystsina Tsimanouskaya left the Games and arrived in Poland on Wednesday, days after she accused team officials of trying to force her to fly back to Belarus, where an authoritarian government has relentlessly pursued its critics. She told reporters on Thursday that the officials told her to say she was injured and had to go home early, but she refused. Meanwhile, back home, her criticism on social media of how her team was being managed set off a massive backlash in state-run media. Her grandmother told her by phone there were reports on television that she was mentally ill and said it was best for her to not return. At a news conference in Warsaw on Thursday, Tsimanouskaya thanked people who supported her. She also had a message for her fellow Belarusians. “I want to tell all Belarusians not to be afraid and if they’re under pressure, speak out,” the runner said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sprinter-defected-after-family-advice/article35756683.ece
06 August 2021||Bengaluru,||PKL auction from August 29||The player auction for Season 8 of the Pro Kabaddi League (PKL) will be held in Mumbai from August 29 to 31, PKL organisers Mashal Sports announced on Thursday. The league, which was not held last year due to the COVID-19 pandemic, will commence in December this year. The player auction will see domestic, overseas, and New Young Players (NYPs) divided into four categories. Each category carries a base price - Category A (Rs. 30 lakh), Category B (Rs. 20 lakh), Category C (Rs. 10 lakh) and Category D (Rs. 6 Lakhs). Expanded player pool More than 500 players are expected to be part of the auction pool. The player pool has been expanded to include all squad players from PKL Season 6 and 7, as well as all players who have represented the top-8 ranked teams of the Amateur Kabaddi Federation of India senior men’s national kabaddi championship 2020 and 2021. Total salary purse The total salary purse applicable to each franchisee is Rs. 4.4 crore. Before the auction, PKL teams can retain up to six players in the Elite category and up to six players in the New Young Players category.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/pkl-auction-from-august-29/article35756703.ece
06 August 2021||Paris,||VAR for WC qualifiers||Video-assisted refereeing (VAR) will be used for the rest of the European qualifying matches for the 2022 World Cup, UEFA announced on Thursday. The first three rounds were played without VAR but that will change when competition resumes in September.  The governing body for European football said it would supply “specific vans” to carry out the reviews “on site at the stadium of the host association”. VAR is used in the five main European leagues (England, Spain, Germany, Italy and France) as well as the Champions League.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/var-for-wc-qualifiers/article35756980.ece
06 August 2021||August 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Let us build on this wonderful success||India winning an Olympic medal after 41 years is a very emotional moment. Despite working hard, none of our teams could even reach the semifinals since 1980. So, when this team made the last four, it was a great achievement. And today’s bronze makes it even more special. Having been part of the 1980 gold-winning team, today’s win has made me nostalgic. An Olympic medal is something that tells you that you have played against the best in the world. There is no scope for trial and error in a competition like the Olympics. This victory is a vindication of the methods adopted by the Indian team over the last few years. What also impressed me is that even after losing badly to Australia, the team did not crumble and came back strongly. Even though the semifinal defeat to Belgium did put us back a bit, this team showed incredible physical and mental toughness to bounce back. I also feel that this coaching team — led by Graham Reid — should be retained as it has done a wonderful job. This reminds me of Balkrishan Singh of the 1980 team. He was a very astute coach. Reid has been able to achieve similar success.  (As told to Shayan Acharya)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/lets-build-on-this-wonderful-success/article35756649.ece
06 August 2021||Thane,||Olympian ‘Babu’ Narayan passes away||Two-time Olympian Shankar Subramaniam, alias ‘Babu’ Nayaran passed away here on Thursday. Nayaran, who was India’s goalkeeper during the 1956 and 1960 Olympics, was 86. According to his family members, Narayan suffered a cardiac arrest minutes after being discharged from a hospital after a surgery. He is survived by daughters Lakshmi and Janaki and son Murali. Besides representing Maharashtra in football and basketball, Narayan emerged as one of the most reliable goalkeepers in India. His decade-long career for India also included the stellar effort of India finishing fourth in the 1956 Olympics and representing India in the 1964 Asian Games. Born in the Palakkad district in Kerala, Narayan was a star in Mumbai’s local circuit during his appearances for Matunga Students, Matunga Gymkhana, Caltex and Tata Sports Club. He was part of Maharashtra’s Santosh Trophy-winning campaign in 1964.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/olympian-babu-narayan-passes-away/article35756756.ece
06 August 2021||August 06 2021 00:00 IST,||As tidy as they come||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/as-tidy-as-they-come/article35756853.ece
06 August 2021||Nottingham,||Archer out for the rest of 2021||England fast bowler Jofra Archer will miss both the Twenty20 World Cup and the Ashes series in Australia after the England and Wales Cricket Board announced on Thursday he had been ruled out with an elbow injury. The ECB said in a statement that scans last week on his right elbow had revealed he had suffered a recurrence of a stress fracture. “In response to these findings, he has been ruled out for the rest of the year and will miss the current LV= Insurance Test series against India, the ICC Men’s T20 World Cup 2021 and the Ashes series in Australia,” the ECB statement added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/archer-out-for-the-rest-of-2021/article35756670.ece
06 August 2021||Karachi,||Kiwis to tour Pakistan after 18 years||New Zealand will tour Pakistan for the first time in 18 years to play three One-Day Internationals and five Twenty20 Internationals. Pakistan has hosted Zimbabwe, Sri Lanka, the West Indies and South Africa in recent years. The Pakistan Cricket Board (PCB) said New Zealand would tour “Pakistan for the first time since 2003” starting September 17, with all matches split between Lahore and Rawalpindi. A bomb blast outside the New Zealand team’s hotel in Karachi in 2002 cut short the Black Caps’ last Test tour of Pakistan, but they visited again for an ODI series the following year. Rawalpindi’s Pindi cricket stadium will host the ODIs between September 17 and 21, while Lahore’s Gaddafi Stadium will stage all five T20Is. The three ODIs are part of the ODI League, a qualification process for the men’s Cricket World Cup in 2023 to be held in India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/kiwis-to-tour-pakistan-after-18-years/article35756800.ece
06 August 2021||Montreal,||Bencic and Krejcikova join exodus from Montreal||Olympic champion Belinda Bencic and French Open winner Barbora Krejcikova on Wednesday withdrew from next week’s WTA Montreal tournament. Bencic and Krejcikova joined pullouts on Tuesday by Naomi Osaka, Sofia Kenin and Iga Swiatek.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bencic-and-krejcikova-join-exodus-from-montreal/article35756803.ece
06 August 2021||Washington,||Mixed day for Indians||Rohan Bopanna, seeded third in partnership with Ivan Dodig of Croatia, was beaten 7-5, 1-6, 11-9 by the wild card entrants Nick Kyrgios and Frances Tiafoe in the doubles pre-quarterfinals of the $2,046,340 ATP tennis tournament in Washington. In the WTA event in Concord, Ankita Raina in partnership with Mona Barthel of Germany made the doubles quarterfinals, beating Lizette Cabrera and Maddson Inglis 3-6, 6-4, 10-3.  The results:   $2,046,340 ATP, Washington, US: Doubles (pre-quarterfinals): Nick Kyrgios (Aus) & Frances Tiafoe (US) bt Ivan Dodig (Cro) & Rohan Bopanna 7-5, 1-6, [11-9].   €44,820 Challenger, Liberec, Czech Republic: Doubles (quarterfinals): Geoffrey Blancaneaux & Maxime Janvier (Fra) bt Sriram Balaji & Arjun Kadhe 7-5, 6-4.   $115,000 WTA, Concord, US: Doubles (pre-quarterfinals): Mona Barthel (Ger) & Ankita Raina bt Lizette Cabrera & Maddison Inglis (Aus) 3-6, 6-4, [10-3].   $25,000 ITF men, Decatur, US: Singles (first round): Gijs Brouwer (Ned) bt Sasikumar Mukund 7-5, 5-7, 6-3.   $15,000 ITF men, Monastir, Tunisia: Singles (pre-quarterfinals): Erik Crepaldi (Ita) bt Siddhant Banthia 6-3, 6-2.   First round: Daniil Glinka (Est) bt Adil Kalyanpur 7-6( 1), 2-0 (retired).   $25,000 ITF women, Parnu, Estonia: Singles (first round): Ekaterina Shalimova (Rus) bt Rutuja Bhosale 6-3, 6-2.   $15,000 ITF women, Cairo, Egypt: Singles (pre-quarterfinals): Meli Elizabeth Reasco Gonzalez (Ecu) bt Sathwika Sama 6-3, 6-2 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/mixed-day-for-indians/article35756706.ece
06 August 2021||August 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Jubilation all around||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/jubilation-all-around/article35756711.ece
06 August 2021||TOKYO,||Hongchan dazzles with perfect dives||Chinese teenager Quan Hongchan produced three perfect-10 dives in a dazzling display to win the Olympic women’s 10m platform gold medal on Thursday. The 14-year-old was awarded perfect scores from all seven judges for her second and fourth dives. For her fifth effort, she got six 10s and one 9.5, but that was still enough for a maximum mark of 96.00 points.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/hongchan-dazzles-with-perfect-dives/article35756662.ece
06 August 2021||TIRUCHI:,||Karthik stars in Zephyr’s win||B. Karthik claimed five for 13 as Zephyr’s defeated Jonians by 47 runs in the Tiruchi DCA first division league.  The scores:   Dinamalar TVR 158/9 in 41 overs (C. Sarath Kumar 65, A. Maria Francis 3/28) bt Supersonic 130 in 27.2 overs (D. Naveen 45, A. Maria Francis 27, J. Prakash 3/27, K.S. Bharath Rithvik 3/21).   Zephyr’s 131 in 43 overs (K. Basavaraja 26, M. Koushik Ram 3/25) bt Jonians 84 in 17.1 overs (B. Karthik 5/13).   Oxina 207 in 40 overs (P. Vimal Adithyan 26, P. Sundaraselvam 30, F. Arun Amal Jose 28 n.o., S. Immanuvel 52, Dinesh 3/44) bt JJ CET 170 in 36.4 overs (M. Johnson Akash 40, S. Pavithran 37, K. Jeya Karna 3/35, C. Arunan 3/40).    Arul took four for 38 as Popes registered a 10-run win over DCW in the Thoothukudi DCA first division league.  The scores:   I div.: Power 129 in 27.3 overs (S. Mohideen Abbas 3/23, T. Vinoth 3/27) lost to Classic 130/5 in 20.2 overs (A. Gangadharan 42, Anand 3/32).   Popes 152 in 32.4 overs (Antony Regin 54, Lakshmikanth 4/31, J. Raj 3/30) bt DCW 142 in 31 overs (Alagukarthicksankar 46, Arul 4/38, Devadoss 3/38).   II div.: KBSA 178 in 40 overs (Michaelraj 47, Senthilkumar 3/25, Sundar 3/28) bt Thirumurugan 119 in 29 overs (Michaelraj 3/28, Seelan 3/21).   IV div.: Sanshawn CA 105/5 in 25 overs (R. Shawn Daniel Edward 51) lost to KUSC 106/2 in 9.1 overs (Ajin 33).   Kala CA 161/6 in 25 overs (Arul 59, Mugesh 3/25) bt Nandhi 135/6 in 25 overs (Suresh 37, Potriselvan 36 n.o.).   Raj 157/8 in 25 overs (Abishek Jenson 60, Sajune 3/20, Akash 3/38) lost to TPT 161/5 in 17.2 overs (Vikash 66, Akash 38).   TRC-B 133/4 in 25 overs (Muthubarathkumar 58) lost to ASKR 134/7 in 19.1 overs (Karthikeyan 39, Manoj 32 n.o., Kannan 3/20).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/karthik-stars-in-zephyrs-win/article35756802.ece
06 August 2021||CHENNAI,||CFC ropes in two defenders||Chennaiyin FC has signed two defenders — Slavko Damjanovic of Montenegro and India’s Deepak Devrani — on a one-year deal each ahead of the 2021-22 season. The 28-year-old Indian will make a return to the country’s premier football league after playing a crucial role in Gokulam Kerala FC’s I-League winning campaign in 2020/21. With 151 club appearances in his nine-year-long career as professional footballer, Damjanovic, the left-footed centre-back will provide much-needed stability to the club’s backline.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/cfc-ropes-in-two-defenders/article35756751.ece
06 August 2021||August 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Women of the uprising||A few years after her heroic death, folk memory — in the form of songs and poems — waxed eloquent of Rani Lakshmibai’s valour in the battlefield. At the same time, stories of her alleged “intemperance” spread far and wide, with the British calling her sexually promiscuous, a liquor addict with a violent temper. In sharp contrast to this stands Begum Hazrat Mahal’s absence in public memory or recollection. These are two women who never met each other, but led similar lives, with a common goal: to overthrow British rule in India. While one has been hailed a nationalist icon, the other remains shadowed in forgotten accounts. Right from their eventual rise during a pivotal moment of India’s colonial history — the Revolt of 1857 — to their heroic yet poignant deaths, author Rudrangshu Mukherjee’s latest non-fiction work, A Begum & A Rani — Hazrat Mahal and Lakshmibai in 1857 , (published by Penguin), captures what makes them feminist icons. Mukherjee has been researching the 1857 uprising for nearly 45 years and this is his sixth book on the subject. His area of research was largely on Awadh and Kanpur, but this time, he decided to shift his focus to Jhansi. “I noticed the contrast — Lakshmibai was treated as a nationalist icon, whereas Hazrat Mahal, also a woman leader of the rebellion in Awadh, was relatively a forgotten figure,” speaks Mukherjee of the inception of the book. The seed has been in Mukherjee’s mind for at least five to six years. “It was when I became housebound, with all this archival work here with me, that I decided to give it a structure,” he recalls, adding that he started writing in February 2020. Through the narrative, he examines this anomaly and at the same time highlights the achievements of these two remarkable women, who fought tooth-and-nail not only against the British, but also the oppressive, patriarchal norms that plagued mid-19th Century India. Chronologically, their stories run parallel but the trajectories are different, says Mukherjee. The first contrast that struck him was that Lakshmibai was a late entrant in the uprising of 1857. “She didn’t turn a rebel till January or February of 1858. But Hazrat Mahal was a rebel since the uprising was taking place in Lucknow, end of May/early June 1857. The second contrast that is equally intriguing is that Lakshmibai died on the battlefield, fighting. Meanwhile, there is no sighting of Hazrat Mahal even though we know that she was sending directions as a general. Unlike Lakshmibai, she fled to Nepal where she died in penury and obscurity,” says Mukherjee. He asks questions on whether the manner in which both died has anything to do with their differing popularity. “The other suggestion I make is that one was an upper-caste queen, from a royal family whereas Hazrat Mahal was a slave’s daughter who caught the fancy of the king of Awadh. She becomes somebody only when her 12-year-old son is put on the throne by the rebels.” The different social standing, Mukherjee believes, had an impact on the way people saw these women. Largely pinned on years of archival research, the narrative of A Begum & A Rani takes on a different hue towards the end, as Mukherjee meditates on their afterlives by analysing public memory. “I see history as an exercise in retrieval of the aspects of the past. The more aspects we retrieve, the richer our understanding of history becomes,” he concludes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/women-of-the-uprising/article35757016.ece
06 August 2021||August 06 2021 00:00 IST,||The frog who saved a forest||In a corner of a sprawling cardamom plantation at Pothamedu in Munnar, a small but inspiring story unfolds. A critically endangered frog species, theRacophorus pseudomalabaricusor Anaimalai flying frog, is getting a new home. Naturalist, frog enthusiast and Kerala Tourism guide Hadlee Renjith, who leads herping tours in Munnar, constructed two ponds at Windermere Estate to restore the habitat for the Anaimalai flying frog. He struck upon the idea on one of his photography tours at the 60-acre property, when he caught a glimpse of the frog in a cement tank previously used for irrigation. Hadlee sought support from the Wildlife Trust of India (WTI), which took it up as its first rapid action project for amphibian conservation and offered to fund it. Fortunately, the plantation owners readily agreed, demarcating an area, which they pledged to leave undisturbed. “Trees and the undergrowth in a cardamom plantation offer the perfect environment for these frogs to hibernate,” says Hadlee. “Everything they need for survival — trees, rain and a water pool — are right here, so we can re-create a favourable ecosystem.” Endemic to the southern part of the Western Ghats, the numbers of these frogs have declined rapidly due to the loss of habitat. When the grasslands of Munnar were converted to tea plantations, some of the Shola forests became cardamom plantations. Munnar has an estimated 30,000 to 40,000 hectares under cardamom cultivation, and while trees are protected, undergrowth is usually cleared leading to the habitat loss of several frog and reptile species. Hadlee set to work with two friends, his wife and daughter, digging the earth for ponds. The bigger pond is about 10-feet-long, three-feet wide and 2.5-feet deep. They lined these with jute sacks and tarpaulin to hold water through the dry period. They then added pebbles and planted vegetation to create natural hiding spots for the frogs. “We created awareness among the plantation supervisors to refrain from clearing undergrowth just before harvesting cardamom,” adds Hadlee, who is working on a field guide on frogs in Munnar, for which 30 species have been identified. The project has helped dispel myths surrounding the frog. “There is a popular misconception that these frogs feed on the cardamom pods. They don’t feed on the pods; they feed on insects and other pests instead,” says Simon John, owner of the Windermere Estate, where naturalists take guests on herping tours. Hadlee is pleased that his first attempt at conservation has yielded results. “I spotted seven tadpoles in one of the ponds. And this means there could be more.”  Know your frog Also known as the False Malabar Gliding Frog, this species is usually larger than bush frogs: the female can grow up to three inches. Mating takes place usually between June and October, during the rainy season. The female creates foam nests on leaves, into which the eggs are laid and the male fertilises them. The outer layer of foam protects the eggs from bacteria, predators and weather changes. When the eggs hatch, the nest disintegrates and tadpoles drop into the water body below.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/the-frog-who-saved-a-forest/article35757017.ece
06 August 2021||August 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Come,||Total Gaming’s YouTube channel puts a 33-second countdown for Garena Free Fire (a battle royale multiplayer shooter game) live session. On the live chatbox, more than a hundred messages cascade within this half a minute. Channel owner Ajay (known as Ajjubhai in the gaming world), welcomes his fast-increasing audience, reads out the sponsor’s name and gets down to business. In the four-hour-25-minute livestream, he makes silly jokes, replies to a few messages, gives shout-outs for Super Chat (a feature wherein viewers pay to highlight their message in the chatbox) and sings, as his characters roam, shoot, jump and dive. The stream, within two days, gets two million views on YouTube. Ajjubhai is a superstar streamer. He started in October 2018, with just four people watching his videos. Today, Total Gaming channel has over 26 million subscribers and its videos have been watched over four billion times. Ajjubhai, who featured in YouTube’s list of top live streamers for 2020, also owns an eSports team. But this isn’t just about Ajjubhai. This is the story of Indian streamers like him who thrive in the global gaming industry, which generates US$159 billion a year in revenue (according to Newzoo, a gaming analytics company) — to put this in perspective, Qatar’s annual GDP in 2020 was US$146 billion. Going by YouTube’s numbers, there has never been a better time for a streamer than last year. As the COVID-19 pandemic forced people to stay indoors, crowds for game-streaming surged. Last year saw 100 billion watch time hours, over 40 million active gaming channels, and more than 80,000 YouTube Gaming creators hitting 1,00,000 subscribers. Show me the money The bulk of streamers’ revenue comes from three main sources: ads on YouTube, features such as Super Chats and Super Stickers, and sponsorship or brand deals. It is significantly more than what Hari Raman, a young doctor from Purushanur, a hamlet in Tamil Nadu’s Villupuram district, earns through his job at Villupuram Medical College. Hari’s YouTube channel, PVS Gaming, has close to two million subscribers. He started the channel in 2018 while pursuing his MBBS at a college in North India. “Because I couldn’t speak Hindi very well, I didn’t have a lot of friends at college. Streaming games in Tamil got me a lot of people to interact with online,” he says. His subscribers grew almost exponentially and the channel helped him meet his educational expenses, which, hitherto, was a challenge. Hari had to overcome odds to be a doctor. He recalls how his village would treat his humble roots with derision — “Why does a coolie’s son want to be a doctor?”, some would ask. He fulfilled his dream early this year, finishing MBBS. But gaming, he says, has given him a bigger identity. Hari can afford to give up his profession. But he won’t, because it is also his passion. Now, he dispenses medical advice during his streaming sessions. “There was a lot of hesitancy about taking the vaccine this year. I used to dispel the myths and misinformation,” he says. While YouTube still continues to be the most successful platform for game streaming in India, independent platforms such as Twitch, Rooter and Loco have seen ballooning audiences. These platforms serve as alternative sources of revenue for gamers, some of whom enter a contract with them for streaming. Imagine a pyramid with top, middle and bottom sections, each representing the three categories of gamers: star players with their own clout, up-and-coming gamers with significant following, and novices. Platforms such as Rooter, which has over 7.5 million active users of which 3.8 million come from their app, primarily target the bottom and middle parts that consist of a sizeable proportion of gamers. “YouTube is not going to support middle players because their algorithm throws them out of the system. These are gamers with potential to go big; we are giving equal opportunity irrespective of size,” says Piyush Kumar, CEO, Rooter. Selling their personality Live streaming sessions can go up to four or five hours. There are no time restrictions for streaming on Rooter, says Kumar. In fact, when Kumar got on a call with MetroPlus , a streaming had been on-going on for seven hours and still had over 1,200 followers. Rooter, especially, has been actively building its brand by signing contracts with star gamers like Gyan Gaming, who has 11 million subscribers on YouTube, and PVS Gaming, with the biggest subscriber base in South India. How do they hold their audience’s attention for so long? “It is, in a sense, a performance,” says Kaashvi Hiranandani, who owns YouTube channel Kaash Plays. She has the energy of a radio jockey in her streams. “In real life, I am a bit reserved. If a person I am close to offline watches my stream, they will be shocked,” she says, but reckons this change in personality is necessary: “People are investing two or three hours of their time in what I am doing. It is like a TV show for them. So, I try to be as entertaining as possible.” In a way, these streamers sell a personality — and, it needn’t always be theirs. Ajjubhai, for instance, does it without even revealing his face. “When a fellow YouTuber gamer revealed his face after a while, people turned up at his house, and college. Fans even called his parents. I get very uncomfortable with such attention,” he says. The regional connect Language seems to be an important determiner in gaining followers. Hari reckons audiences prefer regional languages over English. All the Indian streamers featured in YouTube’s list of top live streamers for 2020 speak Hindi in their videos. Kaashvi, who grew up in Singapore, used to stream in English initially. But, upon her audience’s request, she polished her Hindi, which significantly increased her subscribers. There are also streamers who use abusive language to draw followers, most of whom are adolescents. Scrutiny on such streamers increased in Tamil Nadu after the recent arrest of Madan Kumar Manikkam (known as Madan OP), after complaints about him hosting obscene conversations with minors and women. This incident, Hari says, got a bad rap for streamers in Tamil Nadu. “Even my parents asked me to reconsider gaming,” he adds, “But streamers like this are in the minority.” However, abuse cannot be prevented, especially when it comes from the audience. Kaashvi, as a female streamer, understands this better, explaining, “If I get 100 good comments, there will be 10 bad ones. And, some of them get really nasty. People know how to pick on one’s insecurities. I am fairly new to streaming, so it does bring me down.” Despite the challenges, she continues to stream because it is as lucrative as it is fun. Kaashvi works in finance, drawing “a mid-seven-figure salary” a year. But, she once made as much money in a month through streaming. She concludes, “It’s probably a dream job.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/come/article35757015.ece
06 August 2021||August 06 2021 00:00 IST,||It’s raining; it’s pouring||Have you ever wondered how much rain falls during a drizzle or a thunderstorm? Or during the rainy season or even the whole year? Let’s look at why it is important to measure rainfall. For societies like ours that are entirely dependent on rainfall for agriculture, drinking water and other needs, keeping a record obviously helps. In the past, for example, the amount of rainfall helped kings decide on how to tax the farmers! Good rains, high taxes; bad rains … well, if the king was kind, then low taxes! It is believed that people have kept records of rain since the time of the ancient Greeks and that the first measurements were made with the help of a rain gauge. In India, this instrument was made in the fourth century BCE. While there are many mentions of rain gauges in history, the first standardised rain gauge is dated to around 600 years ago and credited to a Korean king. How it works Anyone can make a standard rain gauge. All you need is a cylindrical tin/steel box. The cylinder should have millimetres marked on the side and a funnel of an equal diameter on top. The rain is collected in the cylinder via the funnel and the water level is measured using the scale. While quite effective and simple, this gauge has some accuracy issues. To tackle this, the funnel rain gauge was developed. It consists of a funnel-shaped collector and a measuring tube. The area of the collector is 10 times that of the tube; so the reading is magnified by a factor of 10. This measuring tube is suitably marked to accommodate this magnification. Measurement in both these types is done manually and the protocol is to measure at 8.30 a.m. daily. Many different types of rain gauges have been developed over time. Automatic rain gauge systems were originally developed to collect rainfall data at remote locations, where logistics prevented regular visits. These are now widely used for their accuracy and also because they can give live readings that are very useful in the era of climate change. But this doesn’t mean that the simplest standard and funnel rain gauges are outdated. They are still actively used across the world, including by students to measure rainfall and contribute to an overall understanding of rainfall patterns.  In the past, the amount of rainfall helped kings decide on how to tax the farmers!||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/its-raining-its-pouring/article35757279.ece
06 August 2021||August 06 2021 00:00 IST,||A legless thief?||The story so far: Seven chickens from Samesh’s house have disappeared and, from the trail left behind, it appears the thief has no legs. Binita offers to help find it.  That evening, Binita returned huffing and puffing with a large cage. “Here!” she dumped the cage before Samesh. “Now look carefully as I explain how to use it.” Samesh listened, as Binita gave him instructions. He placed a chicken in one compartment, then shut its latch. He opened the latch to the adjacent compartment, and set it facing the pond. “Now, as soon as the thief emerges, it will see the chicken and walk...ugh ...crawl into the empty compartment to get it. That’s when the latch will fall, and ta da!” Binita clapped excitedly. “The thief will be locked inside.” They hid behind the mahua tree, and waited. But as the sun set, Binita had to go home to do her homework. Tired and bored of waiting alone, Samesh too retreated indoors. After dinner, Samesh took one last peep at the cage, but it was empty. When he woke up next morning the case was still empty. Placing a bowl of water and some grain for the chicken, Samesh went off to school. Three days passed. There was no sign of the thief. But, on the fourth morning, Samesh woke up to Papa’s shriek. He rushed outside to find Papa and Dadaji, standing near the cage, mouths wide open. No trace “Well done, Samesh!” applauded Dadaji. Stuffed inside the cage was a yellow and brown snake. Its body was plumper than Samesh’s thigh. Even though it was coiled up, it looked so long that, if wrapped like a bandage, it would cover Samesh from head to foot. “What is this?” gasped Samesh. “A python!” replied Papa. “Now I see why there was no trace of my chickens, not even a feather. Pythons swallow their prey whole, leaving no trace behind.” “And I know why the thief was lying low for the last three days!” exclaimed Samesh. “Pythons take three to five days to digest their food.” He remembered reading about pythons in his science book. All through the day, people from the village dropped by Samesh’s house to get a glimpse of the massive reptile and to suggest further action. But Papa knew what was best for both snake and chickens. He informed the forest department, who rescued the snake and took it to safety.  The End.   Samesh rushed outside to find Papa and Dadaji, standing near the cage, mouths wide open.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/a-legless-thief/article35757301.ece
06 August 2021||August 06 2021 00:00 IST,||When the world will be as one||On August 6, 1945, American bomber Enola Gay dropped an atomic bomb on the Japanese city of Hiroshima. The bomb, known as Little Boy, was equivalent to the power of 15,000 tons of TNT and it reduced four square miles of the city to ruins killing almost 80,000 people and injuring 35,000. Of the approximately 90,000 buildings in the city, only 20,000 remained standing. Yet another 60,000 people would be dead from the effects of the bomb before the year was over. The city was abandoned immediately. This was the first time atomic weapons had been used in war time. Three days later, on August 9, a second bomb was dropped on Nagasaki, once again killing and injuring many thousands of people. The effects of the bombs were felt by generations of people. They suffered different kinds of diseases because of the radiation. Remembering the past Let’s take a look at how the war escalated to such a horrific climax. The U.S. had been working on developing an atomic weapon since 1940. They had information that Nazi Germany was also researching nuclear weapons. But, by the time the U.S. conducted its first test in a desert in New Mexico in July 1945, Germany had already been defeated. But, the war against Japan in the Pacific continued. President Harry S. Truman was advised against invading Japan, as it would only result in American casualties. So, Truman ordered the use of this new weapon to bring an end to the war. On August 15, Emperor Hirohito announced Japan’s unconditional surrender over radio. Symbol of peace On Hiroshima Day, people visit the Peace Park in Hiroshima to pray, sing and offer paper cranes — a symbol of peace. The Peace Bell sounds at the exact moment the bomb exploded. People stand and observe a moment of silence remembering the millions who lost their lives in that one monstrous action. At the Peace Pagoda at Willen Lake, an annual floating lantern ceremony is also held to commemorate the event. The first ceremony was held in 1947 by the then Hiroshima Mayor Shinzo Hamai. Last year marked 75 years since the bomb and Antonio Guterres, Secretary-General of the United Nations, said, “May the suffering, stories and resilience of survivors unite us in action to free the world of nuclear weapons.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/when-the-world-will-be-as-one/article35757306.ece
06 August 2021||August 06 2021 00:00 IST,||The Castle in the House The secret is out||Story so far: Someone has been destroying the castle Samit and Shalu have built. Samit is convinced it’s a ghost!  “Shalu!” someone said. “Wake up!” Shalu grumbled, as she sat up. Then she remembered that she was in the playroom with Samit. “The ghost!” she gasped. “No sign of it,” Samit yawned. “You go to bed... I am going to wait a little longer,” he said. Shalu fell into her bed and was instantly asleep. She woke to find her room full of a thin grey light. She remembered the ghosts and leapt out of bed. The castle was a dark smudge in the grey light of the playroom and silence filled the house. Samit must have gone to bed. That made things easy for her, Shalu thought, as she went into the playroom. Her work was quickly done and, she was walking out, when she saw Samit coming out of the kitchen with a handful of biscuits. He walked quickly towards her, eager to tell her something. Then he peeped into the playroom and the smile died. Broken again There lay their castle, in ruins again. “Shalu!” he gasped. “Our castle!” “I did it!” Shalu said. “I broke the castle!” “So, it wasn’t the cat or Nitin or...” Samit seemed to have trouble speaking. “No,” Shalu said. “It was always me!” “But...” Samit began. “You want to know why, don’t you?” Shalu asked. “Because as soon as we finished the castle you would go back to your phone and never have the time to play! So, I broke it. That way you would continue working with me to build it!” In the silence that fell, they heard the soft sounds of the world coming awake. Soon Amma and Papa would be down. Would Samit tell them that it was Shalu who had broken the castle? **** By Shalu’s next birthday, the castle had long been completed. Shalu loved it and often played with it. Sometimes Samit joined her too. They waged battles and kept scores of their victories and losses. A special gift Then it was Shalu’s birthday, and her parents gave her a gift-wrapped box. She carefully pulled away the wrapping paper and, “A phone!” she screamed. “A phone of my own!” Shalu loved her phone and played with it all the time. Amma often scolded her, and Papa threatened to hide it. But strangely, it was Samit who could get her to listen instantly. All he had to say was, “Ghosts!” for Shalu to put the phone away. “Must be some secret,” Amma guessed. But they never knew and asking the children was of no use. They would only giggle. Their parents didn’t mind. After all, it was yet another proof of how close the two were.  The end   Her work was quickly done and, she was walking out, when she saw Samit...||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/the-castle-in-the-house-the-secret-is-out/article35757270.ece
06 August 2021||August 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Mission accomplished||Having passed Mission Tokyo with flying colours, Mirabai Chanu began a new one: Mission Pizza. This would be the tastiest pizza of her life; one garnished with the glee of having achieved her life’s dream of winning an Olympic medal. The 26-year-old weightlifter became India’s second woman silver medallist at the Games. And there was only one way she wanted to celebrate it: with a big cheesy pizza. An eye on the counter She’d in fact been building her appetite by keeping a keen eye on the pizza counter at the Games Village in Tokyo. “Among all the varieties of junk food, I like pizza the most. And I noticed since we got here that they have been serving pizzas at the Games Village. I’ve been eyeing the pizzas all along and I can finally eat one now!” she said after her silver-medal triumph. Her yearning for a pizza soon became the talk of the town and Domino’s India joined the party by throwing a little pizza party with her family back in Imphal. Tough call The 49kg category is a tough one because the lifters have to eat clean and stay within a permissible weight limit throughout the year. The Manipuri weighed 51kg and had to come down to 49kg by reducing her carbohydrate and fat intake in two days before her event. It’s common practice for lifters to lose weight before an event, but that does not mean it's easy. This pizza topped with cherry tomatoes, basil and cheese — and the many more to come — will surely make up for all those weight cuts she’s had to undergo and all the cravings she’s had to ignore.  I’ve been eyeing the pizzas all along and I can finally eat one now||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/mission-accomplished/article35757315.ece
06 August 2021||August 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Talking numbers||Across  1. Twice four (5) 4. Angle less than 90 degrees (5) 7. The smallest two digit prime number (6) 8. The study and analysis of data (10) 10. If you add, you end up with ____ (4) 13. The result of a division (8) 15. Short for “number” (2) 16. Ruler (5) 17. Largest single digit number (4)  Down  1. A number divisible by 2 (4) 2. “>” is the sign for “____ than” (7) 3. One fifth of hundred (6) 5. Enumerate (5) 6. Three times (6) 9. Half of thirty two (7) 10. Negative numbers are preceded by this symbol (5) 11. Same (5) 12. One more than six (5) 14. Five is ___% of fifty (3)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/talking-numbers/article35757282.ece
06 August 2021||August 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Let the world know how curious you are||How come ants can walk upside down?  Ants havetiny hooked claws at the ends of their feet, which help them walk up and down on walls and on the undersides of leaves. Much like a human rock climber uses a hook, ants use their claws to cling to jagged features of the surface. Even a surface that might look smooth to us might be rough and jagged to ants. This helps them to hold on to the surface with their tiny claws. However, ants have a tough time walking on a truly smooth surface like glass for example.  When wesneeze what happens if we don't close our eyes? Will our eyes pop out?  Your eyesautomatically close when you sneeze as a result of your body's involuntary reflexes. That means your brain sends a signal to your eye muscles to close your eyes before a sneeze without you even thinking about it. Some believe this reflex developed to prevent what is being sneezed out from getting into the eyes. Others believe it’s simply a reflex with no particular purpose whatsoever! There’s a lot of pressure behind a sneeze but, even so, your eyeballs will be safe if you manage to keep your eyes open. The muscles that control your eyeballs keep them firmly in place at all times.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/let-the-world-know-how-curious-you-are/article35757265.ece
06 August 2021||August 06 2021 00:00 IST,||GARFIELD||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/garfield/article35757255.ece
06 August 2021||August 06 2021 00:00 IST,||SUDOKU||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/sudoku/article35757296.ece
06 August 2021||August 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Nurturing the Kathakali body||One of the major factors that sets Kathakali apart from other classical dance and theatre forms of India is the longevity of the artistic life of its performers. Kathakali artistes, who perform physically demanding roles at the age of 70 or 80 quite casually, credit their strength to the rigorous physical training they undergo as students, particularly, the traditional oil massage or uzhichil they are given in the kalari. The tough training regimen, adapted from Kerala’s martial art form, Kalaripayattu, is meant to achieve meyyurappu , a catch-all phrase that means flexibility, balance, control and strength. The idea is to prepare the body to suit Kathakali’s movements. Yet another factor peculiar to Kathakali is the heavy costume weighing up to 12 kg, with the kireedam or the crown alone weighing between 2.5 kg to 3.5 kg, depending on the character. And then there are the 64 tight knots, from calf to forehead, that secure the various accessories. Kalari routine The strict Kalari routine starts early in the morning, around 3 a.m., when ghee is poured into the eyes and oil smeared all over the body before a student sits cross-legged on the floor for eye exercises and then does jumping and bending exercises. The session ends with the student lying on a mat with the guru or asan holding an overhead bar and massaging the entire body, except the face, with his feet. Kathakali artistes, both young and veteran, vouch for the efficacy of the massage, despite it being a painful experience and sometimes even leading to the odd injury. The expertise in massage is handed down from guru to sishya, but Ayurveda physicians call this method unscientific. Kalamandalam Balasubramanian, a 66-year-old Kathakali artiste, says the massage helps loosen the muscles and improve flexibility, but he believes the massage practised today is too severe. There is certainly a case for cutting down some exercises and toning down the massage, he says. T.S. Madhavankutty, an Ayurvedic doctor and Kathakali scholar, agrees. He says oil massage is a genuine treatment in Ayurveda, which improves subcutaneous circulation, makes the skin glow, firms up the organs, and leads to greater joint flexibility. This can be applied in Kathakali training to help maintain energy levels and improve suppleness. But the Kathakali massage has no scientific basis, says Dr. Madhavankutty. “It is not done by professionals, who have studied anatomy. It should be done with extreme care with right amount of pressure. Moreover, I don’t think such rigorous and painful massage is necessary at all for Kathakali,” he says. “After all, many yesteryear gurus and even the present ones do not have regular massages after their training period and still manage to perform well.” The massage regimen Balasubramanian, who at 66 is a popular choice for the lead role in action-packed stories such as ‘Ravanolbhavam’ or ‘Narakasuravadham’, which demand very energetic dance movements and long presence on stage without a break, says the massage regimen has become less intense over the years. For example, during his student days when the guru massaged the lower back with his feet, the knees would be raised by two small pillows called terika. Nowadays, only one pillow is used. Pointing out that there have always been different styles of massage, he recalls how the late Kathakali actor Vellinezhi Nanu Nair used only one foot to massage, thus ensuring that his whole body weight didn’t fall on the student. He was following the practice of his father Koppan Nair, Kathakali artiste and masseur. But Kalamandalam Sibi Chakravarthy, a 29-year-old Kathakali artiste, firmly believes in the benefits of the uzhichil . “If you are going to be a professional Kathakali artiste, you need a natasareeram (body suitable for Kathakali), and the uzhichil regimen being practised today is a must.” Sibi says the dance form makes demands on the body even when standing still on stage — the feet must rest on the outer rim and should not be placed flat, the artiste must bend slightly from the lower back, chin must be pressed down to the chest etc. “Traditional massage in the kalari for four months during the monsoon for six to eight years equips a performer to do all this. I know Ayurveda specialists do not approve of this method, but all I can say is that it has stood the test of time. Watch our senior asans performing on stage and that is proof enough.” Maybe it is time to initiate a detailed study in this area. As Dr. Madhavankutty says, the current practice needs to be modified by looking into the pros and cons of Kathakali’s massage regimen.  The author, a retired journalist, writes on Kerala’s performing arts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/nurturing-the-kathakali-body/article35756622.ece
06 August 2021||August 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Blending humour and Hamsadhwani||The love affair with music started four decades ago in a small village in Ramanathapuram district, where he grew up listening to songs on All India Radio and Ceylon Radio. “Though my father didn’t understand the nuances in the songs, he would say, ‘See how Seergazhi Govindarajan’s voice stirs the soul’,” says Alexander Babu, recalling even the shape of the radio petti at his house. Every time there was a festival  in the village, classical and film songs would rent the air. A young Alexander would soak it in, delighted. It’s the musical ambience he grew up in that the popular stand-up comedian has always drawn inspiration from, including for his latest initiative, ‘Veetu Videos’, which seeks to re-introduce audiences to the classics of the 70s and 80s. The first episode of this YouTube series had Alex interpreting Ilaiyaraja’s 1979 song, ‘Mayile Mayile’ ( Kadavul Amaitha Medai ) in his distinct comic style. The song was followed by a video titled ‘Mamas, Mayile and Malargale’. The series blends his twin passions, music and comedy, which was evident also in his superhit , ‘Alex in Wonderland’ stand-up performances (now available on Amazon Prime). “My idea of stand-up comedy is to perform something close to my heart in a funny way; it’s something I want my children to watch. The applause I get when I am on stage is because the presentation has been polished over shows. In ‘Veetu Videos’, such audience interaction isn’t possible. Not addressing a big audience blocks a lot of punches,” he says. But he has still managed to land a few. Every ‘Veetu Video’ takes about three weeks of ideation, execution and shooting for a 30-minute presentation. “I choose a song, talk about it and the people who created it. The song’s popularity doesn’t matter; what’s important is that it should be close to my heart,” says Alex. Exploring the details In the accompanying video for the Ilaiyaraja song, ‘Mayile’, he spoke about the song structure, its visualisation, and the singers’ contribution (SPB and Jency); ‘Mamas...’ explored Hamsadhwani, the raga on which the song is based. Alex honed his musical sensibilities when he was studying at Guindy Engineering College, where he made friends with a lot of musicians and began jamming with them. In the process, he realised he had a long way to go. “Back in the village, I used to win music competitions but in Chennai things were different. One of the earliest songs I heard and couldn’t replicate was M.S. Subbulakshmi’s ‘Kurai Ondrum Illai’. I couldn’t understand why.” Another musician-friend played a classical-based number from the film Mahanadhi and Alex could not sing that either. He then realised how he had missed exploring the world of classical music. “I used to play the tabla then, but still couldn’t play the interlude in ‘Poove Sempoove’. It was then that I decided to learn classical music.” When he went to the U.S. to do his Masters, he took his tabla along. “When you are abroad, you start longing for your roots. In the U.S., I went to a Hindustani music concert without knowing anything about the genre. Watching a tabla player in action re-ignited the musical fire in him, and Alex enrolled in tabla exponent Swapan Chaudhari’s class. “It was a 70 km one way drive, but I really wanted to learn.” Around the same time he met young Carnatic vocalist Raghavan Manian and was impressed by his rendition of ‘Athisaya Raagam’ ( Apoorva Raagangal ). “I thought if there is so much depth in the rhythm, there must be so much more to its melody,” recalls Alex, who subsequently trained for five years under eminent Carnatic vocalist and guru Suguna Purushothaman. During the lockdown last year, he also learnt Hindustani music from Monali Sanyal Balasubramaniam. It helped him put together an episode that focusses on Ustad Zakir Hussain. Alex is of the opinion that everyone should undergo some sort of musical training, vocal or instrumental, irrespective of whether they take it up professionally or not.“When you hear a song, you immediately get transported to that emotion, as opposed to any other art form. The process of learning music will keep your brain active,” says the 45-year-old, who is also a yoga instructor.   Alex’s playlist   ‘Bhajare Manasa’   ‘Enna Thavam Seidhanai’   ‘Chinnanjiru Kiliye Kannamma’   ‘Thunbam Nergayil’   ‘Adum Chidambaramo’||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/blending-humour-and-hamsadhwani/article35756608.ece
06 August 2021||August 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Ragas for the asking||A smiling young man opens the door to a beautiful home and sings 10-12 second snippets of 73 Indian classical ragas in quick succession, effortlessly and instantaneously when prompted, while casually walking around the house. The camera follows him, shooting without any cuts, for the entire 14 minutes. Abby V’s 73 Ragas video received millions of views online after it was posted in January last year. We might have heard of Abby V then, but he has been singing, composing and recording music for years now. He has won several prizes at the Cleveland Thyagaraja Aradhana and from Mumbai’s Shanmukhananda Sabha in multiple categories, including Best Senior Vocalist. He sings pop, R&B, Hip-Hop, Hindi and Tamil film songs, ghazals and qawwali with equal ease. In 2019, he released a solo album, First of All , featuring eight original songs in English, Hindi and Tamil. “I am all things pop and intrigued by everything consumed by the masses. I continue to follow these genres and am a fan of Chris Brown, Usher, Justin Timberlake.” Abby is a huge admirer of A.R. Rahman. “Successful combining of Indian classical aspects with Western concepts like chords and polyphonic arrangements results in magicians like him,” he says. Born in India, Abby Venkatachalam grew up in Toronto, Canada, where he continues to live. “I was like any other diaspora kid, except that I spent a significant time singing after school,” he says. His father, Venky Venkatachalam, sang Indian film songs as a hobby and performed in diaspora functions. “He exposed me to the music of Laxmikant Pyarelal, R.D. Burman, Ilaiyaraja, M.S. Viswanathan, etc.” Abby would sing pop and R&B and do karaoke with his father on Indian film jingles. He also sang with him on stage, his first official performance being on his seventh birthday. “When a child that age sings, people are loving and accepting. That made me view the stage in a very positive manner.” Formal training His formal training in Indian classical music began at age 12 with local Carnatic and Hindustani classes which, he confesses, he found boring and hardly assimilated. It was movie songs based on classical music that later sparked his interest in the classical genre. The fluency in the fast taans (akaaram) in ‘Kuhu kuhu’ (from the Hindi movie Suvarna Sundari ) and ‘Pattum Naane’ (from the Tamil movie Thiruvilaiyadal ) really spoke to him, leaving him fascinated. At around the same time, he witnessed a televised concert of Carnatic vocalists Ranjani and Gayatri on Jaya TV and “was mesmerised.” He reheard each piece of their concert, beginning with the abhang (“the concluding pieces are easier for the masses to appreciate”), trying to comprehend what was happening musically. He requested the sisters to take him on as a student and they agreed. These were augmented with classes from vocalist Raji Gopalakrishnan, who visited Toronto every summer. “She made me really comfortable with manodharma. Unlike some others who might say ‘you are not ready yet’ or ‘learn something else first’, Raji Gopalakrishnan let me try and encouraged my attempts.” Abby realised he had an inherent comfort with the concept of ragas — Hindustani and Carnatic. His father had tested him from a young age. “He would sing the strain of a raga and ask me what song I knew in it and the reverse too.” Venkatachalam would also point out intricacies — the addition of the antara gandharam in the concluding stanza of ‘Mere naina sawan badhon’ (from Mehbooba ), for example, which made Sivaranjani into Misra Sivaranjani. Abby, who also has a degree in Music Performance and Technology from Metalworks Institute, has trained in Western classical vocals along with piano and guitar lessons in childhood. He synergises the various techniques across genres when he sings and composes. Western voice pedagogy, for example, imparts a lot of training in breath control and the source of the sound (the chest, nasal and head voices) and how to bridge them. He finds this useful when he sings Indian music too. For fast kalpanaswarams, which are all consonant sounds, lip drills, an exercise that stimulates blood circulation to the mouth area, improves enunciation and clarity. When he composes pop or R&B pieces, he often brings in different nadais , and even some alien notes, taking inspiration from bhashanga ragas. ‘73 Ragas’ was the first video where Abby showed himself online. He took his time venturing into the digital space, he says. He has since been releasing videos regularly — film, classical and more, including collaborations with many other artistes. Before the pandemic set in, Abby had performance bookings, including in India. “I am looking forward to visiting as soon as I can and interacting with the wonderful people who have reached out to me,” he says.  The author writes on classical music and musicians.   When a child that age sings, people are loving and accepting. That made me view the stage in a very positive manner   When he composes pop or R&B pieces, he often brings in different nadais , and even some alien notes, taking inspiration from bhashanga ragas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/ragas-for-the-asking/article35756624.ece
06 August 2021||August 06 2021 00:00 IST,||A hand for Vedic scholars||Veda Pata Nidhi Trust, founded in 1983 at the suggestion of Sri Chandrasekharendra Saraswati, the 68th Shankaracharya of the Kanchi Kamakoti Peetham, has been honouring old and indigent Vedic scholars above the age of 60, with a monthly honorarium for the past 36 years. Under the guidance of K. Parasaran, former Attorney General and Trust chairman, the Trust adopted a few measures to help the scholars during the pandemic, such as distributing funds and increasing the amount for conducting obsequies and the 13-day rituals in the event of death of a pundit from Rs. 10,000 to Rs. 20,000. The trust also generated funds through donations, which were handed over as an additional grant along with the monthly honorarium. There are plans to add 50 Vedic scholars to the scheme in the coming months. A special pension to spouses of deceased scholars and insurance covers for their families are some other initiatives likely to be launched in future. “Apart from supporting Vedic scholars, our chairman felt the need to encourage youngsters to learn and understand the richness of the Vedic tradition. An online monthly newsletter titled Anusham was launched in July 2021,” says Sarabeswaran, trustee, Veda Pata Nidhi Trust. The newsletter features articles by eminent artistes, who share interesting anecdotes and personal experiences of their association with the 68th Shankaracharya. The July edition featured an article by Sanskrit scholar N. Veezhinathan and the August edition will feature one by veteran dancer-scholar Padma Subrahmanyam. The newsletter can be accessed on the Trust’s Facebook page or website. For more details, call 044-24611223.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/a-hand-for-vedic-scholars/article35756613.ece
06 August 2021||August 06 2021 00:00 IST,||An interesting departure||A tribute concert titled ‘Akhilam Madhuram’ was organised by Madhuradhwani as part of the 70th birth anniversary celebrations of well-known music connoisseur Vidya Subramanian. It was presented by Sikkil Gurucharan with Anil Srinivasan on the piano and B.S. Purushothaman on the kanjira. Gurucharan began his concert with ‘Adharam madhuram vadanam madhuram’ from ‘Madhurashtakam’, composed by Vallabhacharya. It was a different experience to hear these Sanskrit verses being sung to the accompaniment of gentle piano notes. Gurucharan next sang the Tamil composition, ‘Chinnanchiru penn pole’ in Sindhubhairavi, popularised by Sirkazhi Govindarajan. It describes the composer Ulundurpettai Shanmugasundaram’s experience of seeing Durga in a little girl. Matching the song’s mood, Anil’s playing was vibrant, sometimes even striking a dominant note. Notes on Devi Yet another song on Devi was ‘Neeye gati Eswari’ in Charukesi raga, from the film Annaiyin Aanai , sung originally by P. Leela. Charukesi carries an inherent solemnity, and both Gurucharan and Anil were able to highlight it. Surprisingly, the song had a few rounds of swarakalpana. Annamacharya’s ‘Ksheerabdhi kanyakaku’ in Kurinji came next. It was then time for some raga essay and Anil began with the notes of Saramati and Gurucharan followed it up with an alapana. This culminated in a ragamalika tanam — Vachaspati, Mohanam, Kapi and Navarasakanada, which segued into ‘Naanilaththil pala piravi eduththu,’ the anupallavi line in the kriti ‘Nanoru vilayaattu bommaiya’ in Navarasakanada by Papanasam Sivan. B.S. Purushothaman, who was waiting for an opportunity to make his presence felt, played a soft and sober tani avartanam. Gurucharan picked Bharatiyar’s ‘Nimirntha nannadai’ and ‘Nenjukku neediyum’ in Sindhubhairavi. The concluding piece was Lalgudi Jayaraman’s thillana in Maund. The concert, not structured in the traditional format, was more a medley of songs and ragas. It’s a format that Sikkil and Anil have long made their own. As musicians experiment with new ways of presentating music, listeners need to develop an open mind to accept such interesting departures.  The Chennai-based author writes on music and culture.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/an-interesting-departure/article35756610.ece
06 August 2021||August 06 2021 00:00 IST,||The villain who stole the show||As a Kathakali artiste, Nelliyode Vasudevan Namboothiri’s big shining eyes were his greatest asset. He knew it even as a student; as did his guru Vazhenkada Kunchu Nair. Both of them worked towards turning this to his advantage. By the early 1960s, the audience began to notice how Nelliyode lent a touch of humour to even negative and powerful characters. With face painted primarily in red or black and wearing large headgear, the youngster entertained audiences during night-long shows. Nelliyode was just out of his teens when he played Bali at a temple festival in his native Vazhenkada in north-central Kerala, sporting a stylised crimson beard with broad white paper cut at the edges pasted on his cheeks. The chuvanna taadi (red beard) drew appreciation and, eventually, he gained popularity portraying characters with it. A flair for improvisation based on his deep reading added layers to the dancer’s portrayal of different characters. His craft was one of constant innovation over the grammatical framework of Kathakali’s Kalluvazhi school, which was majorly refined by Kunchu Nair’s tutor Pattikamthodi Ravunni Menon (1880-1948). Nelliyode’s career, spanning six decades, came to an end this month when he succumbed to pancreatic cancer. Born into the Nelliyode family of priests at Cheranallur in Ernakulam district, the dancer had made Thiruvananthapuram his home from 1975, after landing a Kathakali instructor’s job at the Government Central High School there. He mingled easily with practitioners of Kathakali’s southern style even though elaborate choreography was at the core of his training at Natyasanghom and Kalamandalam in the north. “Increasing interactions between artistes belonging to the two systems has standardised Kathakali movements,” he said. Nelliyode’s experiments roused the curiosity of critics. Some of them admitted that they never knew chuvanna taadi characters had such potential for labyrinthine narration. Partly, the tales came as recapitulation, inspired by the nirvahanam technique employed in Koodiyattam. Nelliyode also enjoyed modern plays and poetry. “They give us ideas. And an attitude to associate with contemporary Kathakali productions.” Over the years, Nelliyode gained the wisdom to sometimes infuse a subtle personal touch to his gestural dialogues. Recalls Kalamandalam Balasubrahmanian, who acted as Krishna opposite Nelliyode as Kuchela early this year at a performance, “Krishna, he asked me, ‘Will we meet again?’ Both of us got emotional.”  The writer is a keen follower of Kerala’s performing arts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/the-villain-who-stole-the-show/article35756615.ece
06 August 2021||August 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Yuva Nritya Utsav||Kalakshetra Foundation celebrates ‘Yuva Nritya Utsav’ from August 10 to 15, as part of ‘Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav’, organised by the Ministry of Culture to mark 75 years of Indian Independence. The programme will be live-streamed on Kalakshetra Foundation’s YouTube channel. M. Ganapathi, IFS (retd.), former secretary, Ministry of External Affairs, will inaugurate the festival on August 10, 5.45 p.m., followed by a Bharatanatyam performance by the Kalakshetra repertory. A series of dance performances will take place from August 11 to 14. The artistes to be featured are Gauri Diwakar (Kathak), Arushi Mudgal (Odissi), Sandra Pisharody (Mohiniyattam), Rajaneesh Chakyar (Koodiyattam), along with Bharatanatyam performances by Girish Madhu, Sreedevi Jayakrishnan, and Janet James. On August 15, the students of Kalakshetra Foundation will present a dance drama titled ‘Veera Sudhandiram’ at 9.45 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/yuva-nritya-utsav/article35756611.ece
06 August 2021||August 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Experimenting all the time||Bengaluru-based Indian classical and film music composer Mahesh Mahadev has been pushing boundaries with his expanding repertoire. After creating more than 45 ragas in Carnatic and Hindustani classical music, he has now come up with another new raga, ‘Thyagaraja Mangalam’, to honour musicologists T.M. Thyagarajan and Mangalam Shankar. The music video, released as part of the Guru Purnima Celebration Series 2021, had a few compositions set to this new raga, and rendered by Singapore-based playback singer and classical vocalist Priyadarshini. Explaining the reason behind choosing the name ‘Thyagaraja Mangalam,’ Mahesh says he thought it fitting to create a raga name that combined the names of two legendary musicians. “T.M. Thyagarajan was a celebrated vocalist, musicologist and composer, and Mangalam Shankar, an eminent disciple of TMT who followed his baani, has carved a niche for herself.” The new raga is a janya of Gowri Manohari, the 23rd Melakarta, and is an Audava Sampoorna raga. Mahesh’s Virutham is the first known composition in it. “I have included the structure of the raga while composing the Virutham — the arohanam S G₂ M₁ P N₃ S and avarohanam S N₃ D₂ P M₁ G₂ R₂ S are explicitly embedded in it. I have composed varnam and kritis in this raga, which will be released later,” says Mahesh, whose other creations are also set to be released soon. New releases Mahesh included his recent creation, Raga Srirangapriya, in his latest album Kandenu Sri Ranganathana, and the composition was sung by the late S.P. Balasubrahmanyam. His other inventions include Raga Bhimsen, named after Pt. Bhimsen Joshi, and an experimental work where he has composed a complex song with modal shift of tonic (graha bedham) in odd time signature, in Kiravani raga, which then moves on to a rare combination of ragas. Sung by Priyadarshini, this composition is also slated to be released soon. Speaking about Mahesh and their collaborations , Priyadarshini, a student of Mangalam Shankar, says, “As a composer, Mahesh demonstrates his thoughts and ideas about the tune and the melody of the raga to help us understand the melodic sequence. After that, improvisation with the lyrics takes place. Since the melody, tune and placement are all fixed by the composer, all we need do is understand the tune and render it with right expression and voice modulation. The complete process takes place in a few hours.” Mahesh’s upcoming projects include a Tamil movie Maaligai and a Kannada one, Jhansi IPS, where he is the associate music composer and lyricist. Priyadarshini, who began her playback singing in 2004 with Tamil film Kadhal Dot com , feels there is always scope for new ragas and they in turn open up horizons for new compositions. Mahesh says, “I’m looking forward to exploring more ragas, rare or otherwise, and composing a lot more.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/experimenting-all-the-time/article35756618.ece
06 August 2021||August 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Annual dance scholarship||The recipient of this year’s Shiva-Saroja Sangeetha Natya Scholarship, offered by Bharata Kalanjali and Mrudani School of Performing Arts, is dancer Sanath Kumar S. The commemorative scholarship scheme aims to provide dancers an opportunity to explore their creativity through commissioned choreographic performances. Sanath will present his work on August 7, 10.30 a.m. on Bharata Kalanjali’s Facebook page and YouTube channel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/annual-dance-scholarship/article35756592.ece
06 August 2021||New Delhi,||‘Toolkit’ case: information not leaked to media, police tell HC||The Delhi Police on Thursday reiterated before the Delhi High Court that it did not leak to the media information related to its probe against climate change activist Disha Ravi, who allegedly shared a ‘toolkit’ on social media in connection with the ongoing farmers’ protest against three farm laws. In an affidavit, the Deputy Commissioner of Police (Cyber Cell Unit) of the Special Cell said the “allegation of the petitioner [Ms. Ravi] that the subject information [chats of the petitioner] has been leaked by the respondent no 1 (police), is false and factually incorrect”. The police said no information or document forming part of the case file, including the subject chats, have been shared with any media house or individual except the information communicated officially through press briefing or broadcast, which was a matter of record. The submission came in response to a petition filed by Ms. Ravi, who complained that investigation material, data, including messages attributed to her, were being telecast and reproduced in the media. Ms. Ravi apprehends that the same have been leaked by the investigating agency to the media. She has sought protection against ‘violation’ of her privacy and her right to a fair trial. ‘Media trial’ The petition stated that Ms. Disha “is severely aggrieved and prejudiced by the media trial surrounding her arrest and the ongoing investigation, where she is being viscerally attacked by the Respondent No. 1 [Special Cell, Delhi Police] and several media houses...on the basis of leaked investigative matter”. On February 19, the court ordered the police to ensure that there was no leakage of any documents relating to the investigation into the FIR against Ms. Ravi. It, however, said the police could conduct press briefings in relation to the case “as per law” so long as no rights of Ms. Disha were violated. The court has listed the case for hearing on September 27. The 22-year-old Ms. Disha was arrested in Bengaluru on February 13, 2021, and brought to the capital. She was granted bail by a local court on February 23.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/toolkit-case-information-not-leaked-to-media-police-tell-hc/article35756836.ece
06 August 2021||New Delhi,||Delhi Cabinet terminates study on real-time sources of air pollution||The Delhi government has terminated a study to find the sources of air pollutants on a real-time basis, despite paying over Rs. 88 lakhs for it, according to a government letter seen by The Hindu.  The study was allotted on a “nomination basis” without an open tender to the University of Washington in St. Louis and was supposed to be completed by March 2020. “In view of the decision taken by the Council of the Ministers of GNCTD on 07.07.2021, an agreement between DPCC and WU regarding the study titled as “A real-time source apportionment study for Delhi” is hereby terminated,” read a letter sent to the university dated July 28. The government has paid about Rs. 88.9 lakh ($120,000) to the university till now in two installments, as per the letter. The study, a flagship project of the AAP government, was approved by the Cabinet headed by Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal in July 2018. It was projected multiple times as a way forward to solve the air pollution crisis in the city by the Chief Minister as well as the Environment Minister. Despite the study being cancelled by a Cabinet decision on July 7, the government has not yet officially said anything about it. A new study But on July 9, Environment Minister Gopal Rai said the Cabinet has approved a “first of its kind” study to find sources of pollution in a real-time basis. He said the study will be done by a team of IIT-Kanpur, IIT-Delhi, The Energy & Resources Institute (TERI) and IISER Mohali. Mr. Rai also did not say anything about the previous study. An MoU is yet to be signed for the new study, sources said. “WU’s study has contrasting results and findings which are confusing and lowers the confidence in results and conclusions. WU’s study has limitations and has not helped in the application of real-time source apportionment in taking the decisions on day-today-basis,” the letter said. The new study is supposed to be more comprehensive than the previous one, said officials. The study is important since what causes pollution in the national city has been a matter of constant debate between the city and the Central government. The Delhi government has been stating that stubble burning in Punjab and Haryana is the major cause of air pollution in Delhi during winters. On the other hand, the centre had multiple times cited local pollutants in the city as the main reason. Flagship project After the AAP government returned to power in February 2020, within days, Gopal Rai, who was given the Environment Minister’s portfolio, visited a location near India Gate from where the study was being carried out. “Obtaining real-time data is necessary to monitor the real sources of pollution at a particular point in time. Until we can gather information about the sources of pollution, we will not be able to devise any mechanism for reducing these sources,” Mr. Rai said on February 20, in the first statement from his office as the Environment Minister. Dr. Pratim Biswas, a professor at the University of Washington in St. Louis, who was a part of the study, did not respond to an email requesting his comment, at the time of writing this report. In December, Mr. Biswas had said that they had responded to all questions raised by the government and scientific aspects of the study were “solid”.  In view of the decision taken by the Council of the Ministers of GNCTD on 07.07.2021, agreement between DPCC and WU regarding the study titled — A real-time source apportionment study for Delhi — is hereby terminated Reads govt. letter sent to the University on July 28||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/delhi-cabinet-terminates-study-on-real-time-sources-of-air-pollution/article35756832.ece
06 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||St. Stephen’s College begins admissions for UG courses||Delhi University’s St. Stephen’s College began its admission process for the various undergraduate courses on Thursday. The online application portal will close on August 31, according to the college. Following the declaration of cut-off marks, shortlisted candidates will also have to appear for online interviews before the final list is declared. Admissions to the college follows a separate procedure and applicants have to register on the Delhi University portal and then complete the application form for the college. A separate cut-off list will be released by the college, on which a weightage of 85% is given. The remaining 15% will be based on the online interviews held. According to the prospectus released by the St. Stephen’s College, trials for admissions under the sports category will not be held this year, due to the pandemic. “Applicants should note that the marks awarded for certificates, academic performance and interviews will be proportioned at 45%, 40% and 15% respectively,” it read. Last 3 year documents The college specified that certificates from the last three years – May 1, 2018 to April 30, 2021– will be considered for the admissions. No changes can be made after paying fees and completing six segments of the college admission form. Students are required to include at least one language in the best four subjects (BFS), the college said. “You are free to choose any language you have studied in Class XII. You can also choose more than one language in the best four subjects. In case you apply for B.SC (Hon) Mathematics, ensure that you include Mathematics among the subjects that you have selected to calculate the BFS, in addition to at least one language, while selecting checkboxes under BFS [for Maths Hons],” the college specified. After completing the application process and paying the registration fees on the DU portal, applicants are required to visit the college admission portal with the university registration number. After receiving a verification mail, students can complete the college application form.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/st-stephens-college-begins-admissions-for-ug-courses/article35756847.ece
06 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||Pink Line corridor to begin service today||The Delhi Metro’s “missing link” on the Majlis Park-Shiv Vihar Pink Line corridor is set to begin passenger operations from Friday. Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal and Union Minister Hardeep Singh Puri will inaugurate it through videoconferencing. The inauguration comes at a time when the Delhi Metro is running at a reduced carrying capacity due to restrictions imposed as a result of the pandemic. With the opening of this stretch between Mayur Vihar Pocket 1 and Trilokpuri Sanjay Lake, the entire 59 kilometre Pink Line will become operational. CM’s appeal The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) on Thursday yet again appealed to the commuters to travel during peak hours only when “absolutely necessary and as far as possible plan the journey during off-peak hours to avail better capacity and avoid long queues.” Since the resumption of metro services on June 10, after the second wave of the pandemic, long queues have been spotted outside metro stations as a result of regulated entry to stations. Stations with low footfall have one gate open while those with a high footfall have two operational gates, till date. The DMRC in a statement said: “Recently, random incidents have also been reported from across the network during peak hours wherein, impatient passengers have tried to barge into metro stations breaking the queues, opening or damaging the gates forcibly, manhandling the DMRC and CISF personnel on duty, in violation of COVID-19 appropriate behaviour.” The metro, currently is operating with a 100% seating capacity, which can accommodate 50 passengers per coach. According to the DMRC, with 2,000 coaches in operation, the total seating capacity available is around 1 lakh while more than 2 lakh passengers come to metro stations per day during peak hours. Fewer gates “In order to regulate the entry of passengers, it is necessary to restrict the number of gates. If more gates are opened, it will be difficult to regulate the number of passengers inside the trains,” the DMRC said. The Pink Line became operational in 2018, except the segment between Mayur Vihar Pocket 1 and Trilokpuri Sanjay Lake due to a land-related dispute. Passenger operations on the stretch will commence at 3 p.m. on Friday, officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/pink-line-segment-to-start-service-today/article35756843.ece
06 August 2021||New Delhi,||HC seeks Centre’s response on plea on manual scavenging||The Delhi High Court on Thursday sought response of the Centre on an application seeking to ensure strict compliance with the 2013 law on manual scavengers to prevent loss of lives due to manual cleaning of sewers and septic tanks. A Bench of Chief Justice D.N. Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh allowed lawyer and social activist Amit Sahni’s application for making the Centre as a party to his petition. “We are allowing this application. We are joining the Union of India as party respondent. Notice upon the newly joined party,” the High Court said and listed the case for hearing on September 17. In his fresh application, Mr. Sahni referred to the statement made by Minister of State (MoS) for Social Justice and Empowerment, Ramdas Athawale, in the Rajya Sabha on July 27, 2020 that “no such deaths have been reported due to manual scavenging” in the last five years. Mr. Athawale made the statement in a written response to a question asked in the Rajya Sabha by Mallikarjun Kharge and L. Hanumanthaiah on manual scavenging, the deaths due to it in the last five years and rehabilitation of manual scavengers. Mr. Sahni claimed that the answer given by the MoS was “not only false and misleading but also shows utter insensitivity and apathy towards the departed souls of the manual scavengers, their family members and also towards the group of people who are still into manual scavenging”. Mr .Sahni said that such statement from the ex-officio chairperson of the Central Committee constituted under the Act further makes it evident that the government has indulged in deliberate misstatement and distortion of facts to applaud itself contrary to the record available in public domain. The application further stated that the Ministry concerned had earlier in February this year submitted that “340 deaths have been caused due to manual scavenging during the last five years” which is an antithesis to the unstarred question raised in the Upper House of Parliament. Besides the Delhi government, the court had earlier asked municipal bodies, Delhi Jal Board, Delhi Cantonment Board and PWD to file their affidavits to the petition.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/hc-seeks-centres-response-on-petition-on-manual-scavenging/article35756834.ece
06 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||DU to resume classes, practicals for science students from Aug. 16||In a notification issued on Thursday, the Delhi University (DU) said that due to the decline in the number of COVID-19 cases, classes and practical work, in respect of postgraduate and undergraduate programmes for students in science courses will be conducted in the physical mode from August 16. The notification also said that all teaching and non-teaching staff were required to be present at their respective workplaces with immediate effect. Following protocol “Taking a note of the decline in the number of COVID-19 cases, it has been decided that classes and practical or project work, in respect of PG and UG programmes, students in science courses in the university and its colleges shall be conducted in physical mode with effect from August 16, observing necessary protocols to prevent the spread of COVID-19,” the notification read. The notification added: “The online teaching and learning activities shall continue for all other academic programmes as per the notified academic calendar...it is notified that all colleges, centres, departments shall be fully functional and therefore all teaching and non-teaching staff shall attend the duties at their workplace with immediate effect.” Stating that heads of colleges and departments were required to ensure COVID-19 appropriate behaviour, the notification said, “The principals of colleges and provosts of hostels shall ensure strict adherence to all the guidelines while providing accommodation for eligible outstation students.” Manoj Sinha, Principal of Aryabhatta College said, “The university has issued broader guidelines and framework and the colleges can take a call accordingly. Institutions have to act responsibly as we have to be careful of the third wave. But graded opening of institutions is not a problem. The implementation is up to us. We can choose to start with the final year students and call small batches of students on different days for their practical work.” Abha Dev Habib, treasurer of DUTA, however said, “Can a notice ask classes for any stream to be held in physical mode? It is easy to write that all protocols should be followed but how do you ensure that they are followed? Can the university expect students to return to Delhi and find accommodation in 10 days?”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/du-to-resume-classes-practicals-for-science-students-from-aug-16/article35756844.ece
06 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||MLAs, MPs among 589 detained during protest||The Indian Youth Congress organised a ‘Parliament Gherao’ protest to speak up against inflation, unemployment, agricultural laws and the Pegasus scandal, besides questioning why the BJP is running away from the debate on key issues but was passing the bills. National president of Indian Youth Congress, Srinivas B.V., said that at least 89 hours of the monsoon session of Parliament have been wasted and that the general public has to bear the loss of this as the Opposition wants to discuss issues related to public concerns, but the government is obstructing it so as to avoid accountability. No permission Meanwhile, Delhi Police said that it detained 589 persons including 28 women, two MPs and four MLAs during a protest carried out by the IYC. The police said no permission was given to the organiser, Srinivas B.V. of the Youth Congress, to carry out any protest. Police said the protesters started from Jantar Mantar Road and were detained near 6 Raisina. Deputy Commissioner of Police (New Delhi) Deepak Yadav said: “A total of 589 persons including 28 women, 2 MPs and 4 MLAs were detained during the protest carried out by Indian Youth Congress. No permission to carry out the protest march was given to the organiser.” Among those detained include Rajya Sabha MP Digvijay Singh and Lok Sabha MP Ramya Haridesh along with MLAs Ganesh Dogra from Rajasthan, Shafi Prambil from Kerala, Vipin Vankhede from Madhya Pradesh and Devender Yadav from Bhilai in Chhattisgarh, according to the police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/mlas-mps-among-589-detained-during-protest/article35756840.ece
06 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Dalit girl rape, murder’: Crime Branch visits spot||A Delhi Police Crime Branch team on Thursday inspected the spot where a 9-year-old girl was found dead inside a crematorium in Delhi Cantonment on August 1. The district police had arrested a priest, Radhey Shyam (55), and three others — staffer Kuldeep (63), Laxmi Narain (48) and Saleem (49) — on charges of rape and murder in connection with the case. The case was transferred from district police to Crime Branch on Wednesday “for further expeditions and scientific investigation in order for speedy trial in the interest of justice”. The protest demanding justice for the minor continued for the fourth day with the victim’s family in presence. A local said people from neighbouring States were also joining the stir. On Sunday evening, a 9-year-old girl was found dead inside the cremation ground where she had gone to get cold water. The priest allegedly told the family that she had died of electrocution and cremated the body without her parents’ consent. The family alleged she was raped and killed.  Case transferred to Crime Branch ‘for further expeditions and scientific investigation in order for speedy trial in the interest of justice’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/dalit-girl-rape-murder-crime-branch-visits-spot/article35756827.ece
06 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||Argument ends in youth’s murder||A 23-year-old man was stabbed to death and his cousin sustained injuries after an argument at a birthday party in Rohini’s Prem Nagar on Wednesday night. Four persons including two minors have been held in connection with the case. DCP (Rohini) Pranav Tayal said the victims have been identified as Virender alias Vicky and his cousin Nitin alias Kishan. The accused have been identified as Jitender, Rajesh,Vivek, Govinda, and Pintoo along with two minors. Police said that Virender didn’t survive while Nitin is undergoing treatment and that Rajesh, Jitender and two minors have been held. Police said that a PCR call was received around 9.30 p.m. regarding stabbing of two persons. When they reached the spot, they were informed that the injured Nitin has been taken to hospital and the team found the body of Virender in a pool of blood. He was rushed to a city hospital but was declared brought dead. Police said that deceased Virender used to work as a plumber and Nitin assists his father at his shop of sewing machines.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/argument-ends-in-youths-murder/article35756839.ece
06 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||Civil defence worker arrested for extortion||A Delhi Civil Defence (DCD) employee was arrested for allegedly extorting money from people in east Delhi’s Ghazipur area, police said on Thursday. Shyam Sunder, a resident of Mandawali, joined the DCD in March this year. He was currently deployed with a team of Delhi government officials for issuing challans to violators of COVID-19 norms, they said. Police said Rs. 2,000 is the fine amount for not wearing mask. But the accused asked the victims to pay Rs. 1,000 for not issuing challans. DCP (East) Priyanka Kashyap said the DCD staff was involved in extortion from violators of COVID norms and was arrested on Tuesday. “He used to receive money in his personal Paytm account from those violating COVID norms. The mobile used to receive such payments has also been recovered,” the DCP said. According to the police, the matter came to light when Ravinder Pandey, a resident of Faridabad, said that he was travelling with his family in a car from his village in Gorakhpur to Faridabad via Ghazipur on August 2. He was stopped by Shyam Sunder who first threatened him that he would issue a challan of Rs. 10,000 for not wearing mask as there were five members in his family but later asked for Rs. 1,000 in his Paytm account. Police said Pandey then transferred Rs. 1,000 via Paytm app and then made a PCR call||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/civil-defence-worker-arrested-for-extortion/article35756841.ece
06 August 2021||New Delhi,||Journalist’s interim protection from arrest extended by court||The Delhi High Court on Thursday extended the interim protection from arrest granted to Newsclick editor-in-chief Prabir Purkayastha in foreign funding case till December 17.  ‘No delay’ Justice Yogesh Khanna, who was hearing Mr. Purkayastha’s anticipatory bail application, asked Delhi Police why it needed his custodial interrogation when the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has given a prima facie finding in his favour. “Prima facie, there is no delay etc. [as per RBI]. In that case, why do you need his custodial interrogation?” the judge asked. The investigating officer responded that probe was ongoing and he was still “verifying other transactions”. The FIR in the case alleged that PPK Newsclick Studio Pvt Ltd received Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) of Rs. 9.59 crore from Worldwide Media Holdings LLC USA during the financial year 2018-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/journalists-interim-protection-from-arrest-extended-by-court/article35756825.ece
06 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||Cong. seeks NHRC probe||The Delhi Congress filed a complaint before the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) on Thursday regarding the alleged rape and murder of a 9-year-old Dalit girl in Old Nangal Rai village. Delhi Congress chief Ch. Anil Kumar filed a complaint before the NHRC member Justice (retd.) P.C. Pant. The leaders demanded the constitution of a special NHRC team to carry out an on-the-spot investigation of the police laxity, delay in filing proper FIR and harassment of the victim’s parents at the police station. The party said the NHRC promised to probe the incident. Delhi Congress, in its complaint, also sought protection to the victim’s family.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/cong-seeks-nhrc-probe/article35756828.ece
06 August 2021||New Delhi,||Vaccine stock to last 5 days; city sees 61 fresh cases||The government said the COVID-19 vaccine stock of the city on Thursday morning would last for five days. There were 4,61,250 doses of Covishield vaccine and 3,61,290 doses of Covaxin. This is a better position compared to last month when the government had to shut vaccination centres due to a shortage of vaccines. The city reported 61 new COVID-19 cases in 24 hours, taking the total cases to 14,36,579. There were two deaths and the total number of deaths stood at 25,060. Health Minister Satyendar Jain on Thursday said the government is preparing a total of 37,000 beds in view of a possible third wave.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/vaccine-stock-to-last-5-days-city-sees-61-fresh-cases/article35756830.ece
06 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||Youth stabbed to death over friendship||A 23-year-old youth was stabbed to death allegedly over his friendship with a girl in outer Delhi’s Mangolpuri on Wednesday night. Police have registered a case and begun probe. DCP (Outer) Parvinder Singh said that the victim has been identified as Saif, a resident of Mangolpuri. He used to work at a salon in Paschim Vihar. Police said that a PCR call was received around 9.30 p.m. regarding the stabbing of a youth. When the police reached the spot, they were informed that the victim has been taken to the hospital where he has been declared brought dead. During investigation, police were informed that Saif was roaming around with two of his friends in a park when the accused, identified as Rizwan alias Kallan and Asad alias Billa, called him to settle an old dispute the victim had with Asad. Both the accused then quarrelled with the victim and stabbed him in the stomach after which they fled.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/youth-stabbed-to-death-over-friendship/article35756838.ece
06 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||DU signs MoU with University of Ladakh||The Delhi University (DU) on Thursday signed an MoU with the University of Ladakh for a period of five years with the aim of a collaborating between the two varsities in terms of exchange programmes, sports and cultural activities and sharing of library resources and other resources. The MoU was signed by DU Vice-Chancellor P.C. Joshi and C. Phunsog, V-C of the University of Ladakh, with other senior officials present as well. In a statement issued, DU said: “The varied points of divergence between the two universities, right from its geographical set up to its socio-cultural milieu, shall make way for a productive environment of innovative thinking as well as learning. The new knowledge, ideas and approaches from the young University of Ladakh will also enable collective minds to further push the boundaries of knowledge and understanding.” Organising joint Ph.D programmes, joint postgraduate courses under the Meta University programme and joint organisation of workshops on Massive Open Learning Course (MPPC) and Information and Communication Technology (ITC), were some of the aims of the MoU, DU said. “The specific objectives include pursuit of scientific and academic collaboration between the two academic and research centres of the two institutions, organising faculty development programmes and joint organisation of research and publication activities in various departments or centres,” the statement read.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/du-signs-mou-with-university-of-ladakh/article35756845.ece
06 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||Sisodia reviews construction of sports university||Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia on Thursday said the Delhi Sports University should be built visualising the day-to-day routine in a sportsperson’s life. He also said the university should provide state-of-the-art equipment and facilities for the highest level of training. Mr. Sisodia was speaking after conducting a review meeting along with PWD Minister Satyendar Jain regarding the construction of the university. “The objective of the university is to nurture and encourage the best sporting talent in the country so that the university can make the nation proud by producing medal winning athletes,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/sisodia-reviews-construction-of-sports-university/article35756829.ece
