08 August 2021||Chennai,||Neeraj spears historic Olympics gold||On an incredible Saturday in Japan, the Land of the Rising Sun, India found its brightest athletics star. Neeraj Chopra’s history-altering effort in the men’s javelin throw at the Tokyo Olympics landed India’s maiden athletics gold at the Games. With his best at 87.58 m, Neeraj soared high. It was also the nation’s second individual gold at the Olympics, with Neeraj following in the footsteps of shooter Abhinav Bindra, who delivered the shiny metal at the 2008 Beijing edition. For a nation that made its Olympics debut in 1900, the wait for an athletics gold spilled past a century and two decades before Neeraj offered deliverance. Incidentally at the Paris Games in 1900, Norman Pritchard won two athletics silvers for India but back then the country was a dominion of Britain. After that, India basked in the glories that hockey initially offered and lapsed into agony with the near-misses of Milkha Singh, P.T. Usha and Dipa Karmakar, while some in shooting, boxing, weightlifting and tennis offered respite. Hailing from Haryana, Neeraj, the 23-year-old Subedar with the 4 Rajputana Rifles, has been Mr. Consistent ever since he burst upon the junior scene. The transition to the senior category was seamless and he excelled at the Commonwealth and Asian Games before finding his Everest moment at Tokyo. He did it with swagger while being conscious of history as he dedicated his medal to the late Milkha Singh. Punia bags bronze While Neeraj offered enduring lustre, wrestler Bajrang Punia gleaned a bronze in the 65 kg freestyle segment by defeating Kazakhstan’s Daulet Niyazbekov.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/neeraj-spears-historic-gold/article35795086.ece
08 August 2021||Hyderabad,||Revanth faults GHMC officials||Telangana Congress president and Malkajgiri MP, A. Revanth Reddy came down heavily on the GHMC officials and the Mandal Revenue Officer (MRO) concerned for failing to call on the families of two scavengers who died after entering a manhole. Mr. Reddy, who visited the family members of the deceased Shiva (25) and Anthaiah (45), called up the MRO concerned and asked him what prevented him from attending to the family and extend cash support for the final rites as per the norm. He also called up the LB Nagar Municipal Commissioner and enquired with him whether he had visited the family. “They are poor dalits and as officials you don’t even have concern that two people have died while engaging in scavenging against all norms,” he told them. Officials, however, tried to pass on the buck. The local ACP was also requested by the MP to complete the formalities early so that the families can apply for assistance given to safai karmacharis. Mr. Reddy said officials did not even have the heart to visit the families which was their duty and it showcased the government’s attitude towards Dalit families. He also questioned why the Ministers have not responded to the tragic incident. He said that the officials can be booked under various laws as manual scavenging was banned by the Parliament long back. He warned that negligence of officials will not be spared and the Congress party would take the issue seriously. Later, he handed over Rs. 1 lakh cash on behalf of the Congress party to the bereaved families and also assured that the Congress would take up the issue of providing employment as an outsourced employee to the family members of the deceased. Former MLA Malreddy Ranga Reddy and others accompanied him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/revanth-faults-ghmc-officials/article35795626.ece
08 August 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||KIIFB nod for projects worth Rs. 1,076.92 crore||The board and executive committee of the Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board (KIIFB) have approved 17 projects worth Rs. 1,076.92 crore. This takes the number of projects with KIIFB nod to 912, valued at Rs. 64,344.64 crore. The 42nd board meeting chaired by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Saturday cleared 10 projects worth Rs. 932.69 crore. The executive committee of the body corporate had given the nod for seven projects worth Rs. 144.23 crore on Friday. Briefing the media on the board decisions, Finance Minister K.N. Balagopal said the major projects approved on Saturday included the creation of 10-bed isolation wards in hospitals in the 140 constituencies (Rs. 236.3 crore) for tackling COVID-19, and the renovation of damaged sea wall and construction of a groyne field at the coastal erosion-hit Chellanam (Rs. 344.2 crore). West Coast Canal The list included a Rs. 247.2-crore rehabilitation and resettlement parcel for the West Coast Canal project, modernisation of 26 fish markets in four projects (Rs. 57.07 crore), modernisation of three markets in Aluva and Nedumangad municipalities (Rs. 33.5 crore), and the renovation of a multi-species abattoir at Kaloor (Rs. 14.29 crore). The seven projects approved by the KIIFB executive committee include construction of rail overbridges in Kottayam, Thiruvananthapuram and Thrissur, improvement of infrastructure in schools, and construction of a regulator-cum-bridge at Ummenchira in Kannur district. These projects were included as a careful scrutiny had revealed that some more projects could be loaded on to KIIFB, Mr. Balagopal said. Earlier, the Minister had expressed doubts regarding additions as the KIIFB had already overshot its target of projects worth Rs. 50,000 crore. In addition to this, Saturday's meeting sanctioned an additional Rs. 1,395.01 crore for acquiring land on three stretches for National Highway development. With this, the approval under this component has risen to Rs. 6,769.01 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/kiifb-nod-for-projects-worth-rs-107692-crore/article35795633.ece
08 August 2021||Coimbatore,||Clip of govt. employee, a Dalit, falling at caste Hindu’s feet triggers protest||A Dalit government employee falling at the feet of a caste Hindu at the office of the village administrative office at Ottarpalayam in Annur Taluk, Coimbatore, on Friday triggered unrest and protest on Saturday as a video recording of the incident went viral. The video shows thandalkarar Muthusamy falling at the feet of the caste Hindu, identified as Gopinath, at the VAO’s office and that too in the presence of the VAO Kalaiselvi. The incident happened around 3 p.m. when Gopinath went there to question the Revenue Department officials on the revenue records not reflecting his name in a title deed. A wordy duel broke out between Ms. Kalaiselvi and Gopinath. To prevent the issue from getting out of hand, Mr. Muthusamy intervened, said Revenue Department officials. As Gopinath returned to his seat, he slipped and fell. He, however, concluded that it was it was Mr. Muthusamy who had pushed him. The video recording of the incident showed Gopinath sitting on at the VAO’s office and Mr. Muthusamy falling at his feet to apologise. A few persons present there intervened, pacified the two and later Gopinath was seen accepting the apology. Collector G.S. Sameeran said the Revenue Department’s inquiry of Saturday led by District Revenue Officer P.S. Leela Alex clearly showed that thandalkarar Mr. Muthusamy fell at Gopinath’s feet only after he was asked to do so to apologise. This was unfair, illegal and clear violation of the provisions of the SC, ST Prevention of Atrocities Act. The thandalkarar , however, was not coming forward to lodge a complaint. He wanted the issue to be resolved amicably and therefore did not want a complaint to be lodged, Mr. Sameeran said. “I spoke to him for about 20 minutes to check if his hesitation in lodging a complaint was because of pressure or coercion or threat. As Mr. Muthusamy stuck to his stand of not preferring a complaint, I have given him a day to think with a cool head,” the Collector added. The Revenue Department, however, would go ahead and lodge a complaint against Gopinath for preventing Ms. Kalaiselvi from discharging her duty. As the video went viral, the Thanthai Periyar Dravidar Kazhagam staged a protest in Annur on Saturday morning demanding that the Annur Police register a case against Mr. Gopinath by invoking the provisions of the SC, ST Prevention of Atrocities Act. Around 50 persons participated in the protest. A senior police officer said Mr. Muthusamy had not preferred a complaint in connection with the incident. Meanwhile, Gopinath lodged a complaint with the Annur police alleging that Mr. Muthusamy had assaulted him at the VAO’s office. The police were yet to register a case.  (With inputs from Wilson Thomas)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/clip-of-dalit-falling-at-caste-hindus-feet-triggers-protest/article35795454.ece
08 August 2021||KOCHI,||Plummeting vitamin D level in children disconcerting||With little to no outdoor activities depriving their exposure to sunlight, deficiency of vitamin D has become rampant among children leading to musculoskeletal disorders. While vitamin D level in excess of 50 nanograms per millilitre (ng/ml) is considered sufficient, between 30 and 50ng/ml is insufficient and below 30ng/ml is considered low. Locked up inside their homes for more than a year, it is found plummeting to alarming level of 10ng/ml or below in children. “While the deficiency is age-neutral, it's particularly worse in children causing muscle and joint pain and brittleness of bones. Exposure to sunlight for about 30 minutes a day is the simplest solution,” said Manoj G. Panicker, head of the general medicine department at Ernakulam General Hospital. Since the deficiency of vitamin D is devoid of tell-tale symptoms and is unreflected in vital parameters, it often goes undetected or is diagnosed quite accidentally while consulting doctor for completely unrelated problems. K.G. Saju, consultant ENT Surgeon at General Hospital, recollected how two young children whom he prescribed for vitamin deficiency test on a hunch returned an alarmingly low level of below 10ng/ml. Physical well being Vitamin deficiency apart, there is an overall downturn in the physical well being of children owing to the extended indoor life. For instance, the frequent use of earphones during online classes is taking its toll on the children's hearing. Excessive stress to eyes is also being widely reported owing to constant glaring at screens.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/plummeting-vitamin-d-level-in-children-disconcerting/article35795634.ece
08 August 2021||SRIKAKULAM,||Ponduru khadi needs a helping hand, says Nirmala Sitharaman||Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Saturday said the Narendra Modi government at the Centre was according top priority for promotion of khadi and handloom products and had taken a series of steps that included establishment of exclusive mega handloom clusters in the country. Participating in the National Handloom Day celebrations at Ponduru village in the district, Ms. Sitharaman said handloom marketing had gone up to Rs. 18,000 crore in 2020-21 from Rs. 9,000 crore in 2014-15. Handloom cluster Later, interacting with the khadi artisans, she promised to take up with the officials concerned the proposal to set up a handloom cluster at Ponduru on the lines of the one established at Mangalagiri in Guntur district. Ms. Sitharaman directed the NABARD and Lead Bank officials to extend loans to maximum number of artisans. s“Ponduru khadi is famous across the country. To promote it further, it needs a helping hand. We will try to extend more loans to enable the weavers to adopt new technology,” Ms. Sitharaman said. Deputy Chief Minister Dharmana Krishna Das and Legislative Assembly Speaker Thammineni Seetharam and State Finance Minister Buggana Rajendranath sought the Union government’s support for the handloom industry in the State. GI tag needed: MP Srikakulam MP Kinjarapu Rammohan Naidu said Geographical Indication (GI) for the Ponduru khadi would help it gain international recognition and ensure remunerative price for the products. District Collector Shrikesh B. Lathkar said that proposals were being made for the establishment of a handloom cluster at Ponduru. Earlier, Ms. Sitharaman garlanded the statue of Mahatma Gandhi. She visited stalls in the exhibition, interacted with the artisans, and sought to know their income sources and grievances. MPs B. Chandrasekhar and G.V.L. Narasimha Rao, Etcherla MLA Gorle Kirankumar, and senior officials were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ponduru-khadi-needs-a-helping-hand-nirmala/article35795080.ece
08 August 2021||HYDERABAD,||‘Stop AP from drawing water through PRP’||Telangana government has asked the Krishna River Management Board (KRMB) to immediately stop water diversion from Srisailam reservoir by Andhra Pradesh through Pothireddypadu (PRP) Head Regulator so that committed utilisations under Nagarjunasagar project are not affected. In a letter addressed to KRMB Chairman M.P. Singh on Saturday, Special Chief Secretary (Irrigation) Rajat Kumar brought to his notice that the Telangana government had written to the Union Minister of Jal Shakti, Secretary of the MoJS and the river board itself several times drawing their attention and objecting to the illegal drawal of water through PRP system by A.P. to serve unapproved ayacut outside the Krishna Basin. As per the inter-State agreement of 1976-77 and the Planning Commission clearance of 1981 A.P. was entitled to draw only 15 tmc ft water from Srisailam for the Chennai Water Supply Scheme and 19 tmc ft for Srisailam Right Bank Canal (SRBC) through PRP during the July-October period. However, A.P. had been regularly drawing excessive water in complete violation of sanctions, Mr. Rajat Kumar pointed out. “During the last two years, A.P. has drawn 308 tmc ft water, 179 tmc ft in 2019-20 and 129 tmc ft in 2020-21, and as per the information available it has already drawn about 25 tmc ft as on August 7 against their entitlement of 10.48 tmc ft,” he said in the letter to the KRMB Chairman explaining how A.P. had been violating the entitlement. In the process of power generation at Srisailam, irrigation, industrial and drinking water needs of both Telangana and A.P. would be met and as per the Bachawat Award (KWDT-I), 280 tmc ft water has to be released from Srisailam to Nagarjunsagar to meet the intended needs. In addition, 16.5 tmc ft is also drawn from Nagarjunasagar to meet the drinking water needs in Hyderabad, the Special CS said in his letter and urged the KRMB Chairman to stop illegitimate drawals of water by AP through PRP system. According to the Irrigation Department officials, A.P. has diverted over 1,355 tmc ft of Krishna water from Srisailam reservoir — through Pothireddypadu Head Regulator system — from 2004-05 to 2020-21.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/stop-ap-from-drawing-water-through-prp-ts-to-krmb/article35795611.ece
08 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||Govt. denies existence of oxygen committee||The Union government has denied the very existence of a committee set up to oversee medical oxygen supply during the COVID-19 pandemic in 2020. The statement comes just two weeks after it argued strenuously before the Central Information Commission (CIC) against disclosing information about the committee on the grounds of strategic interests, commercial confidences, intellectual property and Cabinet papers. Last week, the CIC slammed the government’s rationale for a blanket denial of information as “far-fetched” and “unjustified”, and directed a response within 10 days. Now, the Central Public Information Officer (CPIO) of the Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade (DPIIT) says the committee does not even exist. On Friday, he claimed an “inadvertent error” due to an earlier “misreading” of the RTI application. However, The Hindu has seen the DPIIT’s order dated April 4, 2020, which indicates that the committee, chaired by its then Secretary, Guruprasad Mohapatra, did exist. A DPIIT official, who was a member of the committee, also told The Hindu that the panel had been constituted and meetings were held. The order to constitute the panel said the objective was “to review the existing production and supply of medical oxygen and cylinders in the country” and to ensure adequacy of production capacity, availability of cylinders and measures to augment their supply, a disruption-free supply chain and smooth storage, transportation and supply to end-users, and an effective communication mechanism with the States through nodal teams constituted for the purpose. Besides DPIIT officials, the committee had a representative of the Union Health Ministry, two AIIMS doctors and representatives of the All India Industrial Gases Manufacturers Association and the Petroleum and Explosives Safety Organization. RTI request by activist Activist and freelance journalist Saurav Das, who filed the initial RTI request, said, “The records of this committee must be made public as it handled the crucial issue of medical oxygen. Given its stated objectives, the committee clearly recognised the issues at stake back in April 2020, so what did they do about it? This gains significance in the light of the chaos and disaster caused by oxygen shortages during the second wave of the COVID-19 pandemic.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/centre-denies-existence-of-panel-on-medical-oxygen/article35795088.ece
08 August 2021||MYSURU,||Dasara likely to be low-key this year||Minister for Cooperation S.T. Somashekar indicated that the Dasara celebrations in Mysuru will likely be low-key this year also in the view of the threat of third wave of COVID-19. Speaking to reporters here on Saturday, Mr. Somashekar, who has been deputed to oversee measures against the spread of COVID-19 in Mysuru and Chamarajanagar districts, ruled out any possibility of cancelling a centuries-old tradition like Dasara. High-Powered Committee He said he would draw the attention of Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai to convening a meeting of the High-Powered Committee on Dasara celebrations, where a decision would be finalised. He pointed out that the government had decided to restrict Dasara celebrations last year following a recommendation by the COVID-19 Technical Advisory Committee. Of the Rs. 10 crore released by the State government for Dasara last year, only Rs. 2.5 crore had been spent. The remaining could be used for a celebration on the same lines this year, he said. However, a final decision would be taken after a discussion with the CM, he said. It may recalled that the Dasara festivities remained simple last year with the gatherings restricted to about 300 atop Chamundi Hills for the inauguration of the festivities by C.N. Manjunath, cardiologist and Director of Sri Jayadeva Institute of Cardiovascular Sciences, Bengaluru. Even the Jamboo Savari, the grand finale of the 10-day festivities, was restricted to the Mysuru palace premises, with a limited number of elephants and tableaux. Entry of the public was barred while the event was telecast live on television and social media platforms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/dasara-likely-to-be-low-key-this-year/article35795738.ece
08 August 2021||CHENNAI,||Defence Industrial Corridor rakes in over Rs. 2,000 cr.||Since its inception in January 2019, the Tamil Nadu Defence Industrial Corridor (TNDIC) has managed to bring in Rs. 2,116 crore in investments. According to the data provided by the Tamil Nadu Industrial Development Corporation Limited (TIDCO), during the launch of this corridor that comprises Chennai, Coimbatore, Tiruchi, Salem and Hosur, Rs. 3,123.5 crore in investments were committed by 10 companies. Of this, Rs. 966 crore has already been invested. In addition, after the launch of this corridor, several firms came forward and evinced interest in investing in this venture. Around 29 companies, including government organisations, have committed themselves to investing Rs. 8,226 crore, of which Rs. 1,150 crore has already been invested. Asked about the update on TNDIC, Minister for Industries Thangam Thennarasu said the TIDCO had signed an MoU with GE Aviation for setting up a Centre of Excellence (CoE) at an estimated investment of Rs. 140 crore for the design and development of aircraft engine components. “Three more proposals for setting up CoEs are in the advanced stage of finalisation by the TIDCO with a total investment of Rs. 900 crore,” he said. The Minister said the DMK government had inked a few deals in the defence and aviation sectors during Investment Conclave 2021 that was held in Chennai last month. Land acquisition Land acquisition is in progress for the new defence industrial park near Sulur. Around 500 acres will be needed for this park. Around 1,000 acres of land have been identified for the defence industrial park at Annur. In addition to this, the TIDCO has earmarked around 700 acres in five locations for the aerospace and defence industries. Details provided by the TIDCO show that land acquisition activities have commenced for the ISRO satellite launch station at Kulasekarapattinam in Thoothukudi district. It will be established at an estimated investment of Rs. 2,000 crore. This new infrastructure, along with the ISRO’s propulsion complex at Mahendragiri, will further enhance the State’s position in the space sector.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/defence-industrial-corridor-nets-rs-2000-cr/article35795451.ece
08 August 2021||Srinagar,||Influx of leaders into Lone’s People’s Conference||In a bid to emerge as kingmaker in the upcoming Assembly polls in Jammu and Kashmir, Sajad Lone’s People’s Conference on Saturday saw the entry of former lawmakers and political leaders, including former Deputy Chief Minister Muzzaffar Hussain Baigh’s wife Safina Baigh and two ex-Members of Parliament from the Peoples Democratic Party. “The party is emerging as a formidable political force to reckon with. My dream is to see this caravan of change stronger. We will make more announcements in the coming weeks,” said Mr. Lone, who split from the Peoples Alliance of the Gupkar Declaration earlier this year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/influx-of-leaders-into-lones-party/article35795483.ece
08 August 2021||CHENNAI,||Special drive to give second jabs to the elderly||With only 13% of senior citizens fully vaccinated in the State, the Directorate of Public Health and Preventive Medicine is all set to conduct a special drive from Sunday to focus on second-dose coverage for the 60-plus population in all districts. An exclusive session to administrate the second dose will be held every Sunday in designated centres. According to the directorate, the State’s 60-plus population stands at 86,28,324. As of Friday, 33% senior citizens — 28,46,836 people — have received their first dose. Only 13% senior citizens — 11,54,077 people — have received the second dose as well. The Chennai health unit district (HUD) accounted for the highest percentage of fully vaccinated senior citizens, at 35%. Of Chennai’s total 60-plus population of 8,27,121, as many as 2,87,583 people have received both doses. The city had achieved 60% coverage in administrating the first dose to senior citizens. In the Nilgiris HUD, 68% senior citizens have received at least one dose — 59,824 of the total 87,945 people have received their first dose. Some 30% senior citizens are fully vaccinated in the HUD. In Coimbatore, 21% senior citizens have been fully vaccinated. Ariyalur, Cheyyar, Karur, Ranipet, Tirunelveli and Villupuram are among the HUDs that account for less than 20% coverage in the administration of the first dose. The percentage of fully vaccinated senior citizens remain under 20% in 43 HUDs. The DPH has instructed all deputy directors of health services to conduct exclusive sessions for the administration of the second dose to the 60-plus population, every Sunday, in already identified government COVID-19 vaccination centres. They should ensure that the remaining centres function as usual for both the first and the second dose.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/special-drive-to-give-second-jabs-to-the-elderly/article35795461.ece
08 August 2021||HYDERABAD,||Appellate Authority constituted for TSPCB||The State government has issued orders constituting the Appellate Authority for the TS Pollution Control Board (TSPCB) for adjudicating over appeals pertaining to environmental clearances and others. The appellate panel will be headed by former judge B. Prakash Rao and will have retired academic from Osmania University V. Prabhakar Rao and retired scientist from IICT Jayatheertha Rao as members. Non re-constitution of the appellate authority after expiry of the previous one in 2017 has been challenged by an environmental NGO in HC last year. Early this year, a few other activists wrote to the HC requesting for declaration of the consent issued for construction of the new Secretariat complex null and void, as there had been no appellate authority against the clearance. The activists alleged that the appellate authority was not constituted deliberately after expiry of the previous one in May 2017.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/appellate-authority-for-tspcb/article35795623.ece
08 August 2021||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,||Farmer found dead in Bhadradri-Kothagudem||Unable to cope with mounting financial difficulties, a 60-year-old tribal farmer allegedly committed suicide at Rupla tanda at Sujathanagar mandal in the wee hours of Saturday. The police identified the deceased as Tejavath Jagma of Rupla tanda. He allegedly consumed pesticide near an agricultural field in the village late on Friday night and died while being shifted to a hospital in the small hours of the day, sources said. He reportedly lost a small portion of his agricultural land for construction of an overhead tank under the Mission Bhagiratha drinking water scheme in the village last year. His son was offered a pump operator job by the Gram Panchayat. Jagma made repeated appeals to the authorities for providing a permanent job to his son several times in the recent past, sources close to his family said. He was upset over his worsening financial situation and his son’s uncertain future. The Sujathanagar police registered a case and are investigating. (Roshini - Suicide Prevention Helpline: 040-66202000)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/losing-land-to-mission-bhagiratha-ryot-ends-life/article35795627.ece
08 August 2021||MYSURU,||Bus services to Kerala from Kodagu suspended||With COVID-19 cases unrelenting in Kerala, triggering a scare in Kodagu, bus services from the coffee land to Kerala have been suspended till August 16. This decision has been taken in the interest of public health and to contain the spread of the pandemic. An order issued by Deputy Commissioner Charulatha Somal on Saturday said bus services of KSRTC and private operators would remain suspended as a precautionary measure till August 16. She warned of prosecution if the order was flouted. Meanwhile, another medical oxygen tank is coming up at the district COVID-19 hospital in Madikeri. Preparing for the imminent third wave, the second 13 kl oxygen tank is being installed at the hospital. The DC inspected the work and told the engineers to complete the work soon. She also inspected locations where the installation of oxygen tanks has been proposed. They include Siddapura PHC.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bus-services-to-kerala-from-kodagu-suspended/article35795736.ece
08 August 2021||August 08 2021 00:00 IST,||J&J’s single-dose vaccine gets emergency use nod||Johnson and Johnson’s (J&J) single-dose vaccine was on Saturday given Emergency Use Authorisation in India, making it the fifth COVID-19 vaccine to get clearance in the country. The exact road map for making the vaccine available in Indian markets is still under discussion, Union Health Ministry officials said.page 10||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/jjs-single-dose-vaccine-gets-emergency-use-nod/article35795078.ece
08 August 2021||Kabul,||Taliban seize another city in Afghanistan||The Taliban seized the stronghold of a notorious Afghan warlord on Saturday, officials said, the second provincial capital to fall to the insurgents in under 24 hours. The Deputy Governor of Jawzjan province said he was with government forces who had abandoned Sheberghan city and retreated to the airport on its outskirts, where they were preparing to defend themselves. The city is home to warlord Abdul Rashid Dostum, who only returned to Afghanistan this week from medical treatment in Turkey, but is currently in Kabul. Aides said he was meeting President Ashraf Ghani on Saturday in an attempt to persuade the country’s leader to fly in reinforcements. “We have demanded the government deploys at least 500 commandos so we could work to retake the city," said his party's spokesman, Ehsan Niro.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/taliban-seize-another-city-in-afghanistan/article35795517.ece
08 August 2021||GUNTUR,||Installation of stop log gate at Pulichintala under way||The irrigation engineers have begun a massive effort to install stop log gate No. 16 at the KL Rao Sagar (Pulichintala) project. The process which began in the early hours of Saturday will continue on Sunday. The water levels at the dam have been reduced considerably to facilitate the installation of the gate meant to arrest the flow. “The installation of the stop log gate is meant to stop the flow of water and it will not be functional to operate as a radial crest gate allowing water discharges,” said Superintending Engineer of the Pulichintala project J. Ramesh Babu. Two teams of engineers working in two shifts were supervising the challenging work. The Pulichintala balancing reservoir has 24 radial crest gates each measuring 17.5 feet in length and 18.3 feet in width. The crest gates are movable and there are 11 blocks behind the gate. The stop log gate is being erected behind the crest gate and is meant to stop the water flow. The radial crest gate was washed away in the early hours of Wednesday due to heavy inflow of water from Nagarjuna Sagar. “It all happened in 10-15 seconds. We have been trying to fix the stop log gate after ensuring the water inflows are reduced,” said Mr. Ramesh Babu. As the inflows reduced gradually, the storage level at the dam was reduced to 38.28 metres from 53.24 metres. The Pulichintala dam was designed to stabilise 13.08 lakh acres of ayacut besides generating 120 MW of power in the hydel unit located at Vajinipalli village in Nalgonda district. The dam has a catchment area of 20,028 km and has been designed for a maximum flood discharge of 20,37,656 cusecs. The gross storage of the reservoir is 45.77 tmcft of which 36.23 tmcft is live storage.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/installation-of-stop-log-gate-at-pulichintala-under-way/article35795040.ece
08 August 2021||Kabul,||Taliban seize another city in Afghanistan||The Taliban seized the stronghold of a notorious Afghan warlord on Saturday, officials said, the second provincial capital to fall to the insurgents in under 24 hours. The Deputy Governor of Jawzjan province said he was with government forces who had abandoned Sheberghan city and retreated to the airport on its outskirts, where they were preparing to defend themselves. The city is home to warlord Abdul Rashid Dostum, who only returned to Afghanistan this week.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/taliban-seize-another-city-in-afghanistan/article35795083.ece
08 August 2021||Bengaluru,||CCB unearths inter-State weapons racket||An inter-State weapons racket was unearthed on Saturday by Central Crime Branch (CCB) officials, who arrested four persons who were allegedly supplying country-made weapons to gangsters and rowdies in Bengaluru city. The police also recovered five country-made pistols, two rifles, and 19 rounds of live ammunition from them. The prime accused, Ayazulla, 30, from Kalasipalya, was sourcing weapons from his contacts in Shamli in Uttar Pradesh, Amritsar in Punjab, and Shirdi in Maharashtra, getting the delivery of weapons by train and bus and selling it to gangsters. The accused would get the weapons from his sources at throwaway prices and sell them to his customers at much higher rates to make quick money, a police officer said. Based on a tip-off that Ayazulla was waiting near a hotel in Cottonpet to deliver weapons to his customers, a police team rushed to the spot and caught him red-handed before he could make the delivery. Based on information given by him, the police also arrested Syed Siraj, 42, from R.T. Nagar, Mohammed Ali, 32, from Hegde Nagar, and Arun Kumar, 26, from Rajanukunte, and recovered the remaining arms which they had purchased from Ayazulla.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ccb-unearths-inter-state-weapons-racket/article35795393.ece
08 August 2021||New Delhi,||Weekly markets in Delhi to open from tomorrow||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday announced that weekly markets would be allowed to open from the coming week. “Weekly markets are being opened from Monday. These r poor people. Govt is quite concerned about their livelihoods...,” he tweeted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/weekly-markets-in-delhi-to-open-from-tomorrow/article35795485.ece
08 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||Politicians’ support does not help us, say farmers||A day after Congress MP Rahul Gandhi and leaders of other Opposition parties joined protesting farmers at Jantar Mantar and witnessed the proceedings of the farmers’ parliament, the farmers on Saturday said the support is welcome but it does not help them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/politicians-support-does-not-help-us-say-farmers/article35795487.ece
08 August 2021||Kolkata,||Mamata seeks dialogue on Electricity Bill||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Saturday wrote a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi protesting against the Centre’s move on the Electricity (Amendment) Bill and urged him to refrain from proceeding with the Bill.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/mamata-seeks-dialogue-on-electricity-bill/article35795686.ece
08 August 2021||CHENNAI,||Several candidates skip counselling for posting||Many candidates, who belonged to other States and completed super-speciality medical courses at government medical colleges in State in 2020, did not attend counselling held for posting at July-end. A section of government doctors feels it will have an impact on healthcare.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/several-candidates-skip-counselling-for-posting/article35795710.ece
08 August 2021||Mumbai,||Three arrested for bomb hoax in Mumbai||Three people were arrested on Saturday after a hoax call claiming that bombs had been planted at three railway stations and actor Amitabh Bachchan’s residence in the city led to futile searches lasting hours, an official said. No suspicious material was found at any of the four locations, the police spokesperson said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/three-arrested-for-bomb-hoax-in-mumbai/article35795729.ece
08 August 2021||Mumbai,||State reports 6,061 COVID-19 cases, 128 deaths, 9,356 recoveries||Maharashtra reported 6,061 new COVID-19 cases and 128 fatalities on Saturday, taking the total tally to 63,47,820 and toll to 1,33,845. As many as 9,356 patients were discharged, pushing the number of recoveries to 61,39,493. Active cases have risen to 71,050. While the State's case recovery rate is 96.72%, the fatality rate stands at 2.1%. The Pune region reported 2,304 new infections, followed by 1,652 cases in the Kolhapur region. The Mumbai region reported 851 new cases and 12 fatalities. Mumbai city reported 851 new cases and 12 deaths during the day.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-reports-6061-covid-19-cases-128-deaths-9356-recoveries/article35795731.ece
08 August 2021||Ghaziabad,||RLD takes out ‘nyay yatra’ for underprivileged||The Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) is taking out a ‘nyay yatra’ to raise the voices of the underprivileged and the dispossessed. The yatra started from Saharanpur on Saturday and will culminate in Agra on October 10.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/rld-takes-out-nyay-yatra-for-underprivileged/article35795484.ece
08 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||Politicians’ support does not help us, say farmers||A day after Congress MP Rahul Gandhi and other Opposition leaders joined protesting farmers at Jantar Mantar, the farmers on Saturday said their support is welcome but it does not help them. “They had come here for their political gain,” said a farmer leader.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/politicians-support-does-not-help-us-say-farmers/article35795762.ece
08 August 2021||LUCKNOW,||Akhilesh questions BJP’s promise for farmers||Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav on Saturday asked the BJP government to explain how it would double the income of farmers before 2022. He wondered how the income of farmers had increased when they were battling higher costs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/akhilesh-questions-bjps-promise-for-farmers/article35795482.ece
08 August 2021||Mysuru,||Lockdown: Minister seeks relaxation for Mysuru||Minister for Cooperation S.T. Somashekar has promised to seek relaxation for Mysuru from the weekend lockdown imposed on eight districts bordering Kerala and Maharashtra witnessing a surge in COVID-19 cases. He said he will discuss the matter with Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai and convince him and the Chief Secretary that the COVID-19 in Mysuru was under control and did not require such curbs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/lockdown-minister-seeks-relaxation-for-mysuru/article35795740.ece
08 August 2021||CHENNAI,||State records slight dip with 1,969 cases||As many as 1,969 people tested positive for COVID-19 in Tamil Nadu on Saturday, registering a small dip from the previous day’s count of 1,985. With this, the State’s tally touched 25,73,352. As many as 223 people tested positive for COVID-19 in Coimbatore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-records-slight-dip-with-1969-cases/article35795410.ece
08 August 2021||CHENNAI,||Government pushes for random sampling||The Health Department has directed officials that 20% of the samples lifted for COVID-19 testing should be from the random sampling category. It said that random samples should be lifted from vulnerable places such as pharmacies, fair price shops, markets and railway stations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/health-dept-pushes-for-more-random-sampling/article35795411.ece
08 August 2021||CHENNAI,||Several candidates skip counselling for posting||Many candidates, who belonged to other States and completed super-speciality medical courses (DM/MCh) at government medical colleges in Tamil Nadu in 2020, did not attend the counselling held for posting at July-end.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/defence-industrial-corridor-nets-rs-2000-cr/article35795412.ece
08 August 2021||August 08 2021 00:00 IST,||The many lives of the Taliban’s top nemesis||In the spring of 2006, Amrullah Saleh, who was then heading the National Directorate of Security (NDS), Afghanistan’s spy agency, decided to conduct a field study on the Taliban’s advances. The Taliban were operating largely from Pakistan, occasionally launching attacks in rural Afghanistan. The country, which was under Taliban rule from 1996 to 2001, was steadily transitioning into an elected democracy. In 2004, the country held a presidential election and in 2005, parliamentary and provincial elections. Mr. Saleh travelled across the country, met active Taliban commanders and sources to collect intelligence. In May 2006, he completed his classified paper, “Strategy of the Taliban”, in which he wrote that the Inter-Service Intelligence (ISI), Pakistan’s spy agency, decided in 2005 to support the Taliban with cash and aid. The consolidation of the Hamid Karzai government in Afghanistan and the possibility of a united Afghanistan emerging as an ally of India prompted Pakistan, which he called an “India-centric country”, to support the Taliban. He concluded in the paper, the content of which was revealed by American journalist Steve Coll in his book, Directorate S , that the Taliban would make gains and launch an all-out insurgency that would bog the international troops down. President Karzai was angry about his findings. He dismissed Mr. Saleh’s predictions. The spymaster told his President, “I hope time will prove me wrong, but this is a product of your intelligence service,” writes Mr. Coll. Fifteen years later, Mr. Saleh is the first Vice-President of Afghanistan. And he knows more than anybody that time did not prove him wrong. Now, when the U.S.-led international troops are set to leave Afghanistan by September 11, the government is facing an existential threat in the face of the Taliban’s advances. Ever since the remaining American troops started withdrawing on May 1, the Taliban have made rapid territorial gains, capturing more than half of Afghanistan’s districts and most of its border crossings. The fighting is now moving from the hinterlands to the country’s city centres, under the watch of Mr. Saleh and his boss, President Ashraf Ghani. The guerrilla Mr. Saleh has had an illustrious career in Afghanistan’s fractious world of politics, intelligence and security. Born in Panjshir in October 1972, he grew up in Kabul. He was the youngest of five brothers. Like many Afghans of his generation, Mr. Saleh, a Tajik, grew up witnessing political violence under the Soviet-backed communist regime and suffering personal tragedies. In his early 20s, he joined the militia commanded by the legendary Tajik warlord Ahmad Shah Massoud, the “lion of Panjshir”. Massoud sent him to Pakistan in 1992 to do a course on “post-conflict reconstruction and management”. After the fall of the communist regime in 1992, the Mujahideen were briefly in power and Massoud was the Defence Minister. But when the Taliban captured Kabul, Massoud retreated to Panjshir from where the Northern Alliance of the anti-Taliban warlords continued its resistance to the Taliban. Mr. Saleh was one of the youngest advisers of Massoud. In 1999, Massoud sent him along with seven other senior aides and commanders to the U.S. to attend a CIA training programme. He had already been posted in Dushanbe, Tajikistan, as the Northern Alliance’s liaison officer. In that capacity, Mr. Saleh coordinated closely with the intelligence networks of the U.S., Russia, Iran and India. On September 9, 2001, when Massoud was assassinated by al-Qaeda, Mr. Saleh was in Dushanbe. He was immediately summoned to Kulyab, a Tajik city close to the Afghan border. In a hospital in Kulyab, Mr. Saleh was told by his comrades that the commander was dead. He later recalled a conversation he had with a CIA operative immediately after Massoud’s killing. “The decision is that we will fight,” Mr. Saleh told him. “We will not surrender. We will fight to our last man on the ground.” Two days later, al-Qaeda attacked the World Trade Center in New York. Within weeks, the U.S. invaded Afghanistan. The Taliban regime, which had hosted al-Qaeda’s Osama bin Laden, would soon crumble like a house of cards. The spymaster In 2004, after the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan was established, Mr. Saleh was appointed by President Karzai the head of the NDS. The years he spent as the Northern Alliance’s intelligence liaison officer came in handy. Mr. Saleh had developed close contacts with the CIA, the RAW and other regional intelligence agencies. He recruited Pashtun agents and deployed them across Afghanistan and even inside Pakistan to infiltrate into the Taliban networks. He launched a frequent intelligence briefing for the President. The objective was to build a vibrant intelligence community in Afghanistan that could foresee and neutralise threats from the Taliban and al-Qaeda. His relentless pursuit of the jihadists earned him a reputation as being the Taliban’s top enemy in Kabul. The insurgents carried out multiple assassination attempts on him, the most recent one being in September 2020. In 2011, after Bin Laden was killed in Pakistan’s Abbottabad, Mr. Saleh said the NDS had reached the conclusion as early as 2004 that Bin Laden was in one of Pakistan’s residential areas. In 2006, he had brought it to the attention of Gen. Ashfaq Parvez Kayani, who was then the ISI chief, at a conference in Bagram. Mr. Kayani was angry. ‘I don’t need to be taught intelligence by someone the age of my son,” he said, according to Mr. Saleh. But he continued to pursue the thread. In a summit between President Karzai and Pakistan’s dictator Gen. Pervez Musharraf, Mr. Saleh brought up the Bin Laden issue again. “Why have you have brought this Panjshiri guy to teach me intelligence,” a furious Musharraf told Mr. Krazai, Mr. Saleh told The Guardian . The warm relationship between Mr. Karzai and Mr. Saleh did not last long. When Mr. Karzai started looking for a dialogue with the Taliban, Mr. Saleh fell out with him. In 2010, he resigned as the NDS chief. Mr. Saleh believed that the Taliban problem would not be resolved unless the Taliban were disarmed and reintegrated into society. And he remained a strong advocate of the use of force against the Taliban, despite allegations of high casualties from aerial attacks. In a 2011 interview with PBS Frontline, when Mr. Saleh was asked if he supported President Barack Obama’s drone campaign, he said “drones are not enough”. “I encourage America to use the Air Force, bomb Pakistan and force it to stop supporting the Taliban and al-Qaeda. Period.” The politician For Mr. Saleh, the resignation from the NDS was an opportunity to build a broader support base before an eventual entry into politics. He turned out to be a critic of Mr. Karzai’s policies. He founded an organisation, Basej-e Milli (National Movement), which he called Afghanistan’s “anti-Taliban constituency”. He travelled across the country trying to mobilise supporters in favour of Basej and organised mass rallies in Kabul and elsewhere. In 2018, Mr. Saleh returned to the government when President Ashraf Ghani appointed him the Interior Minister. A few months later, he resigned to join Mr. Ghani’s election team. In the 2019 presidential election, Mr. Ghani, who was seeking re-election, picked Mr. Saleh as his running mate, which set the stage for his ascent as the First Vice-President. Throughout his three-decade-long career, Mr. Saleh has seen several ups and downs. His views have also evolved. He once quarrelled with Mr. Karzai over his efforts to talk with the Taliban. Now, the administration he is part of is seeking a political settlement with the Taliban through the Doha talks. As an intelligence chief, he spent almost his entire focus on the Taliban, still he could not stop the advances of the Taliban. Throughout his career, he remained critical of Pakistan, but he could practically do nothing to stop Rawalpindi deepening its influence in Afghanistan through the Taliban. Now, his country on the brink of a tragedy, which he had predicted. In the 2011 PBS interview, when asked whether he was worried about what would happen when the Americans withdrew, he said, “Yes. If they withdraw and the situation is in the way it is, it will be a disaster. Massacre of people. Bloodbath. Disintegration of power and fragmentation of authority.” When the interviewer asked him why should America stay in Afghanistan, he responded, with a smile, “Why did they come here?”  In focus Amrullah Saleh was one of the close aides of Ahmad Shah Massoud, the Tajik commander of the Northern Alliance that fought the Taliban in the 1990s When the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan was established after the fall of the Taliban, Saleh was named the chief of National Directorate of Security, the country's spy agency Saleh was appointed Interior Minister by President Ashraf Ghani in 2018 and the next year, he joined Ghani's election team and got elected as the First Vice President   In 2011, after Bin Laden was killed in Abbottabad, Saleh said the NDS had had intelligence as early as 2004 that the terrorist was living in one of Pakistan’s residential areas||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/the-many-lives-of-the-talibans-top-nemesis/article35795018.ece
08 August 2021||Bhopal,||M.P. flood death toll rises to 24||The number of deaths due to heavy rain in Gwalior and Chambal divisions of Madhya Pradesh increased to 24, officials said on Saturday. The authorities said the floods were slowly receding and no “life-threatening” situations existed in the region, where rescue and relief work was on. “The death toll in the rain-related incidents in the flood-hit parts of the State has risen to 24. These fatalities were recorded between August 1 and 7,” Revenue Secretary Gyaneshwar Patil said. Till Friday, officials had pegged the number of the deceased at 12. The floods in north Madhya Pradesh had turned grim earlier this week, where more than 1,250 villages were affected by the deluge. Gwalior, Shivpuri, Sheopur, Datia, Ashok Nagar, Guna, Bhind and Morena districts were affected as the region was pounded by rain since Sunday. However, from Thursday, the intensity of rain started going down. “No life threatening situation due to flooding exists in Gwalior and Chambal divisions at present,” Divisional Commissioner Ashish Saxena said. Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said 8,832 people were rescued from the flood-affected parts of the State, while 29,280 others have been shifted to safer places. Teams of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) and Indian Air Force (IAF) have reached Ashok Nagar for a rescue operation, he said, adding that Army columns are also scheduled to reach the affected areas. “The rescue operation in the affected areas is almost over and relief work is gathering steam,” the official said. Meanwhile, P.K. Saha, senior meteorologist with the India Meteorological Department’s (IMD) Bhopal office said that Ashok Nagar and Guna districts in Gwalior division received 32 mm and 164.1 mm of rainfall, respectively, in the 24 hours ending 8.30 a.m. on Saturday. “The low-pressure area is lying over northern parts of east Madhya Pradesh and its neighbourhood now. It was over central parts of north Madhya Pradesh and neighbourhood on Friday,” he said. With its shift to the eastern part of the State, the situation in Gwalior and Chambal is likely to improve as rain activity is likely to lessen from Saturday. CM takes stock In a series of tweets, the Chief Minister said, “I took stock of the flood situation and the ongoing rescue operation this morning in Guna, Ashoknagar, Vidisha districts. Rescue operation of IAF resumed this morning. The teams of SDRF and NDRF are also working to rescue the people trapped in villages.” He said that during the rescue operations carried out using helicopters, 15 persons each were rescued from Barri and Sirsora villages of Ashok Nagar district Saturday morning. Six more persons were rescued from Vasunia Ghat village from the same district and shifted to a safer place, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mp-flood-death-toll-rises-to-24/article35794991.ece
08 August 2021||New Delhi,||Distrust between Opposition and govt. grows||The General Insurance Business (Nationalisation) Amendment Bill, 2021 that seeks to enhance private participation in public sector insurance companies will be tabled in the Rajya Sabha on Monday despite a demand from Opposition parties that it be sent to a parliamentary committee for further scrutiny. The Congress, the Left parties, the Trinamool Congress, the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) and others had demanded that the Bill be sent to a Standing Committee of Parliament, but the government has not budged. 60 hours lost In the face of continued disruptions by Opposition parties protesting against the Pegasus spyware allegation, the government has refused to concede any ground, adopting an equally aggressive stance. Due to continued disruptions for the past three weeks, 60 of the 78 hours of Parliament time has been lost. Last week, the Rajya Sabha cleared eight Bills. Sources, however, said that the government was unlikely to move the Electricity Amendment Bill in the past five days of the monsoon session. On Thursday, the Kerala Assembly had moved a unanimous resolution asking the Centre to withdraw this Bill. Farmers’ organisations have been protesting against the proposed law, claiming that it will lead to an increase of 500% in their cost of irrigation. The proposed amendment seeks to remove all cross-subsidies and make all consumers pay the actual cost of supply. Farmers and rural consumers will pay the highest price for electricity, as the cost of supply to rural areas is significantly higher than that to urban consumers. “The only reason the government is hesitating on the Electricity Bill is because of the upcoming Assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand. They do not want to take any political missteps ahead of such crucial polls,” Communist Party of India-Marxist (CPI-M) MP Elamaram Kareem said. “There is no such political reluctance for the Insurance (Amendment) Bill.” The General Insurance Business (Nationalisation) Amendment Bill, 2021 was passed in the Lok Sabha on August 2. Unexpected Bill The government had stunned the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha on Thursday when it brought the Essential Defence Services Bill, 2021. Leader of the House Piyush Goyal reached out to Opposition parties, meeting individual leaders. In one such meeting, Mr. Goyal met DMK’s floor leader Tiruchi Siva. According to sources, he made no mention of the Essential Defence Services Bill, 2021. “We were given the impression that the government will send the Bill for further scrutiny. But they utilised the disarray in the Rajya Sabha to pass it in the din,” an Opposition leader said. The growing distrust between the government and Opposition leaders has led to often bitter exchanges between the two sides. At the meeting of the Business Advisory Committee (BAC, a panel of all parties to allocate time for various Bills and discussions) on Friday, the TMC’s chief whip Sukendu Sekhar Ray walked out. “At the BAC, they [the government] fix 3-4 hours per Bill but on the floor of the house, they rush through the Bill, wrapping up the debate in 10-15 minutes,” Mr. Ray said. At the same meeting, sources said that Mr. Goyal asked for cooperation from the Opposition parties for the passage of the Constitution Amendment Bill, which reverts the right of States to notify their own list of Other Backward Castes. At this, Congress Chief Whip in the Rajya Sabha, Jairam Ramesh, retorted that it’s for the government to ensure order in the House.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/distrust-between-opposition-and-govt-grows/article35795003.ece
08 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||Seroprevalence linked to lower caseload||More than the effect of two doses of vaccines, it’s seroprevalence above 70%, combined with at least half the adult population getting at least one shot of a vaccine, that is strongly linked to a low COVID-19 caseload and death rate. These are the inferences from publicly available data on State mortality and vaccination trends as well as results from a recently conducted serology survey from the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). With over 50.5 crore doses of vaccine administered until Saturday and the Centre’s stated target to inoculate all Indians by the year-end, the broad principle is that double-vaccinating the population as quickly as possible ought to be the priority. However, data from 21 States which were part of the ICMR’s serology survey, suggest that States with the lowest death counts, or those with fewer than 10 daily deaths, are also those with the lowest number of cases being added every day. These are Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Bihar, Gujarat, Uttarakhand and Uttar Pradesh. Of these Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Bihar have double-vaccinated less than 10% of their eligible population, with the others ranging from 13% to 20%. On the other hand, Himachal Pradesh and Kerala, two States with the highest rates of double vaccination at 24.6% and 22% respectively, are seeing an increasing trend in cases. Himachal Pradesh is adding 150-200 cases a day since July, while Kerala is on a runaway expansion of 11,000-20,000 cases a day. Population-wise, Kerala has the lowest seroprevalence, or those with SARS-CoV-2 antibodies, of 44% and Himachal at 62%, which is below the national average of 67%. Himachal Pradesh also has the highest proportion of population of 75% inoculated with one dose. But several States that have managed to inoculate at least half their population with at least one dose are still seeing a significant number of cases added each day. Karnataka for instance has 53.6% who got at least one dose and is still adding around 1,700 cases a day. This, however, is on a declining trend with nearly 3,500 cases being added in July. Deaths have fallen from nearly 100 a day last month to about 30 a day as of the first week of August. Telangana, also having vaccinated 52.5% of the population with one dose, is seeing less than seven deaths a day but nearly 600 cases are being added everyday, again a decline from about 1,000 from a month ago. Halfway mark Getting closer to the 50% population mark improves daily case loads — Assam has 43% with one dose and Haryana 49% and both are seeing less than 30 deaths a day for over a month. The north-eastern State is adding 1,048 cases a day. However, high seroprevalence on its own isn't an influential factor, as seen in West Bengal and Jharkhand. Both have over 60% seroprevalence and a similar fraction — 30% — with at least one dose. But West Bengal is adding nearly 700 cases everyday to Jharkhand’s 28. The former is adding 10 deaths a day and the latter is reporting zero deaths. But Uttar Pradesh — India’s most populous state — with 71% seroprevalence and only 29% with at least one dose is reporting less than 50 cases a day and less than 10 deaths. “One way to look at it is that high seroprevalence with one shot of vaccine is equivalent to two doses of vaccine and that could explain the protectivity in these high prevalence States,” said Chandrakant Lahariya, epidemiologist and public health expert. “But U.P., M.P. and Bihar have also a substantial number of under-reported cases as the seroprevalence surveys and excess death counts reveal.” “States like Kerala with low seroprevalence should be given more vaccines as opposed to those with high seroprevalence. So far the evidence is that only the m-RNA vaccines, none of which are used here, have some role in reducing transmission,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/seroprevalence-single-dose-of-vaccine-influencing-case-rates/article35795085.ece
08 August 2021||August 08 2021 00:00 IST,||In a race to the top||In April this year, Germany’s Green party, for the first time in its history, announced a Chancellor candidate for the federal elections, scheduled to take place in September. The anointment of Annalena Baerbock, co-chair of the Greens since 2018, puts the seal on a transition that has been in the making — an ideological entity shifting gears to become a party that is ready to make political compromises, especially of the kind that may be unpalatable yet necessary to form a coalition government with the centre-right Christian Democratic Union (CDU), which has been in power for four terms under Chancellor Angela Merkel. As part of this transition, for some years now, the Greens have been trying to break the stereotype of being a one-issue party that doesn’t care about anything beyond the environment. Ms. Baerbock, for instance, has spoken strongly on human rights abuses in China, Russia’s aggressive moves on Ukraine, and economic inequality. In the weeks after her candidature was announced, the Greens even briefly led the opinion polls, before controversies around Ms. Baerbock’s professional ethics saw them fall back. In a string of exposes, it emerged that Ms. Baerbock had not disclosed to Parliament some bonus payments she had received from her party, which she should have, as per the rules. Then came plagiarism allegations. An Austrian blogger put out a post, subsequently picked up by German media, claiming that some passages in her book, Now. How We Renew Our Country, were plucked wholesale from different sources without attribution. Another set of damaging allegations concerned ‘resume padding’, with a German journalist revealing on social media that her official resume falsely claimed she was a member of the German Marshall Fund and the UN High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR), besides other organisations. Media storm As Ms. Baerbock was weathering a media storm over these charges, a real one emerged, pushing the Greens’ core ideological agenda to the forefront of national politics. With flash floods claiming 181 lives in Germany and causing billions of euros worth of damage, suddenly climate change, even for conservative voters, was no longer about Arctic ice caps or something that happens in 2050 but an urgent crisis that needed management by adept hands — and who better than the Greens to do it? But the Greens have been wary of drawing — or rather, being seen as drawing — political mileage from the floods. In public comments in the aftermath of the floods, the party has dwelled more on beefing up infrastructure and building positivity rather than talk about climate change. Ms. Baerbock has opted to let voters draw their own conclusions about the floods, and they have, with a recent poll revealing that 55% of Germans linked the flash floods to climate change. The Greens, at the same time, are aware of a growing sense among voters that the massive economic reset needed to tackle climate change is unlikely to come from the two mainstream parties, the CDU and the SPD. But rather than get into the negativity of flood-related losses, the Greens have simply announced a €25 billion plan to help the economy and industry shift into climate neutral mode. In a poll conducted this week, the Greens scored 19% in approval ratings, eight points behind the CDU at 27%, though ahead of the SPD at 18%. While Ms. Baerbock garnered 16% of the hypothetical votes, the CDU’s Chancellor candidate Armine Laschet was at 20%. The most popular candidate, ironically, was from the least popular of the three major contenders, with Olaf Scholz of the SPD way ahead at 35%. The Greens have never formed their own government at the federal level. They have, however, been part of a ruling coalition with the SPD for two terms, 1998 and 2005, before returning to the Opposition. With barely a month to go for the elections, unless something big happens to change these numbers drastically, it would appear that the Greens are once again on course to be kingmakers rather than king. But if they do better than the SPD, and Ms. Baerbock stays ahead of rival Chancellor candidates in popularity ratings then Germany may well get a Green Chancellor to guide them in an era of climate crises.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/in-a-race-to-the-top/article35795020.ece
08 August 2021||August 08 2021 00:00 IST,||Made-in-India carrier||On August 4, India’s first indigenous aircraft carrier (IAC-1), a freshly minted warship displacing 40,000 tonnes, set out to sea for its maiden set of trials, propelling India to a select group of nations capable of designing and building a complex platform such as this. It marked a watershed. The vessel, to be named Vikrant after the first carrier operated by the Indian Navy, is the largest and the most complex platform so far designed by the Directorate of Naval Design, and is slated to join the Navy next year. It was nothing short of a baptism by fire for the Cochin Shipyard, which built the carrier. While the public sector shipbuilder had built mammoth commercial vessels and taken care of the now-retired Viraat through its lifetime, the IAC-1 offered it a steep learning curve which it thinks will stand it in good stead as the Navy contemplates building a second indigenous carrier. Having operated two British-origin carriers, Vikrant and Viraat , the Navy wanted to build an air defence ship right from the 1980s but the idea crystallised into a project in the late 1990s. The Cabinet Committee on Security (CCS) accorded approval for the project in 2002, its keel was laid in 2009 and the financial estimate was revised in 2014. Roughly about Rs. 20,000 crore has been spent for the construction of the vessel. But it led to a giant leap in military shipbuilding in India as it resulted in the development of warship-grade steel indigenously by Steel Authority of India (SAIL) and the Defence Metallurgical Research Laboratory (DMRL) besides capability and skill-development at the shipyard. Advanced platform The IAC-1 is an advanced platform in comparison with Vikramaditya , the only aircraft carrier in service with the Indian Navy, in terms of capabilities, automation and net-centricity. And its degree of indigenisation is about 76%. Unlike Vikramaditya , which is steam-propelled, Vikrant is propelled by four gas turbines that were produced by GE but integrated and commissioned by its Indian partner, the public sector Hindustan Aeronautics Ltd (HAL). Similarly, the COGAG (combined gas and gas) gear boxes from Germany were integrated by an Indian company named Elecon. About 550 Indian companies, including about 100 medium and small scale industries (MSME), had a role to play in the construction of the carrier. The IAC-1 is 262 metres long, 62 metre at its widest part and has a height of 59 metres, including its super structure. Its diesel alternators, eight of them, generate as much as 24 MW power, which is enough to light up an entire city. The ship has about 2,000 km of cabling, 120 km of piping and 2,300 compartments. It has 14 decks, including five in the super structure, and will have a complement of a little less than 1,700 personnel. It’s the first ship with purpose-built gender-specific accommodation, as the Navy has begun deploying women officers on board ships. The largest alleyway of the vessel is on the fifth deck, with a length of 240 metres. The ship can carry up to 30 aircraft, fighter jets and helicopters, and is capable of cruising at 18 knots speed with an endurance of about 7,500 nautical miles. It has a very high degree of automation for machinery operation, ship navigation and survivability. ‘One of the best’ It’s believed that it’s going to have an integral fleet of MiG29-K aircraft, a la Vikaramaditya . The twin-engine deck-based fighter (TEDBF) being developed by HAL could also be part of it. Reports suggest that the dimensions of the elevators which bring the aircraft from the hangar to the flight deck are a little constricted to take on bigger aircraft. “But it’s our design and a little modification is always possible,” says a naval officer. The carrier will also have Kamov 31 early warning and Kamov 26 anti-submarine warfare helicopters. It’s not the USS Nimitz for sure, but the IAC-1, equipped as it is with the Barak 8 LR-SAM (long range surface to air missile), the AK-630 close-in-weapon system and the Israeli MF-STAR radar for tracking and fire control, is among the best with self-defence capabilities, says an officer. “The significance of the IAC-1 is that it has given us a capability that can be built upon,” he says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/made-in-india-carrier/article35795022.ece
08 August 2021||Guwahati,||‘Alternative to BJP in Assam not without Cong.’||Senior Assam Congress leader Debabrata Saikia on Saturday said any alternative to the ruling BJP is not possible without the support of the Congress. Mr. Saikia, who is also the Leader of the Opposition in the Assembly, hinting at new regional parties which are allegedly working as BJP’s ‘B-team’ in the State, said the identity of those which are helping the BJP covertly will be clear when the by-election is held. “Ít is wrong to think that an alternative to the BJP is possible without the Congress. If other (Opposition) parties think we should work together (to beat the BJP), it will be good,” he said. The new regional parties he hinted at were formed ahead of the elections earlier this year and were accused by the Congress of working as ‘B-team’ of the BJP to ensure division of the votes. By-election is due in five seats in Assam following the death of two elected lawmakers and resignation of three others, including former Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal due to his induction to the Union Cabinet. About the Himanta Biswa Sarma government’s recent clarification that there is no tax on construction of houses in rural areas, Mr. Saikia said it was done as any such tax at this stage would have made the CM’s dream of a ‘Congress mukt’ Assam difficult. Assam Panchayat and Rural Development Minister Ranjeet Kumar Dass had last week said permission from the local civic body would be needed and tax would have to be paid for building any new house in rural areas. The Chief Minister’s office had, however, issued a press statement later claiming that no such tax is being imposed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/alternative-to-bjp-in-assam-not-without-cong/article35795688.ece
08 August 2021||Kolkata,||Sunderbans is now drowning in plastic||Unregulated inflow of relief to the Sunderbans has resulted in a new crisis in the cyclone-battered region: plastic waste. Several NGOs, experts, and even officials of the District Police and the Forest Department have pointed out that the plastic accumulating on the isolated islands of the fragile ecosystem are cause for great concern. Ecologist Diya Banerjee has been pointing out the issue from as early as June, days after Cyclone Yaas inundated large parts of the Sunderbans in the last week of May 2021. “What we are seeing is tonnes of plastic in the remote areas of the Sundarbans, like Gosaba, Mousuni, Bali, Patharpratima and Kultali. People residing in these areas are not responsible in any way for the huge plastic waste; it is outsiders who are introducing and bringing a large quantity of plastics, completely oblivious and ignorant to its long-term impact on the region,” Ms. Banerjee said. She added that a local NGO Mahajibon had recovered about 300 kg of plastic waste from the Gosaba block days after Cyclone Yaas. While it is difficult to estimate the total amount of plastic waste that is arriving in about 50 inhabited islands of the Sunderbans spread across thousands of square kilometres, Sourav Mukherjee of the Kolkata Society for Cultural Heritage has estimated about 56 tonnes of plastic in the Gosaba block alone. “We have calculated the amount on the basis of how much packaged relief material was received by families, how many times, in the past few weeks,” Mr. Mukherjee said. Long-term impact Not only conservationists, even police officers have raised concerns over the huge dumping of plastic waste. Arijit Basu, Additional Superintendent of Police, Baruipur Police District of South 24 Parganas, had put up a post on social media a few weeks ago, pointing out that relief workers brought plastic water bottles, which were being disposed everywhere. The police officer urged locals and NGOs to organise cleanliness drives to remove plastic from the Sunderbans. Tuhin Ghosh, Director of the School of Oceanographic Studies, Jadavpur University, said that plastics would have a long-term ecological impact on the Sundarbans ecosystem. “The presence of plastic in saline water will increase the toxicity of water gradually and also there will be eutrophication of water. Because of the presence of plastics in the water, there will be an increase in microplastics, which will slowly enter the food system,” Professor Ghosh said. He said that the Sunderbans were connected to the sea and the increase of plastic in the region could lead to plastic waste entering the ocean.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sunderbans-is-now-drowning-in-plastic/article35794985.ece
08 August 2021||Srinagar,||Influx of leaders into Lone’s party||In a bid to emerge as kingmaker in the upcoming Assembly election in J&K, Sajad Lone’s People’s Conference (PC) on Saturday welcomed former lawmakers and political leaders, including Safina Baigh, wife of former Deputy Chief Minister Muzzaffar Hussain Baigh, and two former MPs of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), into its fold. “The party is emerging as a formidable political force to reckon with. My dream is to see this caravan of change stronger. We will make more announcements in the coming weeks,” said Mr. Lone, who split from the Peoples Alliance of the Gupkar Declaration earlier this year. Those who joined Mr. Lone’s party include former legislator Murtaza Khan, former PDP MPs Nazir Ahmad Laway and Mir Mohammad Fayaz, and former Srinagar Deputy Mayor Sheikh Mohammad Imran. Ms. Baigh’s entry hints at a patch-up between her husband and Mr. Lone. Mr. Baigh had been disowned by the PC immediately after the multi-party meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi, following his controversial statements. His exit had threatened Ms. Safina’s position, who is DDC chairperson of Baramulla with the support of the PC councillors. In the Kashmir Valley, with 46 Assembly constituencies, there is growing competition among the regional players, including the National Conference, the PDP, the PC and the recently floated J&K Apni Party of Altaf Bukhari. The PC is fast emerging as a force in north Kashmir and if it manages to win 15 seats, the party will emerge as a kingmaker. “The PC will immensely benefit from these leaders and expand the reach of the party beyond its strongholds,” Mr. Lone said, adding that his party “will play a constructive role in the region to enable an environment for engagement”. “To bring reprieve for the people of J&K, we will work tirelessly to halt further erosion. This cannot be done through theatrical outbursts and rabble-rousing. In this digital age, our statements and utterances are read across the country. We should act in a manner that we do not enable further erosion and disrupt delivery. By making delivery difficult for Delhi, the people of J&K are the only losers,” he said in an oblique reference to the PDP and the National Conference.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/influx-of-leaders-into-lones-party/article35795000.ece
08 August 2021||Srinagar,||Al-Badr militant, policeman killed in Valley violence||A local militant and a policeman were killed and two policemen were injured in two separate militancy-related incidents in Kashmir valley on Saturday. Suspected militants fired at a police party on Saturday evening at Pombai area in Kulgam, just a day ahead of Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha’s visit to the district. “One policeman was killed and two others were injured in the attack. The area was cordoned off immediately to nab the attackers,” officials said. L-G Sinha and J&K regional parties including the National Conference, the Peoples Democratic Party and the J&K Peoples Conference condemned the attack. “I strongly condemn the cowardly attack in which our brave police jawan, Nisar Ahmad Wagay, attained martyrdom. Terrorists will never succeed in their nefarious designs. Those responsible for such heinous acts shall be brought to justice,” L-G Sinha said. Omar Abdullah (NC) and Mehbooba Mufti (PDP) also joined the condemnation and expressed sympathies with the victim’s family. Another militant killed Earlier in the day, security forces gunned down a militant and arrested another in Budgam in a pre-dawn operation. “The trapped terrorists were given the opportunity to surrender. However, they fired indiscriminately upon the search party. In the ensuing encounter, one terrorist of the Al-Badr was killed and his body was retrieved from the encounter site” IGP Vijay Kumar said. The police identified the slain militant as Shakir Bashir Dar, son of Bashir Ahmad Dar, a resident of Goripora, Awantipora in Pulwama district. Dar and his associate were encircled in Mochwa, Chadoora area, during a cordon and search operation by the police, the Army and the CRPF. “While the operation was in progress, another terrorist had managed to escape from the encounter site. The police got leads about his movement and arrested him from Mantaqi Colony in Khrew area. He was hiding in a truck,” IGP Kumar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/al-badr-militant-policeman-killed-in-valley-violence/article35794998.ece
08 August 2021||New Delhi,||Location of Dara Shikoh’s grave still a mystery||The final resting place of Mughal prince Dara Shikoh remains a mystery, with the Archaeological Survey of India saying it has not located the grave within the Humayun’s Tomb complex over a year after a committee was formed for the job. In response to a Right to Information query by The Hindu , the ASI on July 28 replied “no” when asked if it had located the grave of Dara Shikoh at the Humayun’s Tomb complex. The government’s quest for locating the grave, which some believe is among the many unmarked graves inside the Humayun’s Tomb complex, started in February 2020. Then Culture Minister Prahlad Singh Patel had announced the setting up of a committee to locate the grave. Dara Shikoh, who was Mughal emperor Shah Jahan’s son and expected heir, was killed on the orders of his brother Aurangzeb in 1659 after losing the war of succession. While there are some mentions of his grave in texts, there hasn’t been a consensus among historians as to where exactly he was laid to rest. On December 17, 2020, speaking during a ceremony at Rahim’s Tomb, Mr. Patel said the committee had submitted its interim report and that after one more meeting, it would be publicly released. Mr. Patel said it was Dara Shikoh who was responsible for making the Upanishads available to the West as he had them translated. Then, on March 9 this year Mr. Patel replied to a question in the Rajya Sabha that a committee had been formed to study the tangible and cultural heritage of Dara Shikoh and Rahim Khan-e-Khana. “Tangible remains of Dara Shikoh are expected outcome. Report of the Committee is awaited,” his reply stated. Members of the panel have failed to reach a consensus. One of the members of the committee, retired ASI Additional Director General B.R. Mani was of the opinion that there was enough evidence to say that one of the three unmarked cenotaphs in a row marked Dara Shikoh’s resting place. Mr. Mani told The Hindu on Saturday that he had submitted his own opinion to the ASI a few months ago. Interestingly, a South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) engineer Sanjeev Kumar Singh had claimed that Alamgirnama , the history of Aurangzeb’s reign, said that Dara Shikoh was buried with emperor Akbar’s sons, Daniyal and Murad. Mr. Mani said he agreed. Some sceptical Other committee members, however, were sceptical. Former Joint Director General of ASI R.S. Bisht said “there was no irrefutable evidence” about the location of the grave. He added that Alamgirnama was written by the court historian of Aurangzeb who would have wanted to paint him in better light. “If he [Aurangzeb] really cared, he wouldn’t have had his brother killed and his body paraded through Delhi,” Mr. Bisht said. He added that there were other ways to honour Dara Shikoh, “a man of letters” who was known for his “tolerance and academic aspects”, like restoring his library and the dargah s of Sufi saints he followed. A committee member and former ASI Director (Archaeology), Syed Jamal Hassan, said it was difficult to identify the grave as there were no inscriptions, and references did not confirm the site as well. He added that he had submitted his opinion to ASI, that he disagreed with the SDMC engineer’s claim. He said the three cenotaphs in question were on one platform and looked to be made at the same time. ASI Director General V. Vidyavathi could not be reached for comment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/location-of-dara-shikohs-grave-still-a-mystery/article35795012.ece
08 August 2021||Kolkata,||‘Ancestral Dravidian tongues spoken on Indus Valley sites’||A recent publication has provided crucial evidence that ancestral Dravidian languages were possibly spoken by a significant population in the Indus Valley Civilisation. The paper titled “ Ancestral Dravidian Languages in Indus Civilization: Ultraconserved Dravidian Tooth-word Reveals Deep Linguistic Ancestry and Supports Genetics”, by Bahata Ansumali Mukhopadhyay was published this month in a Nature Group journal Humanities and Social Sciences Communications . This study seeks to resolve a crucial part of this perennial puzzle of South Asian prehistory, through establishing the certain existence of ancestral Dravidian language(s) in the Indus Valley Civilisation. In the absence of any deciphered written documents of Indus Valley Civilisation, there are no direct ways of identifying Harappan languages. Thus, the only feasible starting point is to find certain proto-words whose likely origin in Indus Valley Civilisation gets confirmed through historical and linguistic evidence, whereas archaeological evidence indicates that the objects signified by those proto-words were prevalently produced and used in the Indus Valley Civilisation. Analysing numerous archaeological, linguistic, archaeogenetic and historical evidences the study finds some such proto-words. It claims that the words used for elephant (like, ‘pīri’, ‘pīru’) in Bronze Age Mesopotamia, the elephant-word used in the Hurrian part of an Amarna letter of ca. 1400 BC, and the ivory-word (‘pîruš’) recorded in certain sixth century BC old Persian documents, were all originally borrowed from ‘pīlu’, a Proto-Dravidian elephant-word, which was prevalent in the Indus Valley civilisation, and was etymologically related to the Proto Dravidian tooth-word ‘*pal’ and its alternative forms ( ‘*pel’/‘*pīl’/‘*pi’/). Analysing Dravidian grammar and phonology, Ms. Bahata, a software technologist in Bengaluru, says the elephant words ‘pīlu’, ‘palla’, ‘pallava’, ‘pilluvam’, etc., which are attested in various Dravidian dictionaries, are related to the Proto-Dravidian tooth-word “pal”. The paper points out that elephant-ivory was one of the luxury goods coveted in the Near East. The researcher, however, makes a disclaimer, saying that it would be wrong to assume that only a single language or language-group was spoken across the one-million square kilometre area of the Indus Valley civilisation. “Even today, people across the greater Indus Valley speak several tongues including Indo-Aryan, Dardic, Iranian, along with the isolated Dravidian language Brahui and the language isolate Burushaski,” she added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/dravidian-tongues-spoken-in-indus-valley/article35794979.ece
08 August 2021||LUCKNOW,||Akhilesh mocks BJP promise of doubling farmers’ incomes||Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav on Saturday asked the BJP government to explain how it would double the income of farmers before 2022. Referring to the BJP’s election manifesto and promises made by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and other party leaders that farm income would be doubled by 2022, Mr. Yadav wondered how the income of farmers had increased when the agrarian community was battling higher costs due to rise in price of pesticides and other essentials and inflation. “The people and the farmers want to know what is the income of the farmers today,” Mr. Yadav asked at a press conference. Several OBC leaders including former BSP Rajya Sabha MP Rajpal Saini from Muzaffarnagar in west U.P., which is witnessing farmers’ protests, joined the SP at the event. Other entrants to the party were leaders from the Nishad and Kashyap community including Tufani Nishad who had contested on a Congress ticket and Bhojpuri artist Kajal Nishad. Mr. Saini said the OBCs were being neglected under the BJP government and claimed that there was a hawa (wind) in favour of the SP in west U.P. ahead of 2022 Assembly election.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/akhilesh-mocks-bjp-promise-of-doubling-farmers-incomes/article35794994.ece
08 August 2021||Tokyo,||Casteist abuse shameful, says women’s hockey team skipper||Indian women’s hockey team skipper Rani Rampal on Saturday condemned the allegedly casteist abuse that her teammate Vandana Katariya’s family has faced, saying it was nothing short of shameful. The family of Ms. Katariya, who scored four goals during the Olympics, found itself at the receiving end of allegedly casteist slurs from a few people in their neighbourhood in Haridwar after the team lost the semi-final clash against Argentina on Wednesday. “It’s such a bad thing which has happened. We work so hard to represent our country. Stop all these things like discriminating on religion, casteism because we work above all these things,” Ms. Rani said during a virtual press conference. India finished fourth in the Games after going down to Great Britain 3-4 in an intensely fought bronze play-off. “We come from different parts of India, follow different religions. But when we come here we work together for India. It’s so shameful when we see people indulging in such behaviour,” Ms. Rani said. “But there are also people who have given us so much love even though we didn’t win a medal.” Two men had reportedly danced and burst firecrackers outside Ms. Katariya’s house in the Roshnabad area of Haridwar in a gesture of mockery.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/casteist-abuse-shameful-says-womens-hockey-team-skipper/article35794997.ece
08 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||Legality of PM Cares Fund challenged||An appeal challenging the legality of the PM Cares Fund in the Supreme Court has alleged that “oceans of money” are being diverted from Ministries, government agencies, departments and other bodies to the fund as “contributions” every day. Petitioner Divya Pal Singh, a resident of Uttar Pradesh, alleged that “unimaginable and unfathomable amounts of public money is pumped unabatedly every day, into the coffers of the Fund”. “Shockingly, the money even from government-controlled funds such as ‘Assistance related to Bhopal Gas Leak Disaster’ meant for the victims of the Bhopal Gas Tragedy, has not been spared and is also being drained into the said Fund,” the petition, drawn by a group of young lawyers, Rajesh Inamdar, Shashwat Anand, Jawad Ur Rehman, Ashutosh Mani Tripathi, Syed Ahmed Faizan Mohd Kumail Haider and Amit Pai, said. There was a compelling need for transparency and accountability in the affairs of the Fund formed to monetarily help the fight against the pandemic, it stated. “The ideals of democracy can never be realised, unless there is transparency, accountability and responsiveness in the affairs of governance. The citizen’s right to information is increasingly being recognised as an important mechanism to promote openness, transparency and accountability in the affairs of the state,” the petition, settled by senior advocate Devadatt Kamat, submitted. The appeal noted that the Allahabad High Court dismissed the case after it was “misled” by the government into concluding that the Supreme Court had upheld the validity of the Fund in a case filed by an NGO, Centre for PIL, in 2020. In fact, Mr. Singh argued that the CPIL case was concerned about the transfer of money in PM Cares Fund to the National Disaster Relief Fund and the framing of a National Plan to combat the pandemic. The 2020 case had not questioned the validity of the Fund itself, he contended.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/legality-of-pm-cares-fund-challenged/article35795013.ece
08 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||J&J vaccine fifth to get emergency nod||The single-dose COVID-19 vaccine of Johnson and Johnson (J&J) was on Saturday given approval for Emergency Use Authorisation (EUA) in India, making it the fifth COVID vaccine to get the clearance in the country. The exact road map for making the vaccine available in Indian markets is still under discussion, Health Ministry officials said. Responding to a query by The Hindu on the vaccine availability timeline, the Johnson & Johnson India spokesperson said, “While we look forward to meeting our delivery commitments, it is premature for us to speculate on the timing of our vaccine deliveries.” Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya, in a tweet, announced that the EUA had been granted to the vaccine and that India now had five EUA vaccines. The Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) had allowed the emergency use of Covishield, Covaxin, Sputnik V and Moderna vaccines. Earlier this week, NITI Aayog member (Health) V.K. Paul said the “Indian government is still in talks with Moderna and Pfizer on the indemnity issue to allow their vaccines into India. Moderna’s vaccine had earlier received the EUA, but is still not available in India.” The Health Ministry has maintained that it is continuously working towards ensuring increased supply of COVID-19 vaccines. In a response given in the Lok Sabha during this session, it maintained that “COVID-19 vaccination protects from severe manifestation of disease and improving herd immunity and is accordingly likely to mitigate the impact COVID-19 may have with any future resurgence. Vaccines currently being utilised for immunisation offer substantial protection again COVID-19 besides reducing severity of disease, hospitalisation and deaths.’’ Handholding of makers The Ministry stated that in order to improve vaccine accessibility, the manufacturers were being provided requisite handholding to increase production and newer vaccines were also being planned to be included in the immunisation activities, which will further improve the availability. It said the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation had granted permission to conduct the Phase 1 clinical trial of an intranasal adenoviral vector COVID-19 vaccine (BBV154) (in the age group of 18 and above) to Bharat Biotech, Hyderabad. Also so far as injectable vaccine for children was concerned, the CDSCO had granted permission to conduct clinical trials of vaccines in children as follows: Phase 2/3 clinical trial to Bharat Biotech, Hyderabad (in the age group of two to 18) for Whole-Virion Inactivated SARS-CoV-2 Vaccine and Phase 3 clinical trial to Cadila Healthcare Ltd., Ahmedabad (in the age group of 12 years and above) for a DNA-based vaccine. “The outcomes of the clinical trials depend on data emerging from the trial for the purpose of its approval for launch in the country. Further, the CDSCO has not granted permission to conduct clinical trial of any imported COVID-19 vaccine on children in the country,” the Ministry noted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/jj-vaccine-fifth-to-get-emergency-nod/article35795010.ece
08 August 2021||AHMEDABAD,||Development went on during pandemic: Shah||India’s development march went ahead despite the pandemic, which has affected the entire world, but India won the battle against COVID-19, said Union Home Minister Amit Shah, crediting the Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s leadership for continued development works and the Centre’s effective fight against the virus. “When the wheel of development came to a halt across the world, in India, under the leadership of Narendra Modi, the pace of development continued. We fought strongly against coronavirus and even won the fight, and at the same time, carried on with the development,” the Union Home Minister said in his address delivered virtually to mark the completion of Gujarat Chief Minister Vijay Rupani’s five years in office, being celebrated as ‘Vikas Divas’. Mr. Shah also virtually inaugurated and laid foundation stones of projects collectively worth Rs. 5,300 crore. The Union Home Minister said projects worth around Rs. 900 crore of the total project cost of Rs. 5,300 crore are taken up in his Gandhinagar Lok Sabha constituency while projects worth Rs. 630 crore were inaugurated and foundation stones were laid for other projects worth Rs. 241 crore. “The fact that the projects worth Rs. 3,322 crore related to roads, bridges, water and electric supply, houses for the poor etc., being inaugurated today means that they were constructed and completed entirely during the coronavirus pandemic period. “In Gujarat, the inauguration of projects worth Rs. 3,322 crore and launching many such projects in the last ten days shows that even during the coronavirus pandemic period, Gujarat ensured that the development never stops,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/development-went-on-during-pandemic-shah/article35795014.ece
08 August 2021||August 08 2021 00:00 IST,||Seroprevalence, single jab influencing case rates||Of these Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Bihar have double-vaccinated less than 10% of their eligible population, with the others ranging from 13%-20%. On the other hand, Himachal Pradesh and Kerala, two States with the highest rates of double vaccination at 24.6% and 22% respectively, are seeing an increasing trend in cases. Himachal Pradesh is adding 150-200 cases a day since July, while Kerala is on a runaway expansion of 11,000-20,000 cases a day. Population wise, Kerala has the lowest seroprevalence, or those with SARS-CoV-2 antibodies, of 44% and HP at 62% which is below the national average of 67%. Himachal Pradesh also has the maximum proportion of population of 75% inoculated with one dose. But several States that have managed to inoculate at least half their population with at least one dose are still seeing a large number of cases added each day. Karnataka for instance has 53.6% who got at least one dose and is still adding around 1,700 cases a day. This, however, is on a declining trend with nearly 3,500 cases being added in July. Deaths have fallen from nearly 100 a day last month to about 30 a day as of the first week of August. Telangana, also having vaccinated 52.5% of the population with one dose is seeing less than seven deaths a day but nearly 600 cases are being added everyday, again a decline from about 1,000 from a month ago.  Getting closer to the 50% population mark improves daily case loads — Assam has 43% with one dose and Haryana 49% and both are seeing less than 30 deaths a day for over a month. The north-eastern State is adding 1,048 cases a day. However, high seroprevalence on its own isn't an influential factor, as seen in West Bengal and Jharkhand. Both have over 60% seroprevalence and a similar fraction — 30% — with at least one dose. But West Bengal is adding nearly 700 cases everyday to Jharkhand’s 28. The former is adding 10 deaths a day and the latter is reporting zero deaths. But Uttar Pradesh — India’s most populous state — with 71% seroprevalence and only 29% with at least one dose is reporting less than 50 cases a day and less than 10 deaths. Under-reporting of cases “One way to look at it is that high seroprevalence with one shot of vaccine is equivalent to two doses of vaccine and that could explain the protectivity in these high prevalence States,” said Chandrakant Lahariya, epidemiologist and public health expert. “But U.P., M.P. and Bihar have also a substantial number of under-reported cases as the seroprevalence surveys and excess death counts reveal.” Though the quality of medical statistics varies among States, the number showed that the Centre and States ought to be working together to have different vaccination strategies for different States, Dr. Lahariya said. He also cautioned that the Delta variant being the dominant variant in India, several States with high seroprevalence weren’t necessarily protected in case of newer emerging variants.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/seroprevalence-single-jab-influencing-case-rates/article35794981.ece
08 August 2021||Mumbai,||‘Most parents trust in conventional learning’||A survey conducted among 5,000 respondents, including parents, students and around 70 academicians from 30 major cities across the country, suggests that around 93% parents strongly believe that traditional methods of learnings like in-person interactions, writing and learning and practical learning are best suited for their children and that they were worried about the physical and mental well-being of their children. Feedback Insights, a B2B2C research-based consulting firm, in association with the Centre for Innovation & Entrepreneurship (CIE) at the Indian School of Business (ISB), carried out the survey ‘Schooling in the time of pandemic,’ in order to determine how online classrooms impacted various aspects of learning and student development. As per the survey, around 33% parents expressed concern over the effectiveness of online learning and how a virtual learning environment might be hampering their child’s ability to be competitive in the future. Also 36% parents were worried about the long-term psychological impact of online learning on their children. On an average, students spend three hours a day on online sessions. S. Arunachalam, Academic Director - Centre for Innovation and Entrepreneurship, ISB says, “The ability of faculty and teachers to monitor student activities has significantly gone down and so has participative learning. It has a socio-psychological impact on both the faculty as well as the students.” Connectivity issues, both for the teachers and the students and lack of a dedicated study space at home were seen as some of the most common deterrents to online learning and retention. 67% of the students said they found it difficult to study due to Internet connectivity issues. Divide widens Better educated parents were more capable of supporting their children’s education through direct assistance, having higher expectations, and providing more resources. This shift was definitely not a boon for this stratum of society. Hence, as lacunae was seen in online education, a hybrid model that was being mulled over by educational institutes seemed more effective and productive, observed the report. S. Chandramouli, Managing Director, Feedback Insights India said, “Mobile first adoption of online education is a blessing as well as a bane. Though it will drive the scale of adoption, it’s not a healthy alternative. The Education Ministry, academicians and opinion- makers in this space should come together to create a better infrastructure for this to sustain.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/most-parents-trust-in-conventional-learning/article35795009.ece
08 August 2021||Mumbai,||Three arrested for bomb hoax in Mumbai||Three persons were arrested on Saturday after a hoax call claiming that bombs had been planted at three railway stations and actor Amitabh Bachchan’s residence in the city led to futile searches lasting hours, an official said. No suspicious material was found at any of the four locations, the police spokesperson said. “Our main control room received the call around 9.45 p.m. on Friday. The caller claimed that bombs had been placed at the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus, and the Byculla and Dadar railway stations, and also at Amitabh Bachchan’s bungalow in Juhu,” the official said. “Teams of the Government Railway Police, Railway Protection Force, Bomb Detection and Disposal Squad, dog squads and local police personnel rushed to these locations and carried out searches,” he said. Officials of the Anti-Terrorism Squad and Quick Response Team were also involved in the searches, the official added. After several hours, it was confirmed that the call was a hoax. The police traced the caller from the mobile number to the Shil Phata area in neighbouring Thane. The caller turned out to be a truck driver from the Marathwada region, the official said. Along with him, two other men, his drinking buddies, were also held. It is suspected that they were drinking together when the hoax call was made. An FIR has been registered at the Azad Maidan Police Station under relevant sections of the IPC.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/three-arrested-for-bomb-hoax-in-mumbai/article35794983.ece
08 August 2021||August 08 2021 00:00 IST,||Centre denies existence of oxygen committee||Besides DPIIT officials, the committee had a representative of the Union Health Ministry, two AIIMS doctors and representatives of the All India Industrial Gases Manufacturers Association and the Petroleum and Explosives Safety Organization. Activist and freelance journalist Saurav Das, who filed the initial RTI request, said, “The records of this committee must be made public as it handled the crucial issue of medical oxygen. Given its stated objectives, the committee clearly recognised the issues at stake back in April 2020, so what did they do about it? This gains significance in the light of the chaos and disaster caused by oxygen shortages during the second wave of the COVID-19 pandemic.” Mr. Das noted that the Supreme Court was ultimately forced to create its own taskforce to carry out the duties entrusted to this committee. He deplored the statement that the committee did not exist. “Such mala fide denial of information shows that the government is adamant not to reveal it even after CIC’s order. Under the RTI Act, the officer is liable for penal action,” he said. There are also subsequent orders from the Ministry of Home Affairs in September 2020 and statements from the Public Information Bureau, which indicate that an Empowered Group was later reconstituted under Mr. Mohapatra’s chairmanship in September 2020 to oversee medical oxygen supply. Mr. Das filed his RTI request in April 2021, seeking information on the nine-member committee set up in April 2020 under Mr. Mohapatra. He requested information on the members, dates, agenda, minutes and presentations of the committee’s meetings till date. On June 11, the CPIO of the department, Karan Thapar, responded, refusing to disclose information, citing Section 8 (1) (a) that exempts information related to the “security, strategic, scientific or economic interests of the State” and Section 8 (1) (d) that exempts “information including commercial confidence, trade secrets or intellectual property” unless warranted by the larger public interest. After Mr. Das appealed his case, the CIC held a hearing on July 22, where the CPIO referred to the committee as the Empowered Group chaired by Mr. Mohapatra. The official said that as this group worked with “government and private entities, domestic and foreign” and dealt with “highly sensitive information regarding technologies, strategies and processes...and commercial and costing aspects of different industries and commodities”, the information could not be shared. Mr. Thapar argued that the information was exempt under Section 8 (1) (i), which refers to “Cabinet papers, including records of deliberations of the Council of Ministers, Secretaries and other officers”. In his submissions to the CIC, he also accused Mr. Das of being “aggressive without reason” and trying “to extort information by threatening and coercing public functionaries”. Subsequently, in an order dated July 29, the CIC directed the DPIIT to respond to the RTI request. CPIO U-turn A week later, the CPIO made a U-turn. “No such committee was set up in the month of April 2020 under the chairmanship of Secretary, DPIIT, Shri Guruprasad Mohapatra, to ensure adequate availability of medical oxygen in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic,” he said in his August 6 response. Each of Mr. Das’s requests for information was then dismissed with the statement, “Does not arise in view of above”. Mr. Thapar stated, “Further, the inadvertent error on the part of the CPIO in the earlier reply dated 11.06.2021, where the RTI application was misread is deeply regretted.” Mr. Das said he would file a non-compliance petition with the CIC regarding the denial. On Monday, the CIC is due to hear appeals against the Centre’s denial of information regarding the procurement of vaccines and the National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for COVID-19, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/centre-denies-existence-of-panel-on-oxygen/article35794989.ece
08 August 2021||New Delhi,||Rahul’s Twitter account ‘temporarily suspended’||Former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi's Twitter account has been temporarily suspended and due process is being followed to restore it, the party said on Saturday. The announcement comes a day after Twitter removed a controversial post of Mr. Gandhi with a picture of him meeting the family of a nine-year-old Dalit girl who died in the national capital allegedly after sexual assault. A message from Twitter read that the tweet had violated its rules. “Shri @RahulGandhi's Twitter account has been temporarily suspended & due process is being followed for its restoration,” the Congress tweeted from its official Twitter handle. “Until then, he will stay connected with you all through his other SM platforms & continue to raise his voice for our people & fight for their cause. Jai Hind!” the party said. Posting a picture of his meeting with the girl’s family on Wednesday, Gandhi had tweeted in Hindi: “Parents’ tears are saying only one thing — their daughter, the daughter of this country, deserves justice. And I am with them on this path to justice.” The National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) had asked the Delhi Police and Twitter on Wednesday to take action over Mr. Gandhi posting the photo of the girl’s family on the microblogging website, saying it violates the Juvenile Justice Act and the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/twitter-blocks-rahuls-account-on-ncpcr-plaint/article35794995.ece
08 August 2021||COIMBATORE,||Goyal for steps to boost handloom exports||Handloom exports should increase from Rs. 2,500 crore a year to Rs. 10,000 crore in the next three years, Union Minister of Textiles, Commerce and Industry, Consumer Affairs & Food and Public Distribution Piyush Goyal said on Saturday. Speaking at the National Handloom Day programme, he said steps need to be taken to increase the production capacities of handloom sector from the current Rs. 60,000 crore to over Rs. 1.25 lakh crore to increase exports. A committee consisting of weavers, trainers, equipment makers, marketing experts and other stake holders will be formed to recommend ways to achieve the objective. Textile Secretary U.P. Singh said an e-commerce portal is being developed in coordination with Digital India Corporation so that handloom weavers and handicraft artisans can sell their products directly. Resource centre  Mr. Goyal and Minister of State for Textiles and Railways Darshana Jardosh also inaugurated a Design Resource Centre in TamilNadu and the building of Weavers’ Service Centre at Raigarh in Chhattisgarh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/goyal-for-steps-to-boost-handloom-exports/article35795004.ece
08 August 2021||New Delhi,||President hosts high tea for Union Ministers||President Ram Nath Kovind on Saturday interacted with the Union Council of Ministers and hosted high tea for them at the Rashtrapati Bhavan Cultural Centre on Saturday evening, according to an official communique here. Apart from Prime Minister Narendra Modi and members of the Union Council of Ministers, Vice President M. Venkaiah Naidu was also present on the occasion, it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/president-hosts-high-tea-for-union-ministers/article35795005.ece
08 August 2021||IMPHAL,||HC extends time for CBI probe report submission||The Manipur High Court on August 2 extended the time for submission of investigation reports by the CBI into the alleged irregularities in the conduct of the Manipur Civil Services Combined Competitive (Main) Examination, 2016, by another six months. Extension final The examinations were conducted by the Manipur Public Service Commission. This extension is final. Some candidates of the examination had filed a writ petition contending that there were irregularities. The HC had given three months’ time to submit the report. However the CBI had sought extensions four times. Taking cognizance of the writ petition, the High Court directed the Manipur government to examine the complaint by constituting an inquiry committee. However, the committee submitted the report saying that there were no irregularities. On the basis of this report, many of the “successful candidates” had been absorbed in the civil and police services. But their services were terminated later. Some candidates obtained documents under the RTI Act which established that there were rampant irregularities in the examination. The Supreme Court had directed the HC to conduct trials. Later, the examination was cancelled. The CBI was directed on October 18, 2019, to investigate the matter. A Bench comprising Justices L. Jamir and Kh. Nobin took up the matter on August 2.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cbi-gets-more-time-for-report-in-exam-scam/article35795488.ece
08 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||CBI files case for alleged bank fraud||The CBI has registered a case against Kanpur-based Shri Lakshmi Cotsyn Limited and its directors for allegedly cheating a consortium of 23 banks of Rs. 6,833.82 crore. “Searches are being conducted at nine locations, including Noida, Roorkee, Fatehpur and Kanpur,” said a CBI official. Among the accused persons named in the First Information Report (FIR) are Dr. Mata Prasad Agarwal, Pawan Kumar Agarwal, Devesh Narain Gupta and Sharda Agarwal. The role of bank officials, chartered accountants, statutory and stock auditors and empanelled valuers responsible for preparing balance sheets and financial papers and issuing compliance certificates would also be investigated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cbi-files-case-for-alleged-bank-fraud/article35794980.ece
08 August 2021||AHMEDABAD,||Rajiv Gauba gets a year’s extension||Union Cabinet Secretary Rajiv Gauba has been given a year’s extension in service beyond August 30 by the Modi government. With this extension, Mr. Gauba, who was appointed Cabinet Secretary, a tenured post for two years, in 2019, will continue till August 30, 2022. A Jharkhand-cadre IAS officer of the 1982 batch, Mr Gauba was earlier Home Secretary before he was elevated to the top post of Cabinet Secretary by the NDA government. He also served as the Secretary, Urban Affairs and Housing, at the Centre. His extension order was issued by the Department of Personnel and Training after the Appointments Committee of the Cabinet headed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi cleared it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rajiv-gauba-gets-a-years-extension/article35795350.ece
08 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||Our protest has power, say farmers||A day after Congress MP Rahul Gandhi and leaders of other opposition parties joined protesting farmers at Jantar Mantar and witnessed the proceedings of thefarmers’ parliament, the farmers on Saturday said the support is welcome but it does not help them.  Davinder Singh Sandhu, member of the Bharatiya Kisan Union-Doaba, said: “They had all come here for their political gain and so that they have our support in the coming elections. It is good that they came to express solidarity but what good does it do us?”  ‘Our protest has power’ Sukhwinder Singh Barwa from Ropar said the presence of Mr. Gandhi and other opposition MPs is testament to the power that farmers wield. “What this shows is that our protest has power and it is not just any other agitation. Though what difference does it make to us? These people were a part of the government when the laws were passed. They are now against it because it suits their politics,” he said.  In a statement issued on Friday, the Samyukta Kisan Morcha said the opposition MPs watched and listened to the proceedings of thekisan sansad. “These MPs said they are extending their full support to the farmers. The Speaker of the Kisan Sansad thanked the Opposition MPs, and said this kind of role reversal where elected parliamentarians are visiting the farmers’ parliament is good for democracy.”  Farmers have been protesting at Delhi’s borders since November last year demanding repeal of the three farm laws.  These people [Oppn. MPs] were a part of the govt. when the farm laws were passed. They are now against it as it suits their politics Sukhwinder Singh Barwa Farmer||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/our-protest-has-power-say-farmers/article35795351.ece
08 August 2021||Kolkata,||ZSI gets its first woman director||The Zoological Survey of India, one of the premier organisations involved in taxonomical studies of fauna, got its first woman Director. Dhriti Banerjee, entomologist with an expertise in Diptera, has taken over as the 18th director of the institute. Dr. Banerjee took charge of the 105-year institute on Friday. Headquartered in Kolkata, the ZSI has 16 regional centres and about 300 scientists. Dr. Banerjee had spearheaded the ZSI faunal information system, a multi-dimensional platform housing information on ZSI collections, spatial and temporal data about fauna of India as well as genetics and molecular information about the country’s faunal species. “When I joined the institute in the late 1990s, the number of women scientists at the ZSI was about 24%. This has considerably increased and reached 40% under the encouragement of the Ministry of Environment Forest and Climate Change. My appointment is an indication that woman in science are being taken seriously by the policy makers,” she said. Dr. Banerjee told The Hindu that she would not only try to carry forward the legacy of 105 years of the ZSI but also take the organisation to greater heights in light of new technology and Artificial Intelligence. “Our objective will also be to render help in the process of conservation of our faunal diversity so that we can attain goals of sustainable development,” she said. The ZSI was started in 1916 by Thomas Nelson Annadale with the primary objective of inventorying and documenting faunal diversity of the country. According to the ZSI, the faunal diversity of the country stands at 1,02,161 species (as per Animal discoveries 2019), which is equivalent to 6.52% of all fauna in the world.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/zsi-gets-its-first-woman-director/article35794987.ece
08 August 2021||MUMBAI,||Bombay HC dismisses Raj Kundra’s plea||The Bombay High Court on Saturday dismissed the pleas filed by Raj Kundra, businessman and husband of actor Shilpa Shetty, and his aide Ryan Thorpe challenging their arrest over a pornographic racket busted this year and seeking immediate release from the Arthur Road Jail. A Single Bench of Justice A.S. Gadkari was hearing the petition through physical hearing. Mr. Kundra and his aide were arrested on July 19 by the Property Cell of the Mumbai Crime Branch. They challenged the magistrate’s order rejecting their bail applications on July 28. The magistrate court had held, “If released, they will hamper the investigation and the alleged offence is detrimental to the health of society.” Chief Public Prosecutor Aruna Pai had argued that initially a notice was issued by the police to Mr. Kundra under Section 41A (notice of appearance before police officer) of the Code of Criminal Procedure, which he refused but Mr. Thorpe accepted. Ms. Pai said Mr. Kundra was the admin of Hotshot (the app used to produce and circulate pornographic content). He refused to sign the notice and did not cooperate at all. She stated that a lot of incriminating material were found against the accused and they were arrested because they had deleted messages from WhatsApp groups, thereby destroying evidence. Therefore, Section 201 (causing disappearance of evidence of offence, or giving false information to screen offender) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) was added. In the office laptop there was a hard disk that had over 100 porn videos and Mr. Kundra’s laptop had a script with sexual content. Senior advocate Aabad Ponda, for Mr. Kundra, contended that his client was not issued a proper notice, and arrested in the garb of recording his statement. The duo was booked under Sections 354 (assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty), 292 (sale, etc., of obscene books, etc.) of the IPC and relevant sections of the Information Technology Act and the Indecent Representation of Women Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bombay-hc-dismisses-raj-kundras-plea/article35794988.ece
08 August 2021||Ghaziabad,||RLD takes out ‘nyay yatra’ in western U.P.||The Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) is taking out a ‘nyay yatra’ to raise the voices of the underprivileged and the dispossessed. The yatra started from Saharanpur on Saturday and will culminate in Agra on October 10. It will pass through Muzaffarnagar, Bijnor, Shamli, Baghpat, Meerut, Bulandshahr, Aligarh and Mathura. In alliance with the Samajwadi Party, these are the districts in western Uttar Pradesh where the party seeks to put up its candidates in the coming Assembly polls.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rld-takes-out-nyay-yatra-in-western-up/article35794992.ece
08 August 2021||Srinagar,||J&K traders get threats on shutdown call||The Jammu & Kashmir Police on Saturday said that traders in Srinagar had received threats from outside to observe a shutdown on August 5. Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP), Srinagar, Sandeep Chaudhary, said in a tweet, “Srinagar-based traders and shopkeepers were threatened through messages to observe a strike on August 5 or face consequences.” He uploaded a “threat” message conveyed to the traders on the social media platform WhatsApp, which reads that “we [the sender] know what the administration and the police have told you [traders] but you have to observe a hartal”. The message further reads that “we should not be forced to take a tough action”. “People still came out and went ahead with their businesses on August 5,” Mr. Chaudhary said. A shutdown was observed on August 5 in parts of Kashmir on the second anniversary of the revocation of J&K’s special status. The police statement comes after several shopkeepers in Lal Chowk alleged that the police broke open their shops to ensure no shutdown was observed. Peoples Democratic Party president Mehbooba Mufti said in a tweet on Saturday, “The Government of India threatening shopkeepers with FIRs for shutting their shops on 5th Aug as a mark of protest is the latest addition to the growing number of CBMs [confidence building measures] for Kashmiris since all party meeting. First CBM - firing government employees on trivial grounds followed by denying jobs and passports.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/jk-traders-get-threats-on-shutdown-call/article35795001.ece
08 August 2021||August 08 2021 00:00 IST,||Earth to hearth||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/earth-to-hearth/article35795007.ece
08 August 2021||Jaipur,||Gehlot seeks Centre’s help for projects||Rajasthan has sought the Centre’s cooperation in the financial and policy domains to ensure socio-economic development of States in the true spirit of cooperative federalism. Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot said the economic slowdown during the COVID-19 pandemic had adversely affected the fiscal position of all States. In a meeting with NITI Aayog members over the weekend, Mr. Gehlot said since the need to increase the scope of social security was being felt more during the pandemic, the Union government should help in expediting and smoothly conducting social and economic welfare activities. Mr. Gehlot interacted with NITI Aayog member Ramesh Chand, senior adviser Yogesh Suri and adviser Rajnath Ram.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/gehlot-seeks-centres-help-for-projects/article35795015.ece
08 August 2021||Kolkata,||Mamata seeks dialogue on Electricity Bill||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Saturday wrote a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi protesting against the Centre’s move on the Electricity (Amendment) Bill and urged him to refrain from proceeding with the legislation. She sought a transparent dialogue. “I write this letter to re-lodge my protest against the Union government’s fresh move to place the much-criticised Electricity (Amendment) Bill 2020 in Parliament. It was proposed to be moved last year, but many of us had underlined the anti-people aspects of the draft legislation, and at least I had detailed out all the salient pitfalls of the Bill in a letter to you on June 12, 2020,” she stated. Ms. Banerjee said the Bill aims at making the State grid an appendage of the national grid.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mamata-seeks-dialogue-on-electricity-bill/article35795016.ece
08 August 2021||Jaipur,||‘Cong. infighting hurting people in Rajasthan’||The BJP on Saturday alleged that the people of Rajasthan are suffering due to the infighting in the ruling Congress. “How can a government take care of the people of the State if it is not able to satisfy even its MLAs,” BJP national general secretary and State incharge Arun Singh said. The BJP is preparing to corner the State government over farm loan waiver, unemployment allowance and other issues, , Mr. Singh said. He claimed the Gehlot government is trying to save itself by ‘delaying’ Cabinet expansion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cong-infighting-hurting-people-in-rajasthan/article35795489.ece
08 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||State records slight dip with 1,969 cases||As many as 1,969 people tested positive for COVID-19 in Tamil Nadu on Saturday, registering a small dip from the previous day’s count of 1,985. With this, the State’s tally touched 25,73,352. Of the 38 districts, five reported over 100 fresh cases each. Four of the remaining districts — Dindigul, Pudukottai, Ramanathapuram and Tenkasi — clocked in cases in single digits. Ramanathapuram had the least number of infections at two. As many as 223 people tested positive for COVID-19 in Coimbatore. In Erode, the daily count rose to 198, from 178 on Friday. Chennai followed with 194 cases. There were 115 infections in Chengalpattu. Thanjavur yet again recorded a little over 100 cases — 110 people tested positive here. While cases dipped to 84 in Tiruppur, Salem saw a small surge from 70 to 91 cases. Ninety-three people tested positive in Tiruvallur. Another 1,839 people were discharged after treatment, taking the total figure to 25,18,777. The State’s active caseload stood at 20,286. These included 2,180 cases in Coimbatore and 1,959 in Chennai. State’s toll Another 29 people succumbed to the infection, taking the toll to 34,289. There were five deaths in Salem and three in Tiruppur. Two people died in Chennai. Twenty districts recorded no fatalities due to COVID-19. Among the deceased was a 40-year-old man from Salem who had no co-morbidities. He was admitted to the Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital on July 31, and died on August 5 due to COVID-19 pneumonia. In the last 24 hours, 1,65,325 samples were tested, taking the total figure to 3,85,36,958. Vacant beds As of date, 70,694 beds are vacant in COVID-19 hospitals and health centres in the State. These include 39,090 oxygen-supported beds, 24,155 non-oxygen ones and 7,449 intensive care unit (ICU) beds. Of these, Chennai has 12,969 vacant beds — 8,016 oxygen-supported beds, 3,303 non-oxygen ones and 1,650 ICU beds. As many as 42,527 oxygen beds, 26,661 non-oxygen ones and 8,765 ICU beds in these facilities are earmarked for COVID-19 patients. A total of 53,573 beds are available in COVID-19 care centres. As many as 2,86,097 people, including 1,74,752 in the 18-44 age group and 83,766 in the 45-59 age group, were vaccinated, taking the total coverage to 2,31,17,582.  As many as 223 people tested positive in Coimbatore. In Erode, the daily count rose to 198, from 178 on Friday. Chennai followed with 194 cases||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/state-records-slight-dip-with-1969-cases/article35795435.ece
08 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Kolavai lake to be deepened, spruced up||Kolavai lake, one of the largest waterbodies in Chengalpattu district, may soon be rejuvenated as a recreational space and developed as a source of water for Chennai. Located 50 km from the city, the lake adjoining the railway line has been polluted with sewage released from the town. The Water Resources Department has started preliminary work to remove the sludge in the foreshore of the lake. With a capacity to store nearly 476 million cubic feet of water, the lake has water in all seasons. Besides its own catchment areas and surrounding hillocks, the lake is fed by 25 tanks upstream, including in Paranur, Pulipakkam and Kunnavakkam. The department has chalked out a Rs. 55-crore project to restore the lake. Besides deepening and desilting the waterbody to increase its storage capacity, the department would create recreational facilities, including a park, near the bund. The old flood control regulator would be replaced. Officials said the lake is home to several migrant birds and two islands or mud flats would be constructed keeping this in view. “We are planning to build two boat jetties on the lines of Paruthipattu lake in Avadi. A pedestrian bridge will be built to reach various viewpoints,” said an official. As the lake had a storage of 230 mcft, the department has not been able to take up deepening or desilting work. Southern Railway’s permission had been sought for dewatering the lake as it abuts the railway line. Plugging of sewage flow would be crucial to rejuvenate the lake. There are six major sewage outfalls into the lake. The Chengalpattu municipality is gearing to provide an underground drainage network at a cost of Rs. 35 crore. There is a need to accelerate the work as unless sewage pollution is stopped, the conservation efforts would remain ineffective. Potential source There were plans to transmit water from Kolavai lake to the city through a 50-km pipeline to Porur lake to tackle the crisis several years ago. Water was drawn and treated for use at Mahindra World City industrial park. Officials said as the lake did not support any irrigation, treated water could be pumped for supply to southern suburbs and industries. Moreover, it would be a source of groundwater recharge for the villages, including Ammanampakkam, in a radius of minimum 5 km. Once the restoration project is over, it will also benefit several fishermen families which depend on the lake for their livelihood.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kolavai-lake-to-be-deepened-spruced-up/article35795418.ece
08 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Candidates of super-speciality courses skip counselling||Many candidates, who belonged to other States and completed super-speciality medical courses (DM/M.Ch) at government medical colleges in Tamil Nadu in 2020, did not attend the counselling held for posting at July-end. While this was not the first time that non-service other State candidates have violated the two-year service bond executed with the State government, a cross-section of government doctors feels this will have an impact on the healthcare system in the long run. Official sources said more than half of the candidates of the batch did not attend the online counselling, while a few candidates who attended the counselling said at least 80% of the other State candidates of the 2017 batch skipped the process. An official of the Health Department said, “More than 50% of the candidates in super-speciality batches are from other States. They must work for two years as per the bond for Rs. 40 lakh executed at the time of admission. Some doctors finish the course and leave. They join work in their States and approach the court saying they did not get postings or departments as soon as they finished the course. According to the rules, they have to work in a government set-up anywhere in Tamil Nadu. In such circumstances, we will have to take action under the Revenue Recovery Act for bond violation,” he said. There have been instances of posting orders having been issued but no one having turned up for duty, he said. “Services of a cardiologist or oncologist may be required at a secondary care hospital, not only at a tertiary centre.” In an analysis, the Service Doctors and Post Graduates Association (SDPGA) found that in the 2017 batch of DM medical gastroenterology, all 16 seats were occupied by non-service candidates — one from Tamil Nadu and 15 from other States. Among them, the sole candidate from Tamil Nadu and two other State candidates joined the service. On the contrary, 15 other State candidates of the 2018 batch have joined service. Of the 19 urology seats, there was one service candidate and the rest were non-service candidates in the 2017 batch. Only one non-service candidate who belonged to Tamil Nadu took up posting, while the remaining did not attend the counselling. No candidate who belonged to other States and completed M.Ch gastroenterology, urology, neurosurgery, cardiothoracic surgery and surgical oncology and DM gastroenterology, cardiology, neurology and endocrinology attended the counselling, the association said. “There are nearly 280 other State candidates in the 2017 batch and a majority of them did not attend the counselling on July 30. This means they are not going to join the Tamil Nadu government service to serve their bond, and this is a gross disservice to the healthcare delivery system in the State,” SDPGA State president P. Saminathan said. “This is why we have been demanding exclusive State counselling and a 50% service quota in courses. The State government should pass a special ordinance for the quota,” he added. He said there were no service PGs in a few courses in the last two batches. “If this continues, no one will come to work at government medical colleges in these departments, leading to lack of faculty,” he said. “Many other State candidates, who completed in 2020, did not attend because it has been a year since they completed the course and so, many returned to their States and started working there. This could have been prevented had postings been given as soon as the course was completed. There is no certainty on when the Directorate of Medical Education will issue postings to work under bond. Another problem was the lack of official intimation regarding counselling by way of email or call letter. It was put up on the Health Department’s website,” a doctor who attended the counselling said. A doctor working at a primary health centre said that with no service quota in super-speciality seats, students study here and return to their States without completing the mandatory service. “This is creating an acute shortage of super-specialists at government hospitals. This is why we are demanding a 50% service quota,” he said.  There are nearly 280 other State candidates in the 2017 batch and a majority of them did not attend the counselling on July 30 P. SaminathanSDPGA State president||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/many-violate-two-year-service-bond-after-super-speciality-courses-in-tn/article35795436.ece
08 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Comprehensive approach needed to treat curable blindness, says Governor||Governor Banwarilal Purohit on Saturday said that a comprehensive approach was needed to treat not just cataract, but also curable blindness. The Governor was addressing the 26th anniversary celebrations of Rajan Eye Care Hospital (RECH) here. Mr. Purohit said while integrated efforts of the Union and State governments had resulted in reduction in blindness due to cataract, blindness due to other causes such as diabetic retinopathy and glaucoma were on the rise. India with a huge population needed to encourage faster, precision-based systems of treatment to cover more people in a short time. Nanotechnology, robotics and artificial intelligence were likely to create newer methodologies for not only diagnosis and treatment, but also to provide solutions for preventive care, he said. Stating that Tamil Nadu had traditionally been considered a leader in adopting latest technologies in healthcare, the Governor said that the robotic cataract surgery system in RECH was an example of how technology could be leveraged to attend to the needs of more patients. Stressing the need for continuous interaction among various medical traditions, he said a new model must be created by keeping patients at the core of treatment without being fixated on a single system of medicine. He highlighted the need for creating more awareness on eye donation to meet the gap in availability of corneas for surgery. Lauding the achievements of RECH, the Governor recalled his personal connection with the hospital as his family members and himself had been treated by Mohan Rajan, chairman and medical director of the hospital. Dr. Rajan narrated the hospital’s journey and spoke on its commitment to provide quality and affordable eye care. A key reason for the hospital to be recognised as a premiere institution was its continuous investments in cutting-edge technologies. Hospital’s service Highlighting various initiatives launched by the hospital through its Chennai Vision Charitable Trust and Rotary Rajan Eye Bank in partnership with other organisations towards community ophthalmology, Dr. Rajan said that around 30 to 35% of the hospital’s services were provided free of cost. He said the hospital performed more than 6,000 free cornea surgeries and more than 1.15 lakh free cataract surgeries. Sujatha Mohan, executive medical director of the hospital, welcomed the gathering. Doctors and employees with a long service at the hospital were felicitated on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/comprehensive-approach-needed-to-treat-curable-blindness-says-governor/article35795447.ece
08 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Chief Minister launches tree planting drive in temples||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Saturday launched a scheme to plant one lakh sthala vriksham , tree saplings, at temple nandavanams (gardens). He planted a sapling of the Nagalinga tree at the head office of the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments (HR and CE) Department in Nungambakkam. Sources said that this was the first time a Chief Minister had visited the HR&CE Department’s head office. Mr. Stalin directed officials to plant the saplings within three months. An official said 200 saplings of nine varieties of trees, including Bilva and Punnai, had already been distributed to temples in Chennai. Temples have specific trees as sthala vrikshams.  The department has planned to procure saplings from the Forest Department. “These would be saplings that are a little over six months old. If the temple does not have the required funds, the Commissioner’s Common Good Fund will be utilised for the same,” an official said. Ministers P.K. Sekarbabu and Durai Murugan, MLA Udhayanidhi Stalin, Member of Parliament Kanimozhi, Secretary HR and CE B. Chandramohan and Commissioner J. Kumaragurubaran were present on the occasion, a press release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/chief-minister-launches-tree-planting-drive-in-temples/article35795458.ece
08 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||RPF designs bio-toilets for women police officials||Driven by the need to provide privacy to women police officials and constables during training programmes outside office premises, the Railway Protection Force (RPF) has designed moveable bio-toilets, which can be assembled and dismantled in a few minutes. Recycled material “We used the scraps of the railways to make these toilets. They are like a small table and can be carried anywhere,” said S. Louis Amuthan, deputy chief security officer. He explained that there was a need for portable toilets after the railways had recruited a lot of women for the RPF. “When we conduct range classes in forest areas and parades outside, men can probably adjust. But such trips always proved a problem for women,” said Mr. Amuthan who designed the toilets. The RPF have made use of toilets and other materials from old coaches to design the moveable toilets. First, they tried wood for assembling the unit before switching over to metals and rexine since wood was very heavy. Water reusable “The advantage with these toilets is that a day after using them, the water could be drained for watering plants. The inoculum bacteria in the chambers of the bio-toilet convert the waste into useful material,” Mr. Amudhan said. The RPF have designed 18 such toilets and distributed two-each to the divisions. “It can be very useful to the women in regular police force as they are regularly on bandobust and VIP visit duty,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rpf-designs-bio-toilets-for-women-police-officials/article35795456.ece
08 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Many eateries stay open beyond permitted time||While the COVID-19 restrictions stipulate that eateries can function only till 9 p.m., a number of them flout the rules by remaining open well beyond the deadline. A visit by The Hindu showed that while a majority of eateries and all other shops closed at 9 p.m., a good number of them, particularly the small ones in interior roads and lanes, served customers till 11.30 p.m. A few of the big restaurants on Anna Salai and Pasumpon Muthuramalinga Thevar Road also remained open till late. The violations were not observed across the city, including in Arumbakkam, Anna Nagar and Teynampet. They not only violated the time restrictions, but also failed to ensure COVID-19 appropriate behaviour. A majority of the customers and those working at the restaurants did not wear masks. A number of them were crowded as well. The owner of an eatery on Eldams Road said that they remained open as many people wanted food at that time. “Most other commercial establishments close at 9 p.m. People working there can come to eat or buy food only after that. We remain open to cater to them,” he said. A woman selling food on a pushcart in the same locality said that her sales picked up only after 7 p.m. “I will not be able to make decent money if I close by 9 p.m. COVID-19 already affected us for many months. Only now, we are gradually seeing some business,” she said. While Corporation officials said they were supported by the police in enforcing these restrictions, a senior police official said regular patrolling was being done to ensure that all COVID-19 restrictions were adhered to.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/many-eateries-stay-open-beyond-permitted-time/article35795421.ece
08 August 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||‘Zen dens’ established for police personnel to meditate||Aiming to nurture a humane approach among police personnel and to increase their productivity, the Tamil Nadu Special Police (TSP) has established dedicated silent spaces called ‘Zen zones’ and ‘Zen dens’ for personnel in all 16 battalions spread across several parts of the State. Here, police personnel will be allowed to spend time meditating to get over stressful circumstances. Earlier, yoga had been taught once a week by instructors. Now, they have earmarked a place on the campus and converted it into a silent space exclusively for the purpose of meditation. Imparting training on meditation and yoga to police officers would help them understand how they could nurture and maintain their inner spirit of compassion, connectedness and render quality work, police officers said. Additional Director General of Police, K. Jayanth Murali, who was instrumental in starting this initiative, said, “Meditation is very important and useful for our police personnel. One of the important matters police deal with is the public. If personnel are agitated and aggressive, their relationship with the public will not be harmonious. That is the reason conflict between the police and the public has been reported often. We live in a very stressful society. When a person meditates, his productivity improves. When a person is with a calm mind, he will always produce more and better than any other human being. The productivity of organisation will also improve.” TSP force roped in people who specialised in meditation and yoga apart from its own instructors for this purpose. Officers said the programme was not religious and there were no idols inside the dens. Each battalion is earmarked a hall which can accommodate at least 25 persons at a time. All standard operating procedures of COVID-19 are being followed here. G.Umaiyal, commandant, IV Battalion, Kovaipudur said, “If police personnel feel a lot of stress, they can go to the hall and sit quietly, and meditate. One SI has been posted exclusively for this. Before entering, we try and speak to them to understand their issues.” Personnel from TSP are mostly freshers. They are assigned duties such as general bandobust, VIP protection, escorting, law and order maintenance, traffic regulation, prison security. P.Ponnumani, from 11th Battalion, Rajapalayam, said, “Meditation and breathing exercise which are taught here help us to maintain physical and mental health, control anger while discharging the duties.” “These practices will provide us relief from stress and focus more on assigned duties,” said S. Sugavanan, Sub-Inspector from Pochamballi battalion, Krishnagiri district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/zen-dens-established-for-police-personnel-to-meditate/article35795428.ece
08 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||20% samples for testing should be lifted at random||Some 20% of the samples lifted for COVID-19 testing should be from the random sampling category, the Health Department has said in its latest sampling protocol for RT-PCR testing. In an order, the Department has said that random samples will be lifted from vulnerable places such as pharmacies, fair price shops and markets, public places such as bus stands, railway stations, government offices and hotels, and from vulnerable groups like vegetable vendors, taxi/auto drivers, transport staff in government and private services, tea shop staff and patients visiting non-communicable clinics. For the sampling criteria in the community, the Department said all symptomatic cases and all symptomatic high-risk individuals such as those with diabetes, obesity, heart diseases, hypertension, chronic lung disease, cancer and chronic kidney disease could be tested. All symptomatic individuals with a history of travel to any city, all contacts of laboratory positive cases, extended contacts during low transmission period, everyone in the workplace of a lab confirmed positive patient (such as employees of a bank, office or textile showroom), all ante-natal women within four days of expected date of delivery, travellers from foreign countries with or without symptoms, cataract cases identified for surgery at camp sites and all individuals who wish to get tested will be covered. Mandatory sample lifting and testing will be carried out to fulfil travel requirements, and any new inmate in old-age homes, jails and homes for the mentally challenged too will be covered. The result must be declared within 24 hours of sampling, and results must be communicated to all individuals through SMS even if it is negative, the Department has said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/20-samples-for-testing-should-be-lifted-at-random/article35795443.ece
08 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||5 held for stealing lorry with paddy||Five persons, including a woman, were arrested on Saturday for allegedly stealing a lorry laden with 25 tonnes of paddy in M.K.B. Nagar police station limits. On August 3, R. Gopalakrishnan, 50, of K.K. Nagar, Kodungaiyur, drove the lorry laden with 640 bags of paddy weighing 25 tonnes from a godown in Korukkupet and was supposed to deliver it to a rice mill in Tiruvallur district. Mr. Gopalakrishnan stopped his vehicle with the load on North Avenue and went home after consuming alcohol. The next day, he was shocked to find the lorry missing. Based on his complaint, the police took up investigation and after scrutiny of CCTV footage, the police traced the lorry to Orikkai in Kancheepuram district. The police arrested D. Raja, 44, of Broadway, R. Parthasarathy, 25, of Vyasarpadi, who are lorry drivers, K. Priya, 37, of Pulianthope, M. Raja, 42, of Orikkai, and S. Selvarasu, 43, of Mullai Nagar in Kancheepuram district. The gang sold the paddy to a mill. The police recovered the lorry and the consignment of paddy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/5-held-for-stealing-lorry-with-paddy/article35795445.ece
08 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Diaspora playing key role in India-U.S. ties: Judith Ravin||Judith Ravin, U.S. Consul-General, Chennai, said the Indian-American diaspora has grown as a powerful and influential group in American politics, business, health, education among other fields and is acting as a power engine to strengthen political, economic and social ties between India and the U.S. “When Kamala Harris became the Vice-President, it struck a special cord with the Indian American community,” she said. “There are 20 other Indian Americans holding key positions in the Biden-Harris administration, including Surgeon General Vivek Murthy and Dr. Celine Gounder, an epidemiologist who advised the Biden administration on COVID management,” she said. Ms. Ravin was speaking at a discussion on the rise of the Indian American diaspora in the U.S. organised by the Chennai International Centre. “Indian Americans have become the richest ethnicity in America, with an average household income of over $1,26,000, almost twice the U.S. average. At present, close to 2,00,000 Indian students have enrolled in U.S. colleges and universities,” she pointed out. Book launched Ms. Ravin launched a new book Kamala Harris and The Rise of Indian Americans . Speaking at the event, M.R. Rangaswami, one of the authors of the book, said the objective was to highlight the achievements and challenges of the Indian Americans. “There are 2,50,000 Indian Americans living below the poverty line. Estimated 4,00,000 Indian Americans are without proper documents,” Mr. Rangaswami, an entrepreneur and founder of Indiaspora, said. Maina Chawla Singh, scholar-professor focusing on gender identity and Indian diaspora, said more attention needed to be paid to the community living below poverty line and also those without documents.  There are 20 other Indian Americans holding key positions in the Biden-Harris administration||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/diaspora-playing-key-role-in-india-us-ties-judith-ravin/article35795449.ece
08 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Seven IAS officers transferred||M. Lakshmi is set to take over as the chief executive officer of the Chennai Metropolitan Development Authority (CMDA). In a Government Order, Chief Secretary V. Irai Anbu transferred IAS officers S. Senthamarai and Mageswari Ravikumar and posted them as Joint Commissioner of Land Administration (C&I) and Joint Secretary to Government, Public Works Department, respectively. M. Aruna has been posted as Additional Registrar of Cooperative Societies. Sravan Kumar Jatavath has been transferred as Additional Director of Agriculture. J. Anne Mary Swarna has been posted as Deputy Secretary to Government, Housing and Urban Development Department and A. John Louis as Joint Secretary to Government, Municipal Administration and Water Supply Department.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/several-ias-officers-transferred/article35795452.ece
08 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Ennore-Ramanathapuram LNG pipeline to be ready by Feb. 2022||The Ennore-Ramanathapuram liquefied natural gas (LNG) pipeline is expected to be completed by February 2022, P. Jayadevan, Executive Director, Indian Oil Corporation Ltd. (IOCL) said here on Saturday. Addressing the media at the company’s LNG terminal, which was commissioned in March 2019, he said around 85% of the work on the Rs. 6,000-crore pipeline had been completed. “The pipeline is an essential component in carrying gas to other parts of the State. Already, the Ramanathapuram-Thoothukudi stretch has been commissioned and this gas is being used both as feedstock and fuel in industries,” he said. The company has already commissioned a 22 km-long pipeline from Ennore to Manali and supplies gas to four industries. The main pipeline will get connected through branch lines and spur lines to major commercial and industrial clusters, including those in Kancheepuram, Asanur, Puducherry, Sriperumbudur, Cuddalore and Nagapattinam. A separate loop line passing through Tiruvallur to Bengaluru is also to be laid. Natural gas is brought to the terminal via ships in a liquid form at a temperature of minus 160 degrees Celsius and regassified and supplied to industries and to companies that install gas outlets for use in vehicles. “Smaller vehicles use compressed natural gas and bigger vehicles like trucks can use it in the liquid form,” Mr. Jayadevan explained. Mr. Jayadevan said currently, under the 11 geographical areas in the State that were getting CNG facilities, including home connections, 17 districts were being covered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ennore-ramanathapuram-lng-pipeline-to-be-ready-by-feb-2022/article35795433.ece
08 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||High Court lets 16-year-old to take NEET though minimum age is 17||A Division Bench of the Madras High Court has refused to grant an exparte interim stay on an order passed by a single judge, permitting a 16-year-old girl to write the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) without insisting upon the completion of 17 years of age as on December 2021. Justices M.M. Sundresh and S. Kannammal said no order of interim stay could be passed without ordering notice to the student on the writ appeal preferred by the National Testing Agency (NTA) on the ground that underaged candidates cannot be allowed to join medical colleges. The appeal had been preferred against an order passed by Justice B. Pugalendhi, who had permitted 16-year-old SP. Shree Harini to write NEET 2021 for undergraduate medical admissions, despite the National Medical Commission (NMC) having rejected her plea to relax the minimum age. “People should go to university and college when they are ready, not when they are old enough to go,” the single judge had said, referring the writ petitioner to the National Institute of Mental Health and Neuroscience (NIMHANS) in Bengaluru for testing her intelligence quotient (IQ). If NIMHANS finds her fit to write NEET 2021, then she must be allowed to sit for it, the judge had said. The order was passed after it was brought to the court’s notice that even at the age of two years and eight months, the petitioner had a superior IQ of 169, and her mental age then was assessed to be that of a four-years-and-six-months-old child. She was given double promotion during her school days, and was hence able to complete Class XII at the age of 16 this March. Anticipating trouble in appearing for NEET 2021, she made a representation to the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare in July 2019 itself, seeking relaxation of the minimum age of 17 required to appear for NEET. The Ministry forwarded her representation to the NTA, but the latter rejected the plea on August 22, 2019, on the premise that candidates below 17 years of age could not be permitted to appear for NEET in view of a specific bar under the Graduate Medical Education Regulations of 1997. When the rejection order was challenged, Justice Pugalendhi cited instances of Belgian child prodigy Laurent Simons having become the second youngest person in the world to complete graduation at the age of 11 and that of Indian American Tanishq Abraham who became a biomedical engineering graduate at the age of 15. As far as Ms. Harini was concerned, she would be four months and five days short of completing 17 years this year. Since she has a very high IQ, “this court is of the view that her candidature can be considered and she can be permitted to sit for NEET. In fact, she is asking for a chance to appear for the entrance examination and not for a seat in a medical course straight away,” the single judge had observed. When the matter was taken on appeal, the Division Bench, led by Justice Sundresh, also prima facie  felt that talent must be recognised irrespective of age.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/high-court-lets-16-year-old-take-neet-though-minimum-age-is-17/article35795440.ece
08 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||3 boys drown in river near Sholavaram||Three boys drowned in a water-logged pit on the bed of the Kosasthalaiyar at Karanodai village near Sholavaram in Tiruvallur district on Friday. They reportedly went to fish in the river. The victims were identified as S. Sathyanarayanan, 15, and Syed Rahamadullah, 13, from Perambur and K Arjun, 14, from Karanodai. Parents were unaware The police said the three left home without informing their parents and decided to enter the water to have a bath and fish. Passers-by, who noticed clothes on the riverbed, alerted the police. A police team reached the spot, but could not anybody in the vicinity. A team from Red Hills fire station rushed to the spot and fished out three bodies. The police sent the bodies were sent to the Government Stanley Hospital for post-mortem.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/3-boys-drown-in-river-near-sholavaram/article35795448.ece
08 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Two arrested for burglary||Two persons were arrested on Saturday in a case of house burglary reported in Virugambakkam police station limits. N. Rajagopal Rao, 58, of Ilango Nagar, Virugambakkam, had gone out after locking his house on August 4. On his return, he found the lock broken and steel cupboard ransacked. About 20 sovereigns of gold jewellery and silver articles were taken away from the bureau. On his complaint, the culprits, C. Venkatesh, 23, and R. Thinesh, 21, of Alwarthirunagar were arrested based on CCTV footage. Seven sovereigns of gold and 141 g of silver were recovered from them. Venkatesh had cases of mobile phone snatching registered against him in K.K. Nagar police station.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-arrested-for-burglary/article35795422.ece
08 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Governor, CM greet medal winners||Governor Banwarilal Purohit and Chief Minister M.K. Stalin extended their greetings to Neeraj Chopra, who bagged a gold medal in javelin throw, and Bajrang Punia, who secured a bronze in the 65kg freestyle wrestling at the Tokyo Olympics. In his message, Mr. Purohit said: “Neeraj Chopra has created history as the first ever Indian sportsman to win a medal in a track and field event at the Olympics.Mr. Punia has brought pride to India through his remarkable achievement in wrestling by winning a bronze medal.” Mr. Stalin tweeted: “My heartiest congratulations to @Neeraj_chopra1 for ending India’s 120-year wait to win a gold medal in athletics at the Olympics. You are truly a national hero.” “Congratulations to Bajrang Punia on winning the sixth medal for India at his Tokyo Olympics debut,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/governor-cm-greet-medal-winners/article35795441.ece
08 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Drop caste references, VCK urges CM||VCK general secretary and Member of Parliament D. Ravikumar has urged Chief Minister M.K. Stalin to pass an order for removing caste surnames from the name boards of educational institutions and restaurants. In his letter, Mr. Ravikumar also sought proper enforcement of the order passed by the Rural Development and Local Administration Department in 1978 regarding the removal of caste surname references from roads and streets. He noted that the order was passed, after the then Chief Minister M.G. Ramachandran had said his government would remove caste references from roads and streets, while speaking at the centenary celebrations of Periyar. ‘Instruct local bodies’ He said besides enforcing the order, it must be ensured that caste references were not made in the boards kept by the State government. The government must also instruct corporations and municipalities to ensure that caste references were not made in settlements established by individuals, Mr. Ravikumar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/drop-caste-references-vck-urges-cm/article35795444.ece
08 August 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Ministers meet traders’ representatives, experts||Minister for Commercial Taxes and Registration P. Moorthy and Minister for Finance and Human Resource Management Palanivel Thiaga Rajan held a consultation meeting with representatives from various traders’ associations prior to the presentation of revised Budget for 2021-22. Mr. Rajan also chaired a consultation meeting with representatives from the civil society with regard to Planning and Development Department. Vice-Chairperson of State Development Policy Council J. Jeyaranjan, Planning Secretary Vikram Kapur, Finance Secretary S. Krishnan and senior officials and experts took part in the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ministers-meet-traders-representatives-experts/article35795416.ece
08 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Welder electrocuted on ICF premises||A 23-year-old migrant worker was electrocuted at ICF on Friday. The victim, R. Sanjeev Kumar from Bihar living in Washemanpet, was working for a contract firm at Perambur Carriage Works in ICF for the last six months. Around 6.45 p.m., when Mr. Kumar was assembling a bio toilet at the train lighting department, he suffered an electric shock. He was rushed to the Railway Hospital in Perambur where he was declared dead. A case has been registered in the ICF police station.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/welder-electrocuted-on-icf-premises/article35795423.ece
08 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Four women rescued from massage centre||The city police rescued four women, who were forced into prostitution under the guise of working as massage parlour staff in Tambaram. The police raided the premises in Muthulingam Street, West Tambaram and arrested Sadayandi, 28, of Pallipattu who was allegedly was running the brothel. The rescued women have been accommodated at a government women’s hostel, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/four-women-rescued-from-massage-centre/article35795424.ece
08 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Interaction with diabetologist on August 14||Vijay Viswanathan, head and chief diabetologist, M.V. Hospital for Diabetes, will interact with senior journalist and author Rajdeep Sardesai on August 14 on “Tips for Saving the Feet of People Living with Diabetes”. Organised in partnership with South India MICE Association, the programme will be held from 5 p.m. to 6 p.m. through Zoom. For details, call 9840091926 or email info@thesima.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/interaction-with-diabetologist-on-august-14/article35795425.ece
08 August 2021||CHENNAI/New Delhi,TAMIL NADU||Karunanidhi’s wishes are being fulfilled: CM||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Saturday said the welfare schemes of ‘Kalaignar’ (former Chief Minister and DMK president M. Karunanidhi) will be implemented. In his message to partymen on Karunanidhi’s third death anniversary, Mr. Stalin said that ‘Kalaignar’ had dreamt of the DMK coming back to power. With the help of the party cadre, his wish was fulfilled three months ago. He also had a wish list of schemes to be implemented during the DMK rule. “We are implementing them now,” he said.  “ Kalaignar  wished that the party and the government should be run the way he ran it,” said Mr. Stalin, adding that he had been following and fulfilling his father’s wishes which was the greatest tribute that could be paid to him. He asked partymen to take a pledge that it would be the DMK’s rule in Tamil Nadu hereafter and work for the growth of Tamil, Tamils and Tamil Nadu with Dravidian thought as bedrock. The Chief Minister, along with senior partymen including MP K. Kanimozhi, paid tributes at Karunanidhi’s memorial. In his letter to Mr. Stalin, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi said Karunanidhi was one of the key architects of the social revolution that transformed the lives of millions. He had also fought to ensure that India’s federal polity recognised diverse regional aspirations. The foundation he laid continued to inspire people to embrace and preserve their sub-cultures and identities and strive for a truly inclusive nation, he said. “Today, as we fight against the attempt to impose regressive values, we draw strength from the valiant struggle of your father and the people’s movement he built around a progressive agenda. His legacy will continue to guide us in this journey,” Mr. Gandhi said. On the occasion, Mr. Stalin distributed welfare measures to beneficiaries at the Secretariat under the ‘Chief Minister in your constituency’ scheme. He handed over welfare measures to differently abled persons. While six of them received special scooters, two got three-wheelers and one a wheelchair. One person received a sewing machine, two got smartphones, two were given hearing aids and one was granted a battery-operated automatic wheeler chair, an official release said. Chief Secretary V. Irai Anbu and special officer for the scheme Shilpa Prabhakar Satish were present during the event. Meanwhile in New Delhi, leaders of key Opposition parties congregated at DMK MP Tiruchi Siva’s residence to pay their respects. From Congress party, former leader of the opposition in Rajya Sabha Ghulam Nabi Azad, along with senior leaders P. Chidambaram, K.C. Venugopal, Manickam Tagore and Kapil Sibal were present. CPI general secretary D. Raja, CPI (M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury, Samajwadi Party leader Ramgopal Yadav, BJD’s Amar Patnaik, RJD’s Manoj Kumar Jha, YSR Congress’s Ayodya Rama Reddy and TDP’s Ravindranath MP were among the other visitors.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/karunanidhis-wishes-are-being-fulfilled-cm/article35795438.ece
08 August 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Medical students come up with awareness videos on COVID-19||Medical students of the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital (CMCH) have come up with two awareness videos on the need to follow safety practices to arrest a third wave of COVID-19. House surgeons, who are doing Compulsory Rotatory Residential Internship, and undergraduate medical students brought out the awareness videos as part of the information, education and communication activities of the Department of Community Medicine. “The main aim of the videos is to educate the public on the need to continue safety practices to save the country from getting into a third wave of the pandemic,” said CMCH Dean A. Nirmala. The videos reinforce safety practices such as wearing of mask, hand washing, physical distancing and getting vaccinated against COVID-19. They also warn that sharing of fake information and rumours on COVID-19 on social media will hamper efforts to contain the disease spread. “The students made the videos in two days with available facilities. The videos have been shared on social media for the reach of the public,” said P. Kalidas, head of the Department of Community Medicine. While house surgeons shot their video on the medical college campus, a group of second year medical students shot video clips from their houses which were edited and compiled together. “After cases declined, people have a tendency not to follow safety practices. But it is a crucial time to follow all the safety practices as they can stop a third wave of the disease,” said K. Gayatri Sri, a house surgeon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/medical-students-come-up-with-awareness-videos-on-covid-19/article35795474.ece
08 August 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore-based SaaS company looks at revenue growth||Kovai.co, a bootstrapped SaaS company that is based out of Coimbatore and London, is looking at $ 30 million revenue in another two to three years. The company, which was founded in 2011 and registered $ 10 million revenue in 2020, aims to become a SaaS unicorn by 2030, said Saravana Kumar, founder and CEO of Kovai.co “We are a multi-product company and all the products are scalable,” he told The Hindu . “We may add a couple of more products in the coming years. The new economy is take a simple problem and find an extremely good solution,” he added. Kovai.co, which has 250 employees, plans to add another 100 people next year. With about 1500 customers in 60 countries, the company invested Rs. 10 crore to have a new facility here. There are no plans for further investments in the next 12 to 18 months. “We will continue to be bootstrapped as much as possible. If we see an opportunity for scaling up faster, we will look at external funding. We acquired a Jaipur-based company last year and we are looking at acquisitions for complementary products,” he said. The company has developed an in-house training programme where new recruits from colleges are trained for six months. “Looking ahead, we remain focused on growing the product portfolio, build and nurture local talent, have lateral hires who will help us grow further, and turn Coimbatore into the next big SaaS hub in the country,” Mr. Saravanan Kumar said in a press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-based-saas-company-looks-at-revenue-growth/article35795465.ece
08 August 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Temples remain closed for devotees||Following the fresh restrictions on places of worship announced by the State government to prevent further spread of COVID-19, the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments (HR&CE) Department closed all temples in Coimbatore district for the weekend on Saturday. Prominent temples Sources in the HR&CE Department said over 800 temples in the district, including prominent ones like Subramaniyaswami temple at Maruthamalai, Patteeswarar Temple at Perur, Vanabadrakaliamman temple at Thekkampatti, Aranganathaswamy temple at Karamadai along with temples in the Corporation limits such as Koniamman temple on Big Bazaar Street and Mundhi Vinayagar temple in Puliakulam were closed for devotees on Saturday. Rituals for deities were held as usual and the temples would reopen on Monday. A week ago, the district administration said four temples in Coimbatore district would remain closed on Sunday to prevent crowding for Aadi Amavasai . However, on Friday, the State government announced that worship at religious places would not be allowed on Fridays, Saturdays and Sundays as part of the lockdown extension till August 23. Rituals Devotees would also not be allowed to perform rituals for ancestors near water bodies such as near Patteeswarar temple in Perur and Vanabadrakaliamman temple in Thekkampatti on Sunday for Aadi Amavasai, the sources said. Barricades placed On Saturday, barricades were placed at the entrance of the Padithurai (ghat) near the Perur temple and also near the banks of River Bhavani at the Thekkampatti temple to prevent entry of devotees.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/temples-remain-closed-for-devotees/article35795472.ece
08 August 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore District Collector gets bomb threat call||Coimbatore District Collector G.S. Sameeran on Friday received a call from an unknown person who claimed to have planted a bomb. The caller, who also sent a text message to the Collector, however, did not mention where the bomb was planted. Sources said that Mr. Sameeran received the call on Friday morning. The caller, who conversed in English, claimed that the bomb would explode at 5 p.m. The Collector immediately alerted Police Commissioner Deepak M. Damor about the threat call. A police team tasked by Mr. Damor traced the location of the caller to Salem city. Stolen mobile phone Further investigation revealed that the call had come from a stolen mobile phone and its owner had given a complaint to the police. The police found that the caller was on the move for sometime in Salem city police limits before switching off the mobile.  Special team Coimbatore City Police handed over details of the development to the Salem City Police who have formed a special team to trace the caller. Hoax calls Preliminary investigations revealed that similar hoax calls were made from the number to a couple of officials in the last few days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-collector-gets-bomb-threat-call/article35795463.ece
08 August 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Corpn. continues lifting samples from commercial establishments||Notwithstandng the decline in the daily COVID-19 positive case count in the city, the Coimbatore Corporation continues lifting samples at random from commercial establishments in the city. The civic body is lifting around 1,200 samples a zone a day. For the 6,000 samples it lifts a day, the number of positive case stands between 60 and 100, say officials. The Corporation has deployed 10 – 12 teams a zone to collect samples from commercial establishments, particularly bakeries and tea stalls. The teams included lab technicians and urban health nurses or an assistant from the urban primary health centre concerned, lab technicians and data entry operators hired on contract for ground work during the pandemic. The teams go around commercial areas in the wards, lift samples at random, collect the name, age, gender, phone number and Aadhar number of the person whose samples they lifted and deliver the samples to the Corporation to be taken either to the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital or authorised testing laboratories. In multi-storeyed shops, the teams lift samples at random from each of the floor. Likewise, they lift samples from only a few employees in a commercial establishment. As they complete all the localities in their wards, the teams revisit the area after 20 – 25 days and in the second round, they lift samples from shops other than those taken in the previous exercise. In shops with more than 20 employees, the teams lift at least five or six samples, the official say and add that with the State government relaxing the lockdown restriction in the last couple of months, the Corporation is keeping a close watch to ensure early detection of infection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corpn-continues-lifting-samples-from-commercial-establishments/article35795466.ece
08 August 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Industry demands amnesty scheme||The trade and industry here has appealed to the State government to announce an amnesty scheme to settle pending Value Added Tax /Central Sales Tax issues. The industry associations submitted their memorandum to the government at a meeting held on Friday. According to the Coimbatore District Small Industries Association (Codissia), an amnesty scheme should be introduced to clear pending VAT/CST dues with partial relief in tax payable and full relief from interest and penalty. The government should relax and give time to furnish documents for VAT/CST assessment or any pending audit matters. The Indian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Coimbatore, said entry tax cases pertaining to 15 or 20 years back are now reopened and assessed. When an order is passed, the payment cannot be adjusted or set-off. Hence, a ‘samadhan scheme’ exclusively for Entry Tax may be envisaged. A settlement scheme can be introduced for VAT and CST issues too. The Codissia added that the Goods and Service Act provides for sanctioning refund amount within a specific time. There is a provision to sanction 90 % of the claimed amount within 10 days and balance amount to be sanctioned after verification of claim. This is followed at GST and Central Excise Department. However, it is not followed strictly in State Tax Department. The MSMEs are facing financial hardship because of the pandemic. Sanctioning of refund amount on time will help the industry meet its financial needs. Refund melas can be organised. Further, industries need six months time to make GST and Income Tax payments due in July /August 2021. And, the late fees applicable on delayed filing of GSTR 1 should be waived off. Loans from State Financial Institutions such as the Tamil Nadu Industrial Investment Corporation Ltd. (TIIC) etc. needs to be rescheduled for six months and the interest rate for the lockdown period should be nil. All concessions/subsidies provided to the existing SIPCOT / SIDCO Industrial Estates should be extended to all the industrial estates with full infrastructure facilities, for the development of industries, it said. The Chamber said regular monthly grievance meeting of dealers should be held at the regional level and quarterly meetings should be held at the State level. According to the Apparel Export Promotion Council, a new Commercial Tax division should be formed with headquarters at Tirupur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/industry-demands-amnesty-scheme/article35795469.ece
08 August 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||‘Beware of quacks in veterinary medicine’||The district administration has cautioned farmers and cattle growers to be aware of quacks in veterinary medicine. In a release issued here on Saturday, the administration said only those persons with the right qualification and registration with the Veterinary Council were authorised to treat animals. In the event of death of animals after treatment by quacks, the owners would not be liable for insurance claim. Besides those trained in artificially inseminating the animals were not eligible to provide veterinary care. After three months training, such persons were only allowed to artificially inseminate animals. If they were found providing veterinary care, the administration would initiate action that would include fine and imprisonment, the press release warned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/beware-of-quacks-in-veterinary-medicine/article35795468.ece
08 August 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore reports 223 new COVID-19 cases||A total of 223 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Coimbatore district on Saturday. The Health Department said the district had 2,180 active cases on Saturday and 208 persons recovered from the disease. The district’s toll increased to 2,190 after a 60-year-old woman died of the disease. According to the Department, Coimbatore district had a test positivity rate of 2.1 % on Friday when 239 persons tested positive out of the 11,588 swab samples tested. Tiruppur district reported three deaths and 84 fresh cases on Saturday. The overall tally stood at 88,441 cases. The toll went up to 860. There were 867 active cases and 88 persons were discharged on Saturday. In the Nilgiris, 54 persons tested positive and the total number of confirmed cases stood at 30,859. The toll increased from 183 to 185 on Saturday while 498 persons are undergoing treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-reports-223-new-covid-19-cases/article35795477.ece
08 August 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Restriction for shops continues||With the State government extending the lockdown till August 23, the district administration too has extended the restriction on the business hours of commercial establishments and during weekends in select locations. A release from the Collector said the restriction in timings for grocery stores, vegetable shops, bakeries, tea stalls and fish and meat stalls, liquor shops, malls and multi-storeyed shopping complexes would continue as would the weekend restriction on Cross Cut Road, 100 Feet Road, Gandhipuram 5th, 6th and 7th streets, Oppanakara Street, Ramamoorthy Road, Saramedu Road, Thudiyalur Junction Rice Mill Road, N.P. Itteri Road and Ellai Thottam Junction. The administration had earlier ordered closure of all shops except those selling milk, medicines or vegetables in the aforementioned places on weekends.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/restriction-for-shops-continues/article35795467.ece
08 August 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Officials visit brick kilns in Thadagam valley||Officials from various departments on Saturday visited brick kilns and places mined for red earth in Thadagam valley. A senior official, who was part of the team, said the places were visited as part of submitting a report to the National Green Tribunal (NGT), Southern Zone, Chennai. The NGT, which recently took suo motu cognizance of the red earth mining in Thadagam valley, had appointed a joint committee to inspect the areas and assess the environment degradation caused in the valley. District Revenue Officer P.S. Leela Alex, Coimbatore north District Revenue Officer G. Ravichandran, Regional Joint Director of Geology and Mining P. Saravanan, an Executive Engineer from the Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board (TNPCB) and an official from the Public Works Department were among the officials who visited the places. “The team visited some of the areas on Saturday. Other areas will be inspected in the coming days. A report will be prepared based on the findings of the visit which will be submitted before the NGT,” said an official. At present, all the brick kilns in five village panchayats in Thadagam valley are remaining shut after the district administration initiated proceedings for their closure based on an order issued by the Madras High Court in April this year. According to the district administration, 186 brick kilns/chambers situated in Chinna Thadagam, Nanjundapuram, Veerapandi, Pannimadai and Somaiyampalayam village panchayats in the valley had not obtained proper licences for operation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/officials-visit-brick-kilns-excavated-areas-in-thadagam-valley/article35795476.ece
08 August 2021||Dindigul,TAMIL NADU||Handloom exhibition inaugurated||Collector S. Visakan inaugurated a special handlooms exhibition at the Collectorate on Saturday. The expo was organised in connection with National Handlooms Day being observed on August 7 in commemoration with Swadeshi Movement. He handed over the goods of first sale to the Dindigul Government Medical College Dean K. K. Vijayakumar and Tahsildar (Disaster Management), Santhamary Geetha. Handloom softsilk sarees, cotton sarees, kora cotton, artificial silk sarees, tie and dye cotton sarees, lungis, bedsheets, towels and shirting materials were exhibited at the expo. The Collector gave away benefits worth Rs. 68.20 lakh including Rs. 50,000 loan under Mudra Loan Scheme to 112 beneficiaries and old-age pension order to 20 persons. Handloom and Textiles, Assistant Director, P. Venkatesalu, was present. Collector J. Meghanath Reddy inaugurated a similar exhibition in Virudhunagar. He distributed old age pension to 20 weavers, assistance under Mudra Loan Scheme to five persons. Handloom and Textiles, Assistant Director, N. Sankar Raj, was present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/handloom-exhibition-inaugurated/article35795551.ece
08 August 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Various events mark Handloom Day celebrations in districts||An exhibition of handloom products and distribution of assistance to weavers marked the 7th National Handloom Day celebration in the district on Saturday. To honour the handloom weaving community and highlight the contribution of the sector in the socio-economic development of the country, 7th August every year is celebrated as National Handloom Day from 2015. At the Collectorate premises, Collector H. Krishnanunni inaugurated a handloom exhibition in which 15 handloom weaving cooperative societies from across the district took part and displayed their products. Bedspreads, towels, bedsheets, pillow covers, jamakkalam, saris, doormat and other handloom products were displayed. Mr. Krishnanunni visited each stall and interacted with the weavers. Officials said that there are 188 handloom weaving cooperative societies and 50 powerloom weavers cooperative societies in the district. A total of 59,681 handloom weavers and 7,132 power loom weavers are members of the 238 societies in the district. For 2020-21, a manufacturing target of Rs. 27.16 crore was given for 158 societies of which Rs. 29.92 crore worth handloom items were manufactured and Rs. 27.01 crore worth items were procured. For 2021-22, 149 societies were given a manufacturing target of Rs. 22.41 crore of handloom items and Rs. 55.12 lakh worth items were manufactured and Rs. 37.26 lakh worth handloom items were procured. Mr. Krishnanunni distributed a loan of Rs. 50,000 each to four members of a cooperative society under the Micro Units Development and Refinance Agency Limited scheme. Pratik Dayal, Project Director, District Rural Development Agency, P. Murugesan, District Revenue Officer, Tamilarasi, Joint Director, Department of Handloom and Textiles and other officials were present. Salem Handloom day was celebrated at the Salem Collectorate. District Collector S. Karmegham, DMK legislator R. Rajendran and senior officials took part in the event. An exhibition of handloom products was organised on the Collectorate premises as part of the celebrations. Mr. Karmegham also distributed benefits to the tune of Rs. 8.16 lakh under loan scheme to 25 weavers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/various-events-mark-handloom-day-celebrations-in-districts/article35795563.ece
08 August 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||New COVID-19 restrictions in Erode district from August 9||With slight increase in COVID-19 cases in the district, Collector H. Krishnanunni announced new restrictions which will come into force from August 9. In a release issued on Saturday, he said that all the shops, including groceries, vegetables and bakeries will function only from 6 a.m. to 5 p.m., while milk and medical shops will function as usual. All the hotels, restaurants and eateries will function from 6 a.m. to 5 p.m. only with 50% of the seating capacity while takeaway service is allowed from 5 p.m. to 9 p.m. All the tea shops are allowed to function from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. and only parcel service is allowed. In marriage halls, a maximum of 50 persons are allowed while not more than 20 persons are allowed to participate in funerals. Meat and fish shops are allowed to function only in open spaces in corporation, municipalities, town panchayats and in village panchayats. Entry of public to parks, tourist places and museum are prohibited on Sundays. The release said that Tamil Nadu – Karnataka border is being monitored and persons entering from Karnataka should have COVID-19 negative certificate taken within 72 hours prior to undertaking the journey. Also, they will be allowed if they have the certificate for having administered two doses of vaccine. Or they should undergo an RT-PCR test at the check-post, the release said. The release said that people gather in large numbers at Erode – Eswaran Kovil Street, TVS Street, Gandhiji Road, Brindha Street, Old Central Theatre Road, Manikoondu, RKV Road, Mettur Road, Stoney Bridge, VOC Park, Cauvery Road, Bhavani – Cauvery Road, Kooduthurai, Ammapettai Town and Mangalapadithurai, Gobichettipalayam – Market and Bazaar Street, Sathyamangalam – Varathampalayam Nirmala Theatre Junction, Puliyampatti, Madhampalayam Junction, Puliyampatti Bus Stand opposite, Talavadi Basweswara Bus Stand, T.N. Palayam bus stand and D.G. Pudur. Except for medical, milk, groceries and vegetable shops and hotels, all other shops will be closed on Saturdays and Sundays, the release said. Mr. Krishnanunni requested the people to cooperate with the district administration and prevent the spread of COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/new-covid-19-restrictions-in-erode-district-from-august-9/article35795565.ece
08 August 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Man held for smuggling PDS rice||Civil Supplies CID police on Saturday arrested a 41-year-old man for smuggling one tonne of rice meant for distribution under public distribution system. During a vehicle check at Rangampalayam, police intercepted a van and found 1,000 kg of rice. The driver Dhanasekar of Mullamparapu was questioned. He said that he used to purchase rice from the public and sell it at a higher price to the North Indian workers at Perundurai. He was arrested and the rice seized.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-held-for-smuggling-pds-rice/article35795564.ece
08 August 2021||KARUR,TAMIL NADU||Temples out of bounds today||Collector T. Prabhu Shankar said that no public darshan would be allowed in leading temples in the district on Sunday to check the spread of COVID-19. In a statement, he said that it had been decided to close Sri Kalyana Ventramanaswamy Temple, Thanthonrimalai; Sri Pasupatheeswarar Temple, Karur; Sri Balasubramaniaswamy Temple, Vennaimalai; Sri Balasubramaniaswamy Temple, Palamalai; Mariamman Temple, Karur; Rathinagirishwarar Temple, Ayyarmalai; Kadambavaneswarar Temple, Kulithalai; Mahalakshmi Temple, Mettu Mahathanapuram; and Sellandiamman Temple, Karur for public darshan on Sunday on the occasion of Adi Amavasya. However, all regular pujas as per customs would be performed by the priests. Mr. Shankar said that people should avoid visiting the banks of the Cauvery for pujas on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/temples-out-of-bounds-today/article35795539.ece
08 August 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||All eligible people in 10 panchayats vaccinated||Collector S. Aneesh Sekhar on Saturday honoured 10 village panchayats in the district that had vaccinated 100% of the eligible persons above 18 years against COVID-19. He gave away prizes to the presidents and secretaries of the panchayats and honoured the Block Medical Officers at a function held here. He said that Madurai district had successfully overcome the second wave of COVID pandemic through various measures. “Our focus then was also on creating awareness among the people of the ways to prevent COVID-19, like wearing masks, maintaining social distance and not being part of any crowd,” he said. Stating that people should not lower their guards thinking that the district had overcome the pandemic, he advised them to be cautious. “If we are not maintaining the social vaccination – wearing masks, maintaining physical distance and not participating in crowds – we cannot avoid the third wave,” he said. Stating that several festivals were lining up in the next few months, he wanted people to be judicious in coming out. Though lack of vaccine had delayed the vaccination programme, the district did not face any hesitation for vaccination, he said. “Besides, the 10 village panchayats, one ward each in Usilampatti municipality and Elumalai town panchayat achieved 100% vaccination,” he said. He also distributed prizes to students who had won various competitions held to create awareness on COVID on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/all-eligible-people-in-10-panchayats-vaccinated/article35795713.ece
08 August 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Jurisdiction of family court needs to be redefined: HC||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court observed that it was time for the legislature to take note of the foreign marriages that had become common and redefine the jurisdiction of family court in the interest of children and the person interested in the welfare of children so that they do not suffer. Justice J. Nisha Banu observed the law should take a line matching the changes happening in the society. If the law is lagging behind, the rights of the parties will also lag behind. The judge said that innumerable foreign marriages were taking place each day. The Guardians and Wards Act, 1890 was of the year 1890 when foreign marriages were not in contemplation, the judge observed. The court was hearing a petition filed by the mother of a boy seeking his custody. She filed the petition after a family court returned her petition. The petition filed before the Kanniyakumari Family Court was returned on the ground of lack of territorial jurisdiction. It was submitted that the couple from Kanniyakumari district left India with their children in 2014, impliedly saying they were residing in India till 2014. The woman sought to be declared the natural guardian of her son and to be handed over the custody of her son. The judge directed the family court to take the case on file and observed that if the issue of jurisdiction was doubtful, it was open to the court to consider in the light of evidence offered during enquiry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/jurisdiction-of-family-court-needs-to-be-redefined-hc/article35795709.ece
08 August 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||GRH has treated all 365 patients of mucormycosis during second wave||When the second wave of COVID-19 hit the country earlier this year, many among the survivors reported mucormycosis, an invasive fungal sinusitis that threatened to cost life or an eye in a patient. But a prompt and multi-disciplinary management of such patients at the Government Rajaji Hospital, Madurai, has helped to treat successfully all the 365 patients admitted between May and now. The GRH is one of the six nodal centres for screening mucormycosis in the State and a tertiary centre for the southern districts. After the Tamil Nadu Government declared the Black Fungus a notifiable disease under Epidemic Diseases Act 1897 on May 20, a 60-bed mucormycosis ward was set up at GRH on May 25. To take on the challenge of dealing with an increasing number of cases, Dean A. Rathinavel formed a multi-department team with the Heads of general medicine, ENT, ophthalmology, anaesthesia, microbiology, pathalogy and diabetology. It helped in speeding up the treatment procedure and effectively managing the patients. While 331 patients have been discharged, 34 are under treatment. Addressing a joint press conference with the HoDs, Dr. Rathinavel it was the timely intervention, early diagnosis and treatment and well-coordinated team work that prevented loss of life and eliminated the possibility of loss of vision in the patients. Even as Tamil Nadu ranks fourth highest in the number of black fungus cases, GRH’s efforts stand out. An 80-year-old woman who was treated for COVID at a private hospital in Dindigul and reported with Karumpunjai three weeks later to GRH, on Saturday thanked the doctors for saving her life. Professor of Medicine M. Natarajan said a majority of the patients had diabetes and the steroid usage during COVID treatment could have resulted in the fungal infection. It was challenging for the doctors as they could not afford to lose time between clearing the gangrene and controlling the sugar levels before starting the anti-fungal drug therapy to stem the spread of infection. The tissue culture report takes five days but the doctors did not delay the treatment for patients who reported with symptoms in the eye or their nasal and brain CT showed presence of the black fungus. The quick approach yielded positive results, said diabetologist E. Subbiah.  When the anti-fungal Amphoteritin-B injection was hard to get, the State Health Minister and the Health Secretary coordinated to ensure availability of adequate stock at GRH, the Dean said. While 262 patients underwent endoscopic suction clearance, 112 patients were treated for retro-orbital (eye involvement) and 12 for extension of mucormycosis in the brain.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/grh-has-treated-all-365-patients-of-mucormycosis-during-second-wave/article35795711.ece
08 August 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||MP condemns casteist remarks against hockey player||Madurai MP Su. Venkatesan has condemned casteist remarks made against Indian hockey team player Vandana Katariya, who took part in the Tokoyo Olympics. In a memorandum addressed to Union Minister of Youth Affairs and Sports, Anurag Singh Thakur, Mr. Venkatesan said that it was disgusting to see news reports about the ill treatment meted out to family members of Ms. Vandana at her village, Roshnabad in Haridwar of Uttarakhand state, after India’s defeat in the semi-finals against Argentina. Some caste Hindus had hurled caste slurs on Ms. Vandana when they stepped out of their house. It has been reported that they went on saying that India lost because too many Dalits have found place in the team and every sport should keep Dalits out. This is disgraceful for the fine sports person who has made exemplary contribution to the Indian hockey team, the MP said. Recalling that it was for the first time that India’s Women Hockey team entered the semifinals in the Olympics, he said that the Indian women team beat three-time champion Australia. Ms Vandana created a record in the match against South Africa as the first Indian woman hockey player to score a hat-trick in the Olympics. These casteist attacks diminished the image of India among the people, particularly sports lovers throughout the world, and it would demoralise the sportspersons, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mp-condemns-casteist-remarks-against-hockey-player/article35795552.ece
08 August 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Youth murders wife two days after marriage, burns body||A youth, who married a college girl, murdered her and burnt her body amidst wild bushes off Ring Road under Avaniyapuram police station limits. The police arrested S. Jothimani (22) of Avaniyapuram, who was a site engineer with a private builder. They said that Jothimani had married S. Gladis Rani (21) of Sholavandan, on Monday and lodged a complaint with All Women Police Station, Samayanallur, seeking protection for them from his family members. The youth’s family members did not accept the marriage when the police called them for an inquiry. After the inquiry, the couple stayed at Rani’s house in Sholavandan. They had left the house on Wednesday for getting a certificate for Rani from her college. However, since their daughter did not return home that day, a complaint was lodged with the police on Thursday. When the police picked up Jothimani for an enquiry, he reportedly confessed to have strangulated his wife with a shawl after taking her to an isolated place near Avaniyapuram. Later, he burnt the body with petrol. The police took him to the spot where they found the charred remains of Rani’s body. Investigation is under way.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/youth-murders-wife/article35795557.ece
08 August 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Handloom expo held||A special handloom exhibition was held here on account of the National Handloom Day. It was inaugurated on Saturday by the Madurai Collector S. Aneesh Sekhar. The National Handloom Day was observed in commemoration of the Swadeshi Movement. Handloom products from Madurai, Virudhunagar, Dindigul and Paramakudi were on display. Hand-woven cotton saris, Sungudi saris, Kora cotton, dhotis, shawls and other handloom products were displayed. The Collector handed over the old age pension to the weavers and loan under the Mudra Loan Scheme was also handed over to beneficiaries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/handloom-expo-held/article35795715.ece
08 August 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Follow G.O., HC tells police||Citizens should be provided police protection, based on a government order, when they seek it after a favourable a civil court decree, the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court told the the Director General of Police and directed him to issue a reminder to all the police stations. Justice J. Nisha Banu referred to the G.O. issued in 2008 by the Home Department and said police should not insist on a specific court direction while their protection is sought. The court was hearing the petition filed by P. Packianathan of Melur taluk in Madurai district. The petitioner had sought a direction to the Madurai police to provide him adequate protection to carry out agricultural works in his land. A civil dispute pertaining to the land was settled in his favour. He made the representation to the police seeking their protection, but the latter had insisted on a specific order from the court. The court observed that the government itself had issued the guidelines to the police officers directing them to give protection in the light of the civil court order by constituting a committee. Based on the recommendations of the committee, the guidelines were issued. But, even after all these years, the G.O. was not implemented driving people unnecessarily to the court. “It is high time the police officers respected the orders of the court and government orders,” the judge said. To avoid recurrence, the court directed the DGP to issue reminders to police stations. Referring to an earlier judgment of the High Court, the judge said the the function of the police officials was to control law and order and investigate crimes. The police cannot take over the job of the civil court to adjudicate the disputes. Perhaps without understanding the stage at which they can interfere in civil jurisdiction, the police were insisting upon the production of the specific court order, the judge said and disposed of the petition.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/follow-go-hc-tells-police/article35795717.ece
08 August 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Accused pastor allowed to visit family in Germany||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has allowed pastor Gideon Jacob, founder of Mose Ministries, Tiruchi to travel to Germany and meet his children and ailing wife. He was directed to visit his family and come back to India in three months. Justice Sathi Kumar Sukumara Kurup said if the petition was dismissed, it would cause mental stress not only to the petitioner, but to his family members as well. He shall be afforded an opportunity to visit them. The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has completed the investigation in the Mose Ministries case. It was alleged that 89 girl inmates were illegally kept at the home without the knowledge of their parents. However, this was denied by the founder, who said they were rescued from female infanticide. The CBI had filed a chargesheet in the case. Officials were apprehensive that the petitioner would abscond under the pretence of visiting his family. After the court was informed that immovable property offered by the petitioner was available as security before the trial court, the judge allowed the petition with conditions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-allows-accused-pastor-to-visit-family-abroad/article35795459.ece
08 August 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Water level||The water level in Periyar dam stood at 136.25 feet (maximum permissible level is 142 ft) with an inflow of 1052 cusecs and a discharge of 900 cusecs. In Vaigai dam, the water level stood at 68.34 feet (71 ft) with an inflow of 694 cusecs and a discharge of 969 cusecs. The combined storage in Periyar credit was 10360 mcft.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level/article35795547.ece
08 August 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Youth murders wife||A youth, who married a college-going girl, murdered her and burnt her body. The police have arrested S. Jothimani, 22, of Avaniyapuram, a site engineer with a private builder. They said that Jothimani had married S. Gladis Rani, 21, of Sholavandan, on Monday. She had lodged a complaint with the All Women Police Station, Samayanallur, seeking protection from his family members. The youth’s family had not accepted the marriage when the police called them for an enquiry. After an inquiry, the couple had stayed at Rani’s house in Sholavandan. They had left the house on Wednesday to get a certificate for Rani from her college. Since she did not return home, a complaint was lodged. When the police picked up Jothimani for enquiry, he reportedly confessed to the crime.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/youth-murders-wife/article35795901.ece
08 August 2021||NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||Awareness campaign on COVID-19 held||An awareness campaign on COVID-19 pandemic and vaccination was held near Siviyampalayam here on Saturday. Namakkal MLA P. Ramalingam took part in the awareness campaign held at Ilakamanaikenpatti. Members of Indian Medical Association and villagers took part in the event. P. Ranganathan, co-ordinator of National Health Mission and other senior officials took part in the event. Mr. Ramalingam advised the youth in the village to create awareness among the elders regarding vaccination. He also advised the villagers to follow all COVID-19 safety protocols as unlike first wave, more cases were getting reported in villages during the second wave. Dr. Ranganathan advised the villagers to take COVID-19 vaccine to protect themselves from the disease. Dr. Ranganathan said that 90% of the villagers have taken vaccine shots and they were aiming for 100% vaccination coverage||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/awareness-campaign-on-covid-19-held/article35795566.ece
08 August 2021||NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||2-year-old girl administered life-saving drug||Two-year-old girl K.S. Mithra, who is suffering from spinal muscular atrophy disease was administered with the life-saving drug Zolgensma at a Bengaluru hospital on Saturday. A relative close to the family said, “Mithra was administered with the injection at Baptist Hospital in Bengaluru and she is being monitored.” Mithra, daughter of K. Satheesh Kumar and V. Priyadarshini, hails from Kumarapalayam in Namakkal and the family is into textile business. Mithra was diagnosed with SMA recently and a crowd-funding campaign was launched to raise Rs. 16 crore to meet the cost of Zolgensma drug. The Tamil Nadu government and representatives of various political parties also wrote to the Centre to waive off customs duty on the drug.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/2-year-old-girl-administered-life-saving-drug/article35795569.ece
08 August 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Chief Minister seeks financial assistance from Central govt.||Chief Minister N. Rangasamy has asked the Centre to work out “a reasonable and fair methodology” for provision of grants to Puducherry for implementing developmental and welfare schemes. In a virtual meeting with NITI Aayog on Friday, the Chief Minister said the Union Territory was not covered under the Central Finance Commission or Union Territory Finance Commission. The annual growth under Central assistance remained almost static. In the current financial year, the increase in Central assistance was 1.58% over the previous year. Over a period of five years, the increase in assistance was only 4 to 5%. The increase was very meagre, Mr. Rangasamy said. “Hence, the Centre is requested to work out some reasonable and fair methodology for provision of grants to take up developmental works and welfare programmes,” the Chief Minister said. A release from the Chief Minister’s Office said the funding pattern under Centrally sponsored schemes was 60:40. The Central assistance should be increased from 60 to 90%, the Chief Minister said at the meeting. After the implementation of Good and Services Tax (GST), the Union Territory had suffered a substantial loss of revenue. The compensation given by the Centre would only bridge the gap. In the post-GST compensation period from July 2022, Puducherry would have a monthly revenue loss of around Rs. 140 crore. So, the Centre should extend the compensation period or release additional assistance, the Chief Minister said. Mr. Rangasamy also sought financial assistance to take up offshore submerged reef (on the southern end of the beach) project to prevent erosion and protect the coastline. The Central assistance was also required for runway expansion at the airport and tourism projects, he said. The Centre should also consider starting a ferry service connecting Chennai-Puducherry-Karaikal to encourage tourism activity and trade, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/chief-minister-seeks-financial-assistance-from-central-govt/article35795789.ece
08 August 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Puducherry records one death due to COVID-19, 102 new cases||The Union Territory has registered one COVID-19 death and 102 new cases in the last 24 hours, ending 10 a.m. on Saturday. A 35-year-old person with no comorbidity succumbed to the virus at the Indira Gandhi Government Medical College and Research Institute. The new cases were detected while screening a total of 5,521 people in Puducherry. Of the total 102 new cases, 69 were detected in Puducherry region, 24 in Mahe and the remaining 9 in Karaikal. Test positivity now stood at 1.85%. With new admissions, there are 882 active cases in the Union Territory. As many as 176 people are under treatment at various government hospitals while 706 are under home isolation, data released by the Health Department revealed. As of Saturday, 7,31,370 people have been vaccinated in the Union Territory, data revealed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/puducherry-records-one-death-due-to-covid-19-102-new-cases/article35795792.ece
08 August 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||‘Trip to New Delhi was fruitful’||Speaker R. Selvam on Saturday termed his recent visit to New Delhi as ‘very fruitful’. Mr. Selvam, who returned from national capital after calling on Union Ministers and the Speaker of the Lok Sabha along with Puducherry Home Minister A. Namassivayam, said they were able to apprise the Centre about the developmental needs of the Union Territory. Addressing a press conference, the Speaker said during the meeting with the Lok Sabha Speaker and the Union Finance Minister, the issue of the new Assembly building was taken up, and that the latter had sought a detailed project report and an estimate for fund sanction. The Budget session of the Legislative Assembly would be convened by end of the month after the Centre gave its approval. Chief Minister N. Rangasamy was expected to meet the Prime Minister and the Home Minister on August 20, Mr. Selvam said. The Lok Sabha Speaker had agreed to provide training to new legislators, he said, and added that a request was made to the Centre to provide assistance to revive the textile mills in Puducherry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/trip-to-new-delhi-was-very-fruitful-speaker/article35795534.ece
08 August 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Funds sought to construct mini-stadiums||Home Minister A. Namassivayam on Saturday called on Union Sports Minister Anurag Thakur and sought assistance of Rs. 60 crore to construct mini stadiums in the Union Territory. A release from the Minister’s Office said plans were made to construct seven stadiums in Puducherry and the Union Minister agreed to consider the proposal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/funds-sought-to-construct-mini-stadiums/article35795790.ece
08 August 2021||Ramanathapuram,TAMIL NADU||Paralegal volunteers should create awareness of basic laws to public||Paralegal volunteers should create awareness of the basic law among the masses and help them access basic services from the government, said Chairman of Ramanathapuram District Legal Services Authority (DLSA), R. Shanmugasundaram. He was addressing paralegal volunteers at a training programme held here on Saturday. Mr. Shanmugasundaram, who is also the District Principal Judge, told the volunteers that they should help the unlettered people in getting benefits under various government schemes from the government departments. “You should act as a bridge between the eligible people and the Government departments,” he said. The PDJ stressed that the volunteers should educate the people about the present procedures to get birth and death certificates. Besides, they should help the family members of those who died during the COVID-19 pandemic get death certificate and the certificate for cause of death. The people should be educated about DLSA and its benefit in getting legal solution to their basic problems. The litigants should be told about the alternative disputes redressal system and that the National Lok Adalat hearings were being held once in two months. “Ligitants should know that they can get their disputes resolved at the earliest through Lok Adalat and they can get full refund of the court fees,” Mr. Shanmugasundaram said. District Judge G. Magizhenthi and DLSA secretary C. Kathiravan, spoke. Senior advocates Kirubagarasekar, J. Uthuman and R. Saleem imparted training to the volunteers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/paralegal-volunteers-should-create-awareness-of-basic-laws-to-public/article35795556.ece
08 August 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Checks tightened on Yercaud ghat road following travel restrictions||The Salem district police and revenue department officials tightened checks on those who visit Yercaud hill station on Saturday after the district administration barred tourists from visiting the hill station on weekends. Following relaxation offered by the State government to COVID-19 lockdown restrictions, tourists, including travellers from neighbouring States like Kerala and Karnataka, started visiting Yercaud. Professionals and riders from Bengaluru formed the major chunk of tourists who visited Yercaud. Significant crowd was noticed in the hill station during weekends despite the parks and other tourism activities here remaining closed. However, considering the increase in crowd, the district administration prohibited tourists from visiting the hill station on weekends and on weekdays they were required to carry RT-PCR negative report or vaccination certificate for two doses. Police checks were tightened in the Yercaud ghat road and only local residents and those travelling for business reasons were permitted. Persons permitted to travel to the hill station where asked to undergo RT-PCR test at the police check-post on the ghat road. Police and revenue officials checked the travellers for their identity cards and a health team was also stationed at the check-post. Officials also checked the reports of passengers travelling in buses and bus conductors were advised not to allow passengers to travel standing. However, travellers had reached the hill station on Friday itself to escape from being turned away at the check-post. Health teams were also deployed at Kuppanur and Kulayur to collect swab samples from tourists. Residents in the hill station said that the crowd was less compared to previous weeks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/checks-tightened-on-yercaud-ghat-road-following-travel-restrictions/article35795568.ece
08 August 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||RPF seizes 54 kg of silver articles||Personnel from the Railway Protection Force seized 54 kg of silver goods from a passenger here on Friday allegedly for carrying them without proper bills. According to RPF officials, a team led by Arvind Kumar, RPF Inspector during patrolling in platform 5 found a passenger waiting in a suspicious manner and the personnel checked the contents of his baggage. On checks, RPF personnel found the passenger was carrying silver ornaments weighing 54.3 kg without proper bills or voucher. According to the police, the passenger was about to board a train to travel to Telangana from Salem. The accused Sathish Eswaran was from Shivadhapuram here and the silver ornaments was worth to the tune of Rs. 36.17 lakh. The RPF officials alerted State Tax Officers here. The tax officers collected Rs. 2,17,024 as GST tax and fine from Eswaran and released the goods.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rpf-seizes-54-kg-of-silver-articles/article35795570.ece
08 August 2021||SALEM/NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||World breastfeeding week observed||World breastfeeding week was observed in the districts on Saturday. In Namakkal, District Collector Shreya P. Singh inaugurated the programme organised by the Integrated Child Development Scheme officials. Addressing the event, Ms. Singh highlighted the importance of breastfeeding newborns for six months to ensure healthy growth of the child. She added that breastfeeding is also important for the health of lactating mothers. In Salem, the week was observed d at the Government Mohan Kumaramagalam Medical College Hospital. Valli Sathyamoorthy, Dean of the hospital, P.V. Dhanapal, Medical Superintendent, P. Sampath Kumar, head, Paediatrics Department and other senior officials took part. As part of the event, Rotary Club of Salem donated a water heater worth Rs. 70,000 for the newborn ward here. Collector S. Karmegham inspected the Omalur government hospital and the obstetrics ward. He enquired with the patients on treatment provided at the hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/world-breastfeeding-week-observed/article35795571.ece
08 August 2021||Sattur,TAMIL NADU||Sattur to become 100% vaccinated town soon||All residents in Sattur municipal area will be vaccinated against COVID-19 in the next one week, said Virudhunagar Collector J. Meghanath Reddy. Inaugurating a vaccination camp here on Saturday, he said that out of the 20,000 persons, above 18 years of age, eligible for vaccination, 13,000 persons have been vaccinated. Efforts have been taken to vaccinate all the remaining 7,000 persons in the next one week. A medical team of one doctor, two nurses and two village health nurses have been formed to carry out the exercise. Special vaccination camps will be held at the Edward Higher Secondary School, Madamaligai Marriage Hall, S. K. Thevar Mahal and Annai Theresa School. He has appealed to the residents of Sattur town to make use of the opportunity. He said that beds were kept ready in hospitals as part of COVID-19 precuationary measures. District Revenue Officer R. Mangalaramasubramanian, Sattur Revenue Divisional Officer Puspha, Deputy Directors (Health Services), Palanisamy (Virudhunagar), Kalusivalingam (Sivakasi), Sattur Municipal Commissioner, Ilavarasan, were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sattur-to-become-100-vaccinated-town-soon/article35795549.ece
08 August 2021||Sivaganga,TAMIL NADU||BJP youth wing functionary booked for rape||All Women Police Station, Sivaganga, has registered a case of rape against a Bharatiya Janata Party youth wing functionary, S. Bharatlal (26), on Friday. “We have registered a case on receipt of the complaint and special teams have been formed to nab the accused who has been absconding,” Sivaganga Superintendent of Police, T. Senthil Kumar, said. The victim, a law student, had said that she came across Bharatlal, when she had gone to his photo studio a few months back. She complained that the accused had offered her a juice, laced with sedative, following which she had fainted. Upon regaining consciousness, she realised that she had been sexually abused. Further, he had abused her by threatening to post her nude photographs in social media. Later, when she asked him to marry her as she had got pregnant, the accused had reportedly threatened her with dire consequences.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bjp-man-booked-for-rape/article35795553.ece
08 August 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Delta farmers worried over dwindling water level in dam||Anxiety prevails among delta farmers over prospects of the standing ‘kuruvai’ crop and the subsequent ‘samba’ cultivation in view of the depleting water storage at Stanley reservoir in Mettur. Stating that the present storage would not be sufficient to see through the ‘samba’ season which used to start this month, they lamented that already one-third of ‘kuruvai’ paddy cultivated in the delta and neighbouring districts had been affected due to insufficient water for irrigation. However, despite the grave situation, the disbursement of ‘kuruvai’ package this season is said to have mitigated the sufferings, farmers’ outfits say. Meanwhile, Tamizhaga Cauvery Vivasayigal Sangam president P. R. Pandian told reporters here on Friday that though the officials claimed that the target for total ‘kuruvai’ cultivation acreage had exceeded this season, in reality, the crop raised in about 2.50 lakh acres had only got sufficient surface irrigation support. Nearly one lakh acres had not received the required support for the sustenance of the standing crop, Mr. Pandian said. ‘Exert pressure’ Expressing concern over the storage level at Mettur reservoir, Mr. Pandian exhorted the Tamil Nadugovernment to exert pressure on the Cauvery Water Management Authority to ensure that the upper riparian State complied with the Supreme Court directions with regard to releasing of water from the Karnataka dams during a water year. As the dams in Karnataka have recorded good inflow and the State had built up water storage level sufficient enough to be shared as per the Supreme Court directions, the CWMA and the Tamil Nadu government should initiate steps for timely release of water from the Karnataka dams to build up the storage at the Stanley reservoir in Mettur to help the Delta farmers take up ‘samba’ cultivation with confidence, he added.  The State government should initiate steps for timely release of water from Karnataka dams to raise storage in Mettur dam P. R. Pandian President, Tamizhaga Cauvery Vivasayigal Sangam||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/delta-farmers-worried-over-dwindling-water-level-in-dam/article35795521.ece
08 August 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Weavers receive MUDRA loan||Ten weavers received loans under Weavers MUDRA Scheme at the National Handloom Day celebration held at the Collectorate here on Saturday. August 7 has been designated as the National Handloom Day by the Central government and events such as handloom exhibition, disbursement of loans and pension to eligible weavers were conducted on that day every year since 2015. Accordingly, Additional Collector of Revenue N. O. Sukhaputra disbursed loan sanction letters of Rs. 50,000 each to the 10 weavers and issued pension sanction orders to 10 other weavers. Mr. Sukhaputra also inaugurated an exhibition of handloom saris at the Collectorate. Thirubhuvanam silk zari saris, half-tone silk saris and Venkatagiri cotton Saris and other products have been displayed for sale. Tiruvarur Tiruvarur Collector P. Gayathri Krishnan inaugurated a similar exhibition at the Collectorate there and disbursed benefits worth Rs. 78,000 to four weavers under the pension and savings security scheme for weavers. Tiruchi An exhibition of handloom products was inaugurated at the Collector’s office campus in Tiruchi. Collector S.Sivarasu, who inaugurated the exhibition, also distributed Rs. 50,000 each as MUDRA loan to 10 weavers. The exhibition features products of about 15 weavers’ cooperative societies from Tamil Nadu, including saris and bedsheets. The exhibition will be open from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. till August 13 (except Sunday) and 20% discount would be offered on the products, arelease said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/weavers-receive-mudra-loan/article35795522.ece
08 August 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||‘Do not integrate SCB housing projects with PMAY’||The Tamizh Desiya Periyakkam has urged the Tamil Nadu government not to integrate the Tamil Nadu Slum Clearance Board housing projects with Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana. In a statement issued here on Saturday, its general secretary K.Venkatraman said that a pre-condition to enjoy the allotment of a flat in the Kesavapillai (KP) Park at Pullianthope in Chennai had caused immense hardships to the allottees. Nearly 850 families, who have earlier resided in the high-rise apartments constructed and allotted by the Slum Clearance Board for the past four decades, were vacated in 2016 stating that new apartments were to come up replacing the decades-old structures. After the completion of project, the allotment orders were issued to the beneficiaries in February this year with a condition that they should remit Rs. 1.50 lakh as the beneficiary contribution towards the PMAY scheme since the new buildings were constructed by the Board under the Central government’s subsidy-cum-housing loan scheme, he added. As the beneficiaries who have occupied the flats were unable to comply with the pre-condition of payment of Rs. 1.50 lakh as beneficiary contribution, the drinking water connection to the flats and lift facilities were withdrawn making it miserable for the allottees. Some of them had also been forced to vacate the housing complex, he said. Exhorting the Tamil Nadu government to ensure the revival of drinking water supply and operation of lift facilities without any conditions, Mr. Venkatraman urged the government to initiate steps for the waiver of the beneficiary contribution component and if that was not possible, the Tamil Nadu government should bear the cost to help the allottees live peacefully at the place they lived for more than four decades. He also urged the Tamil Nadu government not to club the Slum Clearance Board projects with the housing schemes implemented by the Union government.  The government must waive the beneficiary contribution component||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/do-not-integrate-scb-housing-projects-with-pmay/article35795535.ece
08 August 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Pat for AFS in fight against COVID-19||The role played by the Air Force Station here in the fight against novel coronavirus was lauded by Air Officer Commanding-in-Chief, Southern Air Command, Indian Air Force, Air Marshal Manavendra Singh. The Air Officer Commanding-in-Chief who arrived Thanjavur on a two-day visit on August 7, lauded the efforts put in by the air warriors in ferrying medical relief supplies and oxygen containers during the pandemic. He had also commended them for ensuring that all its personnel got themselves vaccinated and managing the COVID-19 situation well despite the unit’s remote location. Complimenting the AFS-Thanjavur and the Combat Squadron stationed here for taking the lead in planning and participating in the two Joint International Exercises between Indian Air Force and US Navy conducted off the eastern and western seaboard, the AOC-in-C emphasised the continued need for IAF to be flexible and have the ability to be deployed in any terrain. He also underlined the need to maintain very high level of preparedness and operational orientation. The Station Commander, Group Captain J. Sreeram briefed the AOC-in-C about the operational preparedness on the occasion, according to an official press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pat-for-afs-in-fight-against-covid-19/article35795524.ece
08 August 2021||Theni,TAMIL NADU||Suspicion raised over man’s death||A. Senthamarai, 50, has raised suspicion over the death of her husband, E. Abraham, 54, whose body was buried near here on July 26. The police said that the woman, a principal of a girls’ vocational school in Theni, said that her husband, who used to frequently quarrel with her under the influence of alcohol, had been living separately with his mother in Srivilliputtur. On July 26, she got information from her sister-in-law, that Abraham, had died in his sleep. The body was brought to Theni and was buried at a cemetery in Aranmanaipudur Kottaipatti Road. However, her enquiry with some people had raised suspicion in the death of her husband. Theni Town police have registered a case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/suspicion-raised-over-mans-death/article35795532.ece
08 August 2021||Thoothukudi,TAMIL NADU||Sanitary napkin production unit established||The Sterlite Copper has joined hands with a non-governmental organisation to establish a sanitary napkin production unit at Swaminatham near here as part of the livelihood programme that creates awareness of menstrual hygiene and ensures the health of women. Coupled with a paucity of suitable income generation activities, it is challenging for women in rural areas to make independent choices about their health. Towards bridging the gap between awareness and access to menstrual hygiene products, Sterlite Copper has set up a sanitary napkin production unit, says A. Sumathi, Chief Operating Officer, Sterlite Copper, who inaugurated the unit on Saturday. This project has been executed in collaboration with Bell Sumangali Self Help Group. Twenty women will be identified and trained as part of the programme, with the best-performing trainees being inducted into the manufacturing unit as full-time employees. They can earn up to Rs. 350 to Rs. 500 per day depending on quantity of production. Up to 3,150 napkins can be produced in a day by the unit, which will be made available for sale through tenders. The partner NGO in collaboration with the village’s women will ensure training, production and sale of the finished goods, helping generate income and encouraging micro-level entrepreneurship. “This project will simultaneously help in spreading awareness on the benefits of adopting hygienic practices and overcoming problems of availability and affordability of sanitary napkins to women in the area. This is a much needed initiative that will help serve a key area of women’s health, and therefore will be of immense benefit to the overall community. The project will also aid in further empowering rural women in Thoothukudi to make informed choices regarding their own well being,” says Ms. Sumathi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sanitary-napkin-production-unit-established/article35795897.ece
08 August 2021||Thoothukudi,TAMIL NADU||DMK functionary murdered||A DMK functionary was stabbed to death by four youths here on Friday when he shouted at them as they were dancing and troubling the devotees during the temple festival reportedly in an inebriated condition. The plice said M. Natarajan, 38, of Vannar Street in Mela Shanmugapuram, who is running an export – import firm in nearby Ramasamypuram, was the secretary of DMK’s 45th circle. While he was going to his office, he saw a few youths dancing during the festival of Muniyasamy Temple in Shanmugapuram on Friday night. As they were creating a ruckus near the place of worship, Natarajan reportedly shouted at them. Agitated over this, the youths followed Natarajan up to his office in Ramasamypuram and stabbed him to death. Thoothukudi South Police, who sent the body to Thoothukudi Medical College Hospital for a post-mortem, collected CCTV footages from the cameras fitted at Natarajan’s office and identified the culprits as S. Arun Kumar, 22, a history-sheeter, from Perumalpuram, S. Antonymuthu, 21, of Sivanthakulam Road, S. Marimuthu, 21, and T. Thanga Karthik, 25 of Damodhara Nagar. The four picked up a heated argument with Natarajan and stabbed him to death after attacking him with stones. The special team, formed by Superintendent of Police S. Jayakumar, arrested the four. Police have registered a case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmk-functionary-stabbed-to-death-in-thoothukudi/article35795558.ece
08 August 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Clean Street Food Hub to be set up in Tiruchi||The Department of Food Safety and Drug Administration plans to promote a Clean Street Food Hub in association with Tiruchi Corporation. To be set up soon, it will serve as a model for all street vendors, R. Ramesh Babu, Designated Officer, Food Safety and Drug Administration, Tiruchi, said here on Saturday. Speaking at a sensitisation programme on hygiene organised by Food Safety and Standards Authority of India (FSSAI) for over 200 street food vendors here, Mr. Babu said that providing clean and hygienic food also involved maintaining the quality of ingredients and resisting the addition of food colouring agents and other such products to enhance the look and taste. He also urged the vendors not to keep cooked food in the open as it would attract dust and insects, leading to contamination. He provided suggestions on treating food waste, washing the utensils in clean water regularly, and avoiding reusing cooking oil. “We will have a collection point to receive overused cooking oil. This will be processed at special units and used as biofuel,” he said. The programme sought to address the street vendors’ various concerns and provide them with possible solutions as they aim to serve safe and hygienic food. Participants were given aprons, masks, gloves and sanitisers and urged to maintain COVID-19 protocol as they go about conducting their businesses.  Overused cooking oil will be collected, processed at special units and used as biofuel R. Ramesh Babu Designated Officer Food Safety and Drug Administration||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/clean-street-food-hub-to-be-set-up-in-tiruchi/article35795527.ece
08 August 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Construction industry hit hard by high prices of steel||The volatility in the price of steel, one of the key construction materials, has affected the building industry hard. According to industry sources, in March 2020, before the imposition of phase-I of the nationwide lockdown, a tonne of steel (local brand) was sold for Rs. 43,000. The price of one of the top brands was quoted at Rs. 55,000 a tonne in Tiruchi. The price of the local brand was increased to Rs. 48,000 in November 2020 and Rs. 62,350 in January 2021. The price of the leading brand of steel went up to Rs. 74,000 in January. The prices went up further in April with a tonne of local brand steel touching Rs. 63,000 mark. The prices of top brands also jumped up correspondingly. The prices of local brands and top brands are currently hovering between Rs. 60,000 and Rs. 71,000 respectively now, industry sources said. Expenditure on steel constitutes about 20% to 25% in construction of bridges and 15% in construction of buildings. The constant volatile situation in prices of steel in the upward trend is troubling the builders. “Signing new projects or launching new ones is really an uphill task due to the cascading effects of lockdown. The steep rise in price of steel and other construction materials have compounded the woes of construction industry,” said Ravichandran, former president, Confederation of Real Estate Developers Associations of India, Tiruchi chapter. Though the prices had come down slightly when compared to April this year, he said that the prices were still on the higher side. Price stability for at least two years was essential for taking up new projects. Though organised players have the wherewithal to manage the situation at least to an extent, it is the small and medium players, who are bewildered about completing the projects. ‘Worst two years’ “Last two years are the worst in our life. New projects are hard to come by. The rise in prices of materials, including steel and cement, has hit us hard and we find it difficult to complete the projects,” said M. Selvakumar, an engineer in Srirangam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/construction-industry-hit-hard-by-high-prices-of-steel/article35795538.ece
08 August 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Breast milk bank in Tiruchi blazes a trail||As many as 4,367 women have donated breast milk to feed 2,205 babies so far at Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital. As the Breastfeeding Awareness Week observed from August 1 to 7 drew to a close, doctors and nurses at the Special Newborn Care Unit (SNCU) say that the bank has helped saved many lives over the last few years. The Breast Milk Bank at the Tiruchi GH is one of its kind in the district. While around 80% of the milk is given to babies born at the GH, requests also come from private hospitals, doctors said. The bank was set up during Breastfeeding Awareness Week celebration in 2015. “Breast milk is the first vaccine for a newborn. Until the baby turns six months, breast milk alone is sufficient for its nourishment. However, in some cases, babies are unable to get the milk. For them, we provide the milk through the bank,” a senior doctor said. K. Senthil Kumar, neonatologist and in charge of the bank, said that a baby would require 30 ml to 100 ml of milk. “The initiative began when women whose children are admitted to the hospital started donating milk. It is because of their willingness that the initiative continues,” he said. Further, breast milk secretion will increase when more milk is consumed and it will in turn help the women’s health too, he added. In Manapparai soon The Manapparai Government Medical Hospital will also get a breast milk bank soon, Dr. Senthil Kumar said. Awarness of the availability of such services, and encouraging women to breastfeed their babies for both theirs and the child’s health was on the agenda for Breastfeeding Awareness Week this year. Along with awareness programmes held through Anganwadi workers, and the Integrated Child Development Services, the the Special Newborn Care Unit has also roped in Indian Academy of Paediatrics; Indian Medical Association; Federation of Obstetric and Gynaecological Societies of India; National Neonatal Forum; Ekam Foundation; Rotary Tiruchi Metro 3000; and Inner Wheel Club of Tiruchi Metro to spread the message. “We initiated this move this year, and we hope that from next year onwards, these associations will organise events of their own to create more awareness,” he said. K.A.P. Viswanatham Government Medical College also organised quiz programmes for students of medicine and nursing.  The initiative began when women whose children are admitted to the hospital started donating milk K. Senthil Kumar Neonatologist||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/breast-milk-bank-in-tiruchi-blazes-a-trail/article35795541.ece
08 August 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||365 fresh cases in central region||Central districts reported 365 fresh cases of COVID-19 on Saturday. There was a slight dip in the number of cases reported, compared to the previous days. The number of deaths, however, continues to be low with three deaths recorded in the region. Two patients succumbed in Tiruchi while one patient died in Nagapattinam. The other seven districts reported no deaths. In Thanjavur, 110 patients tested positive for COVID-19, continuing to reflect the upward trend reported in the district over the last few days. Meanwhile, Tiruchi district reported 63 cases. Pudukottai district also reported a marked high with 45 fresh cases. Tiruvarur district reported 40 fresh cases, Nagapattinam 38, and Ariyalur reported 25. In Mayiladuthurai district, 21 patients tested positive and 17 in Karur. Perambalur district, meanwhile, continues to record the lowest COVID-19 cases among the central districts with six fresh cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/365-fresh-cases-in-central-region/article35795543.ece
08 August 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Attention drawn to dismal state of fabrication units||Tiruchi District Tiny and Small Scale Industries Association (TIDITSSIA) on Friday drew the attention of the State government to the dismal condition of fabrication units in Tiruchi region that had, as ancillaries to BHEL, deteriorated from bad to worse due to declining trend in thermal power requirement. Tiruchi district had all along been a major fabrication hub dependent on BHEL. “We request you to analyse the region’s capacity, competence and logistical advantage into consideration and impress upon giant public sector undertakings / private industrial groups to set up their manufacturing plants in Tiruchi region,” TIDITSSIA president R. Ilango said at a consultation meeting Minister for Finance and Human Resource Minister P. T. R. Palanivel Thiagarajan had with representatives of industry and MSME associations in Chennai on Friday. They were invited to offer suggestions for industrial growth of the State prior to the presentation of the revised budget estimates for 2021-22. In a representation to the minister, Mr. Ilango said that there was adequate land in Mondipatti SIPCOT Estate (Tiruchi –Manaparai road) for accommodating big industries. He also placed a request for promoting Tiruchi-Nagapattinam corridor for promotion of agricultural / food-based industrial parks. “We also request you to use your good offices to impress upon the Union government to amend the Contractual Obligation dates in the Office Memorandum considering the second wave and to prevail upon the public sector enterprises to implement the revised Office Memorandum from Ministry of Finance,” Mr. Ilango said, adding that this step would help some of the MSMEs to cancel their contract with PSUs without any risk purchase clause and save them from extinction. The request of MSME promoters for disbursal of subsidised loans through nationalised banks had to be considered. Presently, the government-subsidised loan with 6% subsidy and 6% interest was disbursed only through Tamil Nadu Industrial Investment Corporation. The government could consider starting clusters of cottage industries in every panchayat and panchayat union to encourage entrepreneurs to generate revenue by employing local youths, Mr. Elango said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/trade-body-draws-attention-to-dismal-state-of-fabrication-units/article35795518.ece
08 August 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Enrolment in govt. schools goes up by 7,233 in Tiruchi||Student enrolment for 2021-22 in government schools has risen substantially and reduced drastically in government-aided and private schools in the district, in sync with the trend elsewhere in the State, due to what officials describe as the impact of the pandemic. From classes I to XII, the number has increased by 7,233 in government schools as on July 15, 2021. This year, there are 1,56,079 students from classes I to XII in government schools compared to 1,48,846 last year. The decline in admissions in government-aided schools by 12,668 seats has been attributed by parents to the levy of extra fee by the managements. Compared to a student strength of 1,29,546 last year, the number has come down to 1,16,878 this time. The COVID-19 impact is said to have reflected badly in private schools. The enrolment has gone down by 13,072 seats. Compared to 1,84,858 students last year, the number has declined to 1,71,786 this time, as per the data compiled by the School Education Department. Altogether, 4,44,362 students are on rolls. They constitute 1,56,001 students in government schools (departments: school education, tribal welfare, municipal, differently abled welfare, corporation, and Adi Dravida welfare), 1,16,575 students in government-aided schools (fully-aided and partially-aided), and 1,71,786 in schools categorised under ‘other’ (Borstal school under Social Welfare Department, defence department, Kendriya Vidyayala, matriculation school, mursery and pPrimary school, railway school, unaided private school other than State board school, and unaided private school under State common board). School Education Minister Anbil Mahesh Poyyamozhi on Friday symbolically enrolled a newly-admitted student at the Government High School at Vasantham Nagar in Lalgudi. Collector S. Sivarasu, Lalgudi MLA A. Soundarapandiyan, Chief Educational Officer Arivazhagan and other senior officials accompanied the minister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/student-enrolment-in-government-schools-goes-up-by-7233-in-tiruchi/article35795519.ece
08 August 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Pay guest lecturers Rs. 20,000 a month: AUT||Citing its official order, Association of University Teachers (AUT) has urged the State government to ensure payment of Rs. 20,000 monthly for guest lecturers in the 10 government colleges that were earlier constituents of Bharathidasan University. The 619 guest lecturers who have been categorised under full-time teachers, part-time teachers and those appointed by parent-teacher associations with differential payments of Rs. 15,000, Rs. 12,000 and Rs. 5,000 respectively must be treated with uniformity, AUT State general secretary M. S. Bala Murugan said in a representation to Chief Minister M. K. Stalin. Since the government is taking over the assets of the erstwhile constituent units of the State universities, the need to pay the guest lecturers UGC-specified monthly salary of Rs. 50,000 must be given due consideration, he said. Likewise, the 90 non-teaching staff must be brought under time-scale payment, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pay-guest-lecturers-rs-20000-a-month-aut/article35795530.ece
08 August 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Survey to identify children with disabilities, dropouts||The district administration will begin enumeration of children, between the age of six and 19, who are out of school and those with disabilities. The work will begin on August 10 and will be conducted with the help of local authorities. It seeks to identify children who are out of school, or dropped out of school and children with disabilities unable to attend school. According to the Right to Education Act, all children between six to 19 years must attend a school. For this reason, the district administration will record the number of children who do not attend schools and also children with disabilities. From August 10 to 31 The survey will be conducted from August 10 to 31, and ground-level officials, including teachers, heads of institutions, anganwadi workers, non-governmental organisations and other stakeholders would be pressed to conduct this enumeration. The public is requested to cooperate with the surveyors and maintain COVID-19 protocol, including wearing a mask and maintaining personal distance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/survey-to-identify-children-with-disabilities-dropouts/article35795531.ece
08 August 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Bharathidasan University offers three B.Voc. programmes||Bharathidasan University’s DDU KAUSHAL Kendra offers B.Voc. degree programmes in three disciplines - B.Voc. in Automobile Technology, B.Voc. in Logistics and Supply Chain Management, and B.Voc. in Trouble Shooting and Maintenance of Electrical and Electronic Equipment - for this academic year. A release said that these programmes have been developed by experts to meet the job requirements of industries. The curriculum will comprise 60% of practicals and industrial training, and 40% theory. Interested candidates could log on to the university websitehttp://oms.bdu.ac.in/ admissions/ Candidates can contact the Director, DDU KAUSHAL Kendra, Bharathidasan University, Khajamalai Campus, or dial 80560 61126 or 82487 48984 or 95432 27731 for more information. The last date for sending filled in application is August 31.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bharathidasan-university-offers-three-bvoc-programmes/article35795536.ece
08 August 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Case filed||The Woraiyur police on Saturday filed a case against Sivayogi alias Sivakumar of Puthagaram in Chennai for allegedly uploading a video on YouTube denigrating Meivazhi Salai, a popular faith. In his complaint, T. Manikandan of Puthur in Tiruchi said that it was painful to watch the denigrating video and it had affected the sentiments of many followers. The accused was yet to be arrested.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/case-filed/article35795891.ece
08 August 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Case filed||The Woraiyur police on Saturday filed a case against Sivayogi alias Sivakumar of Puthagaram in Chennai for allegedly uploading a video on YouTube denigrating Meivazhi Salai, a popular faith. In his complaint, T. Manikandan of Puthur in Tiruchi said that it was painful to watch the denigrating video and it had affected the sentiments of many followers. The accused was yet to be arrested.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/case-filed/article35795525.ece
08 August 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Mettur level||The water level in Mettur dam stood at 76.86 feet on Saturday against its full level of 120 feet. The inflow was 1,433 cusecs and the discharge 14,000 cusecs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mettur-level/article35795528.ece
08 August 2021||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||Wife of ‘Shourya Chakra’ awardee honoured||Collector V. Vishnu honoured the wife of C. Ramamoorthy, ‘Shourya Chakra’ awardee, here on Friday as the Union Government has instructed the Collectors across the country to honour the award-winning defense personnel between August 1 and 15 this year. When C. Ramamoorthy, a native of Palayamkottai, was serving as Assistant Executive Engineer in the Mizo Hills in 1966, hostilities broke out in the region. Labourers executing the work in the hostile terrain, which was essential for movement of military vehicles carrying essential supplies, abandoned the work. Ramamoorthy, who contacted the villagers, persuaded them and joined hands with them in completing the road work. However, an attack carried out on the labourers by the enemy, in which a mason was killed on August 16, 1966, forced others to flee in panic. Sensing the situation, Ramamoorthy reached the site, regrouped the fleeing personnel and resumed work. He camped there until the work was completed. For having displayed exemplary courage, he received ‘Shourya Chakra’ award from late President of India V.V. Giri on August 15, 1971. The officer breathed his last on September 21, 2017 and is survived by his wife Renga and son Sai Gopal. Mr. Vishnu and Col. Ravikumar honoured Mrs. Ranga Ramamoorthy with a shawl, a memento and a cash award of Rs. 1 lakh. They also offered floral tribute to the portrait of the late officer. Mrs. Ranga donated the cash award to COVID-19 relief operations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/wife-of-shourya-chakra-awardee-honoured/article35795895.ece
08 August 2021||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||Subsidised loans given to 10 weavers||Ten weavers received loans to the tune of Rs. 4.50 lakh as the National Handlooms Day was observed here on Saturday in commemoration of ‘Be Indian, buy Indian’ movement. During the one-day special handloom expo organised at the Collectorate on Saturday, the beneficiary weavers received the loans after District Revenue Officer A. Perumal inaugurated the event. While eight weavers received Rs. 50,000 each, remaining two received Rs. 25,000 each that carry 20% subsidy. A range of handloom products of Co-Optex and handloom weavers were displayed for sale.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/subsidised-loans-given-to-10-weavers/article35795900.ece
08 August 2021||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||Water level||The water level in Papanasam dam on Saturday stood at 104.15 feet (permissible level 143 feet). The dam had an inflow of 764.35 cusecs and 1,104.75 cusecs was discharged. The level in Manimuthar dam stood at 70.85 feet (permissible level 118 feet). The dam had an inflow of 114 cusecs and 350 cusecs of water was discharged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level/article35795898.ece
08 August 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Official relieved from duty||The district administration relieved District Adi Dravidar and Tribal Welfare Officer V. Jayanthi of duty following an order from the Commissioner of Adi Dravidar Welfare on Friday. Officials privy to the development said on Saturday that the officer was relieved of duty due to her performance. The officials also denied rumours speculating on the circumstances that led to the relieving of Ms. Jayanthi from duty and added that a new Adi Dravidar and Tribal Welfare Officer was yet to be appointed for the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/official-relieved-from-duty/article35795470.ece
08 August 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Breastfeeding week observed in Vellore||Exhibitions, rallies, distribution of pamphlets and pep talk by district health officials marked the celebrations of breastfeeding week, which is observed in the first week of August every year, in Vellore and Tiruvannamalai on Saturday. As a token gesture to mark the occasion, Vellore District Collector, P. Kumaravel Pandian, gave supplementary diet to babies that are more than six months old at the event, which was organised by the District Integrated Social Welfare and Womens’ Rights Department at the community centre in Katpadi. “Breastfeeding helps to prevent stunted growth, weak body structure, weight loss and death rate among newborn babies. Under the Integrated Child Development Scheme (ICDS) in the district, social welfare officials ensure pregnant mothers and newborn babies get adequate nutritional care,” said the Collector. Social Welfare Department personnel, as part of the World Breastfeeding Week celebrations, would visit every anganvadi to meet pregnant women, feeding mothers and the mothers having babies below two years to tell them the need for nourishing the babies with mothers’ milk that protects the children from a range of infections. The district administration in Vellore has been part of the Centrally sponsored Poshan Abhiyaan since 2019 to ensure better nutrition for children, pregnant women and lactating mothers. At the celebrations organised by Naruvi Hospitals, Mr. Pandian said breastfeeding habit had been on a sharp decline. The next generation should be made aware of its importance, he said and gave away prizes to individuals. In Tiruvannamalai, Collector, P. Mukesh, flagged off breastfeeding awareness vehicles.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/breastfeeding-week-observed-in-vellore/article35795795.ece
08 August 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||31 fresh cases reported in Vellore district||The total number of COVID-19 cases in Vellore district reached 48,227, with 31 new cases reported on Saturday. While a total of 46,840 patients have been discharged, the number of active cases in the district stood at 291. The death toll is 1,096. In Ranipet district, 18 cases were reported, taking the tally to 42,087. In Tirupattur, 10 new cases took the total to 28,366. In Tiruvannamalai, 47 fresh cases took the total number of cases to 52,388. Of them, 51,204 patients have been discharged and active cases stand at 545.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/31-fresh-cases-of-covid-19-reported-in-vellore-district/article35795793.ece
08 August 2021||August 08 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Moved; lock, stock and barrel||Autorickshaw driver A. Loganathan and wife L. Sahaya Mary have been camping near their partially demolished shack along the banks of the Cooum at Dr. Radhakrishnan Nagar in Arumbakkam for the past two weeks. They are among the 243 families (according to government enumeration) being evicted from the locality as part of the Cooum restoration project. “We come here early in the morning and stay till late in the evening every day. Later, we go to my sister’s place nearby to sleep. We have let go of our daily wages for the past two weeks,” says Ms. Mary. Despite losing their income and often surviving on one meal a day, several families like the couple are refusing to move away from the location, fearing that there may be a visit from officials any time and they may miss out on the allocation of houses for resettlement. While 93 families have been allocated houses in the tenements of the Tamil Nadu Slum Clearance Board (TNSCB) at K.P. Park in Pulianthope, 9 km away, uncertainty and anxiety loom large among the remaining families. Question of allocation Unlike evictions carried out earlier in localities like Thideer Nagar and Sathiyavani Muthu Nagar where the residents resisted the drive to relocate to far-away places outside the city, the issue at Dr. Radhakrishnan Nagar is not the refusal to relocate, but the allocation of tenements at K.P. Park to all the families living there. M. Shameen, who goes by the moniker Bhaiamma, says that though she was born and lived all her life in the locality, the authorities did not seem to be convinced by the documentary proof of residence she carries. Several tenants who lived here paying meagre rents for several years have not found their names in the list of houses allocated. Despite these issues, the eviction drive at Dr. Radhakrishnan Nagar is likely to turn out to be a relatively peaceful process, given the history of riverside relocation in the city, the distinguishing factor this time being, primarily, the people’s willingness to relocate to better houses within the city. However, the ruling Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam, which made a clean sweep in all 16 Assembly constituencies in Chennai by huge margins in the recent election, has to walk a tightrope between satisfactorily resettling the people and clearing the encroachments to restore the waterbodies while pursuing its initiative of ‘Singara Chennai 2.0’. With the recent eviction at Dr. Radhakrishnan Nagar, the Tamil Nadu government claims to have evicted roughly 12,000 of the 14,257 families along the Cooum so far. While majority evictions along the Cooum have been completed, the government is yet to significantly begin removal of encroachments along the Adyar. Apart from this, restoration of the Buckingham Canal is on the anvil. This may prove to be the most challenging as it will need the resettlement of at least around 21,000 families. The Pallikaranai marshland restoration project is also gaining momentum. The TNSCB will have to ready at least 25,000 housing units for resettling people as part of these projects, officials said. To tackle these challenges, activists and academics stress the need for fundamental changes at the policy level and a paradigm shift in how the issue is perceived. Sinthanai Selvan, MLA and general secretary of Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi, says there is a need to stop seeing the people as “encroachers”. Arguing that these people are the early inhabitants of the city, he says they were denied rights, deprived of land and forced to move to such locations as the city grew. “These people have lived here for generations and their lives and livelihood are deeply intertwined with the city. They cannot be moved to far-away places such as Perumbakkam by abruptly severing these ties,” he says. Vanessa Peter, founder, Information and Resource Centre for the Deprived Urban Communities (IRCDUC), says the way a slum is defined in many official documents itself is problematic. For instance, she points out to a line in the Second Master Plan of Chennai (Volume 3, Chapter 6) that says, “The Government of Tamil Nadu holds the view that slums are not acts of God, but of human folly and that they can be banished by wise planning and resolute action.” She says it appears as if the government’s priority was to “banish” the slums and it did not matter if the people were shifted to ghettos in far-away places with scant regard for their well-being. She says the possibilities of in-situ development or resettling them near their present informal settlements are seldom explored as primary options. “Vacant land mapping or social impact assessments are not done,” she adds. Policies inadequate Many policies, including the Tamil Nadu Slum Areas (Improvement and Clearance) Act, the Tamil Nadu Affordable Urban Housing and Habitat Policy, the Social Sustainability and Grievance Management Framework and the Second Master Plan of Chennai, govern the resettlement and rehabilitation in the State. Of these, the Tamil Nadu Affordable Urban Housing and Habitat Policy, formulated last year, now plays an important role. Karen Coelho, Associate Professor, Madras Institute of Development Studies, says that while the policy is correct in some general principles, it does not show any real grasp of the housing and habitat situation on the ground. For instance, the policy says, “to the extent possible, resettle untenable slums through the provision of housing, basic infrastructure, tenure security, where resettlement is done in proximity to the original slum to maintain social and economic networks.” However, it lacks in the articulation of specific measures the government is planning to ensure affordable housing. “Most importantly, how is the government going to tackle the high price of land. How is it going to take land out of speculative markets, how is it going to bring material costs and transaction costs down?” she says. While the government order accompanying the release of the policy stated that periodic consultations were conducted with stakeholders, including those with civil society, academic institutions, finance companies and private developers, Ms. Coelho says the consultative process was grossly inadequate. A small group of people with hardly anyone from civil society was called for a discussion that was wrapped up in half-a-day and there were no follow-ups or even sharing of the draft of the policy. Tail wagging the dog Ms. Coelho says the mass resettlement in ghettos like Perumbakkam, Gudapakkam, and Kannagi Nagar is a case of tail wagging the dog. She argues the resettlement areas such as Perumbakkam get built first with an enormous number of housing units (over 20,000) and then invariably the government sends people to fill them up. Officials acknowledge that even to the people now being shifted from Dr. Radhakrishnan Nagar, the option given in 2018 was to shift to Perumbakkam. Only after resistance from the people and a section of commercial establishments, was the option of shifting to K.P. Park provided. A 2014 report of the Comptroller and Auditor-General of India said the dwelling units constructed at Perumbakkam significantly exceeded the maximum dwelling units allowed per hectare under the National Building Code of India. Ms. Peter of IRCDUC points out that despite this concern, more units are being planned there under the Light House Projects, an initiative of the Government of India. Stressing the need for a comprehensive resettlement policy for the State, Ms. Coelho argues that there is an apartheid mentality in the way resettlements are done. “We are disconnecting a single class or single caste of people from the mainstream of society, and hiding them away in some ghettos out there.” A baseline study done in 2018 by Ms. Coelho, Ms. Vanessa and A.D. Nundiyny of Uravugal Social Welfare Trust on the impact of the resettlements at Gudapakkam and Perumbakkam documented the innumerous hardships faced by those residing in these settlements in accessing education, healthcare and transport. The study, sponsored by the TNSCB and the Indian Council of Social Science Research, is the only such report available on the resettlements that happened in Chennai. Ms. Peter adds that rather than a piecemeal approach that just focussed on the eviction of people, a holistic approach was needed to address their problems from different aspects, including employment, education and healthcare. G. Selva, Central Chennai district secretary of the Communist Party of India (Marxist), says that even the process of shifting the people to far-away places has been done in an inhumane manner in recent years. The Chennai floods of 2015 accelerated the eviction process. In the last five years alone, more than 18,000 families have been resettled. For instance, people in the slums of Pallavan Nagar resisted the move to relocate till 2016, despite officials reaching the spot at least on one occasion for demolition. However, they were shifted after 2016. Mr. Selva cites the example of Sathyavani Muthu Nagar that was evicted last year despite strong protests by the people there. “The acts of disconnecting electricity a couple of days before evictions and lack of proper communication to the people are inhuman,” he says. He adds that shifting of people during the middle of the academic year or in the midst of the COVID-19 pandemic is unacceptable. Ms. Peter highlights the need for better coordination among different departments involved in the process. There are at least four organisations involved in the process, especially in informal settlements along the Cooum, the Adyar and the Buckingham Canal — the Chennai River Restoration Trust, the Greater Chennai Corporation, the TNSCB and the Public Works Department. She adds that the finger-pointing that often happened between these departments led to the suffering of the people. Looking forward Acknowledging that there may be constraints in providing in-situ resettlement or resettlement nearby, Mr. Sinthanai Selvan of the Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi says the present government, however, appears to be showing a keen interest in exploring those options. Mr. Selva says relocating all the families from Dr. Radhakrishnan Nagar to K.P. Park is a welcome sign. Egmore MLA I. Paranthamen on Thursday met Greater Chennai Corporation Commissioner Gagandeep Singh Bedi to discuss the possibility of constructing new houses near Kannappar Thidal. Pointing out that the majority of the people in informal settlements belonged to the Scheduled Castes in the constituency, he says the situation is similar in other constituencies. “The homeless residents who have elected us should get a home. We have started a survey of land near Kannappar Thidal to construct houses for the poor,” he says. He has asked officials to explore the possibility of earmarking a portion of the land in the area, which has already been identified for other infrastructure projects such as a sports complex. Mr. Bedi says the Greater Chennai Corporation has taken initiatives to offer the residents better houses in areas such as K.P. Park within the city limits, 9 km away from Aminjikarai, where residents have protested. M. Govinda Rao, Managing Director, TNSCB, says more projects coming up at places like Athipattu will help in the resettlement of people within the Greater Chennai Corporation limits. “Our intention is to accommodate people near their present settlements to the maximum extent possible,” he adds. Mr. Rao points out that at many places where dilapidated apartment blocks are redeveloped, the number of floors has been increased from three to eight or nine. “This will allow us to accommodate more people in the newly constructed building,”  Disconnecting electricity a couple of days before evictions and lack of proper communication to the people are inhuman. Shifting them in the middle of the academic year or in the midst of the pandemic is unacceptable G. Selva Central Chennai district secretary, CPI(M)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/moved-lock-stock-and-barrel/article35795431.ece
08 August 2021||August 08 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||198 new cases in Erode district||Erode district reported 198 new cases of COVID-19 on Saturday taking the total number of cases to 94,879. While 138 persons were discharged, 1,718 continue to be under treatment. One person died raising the toll to 638. A total of 91 positive cases were reported in Salem. According to health officials, all cases were indigenous and 32 cases were reported in Salem Corporation limits. As per bulletin, five deaths were reported in Salem. In Namakkal, 55 cases were reported. As per bulletin, all cases were indigenous. In Krishnagiri, 27 indigenous cases were reported and in Dharmapuri, 24 new cases were reported. A 45-year-old woman patient succumbed to the disease in Dharmapuri.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/198-new-cases-in-erode-district/article35795560.ece
08 August 2021||August 08 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Holiday crowd||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/holiday-crowd/article35795573.ece
08 August 2021||August 08 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Tiruchi Today||Tiruchi District Loktantric Janata Dal: Unveiling of portrait of the late B. Hemanathan, former state general secretary, Minister for Municipal Administration, K. N. Nehru, chief guest, Krishnalaya Mahal, Srirangam, 6.15 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tiruchi-today/article35795889.ece
08 August 2021||belagavi,KARNATAKA||Karjol asks officers to distribute title deeds||Govind Karjol, Irrigation Minister, has asked officers to expedite the process of shifting flood-affected families to rehabilitation centres. At a meeting in Chikkodi on Saturday, he asked officers to issue title deeds to all whose houses were submerged in the backwaters of the Upper Krishna Project. “I have observed that even after several years of creating resettlement camps and villages, some people have not been resettled in them. This is worrying,” he said. He asked officers to ensure that all those who had lost their houses should be given title deeds of their allotted houses and set a deadline of 15 days for the distribution of the deeds. He observed that monetary compensation had been distributed to all those who had lost their houses and land. But some were yet to get the documents required to take possession of the houses allotted to them. This should be done immediately, he said. He asked officers to focus on villages like Janawada, Mahishawadagi, and Nandeshwar in Athani taluk and other affected villages.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/karjol-asks-officers-to-distribute-title-deeds/article35795580.ece
08 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Most first-time Ministers get plum portfolios||Most of the first-time Ministers inducted into the Basavaraj Bommai Cabinet have got plum portfolios. Several of them are from the Sangh Parivar. Araga Jnanendra, MLA for Tirthahalli in Shivamogga district and a staunch RSS man, has got a huge responsibility in being allocated the Home Ministry. This was a portfolio held by Mr. Bommai himself in the previous B.S Yediyurappa-led government. Mr. Jnanendra was earlier Chairman of the Karnataka Housing Board. Visibly happy, Mr. Jnanendra said, “I had not expected this. The Chief Minister has given me a big responsibility without even asking for it. I will do my best to discharge my duties as Home Minister and ensure law and order in the State.” V. Sunil Kumar, from Karkala Assembly segment in Udupi district, has been allocated the plum portfolio of Energy, besides Kannada and Culture. He too has roots in the RSS and was associated with the Bajrang Dal. B.C. Nagesh, two-time MLA for Tiptur in Tumakuru district, has been allocated Primary and Secondary Education and Sakala, portfolios held by S. Suresh Kumar, who was dropped from the Cabinet. Amid COVID-19 and disrupted academic calendar, all eyes are constantly on this portfolio. He was associated with the ABVP during students days and comes from a family that has strong bonds with the RSS. Another first-time Minister, Halappa B. Achar, from Yalburga constituency in Koppal, has been allocated two major portfolios of Mines and Geology, and Women and Child Development, Disabled and Senior Citizens Empowerment. An RSS worker, he was tipped to become a Minister in 2019, but missed the chance. Shankar B. Patil Munekoppa from Navalgund in Dharwad district has been allocated Handloom and Textile Development, Sugarcane Development. Munirathna, first-time Minister, has been allocated Horticulture, Planning, Programme Implementation and Statistics. A controversial MLA who moved from the Congress to the BJP in 2019, he has won thrice from R.R. Nagar constituency in Bengaluru. ‘High command nod’  Responding to a question on debut Ministers being allocated key Ministries, Mr. Bommai said it was done in consultation with the party high command. They had been allocated those portfolios to usher in a change, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/most-first-time-ministers-get-plum-portfolios/article35795403.ece
08 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||More takers for small-budget private schools||Small-budget private school managements are reporting an increase in enrolment in 2021-22 compared to the previous academic year. This, parents and school managements say, is because many parents have pulled out their children from expensive private schools on being unable to pay the fees this year because of the COVID-19 pandemic. The trend is particularly reflected in budget private schools in rural areas as many parents have migrated from cities to their home towns. Lokesh Talikatte, State unit president of Recognised Unaided Private Schools Association (RUPSA), Karnataka, said that budget schools charging a fee between Rs. 20,000 and Rs. 40,000 a year were seeing a 10% increase in admissions this academic year. He said parents were pulling their children out of private schools charging over Rs. 40,000. “While schools that charge more are facing a decrease in admissions, budget private schools are benefiting and seeing an increase in admissions,” he said. Government schools On the other hand, the third category of schools that chargea fee of less than Rs. 20,000 are also seeing a decline in admissions as parents are pulling their children out and admitting them in government schools. Many private school managements that cater to parents from lower economic backgrounds are on the brink of closure. A school management member of Sandeepani InternationalSchool, Holalkere, Chitradurga, said that they had seen 118 new admissions this academic year. Of these, more than half — 64 — were students who had migrated from schools in Bengaluru. Dinesh Kumar G.D. of Shanthiniketan Central School in Chikkamagaluru said their school had seen a 10% increase in admissions. “Many children admitted to our school are those who did not attend classes properly last academic year as their parents were unable to pay the school fee,” he said. Mullahalli Suri, president of Parents’ Association, said that parents were making a conscious decision this year to shift their children from big corporate schools to lower-budget private schools. “Many parents, in the last academic year, were hopeful and thought they could pay the school fees after a few months. They thought their salary, reduced in the pandemic, would return to normal. However, now they have acknowledged that they will be unable to pay the fees,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/small-budget-private-schools-see-increase-in-enrolment-this-year/article35795383.ece
08 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Memorable Olympic appearance for Aditi Ashok||Bengaluru golfer Aditi Ashok fell agonisingly short of a historic Olympic medal, finishing the women’s golf competition in fourth place. However, it was a memorable second Olympic appearance for Ms. Ashok, an alumna of Jain University and Frank Antony Public School. At the 2016 Rio Games, she had finished tied 41st, with her father acting as her caddie. In Tokyo, it was the turn of her mother Maheshwari to carry the bags. On Saturday, Ms. Ashok, who started the final round in second spot, missed the medal bracket by a single stroke. The 23-year-old stayed in contention until the very end, but her inability to make birdies on the last four holes proved costly. The Gold medal went to World No.1 Nelly Korda, who shot 17-under 267 overall. Japan’s Mone Inami and New Zealand’s Lydia Ko tied for second, one stroke behind Nelly, with Mone later winning the play-off hole for silver. It took a brilliant six-under final rounds from Mone and Lydia to push Ms. Ashok (three-under) down the leaderboard.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/memorable-olympic-appearance-for-aditi-ashok/article35795385.ece
08 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||KIADB officials, others booked for issuing cheque to impersonators||Officials of the Karnataka Industrial Areas Development Board (KIADB) are in the dock along with three impersonators for allegedly trying to encash a compensation of Rs. 3.25 crore belonging to a 65-year-old woman by forging her identity. The High Grounds police have registered a case of cheating and impersonation against the officials, including a woman officer, based on a complaint filed last week by Sushila Sharma. In her complaint, Ms. Sharma had stated that she had 38 guntas of land in Devanahalli which has been taken over by the KIADB for a government project. The board announced compensation of Rs. 3.5 crore, following which Ms. Sharma, along with her daughter Sunitha Sharma and granddaughter Preethi, applied to claim the compensation along with the relevant documents. They went to the KIADB office in Khanija Bhavan to find out about the progress on the claim. To their shock, the officials informed them that they had already issued the compensation cheque. The officials also showed them the signature made on the official document while claiming the cheque. Ms. Sharma got the details of the cheque and found that someone had opened an account with the Union Bank of India, Anekal branch, in her name and deposited the cheque to withdraw the amount. Suspecting a big conspiracy, Ms. Sharma filed a police complaint.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kiadb-officials-others-booked-for-issuing-cheque-to-impersonators/article35795384.ece
08 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||C.T. Ravi sparks off row by saying Indira Canteens should be renamed||Bharatiya Janata Party national general secretary C.T. Ravi on Saturday called on Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai to rename Indira Canteens, the flagship programme of the previous Congress government named after former Prime Minister Indira Gandhi. This triggered a row as Congressmen rushed to defend their leader. The demand came a day after the Union government renamed the country’s highest sports award after veteran hockey player Major Dhyan Chand, removing the name of another former Prime Minister and Congress leader, Rajiv Gandhi. Mr. Ravi tweeted calling for the canteens to be renamed “Annapoorneshwari Canteens”. “Don’t see any reason why Kannadigas should be reminded of the dark days of Emergency while they are having food,” he tweeted. The BJP manifesto for the 2018 Assembly polls had included a promise to rename the canteens. Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah, who as Chief Minister had spearheaded the canteen scheme, hit back at the BJP’s “intolerance”. “It is common practice to name schemes after national leaders. The Union government could have instituted another award in the name of Major Dhyan Chand, not rename [the Khel Ratna]. Hasn’t the BJP named schemes after Atal Bihari Vajpayee in the State? There are flyovers named after Deendayal Upadhyaya and Syama Prasad Mukherjee in the city. Did we rename them when we were in power? The BJP needs to learn to respect the contributions of others to the nation as well,” he said, pointing out how a stadium in Gujarat was recently renamed after Prime Minister Narendra Modi. State Congress president D.K. Shivakumar said, “Indira Canteens in Karnataka take forward the pro-poor legacy of Mrs. Gandhi.” He also sought to remind everyone of the special bond she shared with Karnataka. She was elected to the Lok Sabha from Chikkamagaluru in 1978.  The BJP leader tweeted calling for the canteens to be renamed ‘Annapoorneshwari Canteens’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/indira-canteens-should-be-renamed-ct-ravi/article35795387.ece
08 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||DJ Halli case: Houses of accused raided||Officials of the National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Saturday conducted raids on the houses of those involved in the DJ Halli and KG Halli police station attacks. According to the officials, simultaneous searches were conducted on seven persons who were charged by the NIA and are presently on the run. During the searches, various incriminating documents and electronic devices were seized from the premises. The NIA is probing the two cases, originally registered in DJ Halli and KG Halli police stations, pertaining to the attacks by an armed mob in August last year. The mob, protesting against an alleged derogatory social media post about the Prophet Muhammad, had turned violent and targeted the police stations. The mob had attacked police personnel, burnt police vehicles, and damaged government and private properties. The NIA subsequently re-registered the cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/dj-halli-case-houses-of-accused-raided/article35795388.ece
08 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Golden pass’ for Neeraj||Commemorating the golden moment that brought cheer to India on Saturday, the Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) announced a ‘golden pass’ to Gold medal winner Neeraj Chopra. “Many congratulations to Olympic golden boy Neeraj Chopra. We celebrate his success and are happy to announce KSRTC Golden Bus Pass for him on the occasion of the 60th year of KSRTC,” said Shivayogi C. Kalasad, MD of KSRTC. He also announced a free pass for golfer Aditi Ashok. “Though she missed a medal by a stroke, she has won the hearts of millions of golf- loving Indians. We are happy to announce the free bus pass for her.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/golden-pass-for-neeraj/article35795394.ece
08 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||A unique hockey festival||The Kodava Hockey Festival, held every year since 1997, draws nearly 300 teams which is a record for any tournament. This is testimony to the continued though latent interest in the sport. But veteran B.J. Cariappa says it is not competitive enough for budding players to break into national team. For that, players have to work harder, have to be coached better, and be exposed to national-level tournaments where the competition is more stringent, he added. B.J. Cariappa, hockey coach for junior men’s team, faulted the system run by officials which, he said, was not accountable. Apart from creating additional facilities and infrastructure which was the need of the hour, there was a lack of accountability among officials and coaches, according to Mr. Cariappa. “I have visited a few training centres where trainees were not attentive and the coach wasn’t serious,” he added, pointing out that in one such centre the sole reason the coach was in Kodagu was for its pleasant weather.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/a-unique-hockey-festival/article35795758.ece
08 August 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Gets additional charge||A.K. Jain was recently entrusted with the additional charge of the post of chairman and managing director of HMT Ltd. Presently, Mr. Jain is working as executive director at BHEL, heading the Electronics Division and Electronics System Division, Bengaluru. According to a release from HMT Ltd., Mr. Jain, in various roles, had the opportunity to drive the growth of BHEL.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/gets-additional-charge/article35795395.ece
08 August 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Footpaths cleared of obstructions||Under the direction of the High Court and the Karnataka Human Rights Commission, 134 unauthorised temporary and permanent constructions on footpaths have been cleared over a total of 19.05 km in various wards of K.R. Puram and Horamavu sub-divisions under Mahadevapura zone. R.L. Parameshwaraiah, chief engineer of the zone, said that in the coming days, more obstructions on pavements would be removed and action taken against those concerned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/footpaths-cleared-of-obstructions/article35795381.ece
08 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Disruption in water supply||There will be a disruption in water supply on Monday from 7 a.m. to 7 p.m. in the following areas: Byadarahalli, Harris Road, Millers Road, Bore Bank Road, N.C. Colony, N.K. Garden, Chinnappa Garden, N.K. Colony, Periyar Nagar, Kushal Nagar, Muneshwara Nagar, Sagayapuram, BDA Layout, Rama Tent Road, P & T Colony, Anwar Layout, Kadugondanahalli, Marutisevanagar, Jeevanahalli, Hutchins Road, Pulikeshi Nagar, and Frazer Town.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/disruption-in-water-supply/article35795386.ece
08 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||A unique hockey festival||The Kodava Hockey Festival, held every year since 1997, draws nearly 300 teams, which is a record for any tournament. This is testimony to the continued, though latent, interest in the sport. But veteran B.J. Cariappa says it is not competitive enough for budding players to break into national team. For that, players have to work harder, have to be coached better, and be exposed to national-level tournaments where the competition is more stringent, he added. Mr. Cariappa, a hockey coach for junior men’s team, faulted the system run by officials. Apart from creating additional facilities and infrastructure, there is a lack of accountability among officials and coaches, he said. “I have visited a few training centres where trainees were not attentive and the coach wasn’t serious,” Mr. Cariappa said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/a-unique-hockey-festival/article35795389.ece
08 August 2021||Bengaluru/Hubballi/Kalaburagi,KARNATAKA||Some voices of discontentment after allocations||Just as Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai allocated ministerial berths, there were some covert and some overt expressions of unhappiness from some quarters. B.S. Anand Singh, MLA for Vijayanagar, expressed his discontentment over the Tourism portfolio allocated to him. He made it clear that it was not the portfolio he had sought and would once again request the Chief Minister to consider his demand. ‘Expected bigger’ Recalling his role in toppling the Janata Dal (Secular)–Congress government and bringing the Bharatiya Janata Party to power, Mr. Singh said he was expecting a “bigger portfolio.” He hinted at refusing the portfolio and remaining as a member of the Assembly. Shashikala Jolle, who lost Women and Child Development Department and was given Muzrai and Wakf in the new Cabinet, was reportedly “very upset” though not publicly. While a sting operation that allegedly showed her seeking bribes in a contract to supply eggs to schoolchildren was blamed for the Ministry being taken away, Ms. Jolle has claimed it was a “conspiracy”. She reportedly expressed her displeasure that despite being the lone woman in the Cabinet, Women and Child Development Department was not given to her. Ms. Jolle was not on the list of Ministers and was included in the eleventh hour reportedly at the behest of BJP national general secretary (organisation) B.L. Santhosh. Senior Minister B. Sriramulu is also reportedly upset over the portfolios he has been made in charge of — Transport and the newly carved out Scheduled Tribes Welfare from the Social Welfare Department. He earlier held the charge of the entire Social Welfare Ministry, which he was keen on retaining. He reportedly expressed dissatisfaction over how the party first gave him charge of Health and Family Welfare, took it away from him, gave Social Welfare and took that away too. However, Mr. Sriramulu tweeted welcoming the portfolios allocated. Not ‘reserved’ Meanwhile, Ramesh Jarkiholi, a prominent leader among the defectors who is out of the Ministry in view of the sexual harassment charge against him, is reportedly upset that Water Resources, the portfolio he handled under B.S. Yediyurappa, has not been kept “reserved” for him but allocated to Govind Karjol. However, Mr. Bommai said it was natural to have discontent after any Cabinet formation. He said Mr. Singh was his “old friend” and he would discuss the issue with him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/some-voices-of-discontentment-after-allocations/article35795399.ece
08 August 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||129 fresh cases in Hassan||Hassan district reported 129 fresh COVID-19 cases and six deaths on Saturday. With this, the total number of cases increased to 1,07,439 and the death toll rose to 1,285. As many as 1,201 people are under treatment in the district. Of the fresh cases, two are from Alur, seven from Arkalgud taluk, four from Arsikere, 10 from Belur, 13 from Channarayapatna, 73 in Hassan, five in Holenarsipur, 11 in Sakleshpur and four from other districts. Shivamogga district reported 36 fresh cases on Saturday. Among them, 12 each were from Shivamogga and Bhadravati taluks, five each from Thrthahalli and Sagar taluks and one each from Shikaripur and Hosanagar taluks. As many as 280 people are under treatment in the district. So far, 1,046 people have died in the district due to the infection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/129-fresh-cases-in-hassan/article35795741.ece
08 August 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||‘BJP workers upset over CM calling on Deve Gowda’||Hassan MLA Preetham J. Gowda of the BJP has said the workers of the party in his constituency were upset over Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai visiting former Prime Minister H.D. Deve Gowda’s residence after taking oath. Speaking to presspersons in Hassan on Saturday, Mr. Preetham Gowda said he had been amidst party workers in the constituency and many of them had expressed their disappointment over the Chief Minister’s gesture. “The workers expected Mr. Bommai to visit Siddaganga Mutt, Suttur Mutt, Sirigere Mutt or Adichunchanagiri Mutt after taking oath. But he chose to visit Mr. Deve Gowda’s residence. This has certainly disappointed the workers, who fight day and night against the JD(S) to strengthen our party. We suffered when they threw stones at our residence”, he said. He was referring to an incident when JD(S) workers during a protest in front of his residence had thrown stones, leaving a BJP worker injured. Further, he said the party workers were also of the opinion that the Chief Minister should have not gone to meet someone responsible for the removal of his father (S.R.Bommai) as Chief Minister decades ago. To meet CM Mr. Preetham Gowda said he would meet the Chief Minister, BJP State president and leaders of Sangha Parivar on this issue. “I will meet the Chief Minister next week and convey the feelings of the party workers”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bjp-workers-upset-over-cm-calling-on-deve-gowda/article35795743.ece
08 August 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||KSE inspects damaged bridges, roads||K.S. Eshwarappa, Minister, has said the government will reconstruct bridges and roads damaged during the heavy rains in Shivamogga district. He spoke to presspersons after visiting rain-hit areas of Sagar taluk on Saturday. Mr. Eshwarappa visited Iruvakki, Kedaluru, Byadarakoppa, Tyagarthi of Sagar taluk and Udri in Sorab taluk on the day. He inspected the roads caved in, bridges damaged and landslips. “In the last financial year 69 bridges were constructed in Sagar taluk. This year also the government would give importance to constructing small bridges wherever necessary.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kse-inspects-damaged-bridges-roads/article35795742.ece
08 August 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||‘Consider facemask a companion’||C.N. Manjunath, Director of Jayadeva Institute of Cardiology, has said people should consider facemask as their companion for at least the next six months to combat COVID-19. Speaking to presspersons in Shivamogga on Saturday, he said the second wave had not yet ended completely. There could be a third wave by the end of September or the beginning of October. “If there is no variant of the virus, the third wave would not be serious. However, if there is a new variant there could be a serious situation. No matter, whether you are vaccinated or not, one has to wear facemasks compulsorily,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/consider-facemask-a-companion/article35795753.ece
08 August 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Treatments begin at Cath Lab||A team of cardiologists from Jayadeva Institute of Cardiology under the leadership of its director C.N. Manjunath conducted angiogram, angioplasty and stenting treatments at the newly set-up Cath Lab at Shivamogga Institute of Medical Sciences in Shivamogga on Saturday. The laboratory was formally inaugurated on July 24 by the then Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa. Dr. Manjunath, speaking to presspersons on the occasion, said the Cath Lab had advanced equipment to treat heart patients. The team of doctors treated five patients on the day. “This facility will help people of Shivamogga and neighbouring districts,” he said. They will get quality treatment in the lab equipped with advanced equipment,” he said. The facility has 2D Echo, TMT, Holter Monitoring, Coronary Angiogram, Peripheral Angiogram, Coronary Angioplasty (One stent), Peripheral Angioplasty (One stent) and Pericardiocentesis treatments. The cardiology wing of the institute consists of 50 beds and a Cath Lab. Cardiologists Virupakshappa V, Parameshwar S. and Mahesh Murthy will handle the section. Siddappa, Director of SIMS, said the patients from families below the poverty line would get free treatment in the facility. Those with Arogya Karnataka cards would also get concessions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/treatments-begin-at-cath-lab/article35795754.ece
08 August 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||More funds will be given for rain damage: Minister||Minister for Handloom, Textiles and Sugar Shankar Patil Munenakoppa has promised more grants from the State government towards relief for the rain damage in Dharwad in July. Chairing his first review meeting on floods and COVID-19 after becoming Minister in Dharwad on Saturday, Mr. Munenakoppa, said that the government would be impressed upon to sanction adequate funds for restoration works and compensation. Already the Chief Minister had asked Deputy Commissioners of districts affected by downpour and floods to submit reports at the earliest, he said. The Minister asked Health Department officials to focus on taking precautionary measures to prevent the possibility of a third wave in the district. Stern measures should be taken to check the chain apart from strict imposition of night curfew, he said. Emphasising the need for holding extensive awareness programmes on COVID-19 appropriate behaviour, Mr. Munenakoppa warned the officials against any negligence. “Testing, tracking, and treatment should be given importance and medical infrastructure should be enhanced. Two oxygen production units in Hubballi will be inaugurated on August 13,” he said. Earlier, briefing about the rain damage in the district, Deputy Commissioner of Dharwad Nitesh Patil said that already a report had been submitted to the State government seeking funds for restoration and relief. Officials from the Agriculture Department informed the meeting that crop loss had been reported in 14,185 hectares of farmlands in the district. Grand welcome Earlier, as Mr. Munenakoppa visited his home district Dharwad, hundreds of party workers and followers gathered at Hubballi Airport to give him a warm welcome. Many also came from Navalgund, the constituency represented by Mr. Munenakoppa. Soon after the welcome, Mr. Munenakoppa went to Keshav Kunj, the RSS office, where he was greeted by office-bearer Su. Ramanna and others. The Minister also visited the residence of former Chief Minister Jagadish Shettar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/more-funds-will-be-given-for-rain-damage-minister/article35795585.ece
08 August 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||No politics discussed with HDD: Bommai||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Saturday said that there was nothing political about his meeting with former Prime Minister and JD(S) supremo H.D. Deve Gowda. Speaking to presspersons at Hubballi Airport on Saturday, he clarified that no politics was discussed during the meeting. The Chief Minister said the party workers should not draw any other inference from it. He said he would meet the party workers, MLAs, and leaders of Hassan district and speak to them. To a question on former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy’s statement that it was a ‘Janata Parivar government’, Mr. Bommai said that Mr. Kumaraswamy also knew under what circumstances he left the Janata Parivar.  Regarding reports about senior leaders in the party being sidelined, Mr. Bommai said that all the senior leaders were taken into confidence while taking decisions as per the direction of the high command.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/no-politics-discussed-with-hdd-bommai/article35795579.ece
08 August 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Anand Singh expresses dissatisfaction with portfolio||Just as Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai allocated ministerial berths, B.S. Anand Singh, MLA for Vijayanagar, expressed his discontentment over the Tourism portfolio allocated to him. Speaking to presspersons in Ballari on Saturday, Mr. Singh made it clear that it was not the portfolio that he had demanded and added that he would once again request the Chief Minister to consider his demand. “I will request the Chief Minister once again to change his decision and allocate me the portfolio I wanted. Let him say whether or not I am capable of handling the portfolio that I had demanded. What is lacking in me? Don’t I have the competence? Didn’t I do anything to the party? Wasn’t there my contribution in bringing the BJP into power in the State? Let them say that there was no contribution of mine. If he asks me to accept what is allocated to me or leave it, I will follow,” Mr. Singh said. Recalling his role in toppling the JD(S)-Congress government and bringing the BJP to power, Mr. Singh said that he was expecting a bigger portfolio. “I was the first one to resign from the Assembly. After eight days of my resignation, others began resigning. Because of our resignations, the BJP came to power in the State. Party leaders should have allocated a major portfolio to me considering it,” Mr. Singh said, exuding confidence of getting his portfolio changed after meeting the Chief Minister. When asked what would be his next course of action if his demand was not considered, Mr. Singh hinted at refusing the portfolio and remaining as a member of the assembly. “I would do what I have decided to,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/anand-singh-expresses-dissatisfaction-with-portfolio/article35795582.ece
08 August 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||KIC Bench to be set up in Kalaburagi||The Kalaburagi Bench of the Karnataka Information Commission (KIC) is likely to be housed in the Chief Engineering Officer of the Public Works Department at Public garden in Kalaburagi city. State Chief Information Commissioner N.C. Srinivas and secretary of the commission Narasimhappa inspected the infrastructure here on Saturday.  Mr. Srinivas said that both the KIC Belagavi Bench and Kalaburagi Bench were sanctioned two years ago. He said that establishing the Kalaburagi Bench of KIC will benefit the litigants of Kalyana Karnataka region.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kic-bench-to-be-set-up-in-kalaburagi/article35795578.ece
08 August 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||DD to cease regional services in three areas||The Prasar Bharati Directorate-General, Doordarshan, New Delhi, has decided that the low power transmitters operating Doordarshan national and regional services will cease to operate from August 31. P.K. Majumdar, Head of Doordarshan Kendra, Kalaburagi, in a release stated that the service will be ceased in three areas, including Basavakalyan in Bidar district (operating Channel No. 33 at frequency 567.25 MHz). Doordarshan will also cease its services at Tandur in Vikarabad district and at Zaheerabad in Sangareddy district of Telangana State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/dd-to-cease-regional-services-in-three-areas/article35795577.ece
08 August 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Trial run of new technology to convert wet waste begins||The application of Black Soldier Fly technology to convert municipal wet waste into bio-compost has begun on a trial basis at the solid waste processing unit of the Mangaluru City Corporation in Pachchanady. At present, a city-based company, Ento Protein Pvt. Ltd., has taken up the project free for the corporation. It is one among the two companies — the other is Mangala Resource Management Pvt. Ltd. — allowed by the civic body to apply the technology on a pilot basis at the unit. The two companies were chosen by an expert committee appointed by Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra. Managing Director of Ento Protein Pvt. Ltd. Mohammed Harris told The Hindu that the company processed about 50 tonnes of municipal wet waste in the last 20 days by applying the technology in two batches. The civic body has allotted the company 7,000 sq ft of space in the unit. Entomologist, Consultant and Chief Scientist with the company Nagaraj D.N. said that 300 kg to 400 kg of compost can be obtained by processing one tonne of municipal waste. However, the quantity of compost derived differed based on the quality and moisture content of the municipal wet waste. The compost can be used for farming and gardening. The life span of each Black Solider Fly is up to 40 days to 45 days. They will not create any menace like a house fly, he said. Meanwhile, Mangala Resource Management Pvt. Ltd. is yet to commence its operations in the unit. The corporation decided to introduce sustainable feasible technology to process and manage its solid waste scientifically following a directive from the High Court of Karnataka in a public interest litigation petition. The Writ Petition was filed after legacy solid waste at the corporation’s dumping yard slipped due to heavy rain during August 2019 damaging houses and property of people residing nearby. Later, the corporation invited expression of interest to manage its wet waste scientifically, to which 22 proposals were submitted. The expert committee selected two from among them to introduce the Black Solider Fly Technology on a trial basis to a maximum of six months. If the technology was found feasible, then the civic body will invite bids to process wet waste by applying the technology.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/trial-run-of-new-technology-to-convert-wet-waste-begins/article35795719.ece
08 August 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Grateful to CM for giving me Social Welfare’||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai has given me Social Welfare, a big portfolio, and I will effectively handle it, said the new Social Welfare and Backward Classes Welfare Minister Kota Srinivas Poojary here on Saturday. Talking to reporters, Mr. Poojary said he effectively discharged his duty as the Muzrai and Backward Classes Minister in B.S. Yediyurappa’s Cabinet. “Yes I am interested in Rural Development and Panchayat Raj. But I did not give any preference to the Chief Minister about the portfolio that I wanted. I am happy that Mr. Bommai has given an ordinary party worker like me to handle two important portfolios,” he said. Senior party leader K.S. Eshwarappa is more than capable of handling the Rural Development and Panchayat Raj portfolio, he added. Expressing confidence in effective implementation of welfare schemes in the two portfolios, Mr. Poojary said he will lend support to Sashikala Jolle in the handling of the Muzrai portfolio. “Allocation of portfolios is the prerogative of the Chief Minister. The new portfolio will not be any different from the one that I had,” he said. Defending the State government’s decision to insist on a RT-PCR negative certificate for those with two doses of vaccine from Kerala and Maharashtra entering the State, Mr. Poojary said this was because of Health Department’s observation that they might be carriers of COVID-19. “It’s a painful decision against our own people living in neighbouring States where the case burden is high. These regulations are steps to prevent the spread of COVID-19,” he added. Like other border districts, the Kodagu district administration has taken steps to insist on a RT-PCR negative report, not older than 72 hours, from those from Kerala. The Kodagu district administration has been directed to take all necessary measures to prevent spread of COVID-19, he said. Mr. Poojary, who is Minister in charge of handling COVID-19 and flood relief works in Kodagu district, said a survey of the people affected by heavy rains in Kodagu has been completed. Compensation to affected families will be given in another three days, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/grateful-to-cm-for-giving-me-social-welfare/article35795724.ece
08 August 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Govt. getting 2,000 beds ready at care centres’||Minister for Energy, Kannada and Culture and Udupi in charge V. Sunil Kumar said on Saturday that the government is getting 2,000 beds ready in Udupi district to take care of COVID-19 patients in care centres. Speaking to presspersons in Udupi after a meeting, the Minister said that COVID Care Centres are being set up in MIT Hostel in Manipal, Miyar in Karkala, Nitte, Hebri, and Kundapur. All those who are found positive will be shifted to the care centres. Both the patients and their family members should cooperate in this regard to prevent the spread of the infection. Mr. Kumar said that three more medical oxygen production units will be in government health facilities in Karkala, Udupi, and Kundapur within a week. One such facility has already been commissioned in the government health facility in Hebri. The Minister said that steps are being taken to set up 50 more ICU beds in government health facilities in the district by August-end. Of them 15 beds each will be set up in Karkala and Kundapur and 20 beds will be put up in the district government hospital in Udupi. Stating that 34,000 persons are due to take their second dose of vaccination against COVID-19 in the district he said that the government has requested to supply enough vaccination to the district to meet the demand. He said that if there are five and more cases of COVID-19 within a radius of 100 mts such areas will be sealed down and declared as containment zones.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/govt-getting-2000-beds-ready-at-care-centres/article35795722.ece
08 August 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Many companies attend Sahyadri campus selection||Sahyadri College of Engineering and Management, Mangaluru, witnessed a good number of companies visiting for campus selection of the 2021 batch wherein 192 companies made over 645 offers. Principal S. Rajesha and Placement Dean Rashmi Bhandary told reporters on Friday that the Placement and Training Department ensured that the pandemic would not affect the placement process. Though students were not present on campus, extensive efforts were made to connect them to prospective recruiters, they said. Students received attractive packages, the highest being Rs. 40 lakh per annum while the minimum package was Rs. 3.75 lakh per annum. Th highest number of students were chosen by Capgemini - 88 selects, Infosys - 82 selects, Cognizant - 75 selects, TCS - 62 selects and SLK Software - 19 selects. There were international offers too ranging between Rs. 14 lakh per annum to Rs. 25 lakh per annum from companies based out of Japan and Singapore. Most of the companies provided internship opportunities with stipends ranging from Rs. 15,000 to Rs. 60,000 per month. This was a welcome change as it ensured students learn and earn while they study, and minimal delay in joining after graduation. The college facilitates a strong academic and placement training to students from first year to final year. It focuses on in-depth aptitude training right from the second year, culminating in the 7th semester with company-specific training.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/many-companies-attend-sahyadri-campus-selection/article35795720.ece
08 August 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Man held for brother’s murder||A 30-year-old man was murdered early on Saturday, allegedly by his elder brother in Panemangaluru, the Bantwal Town police said. The police gave the name of the victim as Sundara, 30. The police arrested the accused, Ravi, 49, on Saturday evening. The police said Sundara was living in the ancestral house while Ravi, and his family stayed in another house. According to the police, there were frequent fights between the two brothers. During a fight on Friday night, Ravi allegedly took a sharp object and hit his younger brother on the head. Other family members rushed to the house and saw Sundara lying in a pool of blood. Ravi escaped and Sundara died before he could be moved to nearby hospital, the police said. In a complaint, another brother Ramesh said there were frequent fights between Sundara and Ravi over the former’s illicit relationship with a woman. The police registered a case under Section 302 of Indian Penal Code.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/man-held-for-brothers-murder/article35795725.ece
08 August 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Two cases of theft reported||Two separate incidents of theft, in which the crime was committed by breaking the window of two cars, were reported in the city on Friday. The Mangaluru North police said unidentified persons broke the window of a car of Pradeep Rai, an executive of a private insurance firm, and escaped with Rs. 40,000 and other important documents.  The other incident was reported near the office of MUDA around noon. The thieves broke the window of a car and escaped with a laptop, an i-Phone, and a few other articles. The police suspect the involvement of a gang comprising people from north India in the two thefts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/two-cases-of-theft-reported/article35795726.ece
08 August 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Absence of players from Kodagu in national team sticks out||While the nation basks in the glory of the Indian hockey team scripting history at Tokyo Olympics by winning a medal (bronze) after 41 years, absence of even a single player from Kodagu in the current team has become a talking point among sports aficionados in the State. Kodagu has a legacy of producing outstanding hockey players who have played for India in the World Cup and the Olympics and they include M.P. Ganesh, B.P. Govinda, Arjun Halappa, A.B. Subbaiah, M.M. Somaiah, and Len Aiyappa, to name a few. It is rare for the country’s hockey team not to have a player from Kodagu, as it was during this Olympics. Experts say that a series of factors are at work as a result of which there is a decline in the number of players from Kodagu breaking into the national team. Focus on academics Mr. Ganesh, who played for India in the World Cup, Olympics, and Asian Games, said the shift in focus from sports to academics was a factor for this decline though both sports and academic are not mutually exclusive. Though Karnataka in general and Kodagu sportspersons perform well at the junior levels, parents do not allow children to pursue sports beyond a certain age. Their intention is to get children admitted to professional courses through the sports quota, he added. “Karnataka has reserved 91 seats in various professional courses for sportspersons. But once they secure admission, we don’t see them in the national camps as the focus shifts to academics,” said Mr. Ganesh. Besides, the drive to excel in sports has waned to an extent due to the fact that many among the new generation of Kodavas are not given to hard work, said the Arjuna award winner. “During our times, we had to walk 5 to 6 km daily to reach our schools and hence, physical fitness was a natural attribute but it is not so in the present generation,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/absence-of-players-from-kodagu-in-national-team-sticks-out/article35795392.ece
08 August 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Weekend lockdown: Minister to seek relaxation for Mysuru||Minister for Cooperation S.T. Somashekar has promised to seek relaxation for Mysuru from the weekend lockdown imposed on eight districts bordering Kerala and Maharashtra witnessing a surge in COVID-19 cases. Speaking to reporters after holding a meeting with district administration officials and people’s representatives to review the situation in Mysuru on Saturday, he said he will discuss the matter with Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai and convince him and the Chief Secretary that the COVID-19 in Mysuru was under control and did not require such curbs. The State government had taken a decision to impose weekend lockdown on the basis of the COVID-19 Expert Committee’s recommendation for the districts bordering Kerala and Maharashtra, fearing a possible rise in cases. However, he said there was no such threat in Mysuru district, which has a population between 31 to 37 lakh. Though 10,000 tests were being conducted every day, the number of people testing positive was under 100, he claimed. “So, I will appeal to the Chief Minister and Chief Secretary to reduce the restrictions for Mysuru.” Referring to the threat of the trade bodies to violate the lockdown, Mr. Somashekar said the directions of the government have to be followed. “We can’t violate the decisions taken keeping the welfare of the general public in mind”, he said while appealing to the trade bodies to exercise patience till he discusses the matter with the Chief Minister. He also said that the district administration is equipped to face the feared third wave of COVID-19. In view of the speculation over possibility of the virus affecting children, he said Cheluvamba Hospital for Women and Children has been reserved for treating children affected with COVID-19. Arrangements have also been made for paediatricians required to handle children affected by the virus. Mr. Somashekar said the district administration has ramped up facilities to provide treatment for upto 5,000 patients at a time. The government was ready to provide additional assistance if required. He claimed there was no shortage of vaccination in Mysuru district. Deputy Commissioner of Mysuru Bagadi Gautham has already given instructions to the officials to ensure 100 per cent vaccination of people residing in the villages in the district that were bordering H.D. Kote. Though vaccination in the region had reached 70 to 80 per cent, instructions have been issued to make arrangements for vaccinating the entire population. Mr. Somashekar denied that there had been any misuse of items donated by various private agencies under Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) to fight COVID-19. Clarifying that there was no provision for donating money under CSR activities, the Minister said private companies can only extend assistance in kind. On complaints against functioning of K.R. Hospital, Mr. Somashekar said carrying out an ‘operation’ at the state-run hospital will be the first on his agenda if the government appoints him as the Minister in charge of Mysuru district again.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/weekend-lockdown-minister-to-seek-relaxation-for-mysuru/article35795745.ece
08 August 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Railway Ministry’s intervention sought for expediting new terminal project||A slew of railway projects germane to Mysuru region are hanging fire owing to the pandemic and lack of funds and hence the Railway Ministry has been urged to expedite the works. This includes the green field railway terminal at Naganahalli which is envisaged for completion by 2024 but is now unlikely given its current status and the pace of works. As a result the envisaged benefits of track doubling and electrification between Mysuru and Bengaluru are yet to materialise fully due to capacity constraints of the Mysuru station. Hence Mysuru MP Pratap Simha recently met the Minister for Railways Ashwini Vaishnaw and sought his intervention for expediting the completion of the Naganahalli railway terminal at Mysuru and the new railway line upto Kushalnagar. He said the Railway Board had taken a long-term view of the projected passenger traffic and its growth in the region and had announced the construction of a new coaching terminal at Naganahalli, on the outskirts of Mysuru. The capital expenditure of the project was pegged at Rs. 789 crore and the Engineering and Traffic survey has been completed by the authorities. The first phase of the project entails laying 4 platform lines and 4 stabling lines apart from the station building and maintenance facilities all of which is projected to cost around Rs. 496.29 crore. Mr. Simha explained to the Railway Minister that the local elected representatives have held elaborate consultations with the farmers of the region who have been assured fair compensation for land acquisition. It has also transpired that the Infrastructure Development Department of the State government has not responded to the request of bearing the cost of land acquisition at the rate of Rs. 1.25 crore per acre. The railways require at least 165 acres to get the works started but lack of clarity on the project was hindering its progress. However, another reason for the project to have been grounded is the delay in approving the Detailed Project Report submitted by the South Western Railways. Hence Mr. Simha has urged Mr. Vaishnaw to pay personal attention to the project and help expedite it by clearing the DPR so as to facilitate the land acquisition process. Incidentally, the Railway Board has included the Naganahalli terminal under priority project and has sanctioned Rs. 19.99 crore for the financial year 2021-22. But the authorities were also expecting a substantial grant to be announced by the State government in the Budget tabled in March but no allocation was specifically announced for the project. The attention of the Railway Minister was also drawn to the long pending project linking Mysuru with Kushalnagar as part of bringing Kodagu on the railway map of India. Mr. Simha pointed out that though the preliminary engineering and traffic survey has long been completed, the project has not made any headway.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/railway-ministrys-intervention-sought-for-expediting-new-terminal-project/article35795751.ece
08 August 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Trade bodies drop plan to disobey lockdown||Various trade and business organisations that had threatened to ignore the weekend lockdown in Mysuru on Sunday and open their businesses have decided to drop their plan following an assurance from Minister S.T. Somashekar to speak to Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on the issue. B.S. Prashanth, who heads the newly-formed federation of several trade bodies, said the associations met the Minister here after their meeting and apprised their concerns over repeated imposition of clampdown, affecting the livelihood of people depending on daily trade. “The Minister and the Commissioner of Police also spoke to us. The Minister said he would discuss the matter with the CM on Monday. Based on his assurance, we have dropped our plan,” he said, in a note circulated to the media. Earlier, the representatives of trade associations and business establishments of Mysuru who met here on Saturday strongly opposed the weekend lockdown in Mysuru citing reasons of COVID-19 spike in Kerala. They urged the government to withdraw the clampdown as the traders and business community will be hard hit once again as they were yet to recover from the losses they suffered during this year’s protracted lockdown. The federation said the government can consider sealing or stepping up checks at the inter-state border instead of clampdown fearing COVID-19 spread from neighbouring States. “How wise is it to interrupt trade with repeated clampdowns amidst an estimate that the pandemic would remain till 2025,” they asked. Mysuru Hotel Owners Association President C. Narayana Gowda, and various stakeholders from the tourism industry, heads of trade associations, were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/trade-bodies-drop-plan-to-disobey-lockdown/article35795747.ece
08 August 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Vaccination to go into overdrive in border villages||With the COVID-19 surge in Kerala triggering threat of a third wave and causing serious concern for the border districts in the State, vaccination in villages adjoining the neighbouring State will be stepped up as a precaution. The target before the Health Department is to jab all those in the border villages of Mysuru district who haven’t taken the vaccine yet, and make them “100 per cent” vaccinated villages soon. Speaking to reporters after visiting Bavali checkpost in H.D. Kote taluk on the Kerala border, Minister S.T. Somashekar said there was no dearth of vaccines for achieving this target. Mr .Somashekar said that at the Bavali checkpost, he gave strict instructions, with the government asking for stepping up vigil at the border. “I have told the officials what needs to be done and to strictly follow the instructions. RT-PCR negative report not older than 72 hours has to be checked from every traveller before being allowed into the State.” The Minister said when he had visited the checkpost in the previous wave, he had told the officers to build a shelter for doctors and nursing staff posted there. It has been done now. This will help in monitoring.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/vaccination-to-go-into-overdrive-in-border-villages/article35795749.ece
08 August 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Create separate sports service cadre: Ganesh||Former Indian hockey captain M.P. Ganesh has called for constitution of a separate sports service cadre in the civil services on the lines of IAS, IPS, IFS etc. to shore up the country’s sports infrastructure and its performance in the international arena. Speaking to The Hindu , Mr. Ganesh, who is also an Arjun award winner besides being conferred with the Padma Shri, said the performance of India’s hockey team – both men and women – was outstanding. “The momentum and enthusiasm for the sport generated by the teams has to be carried forward and this applies not only to hockey but all other sports,” he added. Listing out a series of suggestions to help Indian athletes and sportspersons perform better in the international arena, Mr. Ganesh said a dedicated sports service cadre can help bring in focus on creating infrastructure and identifying talent that can be groomed. Or else bureaucrats with no sporting knowledge or background will remain at the helm. Mr. Ganesh said academics and sports should go hand in hand and sports should be made compulsory, which was not the case at present. If talented youngsters were to be motivated to seek admission in sports hostels, the facilities and comforts should be better than what the candidates enjoy at home otherwise they will see no reason in making the shift, Mr. Ganesh added. The attitude of parents towards sports should also change, he urged. Sports is an avenue for youngsters to excel and bring laurels to their country, he said, ruing that many of the present generation youngsters were hooked on to gadgets but were not taking to sports seriously.  M.P. Ganesh said that a dedicated sports service cadre can bring in focus on creating infrastructure and identifying talent that can be groomed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/create-separate-sports-service-cadre-ganesh/article35795756.ece
08 August 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Palace closed today too||The Mysuru palace, which remained closed on Saturday owing to the weekend lockdown, will be out of bounds for visitors on Sunday also.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/palace-closed-today-too/article35795744.ece
08 August 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Centre urged to set up 100-bed ESI Hospital in Kushalnagar||Pratap Simha, Mysuru MP, on Saturday met Union Minister for Environment, Forest and Climate Change and Labour and Employment Bhupender Yadav in New Delhi and urged him to consider setting up a 100-bed ESI Hospital in Kushalnagar since there was no ESI hospital in Kodagu. This will realise the long cherished dream of the working community in the region, he felt. In a letter to the Minister, Mr. Simha said about 4,500 workers are enrolled in around 120-130 very small, small, medium and large industries under the Karnataka Industrial Areas Development Board (KIADB) in Kushalnagar taluk in Kodagu. But, this large workforce is still not able to get the benefits of ESI in their neighbourhood. He urged the Minister to initiate the process of setting up a well-equipped 100-bed ESI hospital for the benefit of workers in the district. Kodagu will shortly be on the railway map with the commencement of the nearly Rs. 1,800 crore new Mysore-Kushalnagar-Madikeri Broad Gauge Railway Line Project, which will pave the way for opening up new vistas of development of the hinterland. As such, delivery of high quality healthcare for workers in the upcoming industries becomes an imperative, he opined.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/centre-urged-to-set-up-100-bed-esi-hospital-in-kushalnagar/article35795752.ece
08 August 2021||August 08 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||CM retains Bengaluru Development charge again, raising concerns||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommaihas retained the Bengaluru Development portfolio like his predecessor B.S. Yediyurappa, drawing the ire of many civic activists who argue the State capital needs a dedicated Minister and the Chief Minister would not be able to do justice. “It is clear from our recent experience that the Chief Minister will not be able to provide focus and time for Bengaluru. Especially during a time when the BBMP council is also not in place and it is being governed by an administrator from the State government,” said V. Ravichandar, former member of the BBMP Restructuring Committee. Ironically, while the city had eight Ministers under Mr. Yediyurappa and there are seven in Mr. Bommai-led Cabinet, the Chief Minister continues to hold charge of the city. However, there seems to be a problem in picking one person for the task because of internal dynamics. “R. Ashok was considered an undisputed leader of the party for the city. But the party high command disrupted that when it made C.N. Ashwath Narayan, a junior, a Deputy Chief Minister under Mr. Yediyurappa. Now none of the Ministers from the city is prepared to work under the leadership of another, pushing the Chief Minister to retain the charge,” a senior city MLA from the BJP said. “The last two years were marred by one-upmanship between Ministers from the city and Mr. Yediyurappa, who retained many heavy-duty Ministries, was constantly firefighting dissidence and could barely give time for the city. Sadly, this may continue under the new dispensation as well,” lamented senior civic activist N.S. Mukunda.  It is clear from our recent experience that the Chief Minister will not be able to provide focus and time for Bengaluru. V. Ravichandar,former member of the BBMP Restructuring Committee||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cm-retains-bengaluru-development-charge-again-raising-concerns/article35795396.ece
08 August 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Onattukara gets back to farming||Onattukara, once a granary of Central Travancore, is gradually regaining its lost glory in agriculture with a good number of farmers in the region undertaking vegetable farming with an eye on the Onam market. According to the Agriculture Department, vegetable cultivation is being carried out in more than 120 hectares in the six grama panchayats of Palamel, Thamarakulam, Nooranad, Chunakara, Bharanikavu and Vallikunnam under Bharanikavu block. At least this part of Onattukara, known as the land of Onam, has become a vegetable hub and the department is planning to transport surplus vegetables produced there to other parts of the district ahead of Onam. Rajini .P, Assistant Director of Agriculture, Charummoodu, says most farmers are producing ‘safe-to-eat’ vegetables. “Palamel, Nooranad and Thamarakulam are producing more than its needs and surplus vegetables will be procured by Horticorp,” Ms. Rajini says. Vegetables are being cultivated in 75 hectares in Palamel, 20 hectares in Thamarakulam and 15 hectares in Nooranad. Five hectares each in Bharanikavu, Vallikunnam and Chunakara have also been brought under vegetable farming. Fare on offer In June, the department distributed seedlings and seed kits to farmers through Krishi Bhavans. The veggies produced include snake gourd, bitter gourd, ivy gourd, elephant foot yam, banana, and tapioca. The Agriculture Department will open nine Onam markets in Onattukara - two each in Chunakara, Bharanikavu and Vallikunnam and one each in Palamel, Thamarakulam and Nooranad for providing vegetables at reasonable rates during Onam. “Vegetables will be procured directly from farmers by paying 10% above the market price. The people can buy vegetables from Onam markets at 30% less than the market rate,” said an official. The Onam outlets will function from August 17 to 20.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/onattukara-gets-back-to-farming/article35795696.ece
08 August 2021||HUBBALLI,KERALA||Ex-MLA Rajashekhar Sindhur passes away||Former MLA and Chairman of Dryland Development Board Rajashekhar Sindhur passed away at his residence in Savanur of Haveri district on Saturday and was laid to rest at his hometown in the evening. He was 58 and is survived by his wife, a son, and a daughter. A noted businessman, Mr. Sindhur was elected to the Shiggaon Assembly constituency in 2004 as an Independent candidate. But in 2008, when the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) wanted to field the current Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai from Shiggaon, Mr. Sindhur withdrew his candidature in favour of Mr. Bommai saying that he wanted to strengthen the hands of B.S. Yediyurappa. After the Yediyurappa-led BJP government came to power again, Mr. Sindhur was appointed as the Chairman of the Dryland Development Board. Mr. Bommai took a special flight from Bengaluru to Hubballi and then travelled by road to Savanur on Saturday afternoon to pay his last respects. Mr. Bommai also consoled the family members of Mr. Sindhur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ex-mla-rajashekhar-sindhur-passes-away/article35795583.ece
08 August 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||Woman found dead in Idukki||Devika, 24, was found dead hanging in her husband’s house at Kounthy, near Nedumkandam, on Friday night. When Devika did not return from the toilet for long, the door was broken down and she was rushed to a hospital at Nedumkandam, where the doctors declared her dead. She was the wife of Ajit. She was a second year student of BSc Chemistry at a college in Nedumkandam. A case of unnatural death has been registered. Kattappana Dy.SP Nishad said there were no injuries on her body. A detailed inquiry would be conducted. (Suicide prevention helpline: Disha - 0471-2552056, 1056)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/woman-found-dead-in-idukki/article35795692.ece
08 August 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||Coffee grower’s cup of profits brims over||Ashok Kumar, a coffee grower at Parakkal here, stands out from his ilk by tapping the maximum potential of coffee plants through apt technology and management practices. The productivity of coffee plants in his garden is manyfold when compared to the Coffee Board’s estimation on coffee production in the country. Perseverance, sharp observation, timely intervention, and technological backing have stood the farmer in good stead. According to the Coffee Board, the average annual production of coffee in an acre in the country is 350 kg to 400 kg. However, Mr. Ashok Kumar produces 1,500 kg to 2,000 kg from an acre a year on his garden on 20 acres. Irrigation, soil requisites, and health of plants are properly maintained in the garden to harness this seemingly unattainable production. “Wayanad has the potential to become the highest producer of coffee in the country if it follows scientific garden management and plant protection measures,” says Mr. Ashok Kumar. Grafting, the key He primarily relies on grafting to enhance yield. Low-yielding plants are grafted with scions taken from high-yielding ones from the same plot. This process is repeated over a decade. All plants in his garden have been grafted with high-yielding scions. “There is no need for uprooting older coffee plants in a garden if the grafting method is adopted,” he says. The plants in his garden are numbered and tagged with aluminium foils to record the yield every year. Experiments have also been taken up in spacing the coffee plants for a better yield. According to Mr. Ashok Kumar, Robusta coffee varieties such as CXR and S274 are quite suitable for a traditional coffee-growing regions like Wayanad. Regulating shade Shade regulation too is crucial in coffee production, since more shade would lead to increased pest attacks and diseases, he said. The M.S. Swaminathan Research Foundation (MSSRF) recently recognised him as the best coffee farmer. “Every farmer should have a basic idea of the nature of coffee before venturing to cultivate it. A visit to his garden will provide a farmer with ample information on setting up a profitable plantation,” says Joseph John, scientist, MSSRF here.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/coffee-growers-cup-of-profits-brims-over/article35795675.ece
08 August 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Meeting planned to iron out differences over road widening||Faced with opposition from a section of landowners to the revised alignment to widen the 13.40-km Thripunithura S.N. Junction-Poothotta corridor into a four-lane stretch, a team led by Thripunithura MLA K. Babu is expected to meet representatives of residents’ associations, traders and an action council that was formed, to hear them and iron out practical difficulties in executing the project, on August 13. The Kerala Road Fund Board (KRFB) has readied plans to develop the congested corridor into a 22-metre-wide road, for which the Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board (KIIFB) had earmarked Rs. 450 crore in the second quarter of 2020. It will considerably streamline traffic movement from Kochi to Vaikom and Kottayam. Land acquisition Earlier this year, the government had approved the acquisition of approximately 12 hectares for the project. According the alignment, the road ought to have 11-metre width on either side, from the centre of the existing road. The extent of land acquisition will vary between 10 metres and 12 metres in a few places to straighten curves. A section of landowners approached the court, despite the KRFB and other stakeholders trying to convince them of the need to straighten curves, sources said. Simultaneously, the KRFB is readying drawings with survey numbers of land that has to be acquired. The road has to be widened within 24 months of land acquisition getting completed, they added. Solution to traffic snarls The KRFB has also taken up a Rs. 81-crore project to develop the road from Desom junction on National Highway 66 to Vallamkadavu, through Sreemoolanagaram, into a 12-metre-wide road. The KIIFB has approved the project which will lessen the distance from the national highway to Perumbavoor, besides helping motorists evade traffic snarls at Kalady.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/meeting-planned-to-iron-out-differences-over-road-widening/article35795659.ece
08 August 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||IT exemption sought for primary dairy cooperatives||Kerala’s apex milk cooperative Milma has appealed to the Union government to exempt primary dairy cooperatives from the purview of income tax after the government notified that cooperatives with more than Rs. 50 lakh turnover should come under tax deduction at source (TDS) for the amount exceeding Rs. 50 lakh. The Amul model milk cooperatives in the State do not work on the model of profits, and they have no profit capitalisation. Portions of profit made by cooperatives go into various funds that benefit dairy farmers, said K.S. Mani of the milk cooperative on Saturday. He added that around a million dairy farmers were attached to the milk cooperative directly, and that the imposition of income tax would affect the functioning of cooperatives. Dairy farmers are one of the most marginalised segments of the farming sector, and incentivising them is one of the ways to enhance milk production. Many concerns The new direct tax imposition will not help the process, he said, adding that auditing accounts of cooperatives lagged, and that fines slapped under the new norms on cooperatives for not filing returns in time would further impact their operation. He also said that the profit earned by primary dairy cooperatives was being returned to dairy farmers themselves in the form of various subsidies and incentives. John Theruvath, chairman of the Ernakulam Regional Cooperative Milk Producers Union, said Kerala had achieved considerable milk production over the years with the help of cooperatives. The procurement level is around 14 litres per day. Both the Ernakulam and Malabar regions have achieved self-sufficiency in milk production. The production level will get a boost with more youngsters entering the dairy sector following the COVID 19 lockdown.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/it-exemption-sought-for-primary-dairy-cooperatives/article35795640.ece
08 August 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Minister lays keel for two vessels for Norway||The keel-laying of two autonomous zero emission electric vessels built by Cochin Shipyard Limited (CSL) for the Norwegian ASKO Maritime AS was held on Saturday. P. Rajeeve, Minister of Industries, Coir and Law, was the chief guest. The vessels are considered to be the first of their kind in the field of merchant shipping. Mr. Rajeeve lauded the green energy philosophy followed for the vessels and said that the Kerala government was determined to encourage businesses focusing on environmental, social and governance (ESG) aspects. Major project “This is an important project for Cochin Shipyard. Though the vessel is a small one, the impact the vessel could make in the field of autonomous and electric vessel segment is huge,” said Madhu S. Nair, Chairman and Managing Director, CSL. It is an ambitious project partially funded by the Norwegian government aimed at emission-free transport of goods across the Oslo fjords. Once in operation, the vessels will create a new benchmark for the merchant shipping world in the field of autonomous vessels with zero carbon emission. The 67-m-long vessels will initially be delivered as a full-electric transport ferry, powered by 1846 kWh capacity battery. After the commissioning of autonomous equipment and field trials in Norway, it will operate as a fully autonomous ferry of ASKO that can transport 16 fully loaded standard EU trailers in one go across the fjords. The vessels are designed by Naval Dynamics, Norway, using Kongsberg Maritime Systems, with detailed engineering carried out by Cochin Shipyard Limited.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/minister-lays-keel-for-groundbreaking-vessels/article35795662.ece
08 August 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Satheesan urges govt. to set up COVID relief commission||Leader of the Opposition V.D. Satheesan has called upon the State government to set up what he called a ‘COVID-19 relief commission’ to look into all aspects of the revival of economic and social life in the wake of the devastation caused by the pandemic. He said the commission should consist of experts from different walks of life, who would suggest ways to overcome the crisis. Mr. Satheesan was speaking at the Ernakulam Press Club on ‘Life after COVID 19’. Spending capacity He said there was serious economic deceleration, and that the government needed to increase the spending capacity of people. One of the options would be, he said, to transfer funds directly to ordinary people. Transferring a corpus of around Rs. 10,000 crore to people who are hard-pressed by the pandemic will result in circulation of money and bring around Rs. 1,800 crore to the State exchequer in the form of taxes, he said. He pointed out that direct benefit transfer programmes like the national employment scheme had benefited lakhs of workers in the country. He also said that the rehabilitation packages announced by the State government had not been substantial. Restrictions Mr. Satheesan said combining the opening up of the market with restrictions would not work. He claimed that 57% of the population in Kerala had not even received the first dose of the COVID-19 vaccine and insisting on certificates for shopping was not constructive. The government must open up shopping hours, so that crowding could be avoided in public spaces. Countries have explored options like exploring night shopping to control crowding, he added. ‘No political problem’ He said the pandemic should be treated as a health problem and not a political problem. Mr. Satheesan, commenting on the troubles confronting the Indian Union Muslim League, said the party’s problems were internal, and that the UDF or the Congress did not want to intervene in the matter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/satheesan-calls-for-covid-relief-panel/article35795639.ece
08 August 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Coop. bank scam: ED registers case||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has registered a case in connection with the Karuvannur Service Cooperative Bank multi-crore loan scam. The case has been registered under the provisions of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act against the six accused mentioned in the first information report filed by the State police. They include T.R. Sunil Kumar, former bank secretary; Biju Karim, former manager; Jilse C.K., former accountant; and others including Reji Anilkumar, Kiran, and Bejoy A.K. The preliminary investigation by the Central agency revealed fraud to the tune of nearly Rs. 200 crore through fake bank accounts and benami deals. It was also found that black money from abroad was routed through the bank. CB issues lookout notice The Crime Branch had issued a lookout notice for the accused two days ago. The Thrissur District Sessions Court will consider the anticipatory bail plea of Biju Karim, Reji Anilkumar, Kiran, and C.K. Jilse on August 10. The CPI(M) had come under attack for not taking action despite getting information on the scam led by the party-led director board. The district committee suspended four members, including K.K. Divakaran, former president of the director board, from the party. Meanwhile, a voice clip that hints that the party knew about the bank fraud has emerged. The voice clip is of a party meeting discussing the bank fraud. A meeting of the CPI(M)’s Madayikonam branch in 2018 had discussed the loan fraud at the cooperative bank. Porathissery local committee secretary Raju raised the issue at the meeting in the presence of the president of the bank director board. In the voice clip, which is circulating in the media now, the president is denying his role in the fraud. The meeting had criticised irregularities in allotting loans, including benami loans. The meeting was held when a woman board member of the bank, who went to recover a loan, was locked up by a family. ( With inputs from Thrissur bureau )||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/coop-bank-scam-ed-registers-case/article35795681.ece
08 August 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Marriage registration via videoconferencing||The Kerala High Court has allowed a man working abroad to appear via videoconferencing to enable registration of his marriage as he could not come in person due to travel restrictions on account of COVID-19. The court’s order came on the plea of his 28-year-old bride, who said her husband left for Canada, where he is working, right after their marriage in July 2019 under the Special Marriage Act of 1954. As a result, the couple could not appear before the Registrar of Marriages of their panchayat for registering their nuptials under the Registration of the Marriages Common Rules Kerala, 2008. In view of the pandemic and the restrictions in travelling it is not possible for the husband of the petitioner to come back to India for the purpose of registration of marriage. The plea urged the court to direct the Registrar of Marriages to allow her husband to appear via videoconferencing for registering their marriage and to issue a certificate evidencing the same. The High Court allowed the groom to appear via videoconferencing for registration of the marriage and directed the Registrar of Marriages to register the same and issue a certificate to the couple. “The certificate as above shall be issued within 10 days from today. The petitioner shall produce a copy of the judgment before the respondent (Registrar) for compliance ,” the court said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/marriage-via-videoconferencing/article35795669.ece
08 August 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Burnt body of man found||The burnt body of a middle-aged man was found in his house near Mattathoor railway overbridge on Saturday. The deceased was identified as Sethumadhavan, 58, of Eroor. He had been missing since Friday. As search was on for him, they found his burnt body inside the house.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/burnt-body-of-man-found/article35795661.ece
08 August 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Equipment worth Rs. 7.75 crore for MCH||The government has given administrative sanction to the tune of Rs. 7.75 crore for purchase of medical equipment at the Government Medical College Hospital (MCH), Kalamassery. The sum has been sanctioned under the budget for 2021-22. The machines to be bought include mobile digital x-ray machine with battery backup (Rs. 1 crore); anaesthesia work station with ventilator, vaporiser (Rs. 14 lakh); ultrasonic cutting coagulation radio frequency vessel sealing system (Rs. 17 lakh); flash autoclave (Rs. 11.2 lakh), and ventilator (Rs. 10.05 lakh).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/equipment-worth-rs-775-crore-for-mch/article35795665.ece
08 August 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Two arrested from Bihar in Nellikkuzhi murder case||The special investigation squad probing the murder of a young dental student and the subsequent alleged suicide by the accused at Nellikuzhi near Kothamangalam last month, has arrested two persons from Bihar on charge of abetting the crime. The arrested are Sonu Kumar, 20, a resident of Parsando village in Munger district, and Maneesh Kumar, 23, of Buxar district. “Sonu Kumar was the one who provided the country-made pistol with which the crime was committed, while Maneesh Kumar was the intermediary between the accused and Sonu Kumar. We are collecting further evidence and completing formalities to bring them down here on transit warrant,” said K. Karthik, District Police Chief (Ernakulam Rural). The pistol was reportedly purchased at Rs. 35,000, which was paid in cash. The accused was also given training in using the firearm, it is learnt.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/two-arrested-from-bihar-in-nellikkuzhi-murder-case/article35795655.ece
08 August 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Absence of full-time MD has hit metro projects: Eden||The State government is contributing to delay in the Kochi metro’s extension to Kakkanad and other areas by not appointing a managing director for Kochi Metro Rail Limited (KMRL) , Hibi Eden, MP, said here on Saturday. Principal Secretary K.R. Jyotilal, who has been given additional charge of KMRL, has a whole lot of other responsibilities, with the result that the metro agency has remained rudderless since its then MD Alkesh Kumar Sharma was given a new posting, he added. The government and KMRL have been a failure in readying groundwork for the metro’s extension projects, since there is no one responsible to take them ahead. Mr. Jyotilal did not participate in a national conference of metro rail MDs held in New Delhi. Thus, Kerala was the sole State whose metro system went unrepresented at the meeting, said Mr. Eden. Water Metro delayed Almost all initiatives undertaken by KMRL are running behind schedule. They include Phase-II extension to Kakkanad, and the Rs. 747-crore Water Metro project. The Rs. 1,528-crore Integrated Urban Regeneration and Water Transport System project in Kochi that the metro agency was expected to execute too is a non-starter. All this is primarily because the metro agency does not have a full-time MD. Its functioning has become on par with under-performing government agencies, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/absence-of-full-time-md-has-hit-metro-projects/article35795658.ece
08 August 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||2,121 positive cases in district||As many as 2,121 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Ernakulam on Saturday. The number of those who got infected through local contact stood at 2,051. The source of infection in 57 cases could not be ascertained. The test positivity rate (TPS) in the district is 10.46%. The regions where positive cases were higher than 40 included Thrikkakara (80), Kunnathunad (78), Thripunithura (53), Kalamassery (47), Vengola (46), and Alangad (42). As many as 20,286 tests were conducted on Saturday. Around 24,700 persons are under treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/2121-positive-cases-in-district/article35795664.ece
08 August 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||MGU seeks UGC nod for 10 online degree courses||Mahatma Gandhi University (MGU) has sought the approval of the University Grants Commission (UGC) for online degree programmes in 10 subjects. These are in addition to the three programmes for which the varsity is awaiting official nod from the commission. The online courses will be offered under the Centre for Online Education. The plan is to launch them by November. Courses The 10 proposed programmes include BCom, MSc Statistics, MA Journalism and Mass Communication, MA English, MA Business Economics, MA Sociology, MA International Relations and Politics, MA Graphic Design, MA Animation, and MA Multimedia. The programmes proposed earlier include undergraduate courses in commerce and business administration and a postgraduate course in commerce. The university became eligible for offering online degree programmes as it figured in the top 100 higher educational institutions under the National Institute of Ranking Framework (NIRF). It is ranked 30 among the first 100 higher educational institutions, according to NIRF. The UGC had given permission to the top 100 institutes to start online degree courses. According to the university authorities, the courses will have an end-to-end digital approach. They will be offered in accordance with the provisions of the UGC (Open and Distance Learning and Online Programmes) Regulations, 2020. The online programmes are treated on a par with regular courses. Examinations will be held in the proctored mode and in line with UGC norms. The courses will be open to candidates meeting basic qualifications prescribed by the university. Working professionals who wish to enhance their learning skills can also enrol for the online programmes. The academic sessions will consist of lectures by experts and interactive sessions. Students will also have to take up short-term projects and other assignments online.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mgu-seeks-ugc-nod-for-10-online-degree-programmes/article35795654.ece
08 August 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||1,420 more test positive in Kollam||The district reported 1,420 new cases of COVID-19 and 1,805 recoveries on Saturday. While 1,413 patients contracted the virus through local contact, others include one NRI and six health workers. At present the district has 33,170 people under observation and the total number of samples collected is 20,33,043. Alappuzha logged 1,090 COVID-19 cases on Saturday. The test positivity rate was recorded at 11.96%. Of the fresh cases, 1,069 patients contracted the disease through local transmission. Meanwhile, 1,456 people who were undergoing treatment for the disease in the district tested negative. The active COVID-19 caseload stands at 10,059. Kottayam continued to witness a sharp rise in fresh COVID-19 cases with 995 people testing positive for the disease on Saturday. The test positivity rate (TPR) for the day stood at 10.66%. As many as 1,271 people recovered from the disease on the day, bringing down the active cases to 7,625. Meanwhile, 40,528 people remain in quarantine. Four deaths In Pathanamthitta, 561 people tested positive on the day. Among them, 557 people contracted the disease through local transmission. The contact source of four cases were yet to be ascertained. The TPR for the day was 8.6%. With 40 cases, Thiruvalla reported the highest number of cases, followed by Ranni-Perunad, which reported 20 cases. The disease also claimed four lives in the district. ( With inputs from Alappuzha, Kottayam, and Pathanamthitta bureaus )||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/1420-more-test-positive-in-kollam/article35795701.ece
08 August 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||MLA inaugurates housing project||Pathanapuram MLA K.B. Ganesh Kumar on Saturday inaugurated the third phase of Saphalyam, the housing project of the Kollam district panchayat. District panchayat president Sam K. Daniel presided over the function. A total of 15 houses were built during the first two phases of the projects for tribal families from Achencoil and Chithara.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mla-inaugurates-housing-project/article35795697.ece
08 August 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||KC(M) to trim down party panels||Setting the stage for its potential unmaking as an organisation that rides on the coattails of a political legacy set by K.M. Mani, the Kerala Congress (M) has set in motion a drive to cut flab on its key committees. The decision to trim down committees, according to leaders, forms the core of a strategy to rehaul the party on a semi-cadre line. Accordingly, a meeting of its State committee has now decided to amend the party constitution and bring in a few changes to its hierarchical structure. According to party chairman Jose K. Mani, the committee has decided to reduce various party units from top to bottom. “The State steering committee, which currently has 111 members, will now have only 91 members, while the number of State general secretaries will be cut short from 25 to 15.” The KC(M)’s move to get leaner assumes significance particularly as its archrival - the Kerala Congress (KC) led by P.J. Joseph, looks saddled with jumbo committees. Alongside, its State executive will be renamed as State secretariat while the membership will be pooled into two categories for regular and active workers. A proposal to ensure representation of the Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes and women on different committees too has been put up Despite its relatively successful association with the Left Democratic Front (LDF), the KC(M) decided to revamp its organisational structure in view of the chinks in the party structure as exposed by the recent defeats in its bastions of Pala and Kaduthuruthy. Interestingly, the exit of a few senior leaders from the party following its departure from the United Democratic Front (UDF) appears to have ensured it the room for this massive exercise. In contrast, the accommodation of these dissident leaders in the Joseph group, along with its design to realign with all major forces within the KC platform, appears to have rendered it somewhat an unwieldy structure. Problem of plenty The party, which now faces the problem of plenty at the top, currently has a working chairman and executive chairman, besides three deputy chairmen, 14 vice chairman , secretary general, chief coordinator and over 55 general secretaries. In view of the discontent among a section of leaders, the party has now decided to hold organisational elections to find a way out.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kcm-to-trim-down-party-panels/article35795708.ece
08 August 2021||Kottayam,KERALA||CBCI to observe day of mourning||The Catholic Bishops Conference of India (CBCI) Council for Laity will organise prayer meetings in all its 14 regional councils on August 10 to mark the 50th anniversary of the implementation of the Medical Termination of the Pregnancy Act. According to V.C. Sebastian, secretary of the organisation, the move is in line with a direction by Cardinal Oswald Gracias to observe the day as ‘Day of Mourning.’||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cbci-to-observe-day-of-mourning/article35795693.ece
08 August 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Bible in Greek, Hebrew published||The Bible Society of India, in collaboration with the German Bible Society, has published the Greek and Hebrew Bibles for the first time in India. Yuhanon Mar Chrysostomos, president, Bible Society-Kerala Auxiliary, launched the new editions at the St. Thomas Apostolic Seminary, Kottayam, last week. Fr. Mathew Skariah, secretary of the Bible Society - Kerala Auxiliary, said here on Saturday that these editions were of great value to Bible students and a matter of interest to linguaphiles, as they served as a language reference tool for these ancient languages. Hebrew is the original language of the Old Testament and Greek of the New Testament. Referred to as ‘textual apparatus’ in theological parlance, these editions also incorporate the findings of the ongoing research on the ancient manuscripts of the Bible and help research in the field of biblical studies. The publication of these authorised editions in their original languages, which hitherto has been done in Germany, could be done after years of negotiations by the Bible Society of India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bible-in-greek-hebrew-published/article35795651.ece
08 August 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Rubber Training Institute renamed||The Union Ministry of Commerce and Industry has renamed the Rubber Training Institute (RTI) under the Rubber Board as National Institute for Rubber Training (NIRT). The decision follows a recommendation of the National Committee on External Evaluation, engaged to evaluate the performance of the medium-term expenditure framework scheme of the Rubber Board. K.N. Raghavan, Executive Director, Rubber Board, will inaugurate the NIRT at an online function on August 10. Sabu Thomas, Vice Chancellor, Mahatma Gandhi University, will launch the microsite of the NIRT. Board officials said a rise in the institute’s stature would help increase the reach of its activities. As envisaged in the Rubber Act, 1947, an exclusive department for training was constituted in 1994 and a full-fledged infrastructure was established in 2000 with the mandate to provide state-of-the-art technological training and develop competent human resource to the rubber sector. The future priorities of the institute include launching of long-duration academic programmes like degree, postgraduate diploma and certificate courses in plant science and rubber technology and formulation of niche programmes in collaboration with centres of excellence and professional bodies, among other things||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rubber-institute-renamed/article35795642.ece
08 August 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Kozhikode witnesses crowds amid relaxed weekend norms||The city witnessed huge crowds on Saturday with all major markets and business establishments reopening in the wake of relaxation of weekend regulations. Though shop owners were instructed to regulate the number of customers after checking vaccination details, they were not found complying with it, citing practical difficulties. Customers were found observing physical distancing norms in shops, while shop owners reminded them to follow guidelines and hand sanitisation norms. Most shops were found to maintain a record of visitors. Buses crowded Private bus operators operated services without paying much attention to the COVID-19 protocol. Many operators ferried passengers beyond seating capacity, and both city, and long-distance buses were found to be overcrowded. Following mass criticism against police high-handedness in the enforcement of COVID norms, there was minimal checking in various public places in the city. Vehicle checking was also minimal on national and State highways. However, plainclothesmen were deployed to keep an eye on traders flouting rules. Seeking more relaxations, a section of hoteliers on Saturday called upon the government to allow dine-in service by complying with the existing safety protocol. They pointed out that a ban on hotels alone made no sense, and that it would only affect the income of workers in the sector. Health Department officials, meanwhile, expressed concerns over the increasing rush in public places and the difficulty in implementing the safety protocol. They said the stepping out by children and senior citizens for non-emergency purposes would definitely emerge as a threat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kozhikode-witnesses-crowds-amid-relaxed-weekend-norms/article35795644.ece
08 August 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Concern over strangers entering virtual classrooms||Even as an increasing number of complaints are being recorded across the State about the infiltration of strangers into online classrooms, two more such incidents have been reported to the police in Kozhikode. The suspects who reportedly verbally abused the students and appeared nude during the online sessions are still at large though the police have claimed to identify them. While one instance was reported by the students and teachers of Government High School, Meenchanda, the management of a private tuition centre has also filed a complaint about an unidentified man entering the virtual classroom and flashing at the participants. The two latest incidents are among the five such cases reported within a month in the district. Many teachers were reportedly scared to file written petitions. In some cases that have already been reported, the suspects were absconding. According to Cyber Cell officials, weak passwords and invitation links that were several months old were found to be the major reasons aiding the entry of strangers into virtual classrooms. They said the option to create new invitation links and passwords was rarely used by a majority of virtual classroom operators. The posting of such invitation links on private WhatsApp groups and social media pages was also found to create difficulties. Even after frequent reminders from the Kerala Police Cyberdome and the police, many were not following the safety guidelines. In some incidents, the complainants also failed to submit digital evidence against the suspects. According to Cyber Cell officials, at least a screenshot of the suspected persons should be produced for quick investigation into such incidents. Tracing of suspects would be difficult with just the statement of complainants and students, they added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/concern-over-strangers-entering-virtual-classrooms/article35795645.ece
08 August 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Street vendors livid over survey||Street vendors across the State are in a dilemma against the backdrop of the ongoing survey in local bodies to issue identity cards and certificates to the deserving beneficiaries. They are of the view that the survey is ill-timed considering the COVID-19 pandemic situation. They have also demanded that the government put it off until the situation improves. A large number of street vendors have been left jobless due to several reasons, including COVID-19 restrictions, which have prevented them from carrying out business. Some are in quarantine too. Holding a survey in such a situation will result in a number of deserving street vendors getting excluded from the beneficiary list, complained P.A. Jirar, State secretary, Kerala Street Vending Labourers’ Federation (AITUC). “The State government had decided to conduct the survey and publish a report in every local body before July 31. However, it could not be taken forward as planned in most local bodies. And, when the survey was held, it was done in a hurry, and several deserving street vendors could not make it into the list, as they were not doing business on days the survey was held,” Mr. Jirar said. The federation has been organising protests across the State against the “unscientific manner” in which the survey is conducted. The Kozhikode Corporation had carried out a street vendors’ survey in 2017 and had identified around 2,500 vendors. Of them, around 1,900 had been issued identity cards. But many who were in the original list did not find place in the new one, as they were deemed absent or undeserving.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/street-vendors-livid-over-survey/article35795635.ece
08 August 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Drive to inoculate senior citizens by August 15||The Kozhikode district administration is planning a drive to ensure that those aged above 60 get at least one dose of the COVID-19 vaccine by August 15. District Collector N. Tej Lohit Reddy said on Saturday that an intensive campaign would be launched from Monday for the purpose. The Health Department will set up vaccination camps at local body levels. Accredited Social Health Activists will be entrusted with the registration of senior citizens for vaccination. Meanwhile, as many as 2,221 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in the district. According to the District Medical Officer, 2,193 of the fresh cases were due to local transmission. Kozhikode Corporation accounted for 315 locally acquired infections, Koduvally 98, Kuruvattur 56, Atholi and Unnikulam 55 each, Koyilandy 53, and Kunnamangalam 50. As many as 13,655 samples were tested and the daily test positivity rate is 16.59%. A total of 2,388 people recovered and the active caseload is 26,288.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/drive-to-inoculate-senior-citizens-by-august-15/article35795636.ece
08 August 2021||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||AI crash survivors felicitate their rescuers||Junaid P. from Mukkood, who works as a contract labourer for the Kondotty municipality, had a huge surprise on Saturday. Ashique Perumbal, one of the survivors of the Karipur Air India flight crash, reached Junaid’s home in the morning with basketfuls of sweets on the first anniversary of the tragedy. Junaid stood agape as Ashique came congratulating him and thanking him for rescuing him from the tragedy. It was Junaid who rescued Ashique and his brother when the Air India flight from Dubai overshot the runway and crashed on the night of August 7, 2020. Ashique had jumped out of the flight that broke into two at the front. He was lying unconscious in the mud when Junaid found him. “I still remember his cries when he became conscious. He had multiple fractures. His both shoulders had been broken, and I tied his shoulders to the stretcher with a piece of cloth I got from an ambulance,” said Junaid. Ashique said he owed it to Junaid and his experience in trauma care. Junaid had been trained in trauma care. “What still saddens us is the attitude of the airport authorities. They conduct mock drills quite often here. But no local people are involved. They bring trauma care volunteers from distant places for mock drills at the airport. Giving trauma care training to the people living in the neighbourhood will be of better use,” said Junaid. Ashique was returning home after losing his job in the UAE because of COVID-19 when the tragedy struck. He is planning to start some business with the support of his friends at Changaramkulam. Like Ashique, over two dozen survivors from different parts of Malappuram and neighbouring districts reached Karipur on Saturday as they commemorated the first anniversary of the tragedy. They gathered below the tabletop runway where the flight had plunged. They greeted each other and felicitated the rescuers, who also joined them. Several functions were held under the banners of different organisations. The Kondotty municipality felicitated the rescuers at a function.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ai-crash-survivors-felicitate-their-rescuers/article35795671.ece
08 August 2021||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Konni MCH emergency wing to open on Aug. 30||A meeting convened by Health Minister Veena George here on Saturday decided to open the emergency wing at the Government Medical College Hospital (MCH) at Konni by August 30. The meeting, attended by the heads of various departments, also decided to establish a minor operation theatre and intensive care unit at the new wing .  It further entrusted the Director of Medical Education with submitting a proposal for obtaining MRI and CT scan units. The Minister sought to expedite the second-phase development works of the hospital. The authorities have already floated tenders for works valued at Rs. 241 crore that will be allotted through the Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board. Plans are afoot to commence steps to admit students from the next academic year. Efforts are also on to obtain the national medical commission’s nod. Discussion was also held on starting a gynaecology unit and blood bank. The District Collector has been tasked with the constitution of a hospital development committee. Oxygen plant Discussions have been held with the Kerala Medical Services Corporation (KMSC) and the district administration with regard to the installation of an oxygen plant. Considering the possibility of a possible third wave of COVID-19, the paediatric department and ICU units will be strengthened. The Kerala State Road Transport Corporation will operate more services to the hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/konni-mch-emergency-wing-to-open-on-aug-30/article35795694.ece
08 August 2021||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||‘Only 258 breakthrough cases in Pathanamthitta’||Contrary to reports that the district reported over 20,000 breakthrough infection cases, the Health Department clarified that only 258 cases under the category have been reported in the district so far. According to A.L.Sheeja, District Medical Officer, Pathanamathitta, only 0.07% of those who received two shots of the vaccine and completed 14 days have been infected with the virus. The number of persons who received both doses of vaccine in the district stood at 3.35 lakh. A review of the COVID-19 containment strategies in Pathanamthitta by B.Ashok, the special officer appointed by the State government, showed that 2.99 lakh were left to receive their first dose of vaccine while 4.04 lakh had to receive their second dose.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/only-258-breakthrough-cases-in-pathanamthitta/article35795699.ece
08 August 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Corpn. insists on firm’s logos on telecom poles||The Thiruvananthapuram city is set to bring about a structural change in its system of providing approval for the installation of Galvanised Iron (GI) poles by various telecom companies. The civic body has been sustaining revenue losses over the years due to the lack of a system to ascertain the proper number of poles laid by the companies, which have to pay the Corporation an annual rent for each of the poles. As per the current system, the telecom companies get the approval from the Corporation after submitting an application for a specific number of poles. However, on the ground, this number is often not followed and poles much in excess of the approved numbers are laid across the city. For each GI pole, the companies are supposed to pay the Corporation an amount of Rs. 750, in addition to Rs. 1000 rent for the Electronic Display Panels (EDP). Location plan The Corporation is now implementing a system by which the companies have to submit the location plan and unique identification number for each of the poles. A completion plan also has to be submitted. The respective telecom company’s logo and number of the pole has to be displayed on the pole. This will allow the Corporation to get an accurate picture of the poles installed in each locality, and ensure that there is no loss of revenue due to unaccounted poles. “There are a lot of private players in the scene now, including those who run cable services. We are also looking at the files from the previous years to ensure that all of the installed poles are captured in the system. If this system is followed up, we will have numbered poles everywhere within one year. Those without numbers can be considered as unauthorised and be removed,” said a Corporation official. The Corporation has decided to increase the restoration charges for the telephone poles, by increasing the area considered for restoration by 50%. Currently, files are maintained across various sections in the Corporation. It has been decided to handle all of this in the revenue section for ease of tracking. Though many firms do pay the rents for the poles they have on records, a few others have not paid the annual license fee. The Corporation had to initiate revenue recovery proceedings against a telecom major this year for not paying the rent for its poles since 2017-18 despite multiple reminders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/corpn-insists-on-firms-logos-on-telecom-poles/article35795865.ece
08 August 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Police urge caution against cyber frauds||The Thiruvananthapuram City police have raised caution against emerging trends in cyber frauds that have duped several people, young and old alike. City Police Commissioner and Inspector General Balram Kumar, who has been leading a month-long sensitisation programme on cybercrimes, urged increased attention to financial frauds through remote access, SIM cloning, QR codes and search engines. Ploy of fraudsters  The official pointed out many victims have fallen prey to the ploy of fraudsters who trick them into downloading screen-sharing or remote access applications that enabled them to observe and control the activities in one’s mobile or laptop to gain access to financial credentials. Later, they use these to make payments through Internet banking or payment apps. The public have been urged caution against downloading or activating screen-share feature with unknown people. SIM swap With most account and authentication details increasingly being linked to one’s registered mobile number, fraudsters try to gain access to SIM cards or obtain duplicate cards to make digital transactions using OTP number received on such duplicate SIM. They generally ‘call the customers’ by posing as telephone or mobile network staff and request the details of SIM cards by claiming to upgrade its service from 3G to 4G or to provide any services. While the public have been warned against sharing SIM card credentials, the Commissioner also asked mobile users to remain cautious of instances when they do not receive mobile network reception for a considerable time, even while being in a regular environment. The mobile operator should be contacted under such circumstances to ensure no duplicate SIM has been issued. Internet users have been utilising search engines to obtain contact details of banks, insurance companies and so on. Very often, they end up contacting unverified contact numbers that they find online. The Commissioner said such contact information received through search engines could be camouflaged by fraudsters to attract their victims towards them. Once the customer calls them, the imposters ask them to reveal their card credentials and other details for ‘verification’. He urged the public to refrain from searching for customer care details on search engines. Instead, the official websites of banks and other institutions must be relied upon for such information. Fraudsters also contact customers and trick them into scanning QR codes using payment apps. This will enable them to withdraw money from the victim’s account. Social media Impersonation through social media has become yet another worrisome trend, Mr. Upadhyay said. Cybercriminals create fake accounts on social networking platforms and send requests to their ‘friends’ for money for medical and other purposes. There have also been instances when perpetrators gained trust over a period of time and obtained private information that are then used for blackmail or extortion later, he said.  Commissioner calls for vigil against financial frauds via remote access, SIM cloning, QR codes and search engines||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/police-urge-caution-against-cyber-frauds/article35795883.ece
08 August 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Vaccination campaign from August 9 to 31||The State will conduct a vaccination campaign from August 9 to 31, when vaccination will be boosted among all population categories. The government intends to complete the administration of the first dose of vaccine to those above 60 years within August 15. Vaccine will be administered to chronically bedridden patients at their homes. Students and teachers The vaccination of final year degree, postgraduate students and that of schoolteachers in lower and upper primary classes would be completed during the campaign, it was decided at the review meeting called by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan here on Saturday. Apart from the vaccines from the Centre that are distributed in the public sector, more vaccines needs to be made available in the private sector also. The State government will purchase 20 lakh doses of vaccine and distribute it to private sector hospitals at the same rate. This will be done after assessing the quantum of vaccine doses that private hospitals can administer Local bodies This apart, commercial establishment/companies/organisations can join hands with a hospital in a locality and organise vaccination camps for the local people. This can be facilitated with the help of respective local bodies. The aim is to get people vaccinated as fast as possible. The review meeting affirmed that shopping malls would be allowed to function from 9 a.m. till 9 a.m. from Monday to Saturday in accordance with the existing COVID regulations and on condition of the strict implementation of COVID-appropriate behaviour. Shopping malls will be allowed to function from this Wednesday. Karkadaka Vaavubali Karkadaka Vaavubali on Sunday will have to be performed by people at homes, just as it was done these previous years. The Chief Minister said at the review meeting to ensure that all government officials who are expected to be attending office and those who have been asked to work from home, alongside COVID duties, are complying with the orders.  Review meet decides to allow shopping malls to function from this Wednesday||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/vaccination-campaign-from-august-9-to-31/article35795677.ece
08 August 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Mixed response to UGC move||The University Grants Commission’s move to establish an Academic Bank of Credits (ABC) and permit multiple entry and exit in academic programmes in higher education has evoked a mixed response among academics in Kerala. Many have flagged the rigidity in the existing system that requires fundamental changes prior to the introduction of such ambitious reforms. Key proposals The creation of a centralised ABC platform and the provision to exit at various stages of an academic programme and re-enter through multiple admission paths are key proposals of the National Education Policy, 2020 that aims at student mobility and credit accumulation, transfer and redemption. Welcoming the move, educationist R.V.G. Menon points out such practices are in vogue in reputed universities abroad. He, however, has reservations about its feasibility in the State where flexibility has only been namesake. “Our universities claim to have implemented the choice-based credit and semester system (CBCSS), but have denied choice in the actual sense. Students are made to choose from a predetermined set of course combinations that confine their academic freedom. Ushering in new-age reforms without addressing such barriers might not yield the desired results,” he says. Pointing out that State universities have had a full-fledged credit system in place since 2008, Kerala State Higher Education Council member secretary Rajan Varughese says the extent of flexibility under the CBCSS hinges on various factors, including the array of courses offered by colleges and the number of departments. As such, those who study in large colleges would receive more number of choices than the others. Faculty strength Dr. Varughese adds that various limitations related to faculty strength and post creation also restrict the scope of providing multidisciplinary courses in colleges as envisaged in the NEP. “Under the existing circumstances, a fall in the intake for a particular programme could render many teachers unemployed. Such factors prompt institutions to restrict the choice of courses on offer,” he says. A KSHEC-constituted committee led by Prabhat Patnaik has cautioned that providing multiple points of entry and exit could legitimise dropouts in the country’s higher education scenario.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mixed-response-to-ugc-move/article35795650.ece
08 August 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Unity alone can save democracy: Narwal||Highlighting the recent instances of State repression, student activist and member of women's collective Pinjra Tod (Break the Cage) Natasha Narwal said only through united people's movements can we imagine to save “whatever little of our democracy and values left.” She was delivering the 20th N. Narendran memorial lecture on the topic 'Challenges of Reclaiming Freedom, Democracy and Civil Rights' during an online conference on Saturday. "The situation we find ourselves in is one of increasing State repression in various forms. It is not only incarceration of people who raise their voices against unjust laws and policies, but also a lot of everyday violence and intensification of control over our lives," she said. Ms. Narwal said what we witness today is an expansion of a zone of war, with the government at war with its own people, and with every voice of dissent and protest being criminalised and branded a conspiracy. "We need to think who the enemy is and who is being protected, in this war. Is our nation being protected? Are we, the people, the threat, and to whom? It has almost reached the levels of absurdity, with people reporting the truth or people speaking honestly about the ravages of the COVID-19 pandemic having cases charged against them," she said. Along with her Pinjra Tod fellow activist Devangna Kalita, Ms. Narwal was arrested in connection with the alleged conspiracy related to the Delhi violence in February 2020, and was released on June 17 following a Delhi High Court order. New questions Speaking about her own experiences of incarceration, she said that it threw open new questions on the rights of all kinds of prisoners, not just political ones. A large percentage of those in jail are undertrials, and living in horrible conditions, almost as if they cease to be citizens with rights once they are arrested, she said. Ms. Narwal said large-scale changes were being made in all kinds of laws, from the RTI Act to the EIA rules and labour laws, to ease the corporate loot of resources and make it impossible for even workers to protest for their wages. In the Parliament, several Bills are being passed without any debate. The government is not even allowing a debate on the Pegasus snooping scandal, which has mind-boggling implications, she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/unity-alone-can-save-democracy-narwal/article35795869.ece
08 August 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Film exhibitors put forward demands to revive industry||The Film Exhibitors United Organisation of Kerala (FEUOK) has put forward a set of demands to the government, including the re-opening of all cinema theatres in the State with four daily shows, in order to save the struggling sector. Other key demands are inclusion of theatre employees in the priority list for COVID-19 vaccination so that cinema halls can be reopened by ensuring safety protocols and a financial package to aid theatres that have sustained huge losses. Entertainment tax The State government had in January decided to waive entertainment tax from January to March. The fixed electricity charges were also reduced by 50% for the 10-month period when the theatres remained shut during the first wave of COVID-19. The FEUOK has now demanded that the entertainment tax, which was announced by the government to compensate the local bodies for the losses incurred after the implementation of the Goods and Services Tax (GST), be completely withdrawn. Power charges waiver It has also asked the government for a complete waiver of fixed electricity charges from March 2020 to December 2021, as the theatres were running on low occupancy even during the short period before the second wave when they were allowed to function. The Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB) is also attempting to classify renovated theatres that have multiple screens as multiplexes, so that higher charges can be levied. This should be avoided. The fine imposed on some theatres that had used up more power than the connected load due to more number of shows during the festival season, also should be waived, said the FEUOK office-bearers. Many of the workers in the sector have been unable to pay their contributions to the welfare fund due to the losses sustained in the pandemic period. The government should allow this outstanding amount to be paid as 12 instalments after the re-opening of the theatres. Since an amount of Rs. 3 per ticket is going to the welfare fund, the exhibitors' contributions to the Kerala State Chalachitra Academy and the Kerala State Film Development Corporation needed to be waived, they said. Licence period The existing licence period should be extended by at least three more months. As the theatres have remained closed for a better part of the year, building tax, professional tax and license fee, payable to the respective local body, should be waived, said the FEUOK members.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/feuok-calls-for-steps-to-revive-film-industry/article35795641.ece
08 August 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Capital reports 944 cases, 979 recoveries||The capital district logged 944 more COVID-19 cases and 979 recoveries as the number of active cases stood at 10,512 on Saturday. The test positivity rate (TPR) was recorded to be 7.5%. Among the fresh cases, 867 had been attributed to local transmission of the infection. Two health-care workers had also been diagnosed with the disease. The district administration has placed 32,560 people in quarantine currently.  Containment zones District Collector Navjot Khosa declared containment zones in Nannattukavu ward in Vembayam grama panchayat and Moolapezhu ward in Pangode grama panchayat. The existing containment zones were withdrawn in Patla ward in Karavaram grama panchayat, Anakudy ward in Vamanapuram grama panchayat and Chundavila ward in Neyyattinkara grama panchayat.  Weekend lockdown Stringent restrictions would be in place in the district on account of the weekend lockdown on Sunday. City Police Commissioner and Inspector General Balram Kumar Upadhyay, meanwhile, said that the border points of the city would be barricaded. Inspections, which would commence at 6 a.m., would be focused at 70 check-points across police station limits in the State capital. Mr. Upadhyay said the observance of Karkadaka Vavubali would not be permitted in public places on Sunday. Legal action would be initiated against individuals or organisations found to conduct rituals at ghats or temple premises, said Mr. Upadhyay.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/capital-reports-944-cases-979-recoveries/article35795882.ece
08 August 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Many migrant workers lack health insurance: survey||A survey on the life and labour of inter-State migrant workers in Kerala has found that 48.3% of the respondents do not have the protection of any health insurance facility. While 22.8% of those working in companies possessed health insurance, only 28.6% had AAWAZ insurance issued by the State government that provides health insurance and accidental death coverage. The survey sampled a total of 1,500 migrant workers across the State. A random sample of 100 workers from each district was considered, except for Ernakulam, where 200 workers were included, since the district reportedly has the highest number of migrant workers in the State. The survey ‘Life and labour of inter-State migrants in Kerala’ was conducted by the Don Bosco Veedu Society, Thiruvananthapuram, as part of the Kismat (Kerala Interstate Migrants Alliance for Transformation) initiative in 2019-20. Legal intervention As many as 20% of the respondents had experienced worksite accidents. Many of the migrant workers were not aware of AAWAZ, under which medical coverage had recently been increased from Rs. 15,000 to Rs. 25,000 a year, the survey found. Majority of the migrant workers were unaware of their rights and protection under labour laws, both Union and State, the survey said, calling for legal intervention cells in the Labour Department to deal with exploitations, especially wage theft cases. Lack of fair wages Nearly 18% of the migrants surveyed were of the view that they were not receiving fair wages. Even though a majority of them received payment equal to that of Keralites, 39.1% of them had “sometimes” received equal pay, and 7.3% never received the same. While 23% of the respondents worked nine hours a day, 22% worked 10 hours. Though a majority received overtime payments, a small percentage did not. The survey stressed the need for employers to ensure safety of migrant workers, especially those working in hazardous and accident-prone environments. It called on the Labour Department to intervene to provide basic facilities such as safe drinking water, toilets and emergency medical facilities at worksites, and waste management. Education programmes The survey highlighted the need for adult and continuing education programmes for migrant workers, educational programmes for their children, regulating the number of migrant workers under a contractor/employer, strategies to provide them better accommodation, adequate train connectivity, their inclusion under the public distribution system, skill upgrade, trade union membership and bank accounts. The survey report was officially released by Minister for Transport Antony Raju in the presence of Joint Labour Commissioner B. Arun, Kerala State Commission for Protection of Child Rights member Fr. Philip Parakatt, KISMAT director Tony Varghese, Don Bosco Veedu Society director Saji Elambaseeril and Bangalore Rural Educational and Development Society Director Fr. Rubin Panthackal.  Several are not aware of AAWAZ, under which medical coverage has been increased to Rs. 25,000 a year||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/many-migrant-workers-lack-health-insurance-survey/article35795867.ece
08 August 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||KTU to hold placement drive||APJ Abdul Kalam Technological University (KTU) is set to facilitate its second international placement drive. US-headquartered information technology company Virtusa, which had recently recruited two students, is set to hold yet another round of placements for KTU’s 2022 batch across affiliated colleges. The placement will be confined to select branches in BTech, MTech and MCA. The eligibility will be decided on the basis of prerequisites fixed by the company. The evaluation for the students who have applied for the opportunity is likely to commence online soon. The entire exercise including the test and the interview will be directly handled by the firm. Students who are hired after the thorough evaluation process will work from India for a particular period of time before migrating to Virtusa’s headquarters. The university’s Industry Attachment Cell has been actively encouraging industry-academic coordination in the face of the debilitating pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ktu-to-hold-placement-drive/article35795652.ece
08 August 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Meeting of coop. bank employees’ federation||The State general council of the District Cooperative Bank Employees' Federation, Kerala, will meet on Sunday and Monday in Thrissur. CITU general secretary Elamaram Kareem will inaugurate the meeting on virtual mode. As many as 175 delegates from 14 districts will attend the event, federation general secretary V. B. Padmakumar said in a statement.  The federation alleged that the amendments and regulations introduced by the BJP-led Central government would destroy the cooperation sector. Many concerns The formation of the Union Ministry of Cooperation was aimed at wresting the rights enjoyed by the States, and it will have serious consequences for Kerala, the federation said. Kerala Bank president Gopi Kottamurickal, Bank Employees Federation of India State president T. Narendran, general secretary S. S. Anil will address the delegates.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/meeting-of-coop-bank-employees-federation/article35795653.ece
08 August 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Opinion leaders rebel against COVID curbs||A set of opinion leaders, epidemiologists, doctors and environmentalists have appealed to the government to withdraw the amended pandemic regulations. The new rules require people who venture out to furnish proof of vaccination, RT-PCR negative certification or COVID-19-cured authentication to enter shops, commute to work, or participate in permitted activities. In a signed petition, the Forum For Health Justice members said the fresh set of rules promulgated by the government on Thursday had only made life more difficult for the people without achieving the stated aim of stopping the spread of the COVID-19 plague. Kerala had imposed perhaps the harshest lockdown in the country. However, it had singularly failed to retard the tide of infection, the petition said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/opinion-leaders-rebel-against-covid-curbs/article35795864.ece
08 August 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||DPCs formed in districts||District Planning Committees (DPCs) have been reconstituted in all districts, Minister for Local Self Governments M.V. Govindan has said. The committees consist of elected representatives from the district panchayats and Corporations. The government nominees to the committees have also been elected. The nominees are B. Biju in Thiruvananthapuram, M. Viswanathan in Kollam, S.V. Subin in Pathanamthitta, Rajani Jayadev in Alappuzha, K. Rajeshh in Kottayam, K. Jaya in Idukki, K. Thulasi in Ernakulam, M.N. Sudhakran in Thrissur, T.R. Ajayan in Palakkad, E.N. Mohnadas in Malappuram, A. Sudhakaran in Kozhikode, A.N. Prabhakaran in Wayanad, K.V. Govindan in Kannur, and C. Ramachandran in Kasaragod.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/dpcs-formed-in-districts/article35795866.ece
08 August 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Institute to be raised to global level: Minister||Steps will be taken to raise the C.H. Mohammad Koya Memorial State Institute for the Mentally Challenged (SIMC), Pangappara, to an international institution, Minister for General Education V. Sivankutty has said. He was delivering the presidential address at the general council meeting of the institute here on Saturday. The SIMC is an autonomous grant-in aid institution under the General Education Department. The Minister said the quality of similar institutes at the national level would be studied and steps would be taken to raise the SIMC academically and administratively. Modern technology would be used to coordinate the activities at the institute to benefit the children studying here and other beneficiaries. An expert committee would be appointed to frame special rules for the institute. The government, he said, had decided to raise the institute to an apex body. Attempts would be made to start more courses at the SIMC, improve basic infrastructure and provide quality services to the beneficiaries. On the academic front, technology-based changes would be introduced to raise it to a prominent status among institutes for mentally challenged children. A symposium with participation of experts would be held to achieve this goal, Mr. Sivankutty said. Director of General Education Jeevan Babu K. and State Council of Educational Research and Technology Director J. Prasad were among those present during the meeting.  Modern technology will be used to coordinate the activities of SIMC||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/institute-to-be-raised-to-global-level-minister/article35795880.ece
08 August 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||IUML intrigues will spill over, says CPI(M)||Communist Party of India (Marxist) acting State secretary A. Vijayaraghvan has said intrigues in the Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) will soon spill over into the open. Mr. Vijayaraghavan’s statement appeared portentous when viewed against the background of Left independent legislator K.T. Jaleel’s warning to IUML general secretary P.K. Kunhalikutty, MLA, last that week he had material evidence of the IUML leadership’s machinations. Dr. Jaleel had also accused the IUML leadership of using IUML leader Panakkad Syed Hyderali Shihab Thangal’s imprimatur to cover corruption. Mr. Vijayaraghavan said the IUML owed the public an answer. The ED had issued notice to IUML newspaper Chandrika on the charge of allowing a few party leaders to use its accounts to launder the illicit proceeds from the corruption in constructing the flyover bridge at Palarivattom. Society would form an opinion when the IUML shed more light on the matter. In Kochi, Leader of the Opposition V.D. Satheeshan said the IUML was a cadre party with a storied history. It could manage its affairs. The Congress traditionally did not interfere in the internal affairs of United Democratic Front allies. Neither did it brook any outside interference in Congress affairs. In Malappuram, Dr. Jaleel said the “Kunhalikutty era” in the IUML was ending. A new generation of leaders would emerge, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/iuml-intrigues-will-spill-over-says-cpim/article35795672.ece
08 August 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Suo motu case registered||The Kerala Youth Commission has suo motu taken a case in connection with the assault of a woman doctor and a security guard at Taluk Hospital, Fort, recently. The commission has sought a comprehensive report from the City Police Commissioner without delay. The doctor told the commission that her query about the injuries on the body of one of the accused led to the person getting agitated. He allegedly twisted her arm and tried to rip off her dress. He had refused to wait in queue. Commission chairperson Chintha Jerome said no incident affecting the morale of doctors should occur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/suo-motu-case-in-assault-on-doctor/article35795878.ece
08 August 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Pinarayi to open People’s Plan fete on August 17||All people’s representatives and officials who were part of the initial work behind the launch of the People’s Plan Campaign in the State in 1996 will be honoured as part of a year-long silver jubilee celebrations of the campaign, Minister for Local Self Governments M.V. Govindan said on Friday. Surmounting challenges In a release here on Friday, he said officials and leaders at all levels had to surmount huge challenges, including creation of awareness in a society that was not ready for such an initiative, in the initial years. The first Annual Plan was prepared after a year-long effort, which also involved the creation of grama sabhas, ward sabhas, action committees, district planning committees, and programmes like development seminar. Honour The people behind these initiatives in the first few years would be honoured in the respective local bodies. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan would on August 17 inaugurate the celebrations in the capital. Former Ministers, Planning Board members, political leaders, personalities from the fields of arts, literature, culture, and journalism would take part in the event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pinarayi-to-open-peoples-plan-fete-on-august-17/article35795875.ece
08 August 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||20,367 fresh cases in the State||The State registered 20,367 new cases of COVID-19 on Saturday when 1,52,521 samples were tested over the past 24 hours. The test positivity rate registered on the day was 13.35%, more or less unchanged over the past three days. The State’s active case pool now has 1,78,166 patients, with 20,265 patients reported to have recovered on the day. The recovery numbers have been more or less even with new cases. The official cumulative COVID-19 case fatality in the State is continuing to rise and now stands at 17,654, with the State adding 139 deaths, most of which occurred in the past few days, to the official list of COVID deaths on Saturday. On Saturday, the number of patients newly admitted to hospitals was 2,510. Total hospitalisations of those with moderate or severe COVID now stand at 29,080 and this figure has been more or less stable for the past three days, though the general trend is upwards. ICU occupancy figures have not shown a significant increase despite daily fluctuations. ICU occupancy of COVID patients in both public and private hospitals on Saturday was 1,986, while those requiring ventilator support dipped to 733. The cumulative case burden of the State now stands at 35,33,918 cases. Malappuram reported the highest number of new cases at 3,413, followed by Thrissur 2,500, Kozhikode 2,221, Palakkad 2,137, Ernakulam 2,121, Kollam 1,420, Kannur 1,217, Alappuzha 1, 090, Kottayam 995, Thiruvananthapuram 944, Kasaragod 662, Wayanad 660, Pathanamthitta 561 and Idukki 426 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/20367-fresh-cases-in-the-state/article35795679.ece
08 August 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Foundation to disburse aid for COVID-hit||The Ravi Pillai (RP) Foundation is disbursing an assistance of Rs. 15 crore for those affected by the pandemic and lockdown under a programme named Santhwanam 2021. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan is scheduled to inaugurate the programme on August 17, a press note issued by the foundation said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/foundation-to-disburse-aid-for-covid-hit/article35795870.ece
08 August 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Green tag for city hospital||KIMSHealth East, the 270-bed facility quaternary care hospital here, has won the platinum certification under the Green Building New Construction programme of the Indian Green Building Council. Features The 4.5 lakh sq ft facility features energy-efficient building envelope and lighting fixtures, high-performance water-cooled screw-chillers, central plant manager to ensure overall plant room efficiency and efficient ventilation features, besides MBR (membrane bioreactor) technology for recycling waste water and operating rooms with CG filters. A press note quoting chairman and managing director Dr.M.I. Sahadulla said the building was designed to be environmentally responsible and ensure enhanced sustainable performance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/green-tag-for-city-hospital/article35795871.ece
08 August 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Vegetable harvest for Onam markets||The Neyyattinkara municipality is setting an example by doing its bit to locally produce vegetables for the Onam markets. A harvest of vegetables began in the Keezhkolla agricultural cluster under the municipality on Saturday. The cluster has succeeded in producing bitter gourd, chilli, brinjal, ladies’ finger, snake gourd, cucumber, banana and ivy gourd. The produce will be sold at the Onam market organised by the municipality and the Agriculture Department from August 17 to 21 through regional outlets and the outlet of the Keezhkolla cluster, said municipality agriculture officer T. Saji.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/vegetable-harvest-for-onam-markets/article35795884.ece
08 August 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Handloom uniforms for more classes: Sivankutty||The State government is considering extending handloom uniforms for school students to more classes, Minister for General Education and Labour V. Sivankutty has said. He was interacting with workers of the Nemom Travancore Sahakarana Sangham in connection with National Handloom Day on Saturday. Government school students from Classes I to VII and aided school students from Classes I to IV are given free uniforms as of now. The Minister said nearly 2,500 self-employed workers registered with the Handloom Welfare Board would be given Rs. 1,250 each before Onam as income support scheme. A project for employing modern technology to increase efficiency and diversification in the handloom sector was under consideration by the government, Mr. Sivankutty said, adding that a special training programme to familiarise the workers with such technology was also being explored. The Minister said efforts to ensure adequate service conditions for workers in the sector would continue. Revealing that the Minister and his family would don handloom this Onam, Mr. Sivankutty said the wearing of handloom should be taken up by society as a challenge.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/uniforms-likely-for-more-classes-says-minister/article35795879.ece
08 August 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Funds to be mobilised for ‘green’ projects||The Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board (KIIFB) hopes to mobilise Rs. 1,100 crore for the implementation of ‘green’ projects through a loan from the International Finance Corporation (IFC) and another Rs. 1,000 crore by issuing green bonds. The 42nd KIIFB board meeting chaired by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Saturday approved the term sheet for taking the loan from the IFC. The approvals would be obtained from Central institutions, Finance Minister K.N. Balagopal said. These include water supply projects worth Rs. 500 crore and health sector initiatives worth Rs. 600 crore. Water supply initiatives include the Neyyar water supply project among others. In the health sector, Phase 2 works at the Thiruvananthapuram and Konni medical college hospitals will be taken up.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/funds-to-be-mobilised-for-green-projects/article35795673.ece
08 August 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Keltron enters naval defence sector||Venturing into the naval defence sector, the Kerala State Electronics Development Corporation Limited (Keltron) has arrived at an understanding with the Naval Physical and Oceanographic Laboratory for the manufacture of systems used in ships and submarines.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/keltron-enters-naval-defence-sector/article35795680.ece
08 August 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Invasive pet turtles thrive in the wild, imperil fauna||Scientists of the Kerala Forest Research Institute (KFRI) have warned that the red-eared slider turtle, one of the world’s worst invasive species, has gone out from captivity to the wild in many places in the State, posing a threat to the ecosystem. Scientists at the Nodal Centre for Biological Invasions (NCBI), KFRI, have already collected 77 turtles from various districts in three months. The red-eared slider turtle, scientifically known as Trachemys scripta elegans , is a huge hit with pet lovers, especially children, because of its small size. The hatchling can even fit into a matchbox. But it grows very fast. When people find it difficult to keep them, they release the turtles to waterbodies. The turtles eat plants and animals, and finish off a wide range of aquatic species, including fish and frogs. Pet turtles are found to carry infections and when released into the wild, they can transmit them to the native fauna. ‘We will collect’ The first incident, reported by The Hindu in February, was at Kalathode in Thrissur, when a lone individual was collected during fishing. Suspecting a recurrence in other places, the NCBI had issued a public alert to pet owners not to release the turtles into the wild. It offered to collect the turtles if people want to get rid of them. The NCBI received nearly 250 calls from across the State. A new facility to house and study the red-eared slider turtle was developed at the KFRI. In three months, 77 turtles were collected from Kozhikode, Malappuram, Thrissur, Palakkad, Ernakulam, Idukki, Kollam, and Thiruvananthapuram districts, said T.V. Sajeev, senior principal scientist, KFRI. A very young one “In a bizarre case at Thodupuzha, two turtles were abandoned in a sack on the roadside. Fortunately they were found by Forest officials. With public’s help, we could identify two natural locations where these turtles are found in groups — Thirivachira pond in Kozhikode and Pathirappally in Thiruvananthapuram. Six or more turtles were found in both these areas, where they had been inhabiting for months. A very young turtle, less than a year old, was collected from Edappalam in Thrissur, which indicated the possibility of the turtles breeding in the wild,” he said. “It is alarming that people are creating favourable conditions for a potential invasive species to spread, proliferate, and impact our ecosystem,” Dr. Sajeev added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/invasive-pet-turtles-thrive-in-the-wild-imperil-fauna/article35795886.ece
08 August 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Time-bound plan for second Kuthiran tunnel||A time-bound plan will be prepared for the completion of the second tunnel at Kuthiran, Public Works Minister P.A. Mohamed Riyas has said. He was addressing a review meeting on the work of Kuthiran second tunnel on Saturday. The remaining works included strengthening of the top portion of the tunnel; concreting of the inside of the tunnel; and installation of handrails, lights, fire safety system and CCTV. Review every 2 weeks The Minister said progress of the work would be reviewed every two weeks. Ministers K. Rajan, R. Bindu and K. Krishnan Kutty, MLAs, officials, and representatives from the National Highway Authority of India attended the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/time-bound-plan-for-second-kuthiran-tunnel/article35795646.ece
08 August 2021||August 08 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Hard times||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hard-times/article35795667.ece
08 August 2021||August 08 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Flocking back to tourist spots||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/flocking-back-to-tourist-spots/article35795638.ece
08 August 2021||August 08 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||For weather to clear||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/for-weather-to-clear/article35795703.ece
08 August 2021||August 08 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||IUML resorts to face-saving measures||The Syed Shihab family of Panakkad too held a meeting on Saturday. “We found that Mr. Mueenali violated the family tradition by resorting to such a personal allegation. We convinced him of the mistake he committed. It is a family matter. Our family does not have the tradition of every member talking about family matters. Our tradition is that the family head will speak,” Mr. Sadikali Thangal told media. Referring to threats by former Higher Education Minister K.T. Jaleel that there would be more revelations if any action was taken against the Panakkad scion, Mr. Sadikali Thangal said: “Panakkad family has not entrusted anyone with its supervisory work.” IUML working secretary E.T. Mohammed Basheer said the party was not afraid of Dr. Jaleel or his threats. He said a 10-member panel formed in the wake of the elections to formulate an action plan for the party would meet soon. Denying allegations of money laundering by using the party mouthpiece Chandrika , Mr. Basheer said that “no IUML leader is involved in money laundering.” Mr. Kunhalikutty, who would usually address the press after party meetings, kept quiet throughout the 15-minute briefing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/iuml-resorts-to-face-saving-measures/article35795705.ece
08 August 2021||August 08 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||For weather to clear||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/for-weather-to-clear/article35795873.ece
08 August 2021||August 08 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Clean-up mission||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/clean-up-mission/article35795877.ece
08 August 2021||August 08 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Motorists at peril||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/motorists-at-peril/article35795888.ece
08 August 2021||August 08 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||In tune with the times||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/in-tune-with-the-times/article35795648.ece
08 August 2021||AMARAVATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Revive Amaravati master plan for State’s growth: Naidu||TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu on Saturday called ‘historic’ the struggle by the Amaravati JAC and the Dalit JAC activists, in support of their demand that Amaravati be allowed to continue as the single capital of the State. In a statement, Mr. Naidu said the farmers’ agitation had completed 600 days and that the JACs were engaged in a prolonged battle against the “suppressive acts of the YSRCP government in the State.” He said despite constant efforts by the ruling party to stifle the agitators, the ‘Save Amaravati’ slogan was gaining popularity. “The farmers’ agitation will go down in history as a struggle for a noble cause,” he said. The farmers of the region had sacrificed their ancestral lands and properties of more than 32,323 acres for construction of a world-class capital at Amaravati, keeping in view the bright future of the State and its people. The plan was to build the State Assembly, Secretariat, High Court, State and Central institutions and residential complexes here and to create a wealth of more than Rs. 2 lakh crore from the over 10,000 acres of spare land left with the State government. “But the YSRCP government unleashed politics of vendetta and destroyed this people’s wealth,” he alleged. ‘Investments withdrawn’ The TDP chief said over 139 institutions had withdrawn their investments in Amaravati after seeing the ‘destructive activities’ of the ruling party. Consequently, thousands of job opportunities were lost for the local youth while Rs. 2 lakh crore wealth had turned into non-performing assets, Mr. Naidu alleged and attributed the current financial crisis in the State to the government’s ‘adverse’ stand on Amaravati as the capital city. He alleged that as part of a vicious scheme, the ruling party maligned Amaravati as a flood-prone capital and made allegations of insider trading but failed to provide any proof, a fact that even the Supreme Court had declared in its verdict, he said. In their desperation, the ruling party now tried to portray the Amaravati struggle as a caste-based one, he said. But the YSRCP leaders would be disappointed this time too, as Amaravati was inhabited by people of all castes, he said. The TDP chief said the government should realise its mistake and restart the construction of Amaravati as per the original master plan. “If the Chief Minister is genuinely interested in the development of the State and well-being of the people, he should translate into reality the master plan for grooming Amaravati as an international city,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/revive-amaravati-master-plan-for-states-growth-naidu/article35795786.ece
08 August 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Temporary COVID hospital in Anantapur dismantled||The 300-bed temporary COVID-19 hospital built under German tents opposite the Super Speciality Hospital (attached to the GGH) here was dismantled on Saturday following the number of positive cases coming down sharply over the past one month. On Saturday, there were only 42 positive cases in 24 hours in the district and 26 cases in Kurnool district. This and another such temporary hospital – an oxygen-supported 500-bed hospital next to the Arjas Steel Plant at Tadipatri – were readied by May 24 in the district by investing close to Rs. 4 crore. The Tadipatri hospital however has so far treated only close to 400 patients as the second wave of COVID-19 was on the wane by the time the hospital was inaugurated by Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy in June. The facility at Anantapur did not have any assured oxygen supply like that of Tadipatri, where even today oxygen is supplied by the Arjas Steel. The patients admitted at Anantapur were supported with oxygen cylinders or concentrators. The Tadipatri facility is, however, useful even today with eight patients admitted as of the date and two of them getting oxygen support. The majority of the patients come from Anantapur and Kadapa districts, while 20% had come from the southern mandals of the Kurnool district too, hospital superintendent Chukkaluru Srinivasulu Reddy told The Hindu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/temporary-covid-hospital-in-anantapur-dismantled/article35795846.ece
08 August 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Centre has to support State’s needs, says Amzath Basha||Every government has a specific policy with regard to development and welfare, and financial management depends on those policies, which the Centre needs to support by liberally transferring funds to the State to ensure seamless running of the administration, Deputy Chief Minister and Minority Welfare Minister Amzath Basha Shaik Bepari has said. At a press conference here on Saturday, he said that by arm-twisting the State financially, the BJP was trying to destabilise the YSRCP government and gain political leverage. “The BJP is a communal party and it is making a political issue out of the efforts to establish a statue of Tipu Sultan, about whom even B.R. Ambedkar had spoken,” he said. The Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy government had fulfilled 95% of the electoral promises in two years of being in power. It had spent Rs. 3,430 crore for the minorities and ensured that the amounts went directly into the accounts of the beneficiaries without giving scope for any slippages, he said. While there were 12 Mayors in the State two were from the minorities. In the recent appointment of chairmen for various corporations, 12 out of 80 were minorities, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/centre-has-to-support-states-needs-says-amzath-basha/article35795782.ece
08 August 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Criminal case initiated against Anantapur panchayat officer||The Kurnool District Collector has initiated the process of filing of criminal case against Anantapur District Panchayat Officer (FAC) B. Parvathi for allegedly misappropriating funds to the tune of Rs. 6,09,61,875, when she was working as Nandyal Divisional Panchayat Officer in Kurnool district. The move comes Panchayat Raj Commissionerate recommended filing of criminal cases against the officer after she failed to give any supporting explanation/bills or denial with proof. Based on reports given by the Nandyal Divisional Panchayat Officer, an inquiry into the matter was instituted by former Kurnool District Collector, who then sent a final report to the Panchayat Raj Commissioner. Ms. Parvathi is currently posted as Dharmavaram Divisional Panchayat Officer, but holding charge as District Panchayat Officer in Anantapur district. In addition to misappropriating funds drawn by her and not submitting the related bills, she is alleged to have alienated/allocated four bits of government lands valued at Rs. 5,14,988 to private persons/organisations in Banaganapalli Panchayat while she was working as the Special Officer of the Panchayat. Once the cases are filed in Banganapalle, the police will take further action.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/criminal-case-initiated-against-anantapur-panchayat-officer/article35795844.ece
08 August 2021||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Bommai keeps Finance, Intelligence||Three days after 29 Ministers were sworn in, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Saturday allocated portfolios to all his ministerial colleagues and kept for himself important portfolios of Finance, Bengaluru Development, and Intelligence. First-time Minister Araga Jnanendra (Tirthahalli, Shivamogga district) is the new Home Minister, the portfolio held by Mr. Bommai himself in the B.S. Yediyurappa-led government. Seventeen Ministers, including those who joined the BJP from other parties, have retained the major portfolios they held earlier. These include R. Ashok (Revenue); K.S. Eshwarappa (Panchayat Raj and Rural Development); S. Angara (Fisheries, Ports and Inland Transport); C.N. Ashwath Narayan, (Higher Education, IT/BT/Science and Technology and Skill Development); Prabhu Chavan (Animal Husbandry); A. Shivaram Hebbar (Labour); and S.T. Somashekar (Cooperation). B.A. Basavaraj (Urban Development); K. Sudhakar (Health and Family Welfare and Medical Education); K. Gopaliah (Excise); B.C. Patil (Agriculture); V. Somanna (Housing); Umesh V. Katti (Food and Civil Supplies); J.C. Madhuswamy (Minor Irrigation); Kota Srinivas Poojari (Backward Classes); K.C. Narayana Gowda (Youth Empowerment and Sports), and N. Nagaraju (Municipal Administration) have also retained their portfolios. Some Ministers have lost the old portfolios they held in the Yediyurappa-led government and have been allocated new portfolios. These Ministers are: Govind M. Karjol, B. Sriramulu, C. C. Patil, Murugesh R. Nirani, and Shashikala Jolle. Mr. Karjol has been allocated Major and Medium Irrigation. Earlier, he was holding the portfolio of Public Works. Egg allegations Ms. Jolle, who has been facing charges of misappropriation of funds in tendering process of eggs meant for distribution to children and lactating mothers in anganwadi centres, has been given Muzrai, and Haj and Wakf, regarded a lighter assignment. Mr. C.C. Patil, who is the loyalist of Mr. Yediyurappa and held the low profile portfolio of Small-scale Industries earlier, has been given Public Works, which has a huge budgetary allocation. Mr. Sriramulu has been given Transport and ST Welfare. The Bommai-led government has created a separate secretariat for welfare of STs. Laxman Savadi, who was dropped from the Cabinet, had held the Transport portfolio. Mr. Nirani has been allocated Large and Medium Industries, the portfolio he held in the first BJP government during 2008-2013. More than one Some Ministers, who served in the Yediyurappa-led government, have now got more than one portfolio. They are: Mr. Somanna (Infrastructure); Mr. Poojari (Social Welfare); Mr. Katti (Forest); Mr. Madhuswamy (Law, Parliamentary Affairs and Legislation); Mr. Narayana Gowda (Sericulture), and Mr. Nagaraju (Small-scale Industries, and Public Sector Industries). Mr. Anand Singh, who earlier held the portfolio of Infrastructure Development, has been allocated Ecology and Environment, and Tourism. The Tourism portfolio was held by C.P. Yogeshwar who was dropped. Mr. Yogeshwar had campaigned for removal of Mr. Yediyurappa. Hours after the allocation of portfolios, some Ministers reportedly expressed their dissatisfaction.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bommai-keeps-finance-intelligence/article35795038.ece
08 August 2021||CHENNAI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Youth flag digital and gender divides||From the pressing need to focus on education to turning the nation into a safe space for women, the youth who engaged in The Hindu ‘Vision for India 2040’ debate had an array of suggestions for the future, on what the emphasis should be and what transformations they wish to see in the next two decades. Amrit Mahapatra from Puri, Odisha, spoke about how the digital penetration across the country that stands at 50% now, must significantly improve so that in times of distress like the current pandemic, some of the important benefits could reach everyone quickly. “We need to have a comprehensive national climate policy that not only emphasises on transitioning smoothly into a cleaner future but also creates green jobs. It has to be a people centric approach that includes and prioritises indigenous communities as well as refrains from mindless construction of dams and reservoirs in ecologically fragile regions. In terms of social security and healthcare we need to have a universal healthcare policy in which we spend at least 5% of the GDP,” he said. Mr. Mahapatra also noted how there is an urgent need to restrict the scope of contentious and ambiguous laws such as the sedition law, National Security Act, Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act which has a chilling effect on the right to free speech. “There should be a complete overhaul of the police system with a gender sensitive approach embedded in it. The Centre recently in a reply to Parliament said that over 350 plus people have died in police custody over the years and it is a number that should worry all of us,” he added. Naman Arya from Nainital said the nation should invest in research and development. “If we focus on more on higher education then there will be more inventions which can change humankind. Also, the discrimination that is present in our society based on caste and religion has resulted in our downfall and passed on from one generation into another. We have to break this vicious cycle,” he added. Likhitha Kaki from Hyderabad elaborated on the need to tap into the right opportunities to build a sustainable future. Suhasini Haidar, Diplomatic Affairs Editor, The Hindu , moderated the event. Mahak Raghuvanshi, Shubham Bhonsle, Om Kumar, Syed Saddique Hussain, Sapnil Kumar Patel, Shivam Tandon, Amit Kumar Samantara, Anmol Srivastava, Rajat Shukla, Rashna Doley, Akhilesh Singi, Sahil Chauhan were among those who spoke at the debate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/youth-flag-digital-and-gender-divides/article35795050.ece
08 August 2021||CHINTOOR (EAST GODAVARI),ANDHRA PRADESH||SP reviews security arrangements in Agency||East Godavari Superintendent of Police M. Ravindranath Babu on Saturday inspected the deployment of police personnel from the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) and the State police and their challenges in the Naxal-affected pockets in the Agency areas. In a whirlwind tour, Mr. Ravindranath Babu hold talks with the CRPF authorities at their post at Edugurallapalli on the Andhra Pradesh-Chhattisgarh State border. In Etapaka mandal in Chintoor Agency area, the SP has interacted with the Gutti Koya tribe at Chipilivagu, a habitation comprising 36 families migrated from Chhattisgarh reportedly during the Salwa Judum-Central forces conflict. The police also distributed essential commodities and conducted a medical camp for the Internally Displaced Gutti Koya tribals. Mr. Ravindranath Babu has assured to address the grievances of the Gutti Koyas during the visit. In Rampa Agency, Mr. Ravindranath Babu has reviewed the preparedness and strategies of the State police to tackle the challenges from the Left Wing Extremist groups.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sp-reviews-security-arrangements-in-agency/article35795809.ece
08 August 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Implement reservation rule in TTD: Congress||Activists of the Congress and its SC/ST, OBC, minority and student wings on Saturday staged a protest at Rajiv Gandhi statue in front of the Municipal Corporation office at Tirupati, demanding that the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) implement the rule of reservation in the organisation. Leading the stir, A.P. Congress Committee State general secretary Y. Gopi said though the OBCs were guaranteed with 27% reservation and minorities with 5% reservation as per the Constitution, the TTD had set aside the provision thereby rendering gross injustice to these communities. Pointing out to the fact that Hindus were being employed in the medical and academic institutions administered by the Christian organizations, Mr. Gopi said that the TTD should also follow suit and provide jobs to people from other religions to usher in social justice. Mr. Gopi also deplored that there was no transparency in the TTD’s policy on gold and fixed deposits.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/implement-reservation-rule-in-ttd-congress/article35795848.ece
08 August 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Commissioner inspects works on Garuda Varadhi||Tirupati Municipal Corporation Commissioner P.S. Gireesha on Saturday inspected the ongoing works on Garuda Varadhi flyover, from Srinivasam complex to Leelamahal junction in Tirupati, and said the drainage line and footpath works along the flyover would be completed on war footing. The Commissioner asked the owners of houses and shops to remove encroachments alongside the flyover in two days, adding that any delay would be dealt with sternly. Town planning officials and the ward secretaries should work in coordination for early completion of the works, Mr. Gireesha said. Municipal engineer Chandrasekhar, deputy engineer Karunakar Reddy and surveyors took part in the inspections.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/commissioner-inspects-works-on-garuda-varadhi/article35795849.ece
08 August 2021||ELURU,ANDHRA PRADESH||400 kg of ganja seized, three arrested||The Eluru Town police seized 400 kg of ganja allegedly being smuggled to Madhya Pradesh from Visakhapatnam Agency area. They arrested three persons involved in the crime, said Superintendent of Police Rahul Dev Sharma. The team led by Eluru Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP) O. Dileep Kiran, intercepted a lorry and confiscated the contraband packed in gunny bags on Saturday. An investigation is on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/400-kg-of-ganja-seized-three-arrested/article35795089.ece
08 August 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two men held for ‘rape’ of a woman at Seethanagaram ghat||The Guntur Urban Police have nabbed two of the accused, charged with molesting a 21-year- old woman from Vijayawada, at the Seethanagaram ghat on June 19 night. Superintendent of Police, Guntur Urban, K. Arif Hafeez produced the accused, Seru Krishna Kishore, 28, and Sk. Habib, 29, residents of Tadepalli, while the hunt is on to nab Prasanna Reddy. Investigations by the police revealed that an hour before the accused molested the woman, they allegedly committed a murder. They were reportedly stealing copper wire on the railway track, when they came across a man who got down from a train. Suspecting that he might reveal their crime, they allegedly strangulated him using the copper wire and dumped the body from the bridge. Then, they got down from the bridge, reportedly consumed liquor, and came across a couple sitting together on the dry river bed. Flashing blades, they threatened the man, grabbed their mobile phones and allegedly took turns to molest the woman. Then they took a boat and fled towards Vijayawada. The next day, they returned to Tadepalli and sensing that the police were on the look out, they gave the mobile phones to their friend, Habib alias Hanni Gundu, and fled to Ongole. Krishna fled to Hubli, and later to Bhaimsa and landed at Secunderabad railway station. He used to live on money collected from selling used bottles. The investigation began on a wild goose chase, but the police used every trick available in the book, to nail the culprits Mr. Hafeez formed special teams and the hunt to nab the accused was not easy as they discarded their mobile phones, travelled in goods trains and lived a life of vagabonds and frequently changed locations. Some of the policemen even disguised themselves as daily workers, sporting lungis and T-shirts to track the movements of the accused. Finally, they were able to pin down Krishna at Secunderabad and brought him to Tadepalli. The accused then reportedly confessed to the murder and molestation of a woman. The SP congratulated DSP, North Sub Division, D. Durga Prasad, CI, P. Seshagiri Rao, Tadepalli CI M. Subramaniyam and Tadepalli Crime SI D. Vinod Kumar and other police personnel for a strenuous effort to nab the accused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/two-men-held-for-rape-of-a-woman-at-seethanagaram-ghat/article35795093.ece
08 August 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Big screen beckons Suma||Suma’s career is now set for a new turn as she takes up a full-fledged role in a Telugu film. She is currently shooting for the film that has a rural setting. Suma’s wit, spontaneity and fluent Telugu while anchoring, despite her Malayalam roots, remain unmatchable. Apart from being a television personality for over two decades, she is also the most popular host for film industry-related events. July marked the beginning of Suma , her new YouTube channel (her earlier year-old channel Sumakka was discontinued due to technical reasons), which will be high on entertainment quotient with a personal touch. Launched by actor Vijay Deverakonda, the channel notched up over 1 lakh subscribers in just five days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/big-screen-beckons-suma/article35795768.ece
08 August 2021||Hyderabad,ANDHRA PRADESH||World Heritage tag worries villagers||The happiness of higher footfalls at their shops has given way to fear, misgivings and rumour mongering in Palampet village in Mulug. Days after the Ramappa Temple was inscribed as a World Heritage Site, villagers who own shops near the area are a worried lot. “I have grown up here. This is our village, our shop, why should we leave? We have been here from the time very few people used to visit the temple,” says Ravali, who owns a shop-cum-restaurant near the famed temple. “There are orders for alienation of 20 guntas land near the Shiva temple. Except that, there are no other instructions about land acquisition. Land acquisition will happen only after specific orders are issued,” said a revenue official of the district. “The district officials have made it clear to the shop owners that if they are evicted, they will be resettled,” informed the official.  Various zones The State government has promised to create a Palampet Special Development Authority so that regulated zone, buffer zone and other zoning regulations can be put in place for the heritage site in a streamlined manner. One of the caveats for inclusion of Ramappa Temple as a World Heritage Site is that the government has been asked to “ensure the constitution and functioning of ‘Palampet Special Area Development Authority’ in order to provide effective management and adequate protection to the buffer zone and all supporting Kakatiya period attributes”. A majority of villagers in Palampet depend on agricultural activities for their livelihood and a few families eke out a living from the shops that line the temple street. “People come here for picnics. They hire these vessels and then take them to the lake where they cook, eat and return them in the evening. We have visitors from Warangal and even Hyderabad on Sundays and holidays,” says Shweta, who runs a shop-cum-vessel-rental business in the area. As Ramappa Temple becomes the lodestar for tourist attraction, it remains to be seen how the community gets integrated with the project. The world body has asked the state to “undertake capacity building for local community and the temple priest so that they have the necessary skills to contribute to the management of the site”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/fear-grips-villagers-after-ramappa-temple-gets-world-heritage-tag/article35795600.ece
08 August 2021||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||4 youth feared drowned in tank||Four youth are suspected to have drowned in the Gandimadugu tank abutting the Veligallu project in Galiveedu mandal, 80 km from here, on Saturday evening. According to information, Taj Mohammad, Mohammad Hamza, Usman Khan and Mohammad Hafiz of Bengaluru, attended a family function near Valmikipuram in Chittoor district in the morning and were returning to Bengaluru, when they took a break to the Veligallu project, and went for a swim in Gandimadugu tank nearby. Venturing into the water body, the four suddenly disappeared down the water surface. Some villagers watching the youth grew suspicious and informed the irrigation officials nearby. Expert swimmers deployed The Galiveedu police rushed to the spot and took up rescue operation, but in vain. Expert swimmers have been deployed to fish out the bodies. A case has been registered. 4 killed in accident In another incident, four persons, including two women, were killed on the spot and three others were injured when the car in which they were travelling collided with a lorry at Agraharam village of Brahmamgari Matam mandal in Kadapa district in the early hours of Saturday. The deceased, identified as Saddam Hussain, Sayilu, Reshma and Salma, were residents of Anantasagaram mandal of SPSR Nellore district, who were on the returning after attending a family function. The injured were rushed to the Government hospital at Kadapa. A case has been registered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/4-youth-feared-drowned-in-tank/article35795922.ece
08 August 2021||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Search on for weapons in Viveka murder case||Prompted by the Central Bureau of Investigation sleuths, the municipal authorities initiated draining the water from Rotaripuramvagu, a stream, in Pulivendula, said to be in search of the weapons reportedly used in the murder of former Kadapa MP Y.S. Vivekananda Reddy two years ago. According to information, the CBI officials launched emptying the stream in order to locate the weapons reportedly based on information from the accused, Sunil Yadav, who was arrested in Goa recently.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/search-on-for-weapons-in-viveka-murder-case/article35795783.ece
08 August 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Three held for ‘disfiguring’ statue||The police arrested three persons on Friday on charges of disfiguring the statue of Dr. B.R. Ambedkar near a government school at Kovvuru village under Kakinada rural police limits in East Godavari district. The incident occurred on the night of August 5. Kakinada DSP (Law and Order) V. Bheema Rao said in a press release that the accused have been identified as Salla Sivayya, Kamadi Madhu and Koppadi Nagoor. The trio reportedly disfigured the statue as they did not like it being located near Sivayya’s house. The police swung into action based on a complaint by the villagers. The three were produced before a local court on Friday. Cases have been registered against the accused who reportedly confessed to their crime. Investigation is on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/three-held-for-disfiguring-statue/article35795808.ece
08 August 2021||KOLLAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Alarm over Chinese AIS on trawlers||With the monsoon fishing season in full swing, vessels using China-made Automatic Identification System (AIS) devices continue to create confusion among maritime law enforcement agencies. Despite the government providing transponders at subsidised rates, trawlers from various harbours in Kerala have been venturing into the sea with cheap Chinese gadgets that cause multiple issues concerning coastal security. Recently, the Intelligence and the Coast Guard flagged the problem as these craft transmit the wrong country code, identifying themselves as Chinese vessels. “The issue was raised at a coastal security meeting as these craft mislead our agencies. It’s not possible to monitor from the coast these vessels which generate another set of problems that include illegal fishing,” says a Fisheries official. Reportedly, large trawlers fishing off the Kerala coast opt for Chinese substitutes as they help them hide the location of their fishing grounds. Often, trawlers do not want to share areas where marine wealth is abundant, fishing grounds that offer a good and steady harvest. “The vessels that use government-provided device can be monitored from the control room on the coast. They are opting for the Chinese system so that they can protect the set of coordinates. They source the device from boat-building yards and agents,” he adds. The use of these gadget also creates glitches when it comes to enforcement and tracing of illegal fishing activities. “We cannot get accurate location of these vessels. If the trawlers fish in less than 20 m deep waters, it is illegal, but these devices can trick us,” says the official. According to the Coast Guard, these trawlers relaying wrong country codes and navigation-related information also pose a threat to national security. “The vessel monitoring system offered by the government costs around Rs. 1 lakh, but they can get it at Rs. 26,000 after subsidy,” says the official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/alarm-over-chinese-ais-on-trawlers/article35795047.ece
08 August 2021||KOZHIKODE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Mammootty, Pisharodi violate protocol, booked||Actors Mammootty and Ramesh Pisharodi were booked on the charge of violating COVID-19 protocol during an event at Meitra Hospital in Kozhikode on Tuesday. The Elathur police said there were some 300 persons near Mr. Mammootty at the hospital after he launched a robotic-assisted joint replacement surgery service. Cases were registered against them under the Epidemic Diseases Act. Photographs and video footage of the alleged violations were collected. Some hospital management staff and producer Anto Joseph were also booked on the same charge. The police said the participants at the function did not care to abide by physical distancing norms. The hospital sources denied deliberate violations of norms. They claimed that the presence of celebrities had evoked some unexpected response from fans.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/mammootty-pisharodi-violate-protocol-booked/article35795049.ece
08 August 2021||MALAPPURAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||IUML in damage control over Mueenali issue||The Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) has adopted face-saving measures by deferring action against party State president Syed Hyderali Shihab Thangal’s son Syed Mueenali Shihab, who had accused party general secretary P.K. Kunhalikutty of trapping his father in a money-laundering case. A high-power committee meeting of the IUML held here on Saturday afternoon entrusted party Malappuram district president Syed Sadikali Shihab Thangal to talk to Mr. Hyderali Thangal and arrive at an “appropriate decision” about Mr. Mueenali’s actions. Mr. Hyderali Thangal has been undergoing treatment at a private hospital in Kozhikode. However, the meeting decided to suspend party worker Rafi Puthiyapuam for disrupting a press conference held at League House, Kozhikode, and misbehaving with Mr. Mueenali during the press meeting. The Syed Shihab family of Panakkad too held a meeting on Saturday morning and evaluated the “embarrassing situation” brought about by Mr. Mueenali’s allegations. “We found that Mr. Mueenali violated the family tradition by resorting to such a personal allegation. We convinced him of the mistake he committed. It is a family matter. Our family does not have the tradition of every member talking about family matters. Our tradition is that the family head will speak,” said Mr. Sadikali Thangal, briefing the media after the high-power committee meeting in the evening. Flays Jaleel Referring to some threats by former Higher Education Minister K.T. Jaleel that there would be more revelations if any action was taken against the Panakkad scion, Mr. Sadikali Thangal said: “Panakkad family has not entrusted anyone with its supervisory work.” IUML working secretary E.T. Mohammed Basheer said the party was not afraid of Dr. Jaleel or his threats. “The IUML does not fear Dr. Jaleel. His threats are not an issue at all,” he said. He alleged that some sections were behaving with an agenda to destroy the IUML. Mr. Basheer said a 10-member committee formed in the wake of the elections to formulate an action plan for the party would meet soon. Denying allegations of money laundering by using the party mouthpiece Chandrika , Mr. Basheer said that “no IUML leader is involved in money laundering.” Mr. Sadikali Thangal presided over the meeting. Mr. Kunhalikutty, who would usually address the press after party meetings, kept quiet throughout the 15-minute briefing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/iuml-in-damage-control-over-mueenali-issue/article35795043.ece
08 August 2021||NALGONDA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ex-IPS Praveen Kumar to formally join BSP today||Leaders of Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) have set the stage for the grand ‘Rajyadhikara Sankalpa Sabha’ to welcome ex-IPS officer R.S. Praveen Kumar at N.G. College grounds in the town on Sunday. The public meeting will officially mark the political entry of the former secretary of Social Welfare Residential Educational Institutions Society and retired IPS officer to BSP. BSP district in-charge Saidulu, while addressing the media on Saturday, said that about two lakh Bahujans and Dalits from across Telangana and neighbouring States are expected to attend the meeting. The programme would start with a huge rally and convoy from the Marriguda bypass at the entrance to Nalgonda at around 2 p.m. with garlanding of B.R. Ambedkar’s statue amid welcome performances of folk artistes. Rajya Sabha member and BSP national coordinator Ramji Gautam and State president Manda Prabhakar will be present. On Saturday, N.G. College premises were decorated with cut-outs of social justice leaders B.R. Ambedkar, Periyar E.V. Ramasamy, and Jyotirao Phule and BSP symbol.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/praveen-kumar-to-formally-join-bsp-today/article35795624.ece
08 August 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Need more weaver-friendly policies, demands forum||As the country celebrates the National Handloom Day, a group of weavers demanded that the Union and State governments adopt more weaver-friendly policies as the sector was the second largest employment-provider in rural areas, after agriculture. Speaking to The Hindu on the sidelines of inauguration of a 10-day exhibition at the Ambedkar Bhavan here, All-India Handloom Rights Forum (AIHRF) president Bandaru Jwala Narasimham said the authorities should step up subsidies on all inputs, including dyes, and provide additional discounts to the customers so that their products were more affordable. The weavers said the assistance under the ‘Nethanna Nestham’ scheme should be increased to Rs. 50,000 per weaver and those engaged in allied activities like weft and warp knitting and dyeing should also be covered under the scheme. Thanks to the “unimaginative” EXIM, import of silk from foreign countries had become costlier now. This has resulted in scarcity of the raw material in the domestic market, they said. The weavers were upset that only one cent of land and 1.5 cent in rural areas had been earmarked for housing by the government. Each weaver should be provided at least 3 cents for the purpose as the loom alone would require 1.50 cents, they said. Prakasam Collector Pravin Kumar, who inaugurated the exhibition on Saturday, said the government was committed to bettering the lives of weavers, adding that under ‘Nethanna Nestham’ scheme, Rs. 18.03 crore had been provided to 7,500 weavers in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/need-more-weaver-friendly-policies-demands-forum/article35795766.ece
08 August 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||ATM fraud unearthed in Prakasam, two arrested||Police busted a gang involved in laundering of cash at four ATM centres of a commercial bank in Prakasam district with the arrest of two offenders on Saturday. Prakasam Superintendent of Police Malika Garg told mediapersons that the accused, who were working as cash loading employees at the bank since January this year, had misappropriated Rs. 22.65 lakh while filling the 4 ATMs with cash within Maddipadu, Ongole One Town, Ongole Two town and Ongole Taluka police station limits. So far, a sum of Rs. 9 lakh had so far been recovered from the duo. A police team, led by Ongole Rural Circle Inspector R. Ram Babu, nabbed the offenders, Ch Anil(28) and R.Soniyanu(26), after examining their bank accounts. Police were on the lookout for two others in this connection and recover the remaining misappropriated amount, she added. Explaining their modus operandi, the SP said the accused used to get one time password(OTP) to their mobile phones after sending SMS from their mobile phones to the main service provider linked to the Reserve Bank of India through the commercial bank in which they worked. During investigation, it was found that while loading fresh cash into the ATMS they had not accounted for remaining cash taken from the ATMs. Convict nabbed Meanwhile, Ongole Two Town police on Saturday nabbed a convict in a murder case, who gave a slip to the jail authorities here on November 29 last year. Impressed with his good behaviour, the convict, T.Nagesh (38) who was sentenced to life, was allowed to work in a fuel station operated by the prison authorities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/atm-fraud-unearthed-in-prakasam-two-arrested/article35795764.ece
08 August 2021||ONGOLE/NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Virus claims 4 lives in South Coastal A.P.||The number of active COVID-19 cases declined to 4,534 in South Coastal Andhra Pradesh as recoveries outnumbered fresh cases by 184 in the 24 hours ending 9 a.m. on Saturday. The region reported four deaths during the period. The toll rose to 1,984 as SPSR Nellore and Prakasam registered two casualties each. Since the beginning of the pandemic, Prakasam registered 1,017 fatalities and SPSR Nellore district 967, according to a health bulletin released by the State government. The cumulative coronavirus count in the region inched closer to 2.67 lakh as 399 persons contracted the infection during the period. Meanwhile, 583 persons in the region, including 339 in Prakasam district, staged recovery bringing down the active caseload to 1,981 in Prakasam district and 2,553 in SPSR Nellore district. The recovery rate improved to 97.55% with over 2.60 lakh persons in the region, including over 1.32 lakh in SPSR Nellore district, winning the battle against the disease so far.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/virus-claims-4-lives-in-south-coastal-ap/article35795765.ece
08 August 2021||Srikakulam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Centre giving top priority to A.P. development: Sitharaman||Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Saturday said the Narendra Modi government at the Centre had taken many steps for the overall development of Andhra Pradesh. “The Central government has been funding most of the developmental projects taken up in the State,” Ms. Sitharaman said while addressing the BJP activists from both Vizianagaram and Srikakulam districts, at a meeting at Ponduru here. Path of development “Vizianagaram is one of the 114 districts in the country that has witnessed little development in the last few decades. Backward areas such as Vizianagaram and Srikakulam will be on the path of development very soon with the effective implementation of the Union government’s schemes,” Ms. Sitharaman said. The PM Awas Yojana, the Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana, the Jan-Dhan Yojna and such other schemes were helping the common people in many ways, she said. Referring to the COVID-19 vaccination programme, Ms. Sitharaman said Rs. 35,000 crore had been allocated in the budget for the purpose. Nearly 50 crore people had already been vaccinated in the country, she added. MLC P.V.N. Madhav and senior leaders Gadde Baburao and A. Ravibabji explained the activities of the party in both the districts. Ms. Sitharaman advised them to interact more with the people and strengthen the BJP at the grassroots. Rajya Sabha member G.V.L. Narasimha Rao spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/top-priority-for-developing-ap-nirmala/article35795044.ece
08 August 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kerala to give vaccination drive a boost||Kerala will conduct an augmented vaccination campaign from August 9 to 31. The goal is to give the first dose of vaccine to those above 60 years by August 15. The vaccination of final year degree and postgraduate students and schoolteachers in lower and upper primary classes would be completed during the campaign, a review meeting called by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan decided. Apart from vaccines from the Centre, more doses were to be made available in the private sector also. The State would procure 20 lakh doses for private sector hospitals at the same rate. Commercial establishments, companies, and organisations could partner with a hospital and organise vaccination camps. With 20,367 new cases of COVID-19 on Saturday, Kerala’s test positivity rate (TPR) for 1,52,521 samples stood at 13.35%, more or less unchanged in three days. There were 1,78,166 active cases. Total case fatality continued to rise and stood at 17,654, with the addition of 139 recent deaths. On Saturday, 2,510 patients were newly admitted to hospitals, and 29,080 were hospitalised in all. Cumulative cases ever since the pandemic began stood at 35,33,918. Malappuram district reported 3,413 cases, the highest, Thrissur 2,500, Kozhikode 2,221, Palakkad 2,137, Ernakulam 2,121, Kollam 1,420, Kannur 1,217, Alappuzha 1,090, Kottayam 995, Thiruvananthapuram 944, Kasaragod 662, Wayanad 660, Pathanamthitta 561 and Idukki 426 cases. COVID-19 claimed 23 lives in Andhra Pradesh on Saturday, and there were 1,908 fresh infections, taking the cumulative tally to 19,80,258. The death toll touched 13,513. Krishna district again reported the highest single-day toll at four deaths. East Godavari reported the highest infections at 438. Telangana recorded 569 fresh infections and four fatalities on Saturday, taking the case tally to 6,48,957 and death toll to 3,823. The highest new cases were in Greater Hyderabad at 82, followed by 64 in Karimnagar, 51 in Warangal Urban, 40 in Khammam and 39 in Nalgonda. Scientists from National Institute of Nutrition were permitted by the Health department to conduct sero-surveillance in districts. 32 dead in Karnataka Karnataka logged 1,610 new cases and 32 deaths on Saturday, taking total infections to 29,16,927 and death toll to 36,773. Bengaluru Urban recorded 357 new cases. Active cases stood at 24,266, while the TPR for the day stood at 1.08%. As many as 1,969 people tested positive in Tamil Nadu on Saturday, registering a small dip from the previous day’s 1,985. As many as 223 people tested positive in Coimbatore. In Erode, daily count rose to 198, from 178 on Friday. Chennai followed with 194 cases. There were 115 infections in Chengalpattu.  (With inputs from VIjayawada, Hyderabad, Chennai bureaus and PTI)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kerala-to-give-vaccination-drive-a-boost/article35795053.ece
08 August 2021||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||Reduced number of darshan tickets owing to COVID-19: TTD EO||The Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams is compelled to issue limited number of darshan tickets owing to COVID-19, TTD Executive Officer K.S. Jawahar Reddy has said. Speaking to media on Saturday, Mr. Reddy said the self-imposed limit in the number of darshan tickets would continue till WHO denotified the pandemic. Yielding to the pouring-in requests from pilgrims, the TTD has stepped over the line and increased the darshan tickets from 5,000 to 8,000 a day. “The health of the devout is paramount for us and hence it has been decided to take stock of the COVID situation on a day-to-day basis and act accordingly,” he said and appealed to the devotees to strictly abide by the health directives of both the Central and State governments amid mounting speculations of a possible third wave in the country. Alipiri foot path Devotees would be allowed to trek along the Alipiri footpath only after the completion of over-roof slab works by the end of September. The TTD had simplified the accommodation process atop the town and had also set up two centres for the purpose on both the trekking routes. To plug the deficiencies if any, in the system a sticker with the mobile number 99890 78111 had been affixed at all its cottages and guest houses, on which the devotees could post their complaints and suggestions, he said. In reply to a question, he said that TTD was all-set to bring out a book with regard to the birth place of Lord Hanuman (Anjanadri Hills) which would be a compilation of mythological, geographical and archaeological evidences in addition to attestations provided by renowned scholars and spiritual leaders from time to time. He said that TTD had resolved to provide gold coating to the Vimana gopuram of Sri Govindaraja Swamy temple in Tirupati. The works would take off from September 14 and completed by May 2022. About 100 kg of gold was expected to go in the ambitious project. Mr. Reddy who expressed his satisfaction at the precautionary measures in place atop the hill shrine said that though a meager of 5.32 lakh devotees were allowed for darshan in July, the temple hundi registered a rewarding income of Rs. 55.58 crore besides another Rs. 3.97 crore by way of e-hundi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/reduced-number-of-darshan-tickets-owing-to-covid-19-ttd-eo/article35795094.ece
08 August 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. doing its best to improve conditions of weavers: Minister||Minister for Industries and Commerce Mekapati Goutham Reddy has called for a collective effort to promote the use of khadi so that it becomes a part and parcel of every household. “The State government is doing its best to improve the living conditions of the weavers,” Mr. Goutham Reddy said while participating as chief guest in the National Handloom Day celebrations at APCO Bhavan here on Saturday. Mr. Goutham Reddy said there was tremendous scope to make the production of khadi garments a profitable commercial venture, provided the weavers got the necessary financial and logistical support from the government. Keeping it in view, the State government was extending all assistance to the weavers in building a distinct brand for khadi and marketing the wide variety of products. The government was tying up with e-commerce giants such as Amazon and Flipkart for selling the khadi garments, he said. Earlier, Mr. Goutham Reddy went round an exhibition of khadi garments and felicitated 11 veteran weavers. Government Adviser (public affairs) Sajjala Ramakrishna Reddy was among others present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govt-doing-its-best-to-improve-conditions-of-weavers-minister/article35795778.ece
08 August 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Coronavirus claims 23 more lives||COVID-19 claimed 23 lives in the State in the 24 hours ending Saturday morning. During the same period, 1,908 infections were reported taking the cumulative tally to 19,80,258. The death toll reached 13,513 with a mortality rate of 0.68%. The number of recoveries increased to 19,46,370, including 2,103 recoveries in the past day. The recovery rate remains at 98.29%. The number of active cases slightly came down to 20,375.   New cases The daily positivity rate of the 80,376 samples tested in the past day was 2.37% and the overall positivity rate of the 2.51 crore samples tested was 7.89%. Krishna again reported the highest single-day toll of four deaths in the past day. Chittoor, Guntur and West Godavari reported three deaths each while Anantapur, East Godavari, Prakasam and Nellore reported two deaths each. Srikakulam and Visakhapatnam reported one death each while Kadapa, Kurnool and Vizianagaram reported no death. East Godavari again reported the highest single-day infection tally of 438 cases. It was followed by Chittoor (231), Guntur (216), Nellore (213), Krishna (192), Prakasam (186), West Godavari (119), Kadapa (82), Visakhapatnam (81), Srikakulam (53), Anantapur (42), Vizianagaram (29) and Kurnool (26).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/coronavirus-claims-23-more-lives/article35795773.ece
08 August 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Minister’s remarks reflect insecure feeling in YSRCP’||BJP State president Somu Veerraju has asserted that his party is committed to the development of Andhra Pradesh, but the comment made by I&PR Minister Perni Venkataramaiah that the BJP is looking to overthrow the YSRCP government reflects the insecure feeling in the ruling party. Participating in a workshop organised by the BJP for its health volunteers here on Saturday, Mr. Veerraju said he was wondering if the utterances of the Minister was a tongue-in-cheek remark, or was it due to a lurking fear that the BJP might try to destabilise the government by taking advantage of its failures. “Nevertheless, the BJP will do its best for the development of the State while highlighting the government’s ineptitude on various fronts,” he said. The party had complained to Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman about the State’s perilous financial position in order to force the government to take necessary remedial action, he added. BJP national general secretary C.T. Ravi said the YSRCP and the TDP were family-centric parties. “On the other hand, the BJP belongs to its members and activists,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ministers-remarks-reflect-insecure-feeling-in-ysrcp/article35795780.ece
08 August 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Flood discharge at Prakasam Barrage comes down||The flood discharge at Prakasam Barrage across the Krishna came down gradually since Saturday morning after the first flood warning was withdrawn. As of 4 p.m., the barrage was receiving 87,762 cusecs of flood water from Pulichintala project and 74,250 cusecs was being discharged into the sea, while 13,512 cusecs were released into the canals. Of the 70 crest gates of the barrage, 40 were lifted up to one foot and 30 were lifted up to two feet. The first flood warning issued a day ago was withdrawn in the early hours of Saturday. As of 6 a.m., the inflow to Prakasam Barrage was at 2.54 lakh cusecs and outflow was at 2.41 lakh cusecs. The flood level gradually came down following a dip in inflows from Pulichintala. By noon, the inflow came down to 1.51 lakh cusecs and outflow was at 1.38 lakh cusecs. Flood discharge at barrage peaked at around 4.44 lakh cusecs at 9 p.m. on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/flood-discharge-at-prakasam-barrage-comes-down/article35795091.ece
08 August 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||New law on grants to educational institutions||The government may henceforth withhold, reduce or withdraw grant payable to an educational institution. Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan promulgated an Ordinance called AP Education (Amendment) Ordinance, 2021, issued to amend the AP Education Act, 1982. As per the new law, the manager of the institution concerned should be given an opportunity to make a representation against such action. The enquiry should be completed in two months and the government reserves the right to suspend grant during the period.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/new-law-on-grants-to-educational-institutions/article35795935.ece
08 August 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sindhu is pride of India and Telugu people, says Kesineni||Telugu Desam Party MP from Vijayawada Kesineni Srinivas on Saturday felicitated Olympic medal winner P.V. Sindhu. Calling her the pride of India and Telugu people, he said honouring the international player at her native land Vijayawada was a matter of great pride. The MP honoured Sindhu and her parents Ramana and Vijaya and her sister Divya. Attributing a major part of her success to her supportive parents, the MP said every parent wanted their children to achieve name and fame but not everybody puts them out of their comfort zone. The MP urged students to take her as their inspiration and follow their passion with commitment and hard work and expressed hope that the ace player would bring home a gold medal in the next year Olympics at Paris. Former Deputy Speaker of the State Assembly Mandali Budha Prasad said it was heart warming to see sportspersons from the Telugu States winning international acclaim. Chief selector of Indian cricket team MSK Prasad said this Olympic medal was the beginning of Sindhu’s successful story as she would bring home many more medals in future. CPI secretary K. Ramakrishna, management consultant M.C. Das, Krishnaji and others lavished praise on the international shuttler.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sindhu-is-pride-of-india-and-telugu-people-says-kesineni/article35795099.ece
08 August 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||COVID-19 awareness padayatra to Tirumala flagged off||In the wake of a possible third wave of COVID-19 pandemic, a small group of youth has embarked on a ‘Tirumala Maha Sankalpa Padayatra’ to create awareness among the public. Tallayapalem Saiva Kshetram seer Siva Swamy flagged off the padayatra at the foothill of Indrakeeladri, the abode of goddess Kanaka Durga here on Saturday. Shivaji Nagalingam, who is leading the walkathon, said they would visit all the temples en route and would reach Tirumala in about 10 days. The team would interact with people during the padayatra on COVID-19 safety aspects,, he said. Their campaign would focus on inculcating COVID-appropriate behaviuor such as wearing of a mask, maintaining physical distance etc. “Experts have been saying that the third wave would be more dangerous than the second wave of the pandemic. So, we wanted to take up the campaign,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/covid-19-awareness-padayatra-to-tirumala-flagged-off/article35795096.ece
08 August 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Oxygen plant coming up at Nimra||Joint Collector L. Siva Shankar has asked the officials concerned to ensure that sufficient oxygen supply is made available at Nimra hospital where COVID-19 patients are being treated. He inspected the oxygen generation plant installation works at the hospital in Ibrahimpatnam on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/oxygen-plant-coming-up-at-nimra/article35795930.ece
08 August 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Governor, CM hail Neeraj’s golden moment in Olympics||Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan congratulated Neeraj Chopra on winning a gold medal in the javelin throw at the Olympic Games in Tokyo on Saturday. Mr. Harichandan said in a release that Mr. Chopra made every Indian proud with his achievement and wished him more successes in the future. In his message, Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy praised Mr. Neeraj for winning the first-ever gold medal for India in a track-and-field event at the Olympics. “The nation stands proud for the 87.58 m throw registered by Mr. Chopra on the concluding day of the Tokyo Olympics,” Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said in a statement, and hoped that India’s medal tally would go up in the 2024 Paris Olympics. In a message on Twitter, TDP president N. Chandrababu Naidu said Mr. Chopra created history by winning India’s first-ever gold medal in the track- and-field category at the Olympics. “Mr. Chopra is an inspiration for a new generation of athletes to break new barriers with hard work,” he observed. BJP State president Somu Veerraju and JSP president Pawan Kalyan said Mr. Chopra’s was a phenomenal achievement. Pat for Bajrang Mr. Harichandan and Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy also congratulated Bajrang Punia on winning a bronze medal in the 65 kg freestyle wrestling at the Olympics.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/governor-cm-hail-neerajs-golden-moment-in-olympics/article35795776.ece
08 August 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||APTDC chief interacts with members of AP Chambers||AP Chambers of Commerce and Industry Federation (AP Chambers) president K.V.S. Prakash Rao, president-elect Pydah Krishna Prasad, general secretary Potluri Bhaskara Rao and Tourism Committee chairman K. Lakshminarayana had a virtual meeting with APTDC chairman A. Vara Prasad Reddy on Saturday. Congratulating Mr. Reddy on being appointed chairman, they brought to his notice several issues faced by the tourism sector. Mr. Reddy promised to address the problems of the stakeholders in the sector.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/aptdc-chief-interacts-with-members-of-ap-chambers/article35795774.ece
08 August 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||CM greets weavers||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy conveyed his best wishes to the weavers on the occasion of National Handloom Day on Saturday. In a Twitter message, Mr. Reddy said he had personally seen the problems faced by the weavers during his padayatra. Keeping that in view, the government was giving a financial assistance to the weavers under the YSR Netanna Nestham, the Chief Minister said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cm-greets-weavers/article35795775.ece
08 August 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Former ALC principal C.J. John dead||Former principal of Andhra Loyola College (ALC) Fr. C.J. John, 75, died on Saturday due to a heart attack, on the premises of Loyola Academy, Secunderabad. Fr. John served as a history professor at ALC for 25 years before he was elevated to the post of the principal and correspondent of the college during 1993-1997.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/former-alc-principal-cj-john-dead/article35795097.ece
08 August 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||GVMC approves new tax regime amid protests by Oppn. parties||Amid huge protests, the Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) Council passed the proposal to revise the existing property tax structure (G.O 198) at a special meeting here on Saturday. Walkouts, interruptions and agitations at the podium marked the meet which was organised to discuss the new property tax regime. According to the new tax structure, the corporation will levy a property tax of 0.15% on the market value of the residential buildings, 0.3 % on non-residential/commercial buildings and 0.5 % on the vacant lands. Members of various political parties have opposed the new property tax rules in which the State government has proposed to levy tax based on the capital value as against the present rental value. Telugu Desam Party (TDP) MLC D. Rama Rao alleged that levying taxes based on the market value of property will increase burden on people. CPI corporator Stalin, TDP corporator Peela Srinivasa Rao and Jana Sena Party corporator Peethala Murthy Yadav have strongly objected to the new tax rules. CPI(M) corporator B. Ganga Rao requested the YSRCP corporators not to support the proposal keeping in view the responses received from people. Only two to three YSRCP corporators said some amendments should be made to the proposals, based on response from people. Several YSRCP corporators claimed that the property tax rules are being revised following instructions from the Centre. Later, members from TDP led by floor leader Peela Srinivasa Rao, Jana Sena corporator P Murthy Yadav and CPI(M) corporator B. Ganga Rao staged a protest at the podium of the Mayor, holding placards. At around 3 p.m., Mayor G. Hari Venkata Kumari announced that the property tax proposal was passed in the council, as several corporators have supported it. While all the YSRCP corporators left the council hall after the proposal was passed, corporators of the TDP, BJP, CPI, CPI(M) and the Jana Sena staged protest by staying in the council hall till 7.30 p.m. Meanwhile, members of the TDP and the Left parties staged protest at Gandhi Statue near the GVMC building and at the GVMC main gate. Senior TDP leaders, including Bandaru Satyanarayana Murthy and Palla Srinivasa Rao, raised slogans against the government. The TDP leaders and workers of the Left parties were detained and shifted to the III Town police station.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/gvmc-approves-new-tax-regime-amid-protests-by-oppn-parties/article35795940.ece
08 August 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘A.P. needs four more astro turfs for hockey to shine’||It was after four decades that the men’s hockey team secured a bronze medal in the Olympics. The women’s team also put up a spirited performance to reach the semifinal stage for the first time. This indicates that Hockey India has done a good job and Indian hockey that once dominated the world scene by wining eight Olympic golds is back in the reckoning. But at the same time, former hockey players who represented the State in the national scene, say it was time the State government thought differently about hockey. The State produced a number of players who had made a mark in the national circuit, but till date there were no academies or grounds with astro turf, except for one in Kakinada. “Astro turf is an integral part of hockey today and players need to be baptised on this turf at a young age,” said Peter Das, former national player from Visakhapatnam. “There is a huge difference playing on the astro turf and on a normal ground. Everything, right from speed to skills and fitness changes with the astro turf,” said another former player who represented the State, Noel Treasure. It took the Indian team about 20 years to get used to astro turf, and that is why we did not win an Olympic medal since 1980 Moscow Olympics, said former national player, coach and former secretary of Hockey Federation A.P., A. Prasanna In India, there are about 40 astro turfs, of which about 15 to 20 are located in Punjab and Haryana. And that is why many of the players from those States find place in the national team, said Mr. Peter. Odisha example Even backward States such as Odisha had three astro turfs and Odisha Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik had already showed how the game could be taken to a greater height by providing the required support. He led from the front and had a big role in the Indian team faring well in the Olympics, said the former national players. “In Andhra Pradesh, as of now there is just one astro turf, but that is yet to be commissioned, as COVID pandemic has delayed it. But that won’t be sufficient. We need at least four more, one each in Anantapur, Tirupati, Guntur and Visakhapatnam,” said Mr. Prasanna. A number of good players had come up from these regions, including E. Rajini, who is now part of the current Indian team, as reserve goalkeeper, in Tokyo. According to Mr. Prasanna, the government could easily come up with at least two grounds immediately — in Visakhapatnam and Tirupati. In Visakhapatnam, there are a number of PSUs and they could easily provide one astro turf from their CSR funds. Similarly, TTD also had enough funds to provide one, he said. On what changed the profile of the Indian team, the hockey players were of the opinion that a number of astro turf academies had sprung up, foreign coaches had improved the fitness and the Indian players both men and women were now on a par with the players of other countries and the IHL (Indian Hockey League) and the government sending the teams for a number for tournaments abroad, were the key turning factors.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ap-needs-four-more-astro-turfs-for-hockey-to-shine/article35795771.ece
08 August 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Decision undemocratic, say associations||Leaders of the Opposition parties and the members from various resident and apartment welfare associations have strongly condemned the Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) council's decision to pass the G.O 198 to change the property tax regime. They alleged that responses from citizens and various associations were not taken into consideration at all. CPI(M) leader B. Ganga Rao said that the special council meet was organised in a very undemocratic way. The Telugu Desam Party corporators alleged that the ruling party has not even taken sentiments of people into consideration. The CPI leaders alleged that the corporation would collect about Rs. 700 crore through the new property tax regime and Rs. 120 crore by levying user charges for garbage collection, by burdening the common people. General Secretary of Visakhapatnam Resident Welfare Association B.B. Ganesh said that it was very unfortunate that the council did not take the opinions of people into consideration.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/decision-undemocratic-say-associations/article35795941.ece
08 August 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Beaches in city wear a deserted look||All the main beaches in the city from Yarada to Bheemunipatnam, including the most popular ones such as RK Beach and Rushikonda, wore a deserted look on Saturday. Based on a review meeting it was decided on Friday that the beaches will be closed from 5.30 p.m. till next morning on all weekends and on all public holidays. The medical fraternity welcomed the decision and many doctors said that it was a right move by the district administration. Otherwise on every weekend and holidays the beaches were getting crowded and all COVID protocols were being thrown to the wind, they said. “The second wave is still to subside fully and the proposed third wave is impending. This was the right time to impose some restrictions and enforcements to check the spread of the virus,” said District COVID Special Officer and Principal of Andhra Medical College P.V. Sudhakar. “This is the time that one should tread cautiously. The second wave is coming under control and the timing and intensity of the third wave depends on how people follow the COVID protocols, such as wearing a mask, maintaining the social distancing norms, keeping away from crowded places and sanitising the hands,” he said. The police officials were seen enforcing the closure of the beaches, including the RK Beach Road. Barricades were erected at all entry points into Beach Road and police officials were seen diverting the vehicles and sending back the beachgoers. Even evening walkers were turned back. A number of patrolling vehicles were seen doing rounds on Beach Road stretch from Naval Coast Battery to Bheemunipatnam. Police pickets were posted at all the major junctions. According to Commissioner of Police Manish Kumar Sinha, this would continue for some time, till the danger is averted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/beaches-in-city-wear-a-deserted-look/article35795946.ece
08 August 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP suspends corporator, issues notice to two more||Telugu Desam Party(TDP) Visakhapatnam Parliamentary Constituency president Palla Srinivasa Rao on Saturday suspended a party corporator and also issued show-cause notices to two other party corporators for allegedly talking in favour of the YSR Congress Party leaders. Mr. Srinivasa Rao suspended 69th Ward corporator K, Govinda Reddy. He said Mr. Govinda Reddy spoke in favour of the YSRCP leaders and also participated in their programmes. Mr. Srinivasa Rao also sought explanation from 41st Ward corporator K. Purnima and 86th Ward corporator L, Koteswara Rao on why they spoke in favour of the YSRCP leaders. He gave them one week to submit their explanation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tdp-suspends-corporator-issues-notice-to-two-more/article35795942.ece
08 August 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||District sees 1 death, 81 new COVID cases||The Visakhapatnam district recorded 81 new COVID-19 cases in the last 24 hours ending Saturday morning. The death toll has increased to 1,058 after one more person succumbed to the infection. During the same period, 123 persons recovered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/district-sees-1-death-81-new-covid-cases/article35795943.ece
08 August 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Steel plant displaced seek justice||Members of the Visakha Ukku Factory Nirvasula Sangham met Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman here on Saturday and briefed her about the status of the displaced persons. They pointed out that about 26,000 acres of land was acquired to construct the Visakhapatnam Steel Plant in 1971, by displacing thousands of families. In a memorandum submitted to the Union Finance Minister, they said that about 16,000 persons were given R-Card (Rehabilitation Card), but only 8,000 were given permanent jobs in the steel plant. The remaining 8,000 were neither given jobs nor any rehabilitation package. They urged Ms. Sitharaman to look into it and do justice to their demands. She assured to look into it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/steel-plant-displaced-seek-justice/article35795944.ece
08 August 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||APSET notification released||Notification for State Level Eligibility Test (APSET) entrance exam 2021, conducted to determine the eligibility of candidates for posts of Assistant Professors or lecturers, was issued, said APSET member-secretary K. Srinivasa Rao here on Saturday. He said that the applications will be accepted online from candidates from August 11 till September 13. He also said that candidates can visit Andhra University website and APSET website for further details. The last date without late fee is September 13. The examination is on October 31.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/apset-notification-released/article35795936.ece
08 August 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ministers express concern over deficit rainfall||Minister for Endowments and in-charge of Vizianagaram district Vellampalli Srinivas and Minister for Municipal Administration Botcha Satyanarayana on Saturday directed officials to prepare an action plan to promote commercial and horticulture crops in the backdrop of 22% deficit rainfall in the season. Along with Deputy Chief Minister Pamula Pushpa Srivani, they reviewed the development activities in the district. Mr. Satyanarayana directed the officials to make farmers to opt for crops other than paddy which needed more water. “Through Rythu Bharosa Kendras, the officials can convince farmers to follow the guidelines of the government. Otherwise, they will not get good yield with paddy crop when water is not sufficient,” said Mr. Satyanarayana. Mr. Srinivas said that n exclusive meeting would be organised to oversee the progress of irrigation projects such as Tarakarama Teerthasagar, Thotapalli and others. The Ministers reviewed COVID-19 situation, sand supply, housing projects and others. Later speaking to media, Mr. Srinivas said the government was giving top priority for the protection of jewellery and lands of various temples.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ministers-express-concern-over-deficit-rainfall/article35795811.ece
08 August 2021||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||World Adivasi Day tomorrow||The Adivasi Sankshema Parishad, the Adivasi Konda Reddi Sangham and the Adivasi Nayakpodu Seva Sangham have resolved to hold a Jala Deeksha in Bhadrachalam on International Day of the World’s Indigenous Peoples on August 9 to press for a charter of demands, including strict implementation of laws that safeguard the rights of Adivasis. The charter of demands includes empowering Adivasis in the true spirit of the constitutional provisions, implementing “Adivasi Bandhu” scheme to ensure economic empowerment and social justice. Meanwhile, various other Adivasi organisations have lined up a string of programmes including rallies and meetings to mark the International Day of the World’s Indigenous Peoples on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/world-adivasi-day-tomorrow/article35795628.ece
08 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Donor breast milk in short supply at Niloufer Hospital||Donor breast milk has been giving a healthy start to hundreds of newborns, bridging nutritional gaps for babies with medical needs. At the Niloufer Hospital, which has 280-300 newborns occupying beds at any point in the day, the daily requirement of donor breast milk for at least 100 babies is 12.5 litres. Currently, however, there is a huge shortfall — only around 3.5 litres of the total daily need is met through the Dhaatri Mothers’ Milk Bank on the hospital campus. High demand Some of the babies requiring donor milk are those who had preterm birth, or are underweight. Advancement in medicine is helping save the lives of babies who weigh as low as 700 to 800 grams against the healthy weight of 2.5 to 3 kg. But with a high number of preterm babies, the requirement for breast milk, too, has shot up. Head of Paediatrics department at the hospital, T. Usha Rani said that usually, it is women with health complications who have premature delivery and may have problems breastfeeding. Listing reasons for inability of new mothers to breastfeed their baby, the senior doctor said often only newborns suffering from health complications are brought to the hospital while the mother is left behind at the native place, or when the woman suffers from serious complications and is admitted to another hospital. The third reason could be the death of the mother post delivery. Advantages Doctors said that newborns should be given breast milk within one hour of birth, and the feeding should continue for at least six months. Breast milk builds immunity in children which cannot be replicated by formula milk. Senior consultant obstetrician and gynaecologist at Ankura Hospital for women and children, C. Jayasree Reddy said with breast feeding, additional fat stored in body during pregnancy is shed, the chances of developing ovarian and breast cancer come down, and better development of baby’s visual acuity and brain that enhances the child’s willingness to learn. Children who are fed formula milk turn out underweight and have compromised immunity which increases risk of hospitalisation, said Dr Usha Rani. Head of Neonatology unit at Niloufer Hospital, M. Alimelu said even after fully feeding their newborns, mothers should be able to donate at least 170 ml of milk every day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/donor-breast-milk-in-short-supply-at-niloufer-hospital/article35795591.ece
08 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Families of deceased workers get Rs. 15L each||Families of the two victims who died after entering manhole in Padmavathi Colony of Vanasthalipuram for Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation’s de-silting works have been given a compensation of Rs. 15 lakh each. Of the ex gratia, Rs. 10 lakh for each worker is from GHMC, while the contractor who had carried out the operation has parted with Rs. 5 lakh each. Mayor visit Mayor Gadwal Vijayalakshmi visited the site of ongoing efforts for the rescue of the missing worker whose body was yet to be fished out, on Saturday, and handed over the cheques to the bereaved families. In a further development, through express orders on Saturday, Executive Engineer of the Hayatnagar Circle Rajaiah was transferred to the Greater Warangal Municipal Corporation, and Deputy Executive Engineer Bhadru Nayak was sent on deputation to Jagtial Municipal Corporation. Prior to this, late on Friday, orders were issued for suspension of the Assistant Engineer and work inspector concerned, besides termination of another work inspector who had been employed on outsourcing basis, holding them responsible for the tragic incident. Detailed enquiry revealed that the three had been aware of the fact that the works were being taken up during night time, the orders issued to the GHMC Commissioner from the Municipal Administration & Urban Development said. The two deceased workers were reported to have been asked to enter the manhole during night without any safety gear, which went against all the guidelines pertaining to de-silting works. Ms.Vijayalakshmi assured that she would recommend double bedroom units to be given for the families of the deceased workers. MLA D. Sudheer Reddy, who had been monitoring the effort to retrieve the body of the worker Anthaiah, said the body could not be found despite removal of 90 pipes from the 9.5-km drain, and inspection of 250 manholes on the way. The lake near Pasumamula village 15 kilometres away too was searched with the help of drones and three boats.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/families-of-deceased-workers-get-rs-15l-each/article35795605.ece
08 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Stage set for work on mega dairy||The stage is set for commencement of works on the mega dairy proposed by the Telangana State Dairy Development Cooperative Federation (TSDDCF), famous for the Vijaya Telangana brand products. The board of directors of the federation, which met here on Tuesday, decided to pay Rs. 20 crore as advance to the National Dairy Development Board. This is the first concrete step towards setting up of the state-of-the-art processing plant with a capacity of 5 lakh litres a day expandable to 8 lakh litres a day in due course. To be set up on 42 acres at Kancha Imarat near Raviryal village on the city outskirts, the mega dairy will also have a UHT (ultra high temperature plant) with a capacity of one lakh litres a day envisaging products with longer shelf life as also an ice cream plant of 5,000 litres a day capacity. The cost of the project is estimated at Rs. 246 crore, of which, the State government would contribute Rs. 74 crore and the federation would invest Rs. 26 crore. The balance would be mobilised as loan from the Nabard. The Nabard regional office had already cleared the proposal. Senior officials said the advance amount would be utilized for selecting an architect who would be entrusted with the responsibility of preparing the final design for the project. This would be followed by global tendering for selecting the contractor for taking up the project. The federation planned the mega dairy as part of its aggressive expansion plans to cater to the ever increasing demand for its products. Accordingly, it has decided to expand the processing capacity through the mega dairy unit by one lakh litres a day from the existing 4 lakh litres and the capacity would be further enhanced in the coming days. “The plant will have all the modern equipment to process the milk and produce value added products,” a senior official told The Hindu . The existing plant with 4 lakh litres capacity a day would continue to function till the new plant is commissioned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/stage-set-for-work-on-mega-dairy/article35795609.ece
08 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Guntur woman donates 20 litres of breast milk||When the COVID-19 pandemic broke out last March, Sudheshna K. moved to her home town, Guntur, along with her husband. The 30-year-old, who used to work as a college lecturer in Hyderabad, had her delivery a month later. The new mother found out about breast milk donation following a consultation with her doctor. Motivated by the idea of saving tiny lives, Ms Sudheshna collected and stored excess milk over a period of time in the deep freezer. She even went the extra mile, literally, by travelling to another district for a blood test to find out her infection status. Earlier this year, she decided to dispatch a whopping 20 litres to Dhaatri Mothers Milk Bank at Niloufer Hospital. “We informed one of our volunteers in Guntur and the milk was brought to Hyderabad in a box filled with dry ice,” said Director (Operations) at Dhaatri Milk Bank, Kashinadh Lakaraju. Felicitation Founder-director of the milk bank, Santosh Kumar Karleti said 26 mothers who donated breast milk to help newborns get the crucial nutrients for survival and growth would be felicitated with ‘Maa Yashoda’ award. The awards would be presented by Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan at Raj Bhavan on Sunday. Besides them, four health staff from Niloufer Hospital would be presented with ‘Maa Pana Dai’ award. A chartered accountant who helped generate funds for the milk bank will also be felicitated on the occasion. Dr Santosh said overall, 31,600 mothers have donated 1,052 litres of pasteurised milk which has been distributed free of cost for the purpose of feeding 9,795 babies.  We informed one of our volunteers in Guntur and the milk was brought to Hyderabad in a box filled with dry ice. Kashinadh Lakaraju, Director (Operations) at Dhaatri Milk Bank||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/guntur-woman-donates-20-litres-of-breast-milk/article35795595.ece
08 August 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Telugu students excel in JEE Main||Students of Telangana and Andhra Pradesh figured among the top scores in the JEE Main results of the July and August sessions with four candidates each from the two Telugu states scoring 100 percentiles out of the 17 students in the country. Polu Lakshmi Sai Lokesh Reddy, Madur Adarsh Reddy, Velavali Venkata Karthikeya Sai Vydhik and Josyula Venkata Aditya from Telangana, and Karanam Lokesh, Duggineni Venkata Paneesh, Pasala Veera Siva and Kanchan from Andhra Pradesh scored 100 percentiles. More candidates touched the 100 percentile in the third session compared to the first and second sessions conducted in February and March this year. Only 6 got 100 percentiles in the first session in February and 13 in the March and April exams while it increased to 17 now. The fourth session will be held later this month and the final merit list will be issued then. Karnataka student Students of Narayana institutions excelled in the JEE Main with 6 out of the total 17 100 percentilers coming from the Narayana group, and 5 out of the 8 from the two Telugu states are also from the same group, according to P. Sindhura Narayana, Managing Director and Sharani, Director of Narayana Group. Sindhura said that the only student from Karnataka securing 100 percentile also belongs to their group of institutions. She said this success was a result of the group’s well researched and definitive curriculum developed by experts, which gives strong emphasis on mastery of fundamentals and thorough conceptual understanding. Ms. Sharani said the ‘nLearn’, Narayana’s online examination, practice and analysis application, played a key role in preparing the students for the national examinations. On an average, Narayana students who appeared for JEE Main 2021, had taken more number of full length online exams, according to Executive Director, Puneet Kothapa.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/telugu-students-excel-in-jee-main/article35795620.ece
08 August 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||BITS Pilani placements up by 21% despite pandemic||Braving the economic downturn, BITS Pilani campuses in Pilani, Hyderabad, Goa and Dubai saw 2,544 students out of 3,047 registered ones getting jobs during recruitment drives. The placement season saw 698 students receiving offers of more than Rs. 20 lakh per annum, an increase of 21% over the 2019-20 placement season. Even with an absolute increase in number of students registered for placements by 636 from 2,411 registered last year to 3,047 in the current year, there was almost no negative impact on the placement statistics. Last year, 2,074 were offered placements compared to 2,544 this year. The median salary for 2021 was a healthy Rs. 12.78 lakh while the average CTC of Rs. 15.6 lakh per annum and maximum CTC of Rs. 45 lakh per annum remained at approximately the same level as the previous year. Students competed for cutting-edge technology companies in Data Science, Machine Learning and Cybersecurity in addition to the traditional software development roles. “The demand in the IT space was robust, with internship pre-placement offers and full-time roles being given by companies such as Microsoft, Google, Salesforce, Samsung, DE Shaw, Amazon, Flipkart Cisco, Oracle, IBM and PayPal among others,” said Balasubramanian Gurumurthy, Chief Placement Officer, India and Dubai, BITS Pilani. The electronics sector saw major semiconductor brands such as Qualcomm, Texas Instruments, Micron, Western Digital, Samsung Hardware, Intel and Microchip hiring either full-time or for summer internships. The banking sector saw JP Morgan, Citibank, DBS, HSBC, Nomura, Deutsche Bank among other top brands hiring for technology and fintech roles. Top companies in the manufacturing sector like General Electric, Mercedes R&D, took students for full-time positions while the FMCG sector also saw marquee brands such as HUL, Pepsico and L’Oreal offering leadership and general management roles. The early indicators in terms of eight-week summer internship PPOs and registrations by companies for final placements show that the industrial demand is robust for the 2021-22 placement season which is due to begin in mid-August, promising a good growth in the placement figures for the next season, said Tabir Mishra, head of placements, Pilani campus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bits-pilani-placements-up-by-21-despite-pandemic/article35795597.ece
08 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Special postal covers on GI tagged products||On National Handloom Day, Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan launched www.eshop.tsposts.in, where citizens from across the country can shop for GI tagged products. Currently, Siddipet Gollabhama saris are available at prices ranging between Rs. 3,000 and Rs. 8,400. Five special postal covers on Nirmal furniture, Narayanpet handloom saris, Warangal durries, Hyderabad haleem and Siddipet Gollabhama saris were released on Saturday. The Governor appreciated the efforts of Telangana Postal Circle for conceiving this novel step of issuing special covers on GI tagged products and their sale through the eshop portal. “This initiative not only supports some art norms, but also makes them Atmanirbhar,” said the Governor. She also stressed on the role of culture in development of an individual and nation as a whole and admired the rich cultural heritage of young Telangana. Telangana has 13 products with GI tag, which help in marketing these items. With the availability of these GI tagged products across the country, businesses involved in them can tap into the nationwide demand. The website has a vendor registration option for businesses to help sell the products nationally. “The Department of Posts has taken the responsibility to spread awareness about 324 GI products in India and it is our moral responsibility to pay tribute to artisans of these region-specific products and today’s event is one such effort in that direction,” said Chief Postmaster General, TS Circle, S. Rajendra Kumar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/special-postal-covers-on-gi-tagged-products/article35795617.ece
08 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||KCR inspects work on new Secretariat||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao on Saturday inspected the progress of construction at the new Secretariat complex along with a large team comprising officials, representatives of the executing agency and supervisors He went round the entire complex on foot and later held a meeting with officials to pass on certain instructions. A release later said Mr. Rao asked the contractors to ensure a drainage system for discharge of water in front and adjacent to the complex. The material for interior works should be procured in advance to avoid delays, he said. He saw the parking lots for two-wheelers, cars and buses and asked the officials to ensure movement of battery operated vehicles within the complex. Roads and Buildings Minister V. Prashant Reddy, Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar and several MLAs were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/kcr-inspects-work-on-new-secretariat/article35795619.ece
08 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Contempt notices issued to Collector, RDO and MRO||Telangana High Court issued contempt of court notices to Hyderabad Collector, Secunderabad Revenue Divisional Officer and Trimulgherry Tahsildar for not complying with the HC direction in a plea involving 40 acres of land located in Lothkunta. Justice M.S. Ramachandra Rao of the HC directed the three officials to file counter affidavits with all details in a contempt petition appeal filed by Shantha Sriram Constructions Private Limited over the 40 acres of land. Earlier, the company represented by its managing director M. Narsaiah had filed a writ petition challenging the officials’ announcement that the 40 acres of land under survey nos. 1 and 2 and belonged to State government. Passing an order in favour of the company, the single judge had instructed the authorities to hand over the land to the petitioner within four weeks. He had also imposed costs of Rs. 1 lakh on the authorities. Challenging this order, the authorities filed an appeal before a division bench which turned down the request for exemption from payment of costs. Declining to interfere in the matter, the bench suspended the single judge order for four weeks so that the officials can file a civil suit for rights over the said land. After four weeks, they filed a civil suit claiming rights over the land. Meanwhile, the private company filed a contempt of court petition stating that the authorities did not hand over the land even after four weeks and pay the costs of Rs. 1 lakh imposed on them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/contempt-notices-to-collector-2-others/article35795603.ece
08 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||City dronetech startup recognised by Centre||Marut Dronetech, a city startup operating in the field of drone applications, has been authorised as a research and development organisation by the Centre, a move which will greatly ease functioning, the company said. Speaking to The Hindu on Saturday, company founder Prem Kumar Vislawath said the authorisation was accorded by the Director General of Civil Aviation. The new Drone Rules, 2021, permit recognised startups, and other entities, to fly drones within the green zone for research purposes without prior permission from authorities. “At times, research can be an ad-hoc kind of thing. Earlier for research work, we would have to take permission from the authorities. This is not the case now,” he said, adding that the move is in accordance with the new Drone Rules of 2021. At the moment, Marut Drones is working in four key areas — gathering data on mosquitoes and mosquito-borne diseases, afforestation, agriculture, and medicine. “We choose a problem and develop solutions with drones as the centre point. Now, we are working on drone delivery of medicines in Vikarabad and other areas,” Mr Kumar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/city-dronetech-startup-recognised-by-centre/article35795602.ece
08 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||GHMC unions demand wage enhancement||Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) trade unions conducted a demonstration in front of the corporation’s headquarters demanding that the minimum wages for the GHMC workers be increased to Rs. 24,000 per month. In the context of his recent announcement for Dalit Empowerment, Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao said he would consider enhancement of wages for municipal workers, a statement issued by the unions said. A large number of municipal workers were from poor and dalit backgrounds, it said, besides demanding regularisation of contract and outsourcing workers. Unions such as CITU, AITUC, TNTUC and IFTU came together for the demonstration .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ghmc-unions-demand-wage-enhancement/article35795858.ece
08 August 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Followers of self-styled godman kill realtor||Upset over criticising and threatening their ‘Guruji’ to defame his character, followers of a self-styled godman from Kavali in Nellore, killed a realtor in Hyderabad and travelled to Sunnipenta near Srisailam in Andhra Pradesh for almost 230 km with the body stuffed in a car trunk. There, at a Hindu crematorium, they managed to entice the cemetery keeper and got it cremated. Though the offence took place on the intervening night of July 19 and July 20, it came to light on Friday after the KPHB Colony police launched a probe into the man missing case only to find out that the victim, Gaddam Vijay Bhaskar Reddy (63), was brutally killed and cremated by the accused. On July 24, based on the complaint lodged by the victim’s nephew, Jaswanth Reddy, a missing case was registered. Madhapur in-charge DCP M Venkateshwarlu said that the prime accused Triloknath alias Ganesh alias Guru Ji, a self-styled godman and realtor, took crores from his followers in the guise of investing in mining business in Andhra Pradesh’s West Godavari district. “We can make huge profits by selling the metal at a high price. Invest in this venture,” Guru Ji told his followers. Being one of his followers, Reddy gave a good amount to the self-styled baba and also persuaded his friends to invest. When Guru Ji was idling away time and did not take up the mining works, the victim got suspicious and insisted that he return the money. “As he was not responding to his requests, Reddy threatened the baba to report his activities to Central investigation agencies and defame him,” Mr Venkateshwarlu said. As a result, Guru Ji was annoyed and reportedly provoked his followers to kill the victim. His close followers, including an ex-serviceman Mallesh, realtors Sudhakar, Krishnamurthy along with RMP Sravan, hatched a conspiracy to kill Reddy. Reddy stays at a hostel in KPHB Colony. As per their plan, they sent sedative mixed vegetarian Manchurian to the victim through Mallesh’s son Karthik. When Reddy lost his consciousness after eating the food, the other accused hit the former on his head with an iron rod and he died on the spot. The same night they took his body to Sunnipenta and got it cremated the next day morning by paying Rs. 15,000 to the keeper. The keeper got suspicious and took the photograph of the victim on the pyre before it was lit. Mr. Venkateswarlu said that after analysing the video footage of surveillance cameras in the area and by tracking a suspecting vehicle, they were able to crack the case and arrested Mallesh, Sudhakar, Sravan, Krishnam Raju. However, Mallesh’s son Karthik and Guru Ji are still at large.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/followers-of-self-styled-godman-kill-realtor/article35795606.ece
08 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Only BJP govt. can uplift OBCs, says Laxman||Both the Congress-led governments at the Centre earlier and the current TRS government in Telangana had ignored OBCs denying them the due benefits despite they constituting a majority of the population where as the BJP-led NDA government has taken decisive steps towards their amelioration, claimed BJP national OBC president K. Laxman on Saturday. Congress leaders from Nehru to Rajiv Gandhi had opposed the OBC quota recommended by the Mandal Commission and it got implemented after the Modi government came to power, he said, and accused Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao of “deceiving OBCs with false promises”. Mr. Laxman was addressing a gathering for OBC Morcha, where he pointed out that 70,000 students from OBCs benefited as the quota was implemented in 33 Sainik schools. It was Mr. Modi who had given BC Commission constitutional status to uplift though the Congress and Left parties had opposed the Bill. Turning towards the TS, the senior BJP leader said that the TRS government had not given sufficient posts to OBCs in the Cabinet as was done by the Modi government at the Centre, where 27 ministers belong to the weaker sections. “It is clear that neither the Congress nor TRS has any commitment for the upliftment of OBCs even when our party has been showing the way,” he said. Earlier, State BJP president Bandi Sanjay Kumar felicitated handloom weavers on National Handloom Day and said it was due to Mr. Modi that the day was being celebrated. “Only the fear of defeat in Huzurabad by-poll has made Mr. Rao reach out to these people these days,” he charged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/only-bjp-govt-can-uplift-obcs/article35795615.ece
08 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Telangana records 569 new COVID cases, 4 deaths||Telangana recorded 569 fresh coronavirus infections and four fatalities on Saturday, taking the case tally to 6,48,957 and death toll to 3,823. While 1,05,201 samples were put to test, results of 1,414 were awaited. Of the new infections, the highest of 82 were from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation region, followed by 64 in Karimnagar, 51 in Warangal Urban, 40 in Khammam and 39 in Nalgonda. No case was recorded in Jogulamba-Gadwal, and only one case was detected in Narayanpet. From March last year till Saturday, a little over 2.27 crore samples had been examined. Of the total cases, 8,582 were active. Meanwhile, scientists from National Institute of Nutrition (NIN) have been permitted by Health department to conduct sero-surveillance of SARS-CoV-2 in districts in consultation with Director of Public Health.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/telangana-records-569-new-covid-cases-4-deaths/article35795593.ece
08 August 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Committed to weavers’ welfare: KTR||Textiles Minister K.T. Rama Rao has reiterated the TRS government’s commitment to the handloom sector and textiles, stating that the budget for them in Telangana saw an unprecedented increase to Rs. 1,200 crore from mere Rs. 70 crore in the combined state. “This is testimony to the government’s commitment to the weavers in Telangana,” he said, speaking after inaugurating a week-long handloom exhibition at People’s Plaza as part of National Handloom Day celebrations. Emphasising the government’s commitment towards handlooms, he said every year weavers who excelled in innovation and creativity were given cash prizes. This year too, 31 weavers would be felicitated and Rs. 25,000 each would be given to them. The Minister also asked people to wear handlooms to extend their support to the weavers’ community. The exhibition-cum-sale features handloom weaves from Pochampally, Gadwal and Narayanpet apart from weavers from other States. Shailaja Ramaiyer, Commissioner of Handlooms and Textiles was present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/committed-to-weavers-welfare-ktr/article35795598.ece
08 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||WE Hub ties up with supermarket||WE Hub has partnered with supermarket Q Mart, and launched WE Corner for women entrepreneurs in the FMCG sector. WE Corner is “one of the first retail forward linkage support channels which will provide access to the market, customers, and supply chain to their startups which are part of WE Hub”. Products of the startups will be showcased at a dedicated space at Q-Mart’s Gachibowli store. IT Principal Secretary Jayesh Ranjan and Hyderabad Collector Sweta Mohanty inaugurated WE Corner in the presence of Q Mart director Rahul Verma and WE Hub CEO Deepthi Ravula.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/we-hub-ties-up-with-supermarket/article35795601.ece
08 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||FGG for independent review on sheep scheme||Forum for Good Governance (FGG) has appealed to Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan to direct Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar to conduct an independent review on the sheep distribution scheme. This is to have a correct appraisal about the efficacy since mutton price continues to be high despite lakhs of animals being distributed in the first phase even as the second phase has commenced with crores already spent. Forum secretary M. Padmanabha Reddy, in a communication to the Governor, a copy of which was released to the media, on Saturday, said that the sheep distribution programme began in 2016-17 with 3.74 lakh sheep at Rs. 5,000 crore and in the second phase, 3.50 lakh sheep costing Rs. 6,000 crore to be distributed covering a total of seven lakh shepherd families. “The ground reality contrary to what the government claims is totally different with 24 officials suspended for their role in supply of sub-standard sheep. Since there was no marketing mechanism, many beneficiaries had sold off the animals with middlemen making merry. Getting a loan at 11% too, has become tough for the beneficiaries,” he claimed. “From 2016-2021, the cost of sheep meat has doubled because of shortage. If the sheep distribution scheme is successful, surplus meat should have been available in the market to control the price,” he said. Letters written to the CS and the animal husbandry secretary on facts of the scheme and intended benefits has not elicited any response. And hence, the FGG has urged the Governor to look into the issue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/fgg-for-independent-review-on-sheep-scheme/article35795614.ece
08 August 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Man held for selling ganja||A 32-year-old person was apprehended by Hyderabad Commissioner’s Task Force (West Zone) team on Friday after they found ganja in his possession. The accused, Manohar Singh alias Sunny, a private employee from Red Hills, Lakdikapul, was trying to sell the contraband at an auto stand near The Park Hotel, Somajiguda. They seized seven kg of the contraband, a scooter and a mobile phone from his possession. According to the police, Singh came into contact with one Srinu (27), a ganja supplier from Narsipatnam in Andhra Pradesh. He procured the ganja from Srinu for Rs. 5,000 per two kg and used to sell the same for Rs. 10,000 to Rs. 12,000 per two kg. “About a week ago Srinu came to Hyderabad and delivered about seven kg ganja to the accused, which he was trying to sell at Somajiguda,” Officer on Special Duty (Task Force) P Radha Kishan Rao said. Singh along with the seized material was handed over to Punjagutta police for investigation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/man-held-for-selling-ganja/article35795861.ece
08 August 2021||hyderabad,TELANGANA||Three held for property offences||Three persons involved in five property offences were arrested by Keesara police on Saturday. They recovered 16 tula of gold ornaments and 37 tula of silver articles, apart from other items, all worth Rs. 8.9 lakh, from the possession of the accused. The arrested persons were Gajula Yogender (27) and Gajula Nagender (21), both painters from Jawaharnagar, and the stolen property receiver Nitturi Snehith Raj (30) from Godavarikhani.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/three-held-for-property-offences/article35795607.ece
08 August 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Karimnagar new ACP||Tula Srinivasa Rao assumed charge as Karimnagar Assistant Commissioner of Police after replacing Ashok, who got transferred on being promoted as Additional SP. A Sub-Inspector of 1995 batch, Srinivasa Rao worked in different parts of undivided Karimnagar district affected by Left Wing extremists. He served as Inspector of Karimngar town and rural police stations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/karimnagar-new-acp/article35795613.ece
08 August 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Rahul Gandhi meets injured TS Youth Cong. chief||Congress leader and former AICC president Rahul Gandhi called on Telangana Youth Congress president Shivasena Reddy in New Delhi on Saturday and inquired about his health. Mr. Reddy suffered a leg fracture when police lathi-charged Congressmen during the Rahul Gandhi-led protests against rising fuel prices in New Delhi couple of days ago. Mr. Gandhi asked his team to take care of his hospital bills and provide him best treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/rahul-gandhi-meets-injured-ts-youth-cong-chief/article35795622.ece
08 August 2021||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||Rythu Vedikas opened||Minister for Agriculture S. Niranjan Reddy inaugurated several Rythu Vedikas and a soil0testing centre in Miryalaguda on Saturday. Along with District Collector Prashant J Patil and local legislator N. Bhaskar Rao, he was at Vemulapalli, Shettipalem, Thungapahad, Kondrapole and Damaracherla villages. Mr. Reddy said Rythu Vedikas were for mobilising farmers. He said a total of Rs. 2917.39 crore had been paid as premium to LIC towards Rythu Bima so far.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/rythu-vedikas-opened/article35795859.ece
08 August 2021||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||300 quintals of PDS rice seized||Officials of the Civil Supplies department seized about 300 quintals of rice meant for the Public Distribution System (PDS) at Budhera on Friday night while checking vehicles. The rice was kept at AMC godown at Sadashivapet and the lorry that was carrying the rice was kept at Budhera police station. Civil supplied officials Suresh Kumar and Shafiyuddin participated in the checking.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/300-quintals-of-pds-rice-seized/article35795860.ece
08 August 2021||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||At Huzurabad, will it be party versus individual?||Will the Huzurabad by-election see the same mode of fight fought in Dubbak by-election held last year? Will it be between an individual and a party rather than between two/ three parties? Yes, is the answer if one goes by the comments being made by leaders from the Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS). At a meeting held at the district headquarters on Thursday, Finance Minister T. Harish Rao made two critical points. “BJP is campaigning without showing the photo of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and not exhibiting the flag of the party. If former minister Eatala Rajender wins the election, it will benefit only him and people will benefit if the TRS wins. Mr Rajender did nothing even after being a minister for seven years. The Chief Minister will take the responsibility of development as in the case of Nagarjunasagar if the party wins,” said Mr. Harish Rao. Here the Minister projected as if the fight were between Mr. Rajender and the TRS. Though Mr. Rajender joined the BJP, the ruling party at the national level, the ground reality is that the fight as of now is between Mr. Rajender and the TRS. The ruling party wants to make it a fight between two parties so that it can expose the increasing prices of petrol and diesel and the BJP not favouring any thing to Telangana. “At Dubbak, the fight ended between a party and an individual rather than two parties. In addition to other reasons, sympathy went in favour of BJP candidate M. Raghunandan Rao. We do not want to commit the same mistake here at Huzurabad. In all practical terms, Mr. Rajender had been in our party till a few months ago and minister as well. He had scored well as health minister. People will see a fight between a ruling party and an individual as uneven and sympathy would be in favour of Mr. Rajender. This will not do good for the party. We can have the advantage and public support being local party, if the fight is turned into one between two parties,” said a TRS leader. Any adverse result for the party would create more trouble in future, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/at-huzurabad-will-it-be-party-versus-individual/article35795863.ece
08 August 2021||new delhi,||Eviction notice sent to IWPC||The government has issued an eviction notice to the Indian Women’s Press Corps, located at Windsor Place in Lutyens’ Delhi, and asked it to pay outstanding dues immediately, an official said on Saturday. The notice was issued on August 5 by the directorate of estates, which comes under the housing ministry. When contacted, a senior IWPC office-bearer refused to comment. According to the notice, the allotment was made to IWPC on May 13, 1994, and was cancelled with effect from January 6, 2021, following expiry of tenure.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/eviction-notice-sent-to-iwpc/article35795499.ece
08 August 2021||Agartala/Kolkata,||2 leaders attacked in Tripura by BJP: TMC||The Trinamool Congress on Saturday alleged that two of its youth leaders from West Bengal were injured when their vehicle was allegedly attacked by the BJP activists in Tripura’s Dhalai district. Denying the allegation, the BJP claimed that the TMC is a non-factor in Tripura, and West Bengal’s ruling party is spreading the “virus of political violence” in the northeastern State, where “outsiders” are fomenting trouble. The police said two persons were attacked by a group of unidentified miscreants at Ambassa and their vehicle was partly damaged. TMC spokesperson Debangshu Bhattacharya alleged that party leaders Sudip Raha and Jaya Dutta were injured in an attack by the BJP workers in Ambassa. “The miscreants attacked the car, in which I was also seated, with lathi and lethal weapons, and pelted the vehicle with stones,” Mr. Bhattacharya told reporters. The BJP and the TMC supporters staged road blockades 500 m apart on NH-8, prompting the police to fire tear gas shells. The road blockades forced CM Biplab Deb to take a detour while returning to Agartala after attending some programmes in Dharmanagar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/2-leaders-attacked-in-tripura-by-bjp-tmc/article35795511.ece
08 August 2021||Chandigarh,||Youth Akali Dal leader shot dead in Mohali||Youth Akali Dal leader Vikramjit Singh Middukhera was shot dead in broad daylight in Punjab’s Mohali on Saturday, the police said. Two armed persons opened fire at Middukhera in a market area and fled, Mohali Superintendent of Police (Headquarters) Akashdeep Singh Aulakh told PTI over phone. A case has been registered, he said, adding that the police are trying to identify the accused, four in total. Footage from CCTV cameras in the area showed the miscreants open fire at Middukhera as he was getting into his parked car. Shiromani Akali Dal senior leader Daljit Singh Cheema said the incident has once again exposed the State’s “deteriorating law and order situation”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/youth-akali-dal-leader-shot-dead-in-mohali/article35795513.ece
08 August 2021||Ghaziabad,||RLD takes out ‘nyay yatra’||The Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) is taking out a ‘nyay yatra’ to raise the voices of the underprivileged and the dispossessed. The yatra started from Saharanpur on Saturday and will culminate in Agra on October 10. It will pass through Muzaffarnagar, Bijnor, Shamli, Baghpat, Meerut, Bulandshahr, Aligarh and Mathura. In alliance with the Samajwadi Party, these are the districts in western Uttar Pradesh where the party plans to put up its candidates in the coming Assembly polls. During the march, the party will raise six demands, which include justice for the alleged victim of rape and murder in Hathras, permanent job for all sanitation workers who are on contract and strict implementation of law against manual scavenging. The party also demands a compensation of Rs. 4 lakh for those who lost their kin to COVID-19. ‘Hate crimes rising’ RLD president Jayant Chaudhary said hate crimes, targeting Dalits and crimes against women, were rising in U.P. “We are taking out this yatra to talk about incidents like Hathras and Delhi rape cases and how the government is failing to address these issues and provide succour to the victims and their families. Also, COVID-19-affected families need to be provided with financial assistance.” Triloki Ram Diwakar, one of the party’s Dalit faces, said the party belonged to farmers and workers. “It belongs to everybody and not just Jats, as some try to project. The Hathras victim’s family is yet to get what was promised by the government,” said the former MLA from Iglas. On the BJP reaching out to the underprivileged with its ‘Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana’, he stated that it was an election gimmick.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/rld-takes-out-nyay-yatra/article35795514.ece
08 August 2021||Ghaziabad,||Farmer found dead in Ghaziabad||A 40-year-old farmer was found dead in U.P. on Saturday, the police said. Mehrajuddin alias Munna used to sleep inside the hut to protect his crops from wild animals, they said. On Friday night, Munna along with the helper went inside the hut to sleep. At midnight, Raju informed his brother Sirajuddin that some assailants held Munna hostage. The police were informed. They later found him 200 metres away from his hut, said SP (Rural) Iraj Raja said. An FIR has been lodged in the matter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/farmer-found-dead-in-ghaziabad/article35795690.ece
08 August 2021||GURUGRAM,||Eco-warriors upbeat after SC order to raze encroachments on forest land||The announcements by Faridabad and Gurugram administrations to identify and demolish illegal structures notified under the Punjab Land Preservation Act, 1900, have renewed hope among environmentalists, citizen groups, concerned individuals and NGOs who have been fighting for the survival of the Aravalis and the protection of wildlife and forests in South Haryana. The announcements came in the wake of the Supreme Court observation on July 23 in a matter pertaining to Khori Basti demolition that “the direction to remove all unauthorised structures standing on the forest land applies to ‘all’ unauthorised structures without any exception”. Soon after the apex court’s order, Faridabad Deputy Commissioner Yashpal Yadav said notices would be served to the owners of the illegal structures and demolition carried out in case they don’t adhere to the directions within four days. Taking the cue, the Gurugram administration also said a survey would be conducted to identify encroachments on the land notified under the PLPA, 1900 in the district, before the notices are put out and demolition carried out. Of the 5,430-acre land in Faridabad district notified under the Act, around 500 acre is encroached upon with 130-odd structures. Raj Kumar, Divisional Forest Officer, Faridabad, said that notices were served to the owners of around 120-odd illegal structures with a seven-day deadline — finishing next week — to clear the encroachments. “Though violations of the PLPA are widespread, most of the unauthorised construction is in four-five villages, including Badkhal, Akhneer Mewla Maharajpur and Anangpur,” said Mr. Kumar. Banquet owners move SC However, some banquet hall owners have moved the Supreme Court saying that they had stay orders from the apex court. “Hearing the pleas of these banquet owners, the SC has directed the Haryana government to file its submission on the matter on August 20 and directed to continue the protection granted to these banquet owners till then,” said Anil Grover, Senior Additional Advocate General, Haryana, told The Hindu . Chief Conservator of Forests, Gurugram, Vasvi Tyagi, said the paperwork was being done to carry out a drone survey in 6,800 acres of land notified under the PLPA in the district to identify the extent of violation before the demolitions. Aravalli Bachao, a citizens’ group fighting for the protection of the oldest mountain range, has sent emails to the Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal, his Deputy Dushyant Chautala, District Commissioners of Gurugram and Faridabad, Chief Secretary of Haryana, Conservator of Forest and other officials concerned on June 16, 2021, and again on July 27, 2021, demanding them to respect and implement the earlier order of the National Green Tribunal and the July 23, 2021 Supreme Court order directing that all illegal construction on forest land be demolished. Documentary film-maker Neelam Ahluwalia, an Aravalli Bachao member, said the sword of the regressive PLPA Amendment Bill passed by the Haryana government in February 2019 seeking to legalise all illegal constructions on protected forest areas was still hung on the future of the mountain range and Aravali Bachao had been demanding the government to withdraw this. “In the emails, we had attached geo-tagged images of some of the illegal encroachments in Gurugram and Faridabad Aravalis that our group has documented and have been highlighting on Twitter since January 2020. Our demand is that after the demolition, the forest department must plant native Aravali trees, shrubs and grasses in these areas to reclaim the forest,” added Ms. Ahluwalia. Gaurav Sarup, another Aravalli Bachao team member, said despite NGT orders, hardly a fraction of total illegal structures have been knocked down in the Raisina Hills area. He claimed that the property dealers, who they spoke to in Raisina, in June, said that the sale of farmhouses was still going on and they were confident that the administration would not raze all the structures. ‘Intentions of authorities’ Lt. Col (retd.) Sarvadaman Oberoi, an environmentalist, said inaction on the NGT order even after three years betrayed the “real” intentions of the authorities. “Though the NGT had ordered the setting up of a committee within two weeks of its October 2018 order and the compliance report in three months, the Haryana government took ten months. In March 2020, the NGT again pulled up the government for inaction and allowed three more months. The state got into action in doing a survey and issuing notices threatening demolition in May and June 2020 but little happened thereafter,” said Col. (retd) Mr. Oberoi. He alleged that the few demolitions carried out on the Aravali/forest land were mere “eye-wash” and the structures were just partially damaged. He added that a lot of new illegal constructions had been carried out in the areas taking advantage of the lockdown. Chetan Agarwal, a forest analyst, suggested that the NGT-appointed district committee chaired by the deputy commissioner should carry out the survey of the entire Aravalis in Gurugram measuring around 11,000 hectares and not just the hills notified under the PLPA. “The total Aravali forested land is 11,375 hectares, but only around 6,800-hectare is notified under the PLPA and the rest comes under the purview of the Aravali notification and its status as “forest” is yet to be decided. In fact, the violation in forest land under the Aravali notification is more rampant,” said Mr. Agarwal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/eco-warriors-upbeat-after-sc-order-to-raze-encroachments-on-forest-land/article35795510.ece
08 August 2021||Mumbai,||Deputation policy likely to spark more infighting in Maharashtra||A recently announced State government policy on deputation of IAS, IPS, IFS and IRS officers of Maharashtra domicile but working with an outside State cadre is likely to ignite another round of infighting among bureaucrats as IRS officers have been singled out and their prospects of securing important posts are expected to be curtailed to a great extent. As per the policy announced on August 3, officers of Maharashtra domicile and other State cadre working with Indian Revenue Service (IRS), Indian Defence Estates Service (IDES), Indian Railway Traffic Service (IRTS), Indian Postal Services (IPOS) and Indian Information Service (IIS) will get deputation in Maharashtra only if their spouses are presently working with the State government. No other reason will be entertained. However, IAS, IPS and IFS officers can get deputation on any personal reason. Contrary to the earlier examples, the policy has clarified that IRS, IDES, IRTS, IPOS officers will not be appointed to posts where officers from IAS, IPS and IFS cadre are to be appointed. Break from the past In the past, the State has witnessed many IRS cadre officers being appointed to posts meant for the IAS, the most recent one being Pallavi Darade, who worked as Commissioner, Food and Drug Administration, in the previous government. According to sources within the General Administration Department, the move will virtually block the possibility of IRS officers of Maharashtra domicile to work on deputation in the home State. These officers work with the Income Tax Department, GST, Customs and other tax-related offices. Interestingly, the policy comes weeks after former Chief Secretary Ajoy Mehta’s deal of a flat at Nariman Point in south Mumbai came under the Income Tax Department’s scanner. “IAS officers never willingly allow deputation of officers from other cadre to posts meant for them. In addition, the State bureaucracy is witnessing infighting between Marathi and non-Marathi IAS officers. All this has culminated into this policy. It will have long-lasting and explosive repercussions on officers’ lobby,” said a senior IAS official, on condition of anonymity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/deputation-policy-likely-to-spark-more-infighting-in-maharashtra/article35795734.ece
08 August 2021||Navi Mumbai,||CIDCO allots land for Sikkim Bhavan||The City and Industrial Development Corporation (CIDCO) has allotted a 4,000-square metre plot in Kharghar to the Sikkim government to build Sikkim Bhavan. The facility will be used mainly to provide shelter to cancer patients who come for treatment. Sikkim Chief Minister Prem Singh Tamang met CIDCO managing director Dr. Sanjay Mukherjee and thanked the Maharashtra government for the land.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/cidco-allots-land-for-sikkim-bhavan/article35795733.ece
08 August 2021||New Delhi,||Not enough hospital beds, admits govt.||The Capital has more doctors than prescribed by international standards for every 1,000 citizens, but barely makes the cut when it comes to the availability of hospital beds, the Delhi government told the Delhi Legislative Assembly during the recently concluded monsoon session. In reply to a starred question by Malviya Nagar AAP MLA Somnath Bharti, the Health Department said the city has three doctors for every 1,000 citizens — more than the internationally prescribed 1:1,000 doctor to population ratio. The World Health Organization (WHO) also prescribes a 1:1000 doctor-population ratio. However, when it comes to hospital beds, Delhi has less than the required 3:1,000 hospital bed to population ratio. At 2.7:1,000, the ratio in the city is slightly below what the Health Department termed “international standards”. The department also conceded that there is a shortfall of doctors and medical staff at government hospitals. Around 19% of the total posts of doctors, over 14% posts of nursing staff and over 18% posts of paramedical employees are vacant. “On the basis of the latest international standards, the doctor to population ratio should be 1:1,000 and the hospital bed to population ratio should be 3:1,000,” the department said. “Delhi has an estimated 70,000 doctors registered with the Delhi Medical Council, which is more than international standards. For a population of two crore, the number of hospital beds is estimated at 54,000,” it also stated. According to the department, the Delhi government was remodelling 94 existing dispensaries as polyclinics and 28 such clinics were currently functional. New hospitals While 505 Mohalla Clinics are currently operational, the department stated, three new hospitals had been opened between 2015 and 2021: one each at Ambedkar Nagar, Burari and Dwarka, while four more were under various stages of construction, according to the department. The department also submitted that 2,524 of the total 15,568 sanctioned posts across various levels at government hospitals were currently vacant. The highest percentage of vacant posts was of doctors, according to the Health Department. The department stated that of the 2,583 posts of doctors at government hospitals, 487 or almost 19% were vacant; 1,203 of the 8,407 sanctioned posts of nursing staff and 834 of the 4,578 posts of para-medical staff were also vacant. ‘Adding more beds’ The department stated it was in the process of adding 3,237 more beds to the existing pool of hospital beds, had been consistently seeking the filling of vacancies at government hospitals and many existing city hospitals were being remodeled to accommodate more beds on their premises.  Around 19% of the total posts of doctors, over 14% posts of nursing staff and over 18% posts of para-medical staff are lying vacant Health Department||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/not-enough-hospital-beds-admits-govt/article35795502.ece
08 August 2021||New Delhi,||Delhi govt. tampering with higher education institutions, says Gupta||Rohini BJP MLA Vijender Gupta on Saturday wrote to Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal alleging that higher education institutions were being tampered with, made inaccessible due to an “irrational” hike in fee and politicised by the Delhi government. He said since the time the AAP government came to power, it had not commissioned even a single new college or school but had taken over the already established institutions of polytechnics and rebranded them under the Delhi Skill and Entrepreneurship University. “It has imposed enormous fee hike making admission into the institutions extremely difficult. Fees for the Polytechnic Diploma course has increased from Rs. 5,000 to Rs. 24,000; for BTech and MTech the fee has been raised to Rs. 1,44,000 from an earlier Rs. 35,000. There has been no justification for such a huge increase,” he said. ‘Spending crores in ads’ He said the AAP government was “spending crores in advertising” this “newly branded” Skills University however the number of students applying remained poor due to “irrationally high” fees being charged.  As a result, the government is not able to fill the seats and is pushing the last date for admission. It has again changed the last date to August 17, 2021. Previously, the last date for application was July 27, 2021, he alleged. “The AAP government has removed the names of Dr. B.R. Ambedkar, Guru Nanak Dev, Kasturba Gandhi, Govind Ballabh Pant and so on from the educational institutions’ names in a move to degrade the national icons. This has deeply hurt the sentiments of the nation,” he said. He demanded that the L-G intervene in the matter and reduce the fee at the earliest so that students could apply from this year onwards. He also sought for restoration of names of national icons in the names of these institutions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/govt-tampering-with-education-institutions/article35795504.ece
08 August 2021||New Delhi,||Scrap all appointments made in the Civil Defence department, says Bidhuri||Leader of the Opposition in the Delhi Assembly Ramvir Singh Bidhuri on Saturday demanded that all appointments made in the Civil Defence department be scrapped and a probe be ordered with immediate effect. Mr. Singh demanded that a Service Selection Board under the Delhi Police be constituted for the recruitment process of personnel in the department because “all appointments made in it came about without any proper norms or guidelines”. “The most shocking part is that no proper police verification was done in the recruitment of people and as a result, we come across many incidents where the personnel of the Civil Defence are found to be involved in criminal activities,” Mr. Bidhuri alleged. He also said: “Only two days ago personnel of the Civil Defence were caught red-handed while trying to extort money from people for not wearing masks. Before this, some personnel were found involved in incidents of dacoity.” The LoP said the selection board could function at the district-level and its representatives could include a DCP and two ACPs. In addition to this, he stated, norms should be framed under which one should have to undergo a fitness test, a written entrance test and police verification. Change uniform: LoP “Currently all those who have been recruited are like AAP cadres or those who have affiliations to the AAP leaders. No norms are followed and no guidelines are in place for this recruitment and therefore they should be scrapped,” he added. “The uniform of Civil Defence personnel should be changed immediately as it almost resembles that of the Delhi Police. These Civil Defence personnel are indulging in extortion and corruption and the Delhi Police is being defamed for heinous crimes,” he alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/scrap-all-appointments-made-in-the-civil-defence-department-says-bidhuri/article35795505.ece
08 August 2021||New Delhi,||All weekly markets to reopen from Aug. 9: CM||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday announced that weekly markets would be allowed to open from the coming week. “Weekly markets are being opened from Monday. These r poor people. Govt is quite concerned about their livelihoods. However, everyone’s health and lives are also imp. I urge everyone to follow Covid appropriate behaviour after these mkts are opened [SIC],” he tweeted. Delhi BJP leaders had staged a demonstration near Mr. Kejriwal's residence on Friday, demanding permission for complete reopening of all weekly markets. Meanwhile, the Chamber of Trade and Industry on Saturday urged the Delhi Disaster Management Authority to allow malls and markets to operate till 10 p.m. These markets are presently allowed to operate only till 8 p.m. Number of doses The COVID-19 vaccine stock of the city is likely to last for eight days — the highest in at least a month, as per government data.  There are 5,05,810 doses of Covishield and 3,75,510 doses of Covaxin. A total of 83,833 doses of vaccine were administered in the city on Friday, less compared to 90,129 doses on Thursday, as per a bulletin released by the Delhi government on Saturday. Till now, 1,05,59,669 doses of vaccines have been administered in the city, as per the bulletin. The city reported 72 new COVID-19 cases over 24 hours, taking the total to 14,36,695. There was only one death, pushing the toll to 25,066. A total of 73,681 tests were done in a day and the test positivity rate was 0.10%. Of the total cases, 14,11,064 people have recovered and there are only 565 active cases in the city. Next sero survey The Delhi government is yet to fix the date for the next serological survey, said officials. The last such survey was held in April, but the sample collection could not reach the target due to the surge in cases. The report of the survey was submitted to the Delhi government in June, which recommended another such survey to be conducted in June end or early July.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/all-weekly-markets-to-open-from-tomorrow/article35795507.ece
08 August 2021||August 08 2021 00:00 IST,||Villagers protest against windmills on forestland||Sangnara village in Kutch has been trying to save its forests from wind energy companies for the past two years as windmills are being installed on forestland. On Friday, hundreds of its residents held a protest march against the setting up of green energy projects. Kutch has been designated as an important wind energy exploitation zone, and thousands of windmills have been put up by energy companies, leading to local conflicts in villages because the structures are eating up common forest and grazing lands critical for villagers. In Sangnara, local communities raised their voice when they realised that their forestland was being destroyed to pave the way for setting up wind turbines. The local residents, including women and youth, have been stopping company vehicles from entering the forest. However, the companies resorted to heavy police protection to deforest and continue their operations to protect and install turbines after levelling the areas allotted to them by the administration.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/villagers-protest-against-windmills-on-forestland/article35795735.ece
08 August 2021||Kabul,||Second Afghan city falls into Taliban hands||Taliban militants entered the capital of northern Afghanistan’s Jawzjan province on Saturday, a provincial lawmaker said, after sweeping through nine of 10 districts in the province. The government did not deny lawmaker Mohammad Karim Jawzjani’s claim that Taliban militants had entered Sheberghan, but said the city had not fallen. If the city falls, it will be the second provincial capital in as many days to succumb to the Taliban. Several other of the country’s 34 provincial capitals are threatened. On Friday, the Taliban took control of the southwestern Nimroz provincial capital of Zaranj, where the government says it is still battling insurgents inside the capital. Prisoners freed Sheberghan is particularly strategic because it is the stronghold of U.S-.allied Uzbek warlord Rashid Dostum, whose militias are among those resurrected to aid the Afghan National Security and Defense Forces. Heavy airstrikes were reported by residents of Sheberghan, who also said the Taliban had freed prisoners from the city jail. They requested to remain anonymous fearing retaliation from both sides. Taliban militants have swept through large swathes of Afghanistan at surprising speed, initially taking districts, many in remote areas. In recent weeks, they have laid siege to several provincial capitals across the country as the last U.S. and NATO troops leave the country. The U.S. Central Command says the withdrawal is more than 95% complete and will be finished by August 31. The U.S. Air Force continues to aid the Afghan Air Force’s bombing of Taliban targets in southern Helmand and Kandahar provinces as Afghan security forces try to prevent a Taliban takeover. On Friday, Taliban militants assassinated Dawa Khan Menapal, the chief of the Afghan government’s press operations for local and foreign media. It came just days after a coordinated attempt was made to kill acting Defense Minister Bismillah Khan Mohammadi. In a report to the UN Security Council on Friday, the UN envoy for Afghanistan urged the council to demand the Taliban immediately stop attacking cities in their offensive to take more territory. Deborah Lyons also called on the international community to urge both sides to stop fighting and negotiate to prevent a “catastrophe” in the war-torn country. In Afghanistan’s Helmand and Kandahar provinces in the south of the country, thousands of Afghans were displaced by the fighting and living in miserable conditions. In Helmand’s provincial capital of Lashkar Gah, Afghanistan’s elite commando forces aided by regular troops were trying to dislodge the Taliban but with little success, said Nafeeza Faiez, a provincial Council Member. Taliban are in control of nine of the city’s 10 police districts. Ms. Faiez said conditions for residents are desperate as they hunker down inside their homes, unable to get supplies or get to hospitals for treatment. Many of the public buildings have also been badly damaged in the fighting. “People have no access to any service,” she said. More than half of Afghanistan’s 421 districts and district centers are now in Taliban hands. While many are in remote regions, some are extremely strategic, giving the Taliban control of lucrative border crossings with Iran, Tajikistan and Pakistan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/second-afghan-city-falls-into-taliban-hands/article35794975.ece
08 August 2021||Lahore,||50 people held in Pakistan for attack on Hindu temple||Pakistan’s law enforcement agencies on Saturday arrested over 50 people, including the main suspects, allegedly involved in an attack on a Hindu temple in a remote town of the country’s Punjab province, a day after the Supreme Court admonished the authorities for their failure to protect the shrine. They also booked 150 people in connection with the attack on Wednesday. A mob attacked the temple at Bhong city of Rahim Yar Khan district of the province, in protest against the release of an eight-year-old Hindu boy, who was arrested for allegedly urinating in a local seminary. “More than 50 suspects have been arrested so far through analysis of video footages in a shameful ransacking incident at a temple in Rahim Yar Khan,” Punjab CM Usman Buzdar tweeted. Restoration work “We will make sure that no such incident happens (in the future). Besides, the restoration work of the temple has been under way in full speed,” he said. District Police Officer (DPO) of Rahim Yar Khan Asad Sarfraz said that all “main suspects” have been arrested. An FIR has been registered under terrorism and other sections of the Pakistan Penal Code against over 150 people, he said. Pakistan’s Supreme Court on Friday pulled up authorities for failing to stop the attack and ordered the arrest of the culprits, observing that the incident has tarnished the image of the country abroad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/50-people-held-in-pakistan-for-attack-on-hindu-temple/article35794971.ece
08 August 2021||August 08 2021 00:00 IST,||China steps up vaccine outreach with new global push||China’s declaration this week that it would provide 2 billion doses of vaccines to the world by year-end marks a stepped up effort by Beijing to take the lead in international vaccine cooperation and position itself as representing developing countries, amid growing concerns over widening vaccine inequity with the West. The announcement came at an international meeting organised on August 5 by Beijing, which brought together Foreign Ministers, Health Ministers and other senior officials from a number of countries, including Sri Lanka and Pakistan in South Asia; Thailand, Malaysia Indonesia, and Philippines in the ASEAN region; Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador and Mexico in Latin America; Egypt, Morocco, and South Africa in Africa; officials from Russia, Serbia, Turkey, Hungary and the UAE; and the Director General of the World Health Organisation (WHO). ‘No political purpose’ China’s Foreign Minister Wang Yi said the meeting was aimed at “strengthening international cooperation on vaccines and promoting fair and equitable distribution of vaccines around the world”. At the forum, Mr. Wang read out a message from President Xi Jinping announcing the provision of 2 billion doses of vaccines by the end of the year as well as a donation of $100 million to the COVAX Facility for distributing vaccines to developing countries. Mr. Wang said China “has no political purpose” and “there have never been any political conditions attached to such cooperation.” Beijing has, however, stepped up its criticism of the U.S. in particular in recent months both for failing to step up to provide vaccines to developing countries as well as for what China has called “politicising” the ongoing investigation into the origins of COVID-19. Its vaccine outreach comes as Beijing looks to build a broad coalition of support including at the UN and the WHO as it pushes back against criticism from the West over the question of access to investigators looking into the origins of the pandemic in Wuhan, China, where it began. Mr. Wang told the meeting, “We need to defend morality and justice and offer more assistance to developing countries.” China’s offer was welcomed by participating countries, including Sri Lanka. Sri Lanka’s Foreign Minister Dinesh Gunawardena told the meeting “there still remained significant inequalities in vaccination programmes across the world” and he thanked “both bilateral and international partners, particularly China, for the timely supply of over 10 million vaccines, including the gift of 2.7 million Sinopharm vaccines to Sri Lanka’s vaccination campaign.” Mr. Wang said China had donated vaccines to more than 100 countries and exported more than 770 million doses to over 60 countries, “the most of any nation in the world.” He said China welcomed more countries to join a Partnership on COVID-19 Vaccines Cooperation under Mr. Xi’s signature Belt and Road Initiative. Initial studies from phase three trials have shown China’s vaccines, including Sinopharm and Sinovac vaccines that lead China’s vaccine exports, are less effective than the mRNA vaccines but do offer protection against serious infection and may help reduce hospitalisation rates. Some countries, including China, using Chinese vaccines are considering a third booster dose, particularly against the Delta variant. China in June said it had administered more than 1 billion doses at home and plans to fully vaccinate 70% of its population by year end. China is currently dealing with the biggest spread of local clusters in over a year, and as yet has offered no timetable to when it will open up to international travel with strict restrictions and effective travel bans still remaining in place for most countries, including India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/china-steps-up-vaccine-outreach-with-new-global-push/article35794965.ece
08 August 2021||Athens,||Mass evacuations as Greece fires rage on||Thousands of tourists and residents were evacuated and a thick cloud of smoke hung over Athens as forest fires raged in Greece on Saturday, while heavy rains brought some relief to neighbouring Turkey. At least 1,450 Greek firefighters, along with 15 aircraft, were battling the infernos, with reinforcements arriving from other countries, the fire service said. The blazes in Greece are set to continue, with strong winds and temperatures of up to 38 degrees Celsius forecast in some regions on Saturday. As of August 5, the areas burnt were 180% more than the average for the period 2008-2020, according to the European Forest Fire Information System. In Turkey, eight people have been killed. Rains have brought the blaze under control in the southwestern province of Turkey.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/mass-evacuations-as-greece-fires-rage-on/article35794969.ece
08 August 2021||Islamabad,||‘No talk for U.S. military base in Pak.’||Pakistan’s National Security Adviser Moeed Yusuf has said that no U.S. official or lawmaker asked for a military base in Pakistan, rejecting reports that the Biden administration was seeking American military bases in the country to influence developments in neighbouring Afghanistan. Mr. Yusuf made the comments as he wrapped up his 10-day trip to the U.S. He met senior officials during his visit before leaving for Islamabad, the Dawn newspaper reported on Saturday. “The word base was not mentioned, not even once, during our talks, except in the media,” Mr. Yusuf told U.S.-based Pakistani journalists while summing up the visit. “Bases were not discussed at all from either side during this trip because we have already made our position clear. That chapter is closed,” he said. Prime Minister Imran Khan in June ruled out hosting American bases in Pakistan for military action inside war-torn Afghanistan, fearing it might lead to his country being “targeted in revenge attacks” by terrorists.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/no-talk-for-us-military-base-in-pak/article35794978.ece
08 August 2021||Tehran,||Iran rejects G7 and EU charge over ship attack||Iran on Saturday rejected Western allegations its drones were used in a tanker attack, while accusing Israel of concocting the “scenario” in a bid to undermine the Islamic republic. The MT Mercer Street , an oil products tanker operated by Israeli-controlled Zodiac maritime, was struck last week off Oman’s coast, killing two crew members — a Briton and a Romanian. G7 Foreign Ministers on Friday blamed Iran for the attack, as the U.S. military released findings of an investigation, alleging the drones were made in Iran. “We condemn the baseless statement by the G7 Foreign Ministers and the EU’s high representative for foreign affairs in which they have directed baseless accusations at the Islamic Republic of Iran,” Foreign Ministry spokesman Saeed Khatibzadeh said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/iran-rejects-g7-and-us-charge-over-ship-attack/article35794963.ece
08 August 2021||Washington,||U.S. is now averaging 1 lakh COVID-19 infections a day||The U.S. is now averaging 1,00,000 new COVID-19 infections a day, returning to a milestone last seen during the winter surge in yet another bleak reminder of how quickly the Delta variant has spread through the country. The U.S. was averaging about 11,000 cases a day in late June. Now the number is 1,07,143. It took the U.S. about nine months to cross the 1,00,000 average case number in November before peaking at about 2,50,000 in early January. Cases bottomed out in June but took about six weeks to go back above 1,00,000, despite a vaccine that has been given to more than 70% of the adult population. The seven-day average for daily new deaths also increased, according to data from Johns Hopkins University. It rose over the past two weeks from about 270 deaths per day to nearly 500 a day as of Friday. The virus is spreading quickly through unvaccinated populations, especially in the South where hospitals have been overrun with patients. Health officials are fearful that cases will continue to soar if more Americans don’t embrace the vaccine. “Our models show that if we don’t (vaccinate people), we could be up to several hundred thousand cases a day, similar to our surge in early January,” Centers for Disease Control and Prevention director Rochelle Walensky said. The number of Americans hospitalised with the virus has also skyrocketed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-is-now-averaging-1-lakh-covid-19-infections-a-day/article35794973.ece
08 August 2021||Jerusalem,||Israel hits Gaza in response to fire balloons||Israel conducted overnight air strikes against Hamas targets in Gaza in retaliation for the launching of incendiary balloons from the Palestinian enclave that caused fires in southern Israel, the country’s military said early on Saturday. Incendiary balloons caused four fires on Friday in Eshkol region near Gaza, Israeli firefighters said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/israel-hits-gaza-in-response-to-fire-balloons/article35794967.ece
08 August 2021||London,||U.K. tells citizens to leave Afghanistan immediately||The U.S. and British Embassies in Kabul warned its citizens still there to leave “immediately” as the security situation deteriorated. The U.S. Embassy in Kabul also issued a statement on Saturday condemning the Taliban’s military onslaught saying it was contrary to the insurgent group's claim to support a negotiated peace settlement.AP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/uk-tells-citizens-to-leave-afghanistan-immediately/article35794966.ece
08 August 2021||MUMBAI,||BoB turns profit on interest income, lower provisions||Bank of Baroda (BoB) on Saturday reported standalone net profit of Rs. 1,209 crore compared with a net loss of Rs. 864 crore a year earlier. The turnaround came on the back of 15.8% growth in net interest income to Rs. 7,892 crore, and lower provisioning for bad loans. However, stress was seen in the MSME, retail and agriculture loan segments. Fresh slippages rose to Rs. 5,129 crore from Rs. 2,740 crore. Of this, the MSME share was Rs. 2,180 crore as against Rs. 308 crore; retail loans had a fresh slippage of Rs. 1,245 crore as compared with Rs. 88 crore, while agriculture loans clocked up Rs. 1,086 crore compared with Rs. 44 crore, the bank said in a filing with the exchanges. The bank’s asset quality improved with gross non-performing assets (NPAs) falling to 8.86% of the gross advances as on June 30, from 9.39% a year earlier. However, the net NPA ratio rose to 3.03% from 2.83%, the bank added. Total provisions and contingencies for the quarter eased to Rs. 4,111.99 crore from Rs. 5,350 crore. The provisioning coverage ratio stood at 83%. Write-offs were to the tune of Rs. 4,660 crore compared with Rs. 1,729 crore. Recoveries increased to Rs. 1,027 crore from Rs. 554 crore. Provisions for non-performing assets declined 26% to Rs. 2,557 crore.  Organic retail loans increased 11.8%. Within retail loans, auto loans climbed 25% and personal loans grew 19.5%. Gold loans rose 37.7%. Domestic deposits increased 3%, led by a 12.7% increase in domestic current and savings account deposits. Domestic advances fell 2.3% due to a run-off of low yielding corporate loans. Agriculture loans rose 9.4% and organic MSME advances increased 6.9%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/bob-turns-profit-on-interest-income-lower-provisions/article35795102.ece
08 August 2021||August 08 2021 00:00 IST,||‘We will return to pre-COVID levels by October-December’||The decorative division of Nippon Paint India is looking forward to the festive season for business to return to pre-COVID-19 levels, says the division’s president Mahesh Anand in a telephonic interview. Excerpts : How did you tackle the lockdown situation? On March 24, 2020 when the complete lockdown was announced, at that point, nobody was prepared for anything, but somehow, over the next two months, people had realised that this is going to be the way of life. Paint companies started introducing products such as sanitisers. We also launched sanitisers, masks and gloves. We educated the painters and supported 3,500 painters through digital mode, paid for their daily needs, supplied groceries and extended some COVID insurance for about 3,000 of them. Simultaneously, we also educated dealers. Therefore, in the first wave, if you see in March, 10 days sales were not there and in April, there was a complete washout. In May, there was a recovery of about 30% and from June onwards, it started increasing by 60% to 70%. Overall, 2020 was actually a flat year for the paint industry. Did sales rise during the festive season? The normal festive season sales from October to December, especially in the North and the West, was very good. But sales was affected during January to March 2021 due to the second wave. The southern States were the first to get affected. Even though it was not a complete lockdown, business was disrupted from the last week of April. May 2021 was again a disruption with only about 30% of sales. From June, we are looking at a slight recovery. I wouldn’t say that the situation is back to normal but it’s about 80% back to normal as far as industry is concerned. During the first wave, manufacturing was stopped for almost 30 days. Industries were asked to close down. But during the second wave, they allowed continuous manufacturing [industries] with 30% occupancy. That helped us to continue our factory [operations] without any lockdown and the supply chain didn’t get disrupted. Dealer shops were closed during the second wave. We are looking at a good July-to-September period and then, as usual, we are expecting the festive season to come back like the last time and we should be back to pre-COVID-19 levels by October to December. When compared with industry standards, are you above the curve? Yeah, when compared with industry standards, we are above the curve. It’s a challenging task, still we are above the curve. About 70% of Nippon Paint’s sales comes from the southern States. During both the waves, southern States were the worst affected. However, since our focus and resources are more deployed, we are able to float above the curve in the South also. What is the current production capacity? We have three plants altogether: one each for decorative, industrial and automotive refinish. The decorative plant at Sriperumbudur is operating at 50% efficiency. Any capex plans? When we open a new dealership, we invest in some automation in the plant. Besides, we gift each dealer a Point of Sales tinting machine. My plant is currently semi-automated. We will be investing in silos. Silos is one of the automations, which we will be doing and that is a major investment. Another one is an effluent treatment plant that we need to invest in. When production capacity rises, it will automatically lead to an increase in effluent [discharge]. These are the investments we will be doing in the next few years. What is your company’s current market share? We have a sizeable market share in Tamil Nadu. Now, we will be better in South than West and the North.  We continued our operations and the supply chain didn’t get disrupted during the second wave||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/we-will-return-to-pre-covid-levels-by-october-december/article35795369.ece
08 August 2021||Chennai,||‘Collections improving but a lot hinges on festival season’||Cholamandalam Investment and Finance Company Ltd.’s collections against loans have begun improving from the start of this quarter but the festival season will be an important milestone to see how the company’s customers are able raise capacity utilisation, earn revenues and service debt, said CFO and executive vice-president Arulselvan D. The company had earlier said that both disbursements and collections had been impacted in the first quarter due to the second wave of COVID-19. “For us, July performance is almost at par with March 2021. Borrowers who did not pay April and May dues have begun paying across June and July.” However, he noted that the situation was only ‘stabilising’, not ‘normalising’ for the financial services firm that is into vehicle financing, loans against property and lending to small and medium enterprises. “Our borrowers need to operate at least at 60% capacity. When that goes up to 70%, they can start paying that month’s dues. When it inches towards 80%, then earlier dues on which they had defaulted would be serviced.” With the arrival of the festival season, Mr. Arulselvan reasoned, the ability to service dues for April and May would return to the company’s borrowers. The caveat, of course, was the risk to the economy from a likely third wave, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/collections-improving-but-a-lot-hinges-on-festival-season/article35795104.ece
08 August 2021||CHENNAI,||Shriram City Union to focus on SME, bike loans||Shriram City Union Finance Ltd. will focus on small and medium enterprise (SME) and two-wheeler disbursements to grow its assets under management (AUM) by 12-15% during FY22, a top official said. “Our loan book of SMEs used to be 55% of AUM, but it has come down to 49% in Q1 due to sporadic lockdowns,” said S. Chakravarti, MD & CEO. Noting that SMEs were badly hit on account of the first and second waves, he said that they were not able to reach SMEs on time to lend them a helping hand. “Currently, liquidity is not an issue with NBFCs. Our first priority is to improve SME portfolio. For this, we have to reach out and work with them,” he said. Out of the total portfolio of about Rs. 30,000 crore, SMEs accounted for 49%, two-wheelers 26%, gold loans 14.5%, personal loans 7% and auto loans 2%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/shriram-city-union-to-focus-on-sme-bike-loans/article35795367.ece
08 August 2021||MUMBAI,||Muthoot Q1 profit rises 14% to Rs. 979 crore||Muthoot Finance Ltd. reported consolidated net profit for the first quarter increased 14% to Rs. 979 crore. Consolidated Loan Assets Under Management grew 25% to Rs. 58,135 crore, the company said. Standalone net profit increased 16% to Rs. 971 crore. “We consciously decided to go slow in terms of non-gold lending business due to continued uncertainty and emerging uncertain credit behaviour,” said George Alexander Muthoot, managing director. “We are redrawing our strategies in terms of non-gold lending business. On gold loan front, we are targeting 15% growth in the next three quarters,” added Mr. Muthoot.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/muthoot-q1-profit-rises-14-to-rs-979-crore/article35795364.ece
08 August 2021||August 08 2021 00:00 IST,||Bajrang Punia claims bronze in style||Superstar Bajrang Punia met his fellow countrymen’s expectations as he recorded a comprehensive 8-0 victory over World championships silver medallist Daulet Niyazbekov of Kazakhstan to claim a men’s freestyle 65kg bronze medal at the Tokyo Olympics on Saturday. Bajrang, a three-time Worlds medallist and an overwhelming favourite for a podium finish, gave a controlled performance to notch up his first medal on debut and elevate his status in Indian wrestling. After Sushil Kumar, Bajrang is the first Indian wrestler to win medals in both Olympics and the World championships. Bajrang is the sixth Indian wrestler ever to claim an Olympic medal. This is the country’s second wrestling medal in Tokyo 2020, after the two medals in London 2012. Bajrang, who had lost to Niyazbekov in the 2019 World championships semifinals in Nur-Sultan, came back on the mat with confidence. He was watchful even while attacking his opponent in the first period and opened his account through a passivity point. Bajrang doubled it by driving Niyazbekov out of the circle. Determination The 27-year-old Indian returned after the break with a lot of determination and executed his game plan of attacking the Kazakh’s right leg well. He managed a two-pointer through his first takedown with less than 90 seconds left. With his coach Shako Bentinidis shouting ‘only right side’ from his corner, Bajrang stuck to his task and made it 6-0 through a counter. He collected two more points and successfully defended his 8-0 lead. After his loss in the Olympics semifinals on Friday, it was a huge sigh of relief for Bajrang and the Indian coaching staff. Shako and chief coach Jagmender Singh celebrated by hugging each other.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bajrang-punia-claims-bronze-in-style/article35795074.ece
08 August 2021||Tokyo,||Neeraj’s stellar show gives the Indian campaign a golden sheen||It was a historic day for the nation as Neeraj Chopra’s javelin pierced the Tokyo night sky to herald a new dawn for Indian sports. August 7, 2021, will be etched in Indian hearts for eternity as the 23-year-old from Haryana won India’s first track and field gold medal at the Olympics. This was also India’s first gold medal since shooter Abhinav Bindra’s won the 10m air rifle gold in 2008. With Neeraj’s gold on the penultimate day, India ended its campaign at the XXXII Olympiad with seven medals — the country’s best performance at the Summer Games. Neeraj dropped the javelin ahead of his first throw as he tried to fix his throwing belt at the Tokyo Olympic Stadium. But that was the only false step he took this evening, as he sent the javelin soaring, a minute later, to a distance of 87.03m. His throw put him in an early lead. Neeraj produced a throw of 87.58m with his second attempt. He knew that it was special and raised his hands in celebration as soon as he released the javelin. No one bettered that mark, though two Czech Republic throwers gave him a few anxious moments. Neeraj had a third throw of 76.79m and he fouled on the next two attempts, but it did not matter. The favourite for the gold medal, Germany’s Johannes Vetter, endured a tough start and managed a best of 82.52m. He was eliminated after three throws and finished ninth. Neeraj’s coach Klaus Bartonietz said the athlete’s ability to bend his body like a dhanush (bow), transfer his body elasticity and weight into the javelin, and release the spear at 34-36 degrees was the secret of his success. As technical as it sounds, this is what helped Neeraj perfect his release angle and get distance on his throws. The last word of advice Neeraj got from coach Bartonietz was: “ Maje karo (have fun).” Neeraj, though, was barely able to sit down as the competition moved into the last three throws. He shadow practised in a corner, cheered on by the 20-odd Indian contingent in the stands. The field started to get thinner and only the two Czechs — Jakub Vadlejch (86.67m) and Vitezslav Vesely (85.44) — remained in the fray till the end. “These guys had me frightened until the very last throw,” Neeraj said, flanked by the two Czech throwers, at the press meet. Tribute to Milkha The bandana-wearing athlete from Panipet in Haryana gave the 1.3 billion people a reason to celebrate, a reason to cry, and a reason to unite. Wearing the medal, which many in India have yearned for, Neeraj remembered the legendary Milkha Singh, who finished fourth in the 1960 Rome Olympics. Neeraj dedicated his medal to Milkha, who had passed away in June. “When we were in Kourtane, Milkha Singh ji passed away and I felt very bad. I did not meet him when he was alive, and I wanted to meet him with an Olympic medal. Sadly, he’s not among us but I hope he's seeing us from above and is happy (medal) that his dream has come true. Even other athletes like P.T. Usha and others who missed out on a medal very narrowly — I hope they’re all happy.” The legends and the entire nation were indeed happy as Neeraj flew the tricolour high.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/neerajs-stellar-show-gives-the-indian-campaign-a-golden-sheen/article35795060.ece
08 August 2021||Washington,||PSG in talks to sign Messi: source||Paris Saint-Germain and Lionel Messi are in negotiations on a contract after financially troubled Barcelona was unable to keep the superstar, a person with knowledge of the negotiations told The Associated Press on Saturday. Messi’s legal team is in Paris and negotiations have seen an annual net salary of around €25 million euros discussed which would be lower than his Barcelona pay, the person said on condition of anonymity to discuss ongoing talks. Barcelona announced that Messi will give a news conference at the Camp Nou on Sunday at noon local time but has not specified what it is about. Even so, Barcelona’s coach and players did not wait to make public their tributes and farewells to the star. Barcelona bid farewell to Messi in statements and social media posts on Thursday, making him the most desired free agent in soccer history after his contract expired. The Catalan club had hoped to keep Messi, who agreed to a pay cut, but it still wouldn’t have complied with the Spanish league’s financial regulations. PSG coach Mauricio Pochettino was in contact with his fellow Argentine as Barcelona announced on Thursday that Messi would be leaving the club he joined as a 13-year-old before winning every major trophy and world player of the year titles. Funded for a decade by Qatari sovereign wealth, PSG is one of the few clubs in the world that can finance a deal. The club is exploring sponsorship deals in South America on the back of being able to sign Messi. There was no immediate response from Messi’s media team. PSG didn’t respond to an email with questions seeking comment. Serial winner Messi led Barcelona to 35 titles, including four Champions League crowns, while also earning a record six Ballon d’Or awards. But club president Joan Laporta deemed retaining the best player in club history, even at a 50% discount to his previous wages, as too risky to its beleaguered finances. While Messi waited to speak on his future, Barcelona’s coach and players used social media to express their farewells to the 34-year-old star. Not the same again Coach Ronald Koeman said Saturday that “it is still difficult to grasp that you will never play again for Barcelona”. Veteran defender Gerard Pique, who had played with Messi since the time both were teenagers at Barcelona’s youth academy, said late Friday that “nothing will ever be the same, not Camp Nou, not the city of Barcelona, not even ourselves. “We met each other when we were 13 years old and had our careers before us. What a career! If we had written it ourselves, it could not have been better,” Pique said. Left back Jordi Alba, who developed an almost unstoppable passing connection with Messi for the Argentine to score, said that “it has been a privilege to share these nine years with you.” “How I enjoyed your passes to meet my run and my pass back to you that always worked. And how much I am going to miss you,” Alba said.  nothing will ever be the same, not Camp Nou, not the city of Barcelona Gerard Pique   It is still difficultto grasp that you will never play again for Barcelona Coach Ronald Koeman   How I enjoyed your passes to meet my run and my pass back to you Jordi Alba||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/psg-in-talks-to-sign-messi-source/article35795657.ece
08 August 2021||Nottingham,||Stellar shows by Root, Bumrah||India was set a target of 209 to win the first Test against England after bowling out the hosts for 303 in the final session in their second innings on Saturday, the fourth day here. Captain Joe Root made 109, his 21st Test century coming after he had also top-scored in England’s meagre first innings 183 with 64. Jasprit Bumrah led India’s attack with 5/64 in 19 overs, returning match figures of 9/110. Earlier Root continued to defy the Indian attack and extended England’s lead to 140 runs at tea. In the morning session, England erased the 95-run first innings deficit to enjoy a slender 24-run lead. Brisk scoring Resuming the second session at 119 for two, England scored at a brisk pace to add another 116 runs to reach 235 for five. India got three wickets in the second session — a well set Dom Sibley (28 off 133), Jonny Bairstow (30 off 50) and Dan Lawrence (25 off 32) who missed a straight ball off Shardul Thakur. While Root looked in total control at the other end, all three batsmen failed to capitalise on promising starts. After doing all the hardwork, Sibley went for a drive away from his body only to inside edge it to Rishabh Pant off Jasprit Bumrah, ending the 89-run stand with his skipper. Root was then joined by Bairstow and the two shared a 42-run partnership for the fourth wicket. After hitting some crisp boundaries, Bairstow got a half tracker from Siraj that he pulled it from the middle of the bat but unfortunately for him, it went straight to the safe hands of Ravindra Jadeja at deep square leg.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/stellar-shows-by-root-bumrah/article35795516.ece
08 August 2021||Nottingham,||Bumrah, Root take honours||Skipper Joe Root led from the front with a superb counter-attacking hundred but Jasprit Bumrah’s five-wicket haul on the fourth day made India favourites to chase down a tricky victory target of 209 against England in the first Test. In the time left during the day, India scored 52 for one with Stuart Broad dismissing K.L. Rahul (26, 38b) with a beauty. Rohit Sharma and Cheteshwar Pujara were unbeaten on 12 each. Century No. 21 It was Root’s 21st Test hundred — a masterful 109 off 172 balls, that saw England put up a much-improved batting show, scoring 303 in 85.5 overs and secure a lead of 208 runs. Bumrah (5/64 in 19 overs) polished the tail in a jiffy with the second new ball en route to his sixth five-wicket haul. Taken to task However, the Indian bowlers were taken to task by the England captain, whose mode of survival for the better part of the innings was swift counter-attack that fetched him as many as 14 boundaries before Bumrah got one to rear up ensuring Rishabh Pant had the easiest of catches. On the final day, if weather permits, India will need another 157 runs but in these conditions, it could prove to be more than a handful. However, the day belonged to Root, who once again bossed the Indian bowling having scored a half-century in the first essay. Bumrah got Zak Crawley with one that was shaping in but straightened while Sibley tried to go for a loose cover drive when the ball seamed back to take an inside edge. While Root’s kicked up from length, Curran was the only one who got a bouncer and Stuart Broad could not counter a mean yorker.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bumrah-root-take-honours/article35795370.ece
08 August 2021||Tokyo,||Aditi Ashok misses medal by a whisker||Aditi Ashok came within touching distance of a historic Olympic medal but ended up a very creditable fourth. After missing birdie opportunities narrowly on the last two holes, she finished two strokes behind gold-winner Nelly Korda of the United States. Ranked 200 in the world, Aditi gave her more celebrated opponents — Korda and New Zealand’s Lydia Ko — a run for their money. The 23-year-old Indian began the day in second spot and remained in contention until the very end. With her mother on the bag, Aditi birdied the par-5 fifth and was tied for the lead with Korda and Ko after the latter double-bogeyed the seventh hole. Aditi’s bogey on the 11th saw her slip to second alongside Ko and Japan’s Mone Inami, who went on to win the silver in a play-off. She dropped to fourth spot after her approach shot on the 14th hole found the bunker. She was back to tied third shortly after as Ko bogeyed the 16th. The players had to rush indoors as play was halted due to an incoming thunderstorm. The break of play seemed to have robbed Aditi of her momentum. Hardest part She missed a birdie on the 17th and went back to the fourth position and she had a 25-foot birdie putt on the 18th that missed the hole by a whisker and saw her miss out on podium finish by one shot. “I think I didn’t drive the ball very good today and then it’s hard to get birdie putts or hit greens when you’re not on the fairway. That was the hardest part to make a score today,” she said. Aditi may have missed out on a medal, but had made a strong impact.  The scores: 267: Nelly Korda (USA — 67, 62, 69, 69); 268: Mone Inami (Jpn — 70, 65, 68, 65); 268: Lydia Ko (NZ — 70, 67, 66, 65); 269: Aditi Ashok (67, 66, 68, 68).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/aditi-misses-medal-by-a-whisker/article35795067.ece
08 August 2021||August 08 2021 00:00 IST,||India glows in Neeraj’s historic gold in track and field||Is this a dream? This is simply unbelievable! For a country that had been waiting for its first-ever Olympic medal in athletics, Neeraj Chopra delivered it with a wonderful bonus. And it’s a gold. Vetter’s flop show On a strange and remarkable night, when Johannes Vetter who began as the favourite with a series of 90m-plus throws this year but ended up as the biggest flop in Tokyo after failing to make it to the top eight after the halfway mark, Neeraj was confidence-personified. The 23-year-old, the world’s fourth-best thrower this year, opened with an 87.03m throw that nobody could come close to on Saturday night. He raised it to 87.58m, his day’s best, with his next. From Milkha Singh to P.T. Usha, it has been a story of near-misses in athletics for decades for India which was forced to celebrate fourth-place finishes at the Olympics. Now the country will have a gold to talk about for ages. The prayers of a 1.4 billion people have been answered in the most unexpected way. It’s also the country’s second individual Olympic gold, after shooter’s Abhinav Bindra’s yellow in 2008. Very rarely do Indians put up a confident face at the Olympics. Often looking timid, they wilt under the pressure of the big stage. Neeraj is made of different stuff. Despite coming to Tokyo with just three international meets under his belt, the Indian looked the most confident javelin thrower tonight; in fact he was exuberant. And just as the qualification round which he topped, Neeraj’s opening throw forced the others to fight for silver and bronze which Czech Republic’s Jakub Vadlejch (86.67m) and Vitezslav Vesely (85.44) took. And Vetter, who had won his 19 previous competitions, was ninth with 82.52. Even Indian national javelin coach Uwe Hohn, whose longest throw in history forced the world athletics body to make changes to make it safe for everybody, appeared surprised as he watched Neeraj in action. Son of a farmer from Khandra village, near Panipet in Haryana, Neeraj took to javelin after watching seniors in action. He was fascinated by the spear flying into the sky. And his rise was quick and amazing. A few years ago, the late Gary Calvert had told this correspondent that he had not seen a talent such as Neeraj in nearly 30 years and that he would finish among the greats. The Australian was the coach when Neeraj won his first title, the under-20 Worlds gold with a junior world record. That was the first step and he went from strength to strength, winning golds at the Asian Games and Commonwealth Games in 2018. He has now made us dream big.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/india-glows-in-neerajs-historic-gold-in-track-and-field/article35795056.ece
08 August 2021||Hyderabad:,||Columbian should score in feature event||Trainer P. Shroff’s ward Columbian should score over his rivals in the K. Mahipathi Rao Memorial Golconda Juvenile Million, the feature event of Sunday’s (Aug.8) races. Rails will be announced one hour before the first race.  MALAKPET PLATE (Div.I) (1,200m) Maiden, (Terms) 3-y-o only — 1.05 p.m.: 1. City Of Blessings (11) Rafique Sk 56, 2. Gregor Clegane (10) Ajeeth Kumar 56, 3. Indian Glory (7) Md Ismail 56, 4. Salisbury (2) Kiran Naidu 56, 5. Joy O Joy (8) P. Gaddam 54.5, 6. Kimberley (1) Ajinkya 54.5, 7. Lifes Song (3) Akshay Kumar 54.5, 8. Lucky Lady (Ex: Nefertiti) (9) Surya Prakash 54.5, 9. Morior Invictus (6) B.R. Kumar 54.5, 10. Muaser (5) Afroz Khan 54.5 and 11. Soloist (4) Koushik 54.5.  1. LIFES SONG,   2. GREGOR CLEGANE, 3. SOLOIST   NEWMARKET PLATE (1,400m) rated 60 to 85 (Cat.II) — 1.35: 1. Havelock Cruise (10) Deepak Singh 60, 2. Reno Star (9) Koushik 59, 3. Sovet Pride (5) Abhay Singh 58.5, 4. Agni (1) A.A. Vikrant 57, 5. Prince Valiant (6) Surya Prakash 54.5, 6. Strategist (7) B.R. Kumar 53.5, 7. Lombardy (8) Zervan 52.5, 8. Long Range (2) Ajeeth Kumar 52.5, 9. N R I Valley (3) Akshay Kumar 52 and 10. Downtown Gal (4) Neeraj 51.5.  1. LOMBARDY, 2. SOVET PRIDE,   3. N R I VALLEY   MALAKPET PLATE (Div. II) (1,200m) Maiden, (Terms) 3-y- o only — 2.05: 1. One More Time (10) Nakhat Singh 56, 2. Sye Ra (8) T.S. Jodha 56, 3. City Of Bliss (2) Akshay Kumar 54.5, 4. Garden Of Eden (3) Koushik 54.5, 5. Halle Berry (7) Surya Prakash 54.5, 6. Inception (5) Ajinkya 54.5, 7. Mehrnoosh (1) Ashad Asbar 54.5, 8. Mireya (9) B.R. Kumar 54.5, 9. Racing Rani (4) Ajeeth Kumar 54.5 and 10. Total Darc (6) Afroz Khan 54.5.  1. CITY OF BLISS, 2. TOTAL DARC,   3. MIREYA   BIPSO PLATE (1,600m) rated 40 to 65 (Cat.II) — 2.40: 1. Southern Legacy (5) S.S. Tanwar 60, 2. Mirana (8) Ashad Asbar 59.5, 3. Crazy Horse (2) Md. Ismail 57.5, 4. Peaky Blinders (3) Akshay Kumar 57.5, 5. Horus (1) T.S. Jodha 57, 6. Rapid Fire (4) Ajeeth Kumar 56.5, 7. Fire Power (6) P.S. Chouhan 54 and 8. Saffron Art (7) Ajit Singh 54.  1. PEAKY BLINDERS,   2. SAFFRON ART, 3. FIRE POWER   SILVER JET PLATE (Div. II) (1,200m) 5-y-o & upward, rated 20 to 45 — 3.15: 1. Max (2) N.B. Kuldeep 60, 2. N R I Vision (11) Akshay Kumar 59.5, 3. Dunkirk (5) P.S. Chouhan 59, 4. Loch Stella (6) Nakhat Singh 58.5, 5. Linewiler (4) Afroz Khan 58, 6. Four One Four (7) Gaurav Singh 57.5, 7. Dillon (8) Ajit Singh 56.5, 8. Nearest (Ex: Cincia Azzurra) (9) G. Naresh 55, 9. Green Turf (1) T.S. Jodha 52.5, 10. Rhine (3) B.R. Kumar 52.5, 11. Hashtag (10) B. Nikhil 51.5 and 12. Story Teller (12) R.S. Jodha 51.5.  1. MAX, 2. N R I VISION, 3. DUNKIRK   K. MAHIPATHI RAO MEMORIAL GOLCONDA JUVENILE MILLION (1,400m) (Terms) 3-y-o only — 3.50: 1. Akido (8) Nakhat Singh 56, 2. Bugsy (5) A. Imran Khan 56, 3. Columbian (3) P.S. Chouhan 56, 4. Johannesburg (6) Neeraj 56, 5. Knotty Dancer (7) Akshay Kumar 56, 6. Alicia (1) Zervan 54.5, 7. New Look (4) Kiran Naidu 54.5 and 8. Scintillating Lass (2) Sandesh 54.5.  1. COLUMBIAN, 2. SCINTILLATING LASS, 3. KNOTTY DANCER   MAHALAXMI PLATE (1,400m) rated 20 to 45 (Cat.III) — 4.25: 1. Mark My Day (7) B.R. Kumar 62, 2. Bisate (10) P.S. Chouhan 61, 3. Proud (9) A. Imran Khan 61, 4. Cheltenham (5) N.B. Kuldeep 60.5, 5. Trump Star (2) Deepak Singh 60.5, 6. N R I Sun (3) Akshay Kumar 58, 7. Look Of Love (1) Gaurav Singh 57.5, 8. Steve Rogers (Ex: Always Success) (6) Ajinkya 57.5, 9. Team Player (4) R.S. Jodha 54 and 10. Lightning Pearl (8) Surya Prakash 50.  1. BISATE, 2. N R I SUN,   3. CHELTENHAM   SILVER JET PLATE (Div. I) (1,200m), 5-y-o & upward, rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III) — 5.00: 1. Angel Tesoro (6) Ajeeth Kumar 60, 2. Mind Reader (8) B.R. Kumar 59, 3. N R I Magic (3) Akshay Kumar 59, 4. King Maker (12) Surya Prakash 58.5, 5. Blickfang (2) Mukesh Kumar 58, 6. Ashwa Arjun (4) Rafique Sk 57, 7. Dancing Doll (7) B. Nikhil 57, 8. Gusty Note (11) A.A. Vikrant 57, 9. Explosive (10) Gaurav Singh 55.5, 10. Starwalker (5) P. Gaddam 52.5, 11. Silver Set (13) Nakhat Singh 51.5, 12. Southern Lady (9) Ajit Singh 51.5 and 13. Air Salute (1) Afroz Khan 50.5.  1. ANGEL TESORO,   2. KING MAKER, 3. N R I MAGIC  Day’s Best: LOMBARDY  Jackpot: 4, 5, 6, 7 & 8. Mini Jackpot: (i) 2, 3, 4 & 5. (ii) 5, 6, 7 & 8. Treble: (i) 1,2 & 3. (ii) 3, 4 & 5. (iii) 6, 7 & 8. Tanala: All races.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/columbian-should-score-in-feature-event/article35795379.ece
08 August 2021||TOKYO,||Incredible Sifan Hassan achieves the long-distance double||A pulsating final night of action in the athletics competition saw Dutch distance runner Sifan Hassan complete an incredible double with victory in the 10,000m while USA star Allyson Felix brought the curtain down on her 17-year Olympic career with a record-extending relay gold. Norway celebrated gold in the men’s 1,500m with Jakob Ingebrigtsen downing Kenya’s Timothy Cheruiyot in a thrilling duel while Russian athlete Mariya Lasitskene won the women’s high jump. The Netherlands’ brilliant Hassan raced to her second gold of the games after an earlier win in the 5,000m. Twenty-four hours earlier, Hassan had taken bronze in the 1,500m final, part of an audacious bid for an Olympic treble. Packed schedule Hassan was in action on five days of the nine-day schedule of track and field, running more than 61 laps in total en route to her three-medal haul. “I am just so thankful, and I don’t think I could have done any better than this,” said Hassan. “During the medal ceremony I was thinking: ‘It is over. Now you can sleep!’” In the 10,000m, Hassan clocked 29min 55.32sec for gold, with Bahrain’s Kalkidan Gezahegne, also born in Ethiopia, claiming silver in 29:56.18. World-record holder Letesenbet Gidey of Ethiopia, after leading for all but two kilometres of the 25-lap race, claimed bronze in 30:01.72. There was another superb tactical performance in the men’s 1,500m as Norway’s Ingebrigtsen won in an Olympic record of 3min 28.32sec. The 20-year-old added Olympic gold to his European title, easing home after passing long-time leader Timothy Cheruiyot of Kenya, who took silver in 3:29.01. In the men’s and women’s 4x400m relays, the United States ended what has been a difficult campaign at the Olympic Stadium with a pair of golds. Redemption In the women’s high jump, three-time world champion Mariya Lasitskene finally won her first Olympic title with a best of 2.04m. The 28-year-old, who was barred from competing in the 2016 Rio Olympics due to Russia’s doping scandal, held off a stiff challenge from Australian Nicola McDermott.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/incredible-sifan-hassan-achieves-the-long-distance-double/article35795070.ece
08 August 2021||August 08 2021 00:00 IST,||The restless kid who made it big||Neeraj Chopra got a lift from German Johannes Vetter a few weeks ago on the way to the airport in Finland. “My English is not strong but we spoke for some time about our country, our background and about our early years,” said Neeraj, recalling the drive with the German, the world's best javelin thrower this year. That incident, which brought the two closer, probably helped Neeraj realise that the German was just another competitor and beatable. Growing up at Khandra village, near Panipet, Neeraj was an overweight and restless kid most of the time. Since they wanted to keep him occupied, his dad, a farmer, took him to the Shivaji stadium. Neeraj had tried other sports too. He was not too fond of running, but when he saw a few heavy men throwing the javelin, he wanted to try it too. When he realised that he was good at it, he started loving it more. A natural “He is a natural when it comes to javelin,” said Australian Gary Calvert, who coached him to the under-20 gold at the 2016 Worlds in Poland. Many, including Calvert and Volker Herrmann, who was the AFI's High Performance Director before quitting in November last year, felt that Neeraj would start winning medals from the 2024 Paris Olympics. He has proved them right by clinching a medal and proved them wrong by doing it four years early!||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/the-restless-kid-who-made-it-big/article35795058.ece
08 August 2021||August 08 2021 00:00 IST,||The Armyman has given new life to Indian athletics||Will India ever win a medal in athletics in the Olympic Games? That question had been disturbing through decades and many of us were resigned to our fate that we may never see an Indian athlete climb the podium in the quadrennial games. Neeraj Chopra found more than an answer to that question in Tokyo on Saturday. He did not win just a medal, he took the gold! A billion-plus prayers seemed to have been answered as he opened his challenge to the German favourite, Johannes Vetter, with an 87.03m. He extended it to 87.58m on his second and the gold for India was no longer a dream. Vetter had problems adjusting to the pace and grip on the surface that was praised by the sprinters, and which had seen some fabulous timings and upset results over the past nine days. A high-voltage contest that was expected to develop between the German and the Indian thus never materialised. There was none in the rest of the field who could pose a threat to Neeraj after round one. Some of the best did not even enter the Olympics because of injuries. A few others who were front-runners for the season had crashed out in the qualification round. “It feels unbelievable,” Neeraj was quoted as saying in Tokyo after the event. It is unbelievable for the rest of us who watched with growing expectations as the final day’s athletics action at the Olympic stadium unfolded. Ever since he won the World junior championships title in Bydgoszcz, Poland, in 2016 with a World under-20 record of 86.48m, Neeraj was talked of as a future Olympic medallist. Notwithstanding a serious injury in 2019 and loss of opportunities to compete because of it, he remained high on the world lists, his best coming this year at home at 88.07m. Little could anyone have, however, imagined that on his Olympic debut he would win the gold medal to end the debate about Indian athletes being world-class at home and, barring a handful of exceptions, also-rans at the global level. As he rightly observed in Tokyo, India rarely wins gold in the Olympics. Since Abhinav Bindra opened the country’s golden tally in Beijing in 2008, gold had been elusive through two editions, sending the country down in the medals standings which is what the public looks at and which is what the media focuses on. Just 10 Indian track and field athletes had qualified for the finals in Olympic Games till this edition despite tall promises at least through the past two decades. The Athletics Federation of India (AFI), for once, did everything to support Neeraj with handsome contributions from the Government and the Inspire Institute of Sports (IIS). Had he failed, we would have gone back to the same old story of qualification to the Olympics being the only target for our athletes, federation, the authorities and fans. The Haryana youngster, an Armyman, has given new life to Indian athletics.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/the-armyman-has-given-new-life-to-indian-athletics/article35795361.ece
08 August 2021||DHAKA,||Australia posts win||Dan Christian smashed 39 in a low-scoring contest as Australia defeated Bangladesh by three wickets in the fourth Twenty20 International here on Saturday. Chasing 105 for victory, Australia depended on Christian’s 15-ball blitz and Ashton Agar’s 27 to achieve the target in 19 overs and register a consolation win in the five-match series. Bangladesh, which sealed its first-ever series victory over Australia after winning the third match on Friday, leads 3-1.  Mitchell Swepson and Andrew Tye took three wickets each to set up Australia’s victory after restricting Bangladesh to 104 for nine. The fifth T20I will be played on Monday.  The scores:   Bangladesh 104/9 in 20 overs (Swepson 3/12, Tye 3/18) lost to Australia 105/7 in 19 overs (Christian 39).   MoM: Swepson. Australia won by three wickets with six balls to spare, Bangladesh leads five-match series 3-1.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/australia-posts-win/article35795372.ece
08 August 2021||BENGALURU:,||Multifaceted triumphs||Darius Byramji-trained Multifaceted (S. John up) won the Monsoon Cup, the feature event of the races held here on Saturday (August 7). The winner is owned by Mr. Rienzie M.K. Edwards & Mrs. P.P.M. Edwards.  1. ACCUEILLIR PLATE (1,200m), rated 00 to 20: INDIAN STAR (A. Imran) 1, Dream Chaser (P. Ramesh) 2, Sizzler (Bhawani Singh) 3 and Bahurupah (Chethan G) 4. 2-3/4, 1/2 and 2-3/4. 1m, 14.53s. Owner and trainer: Mr. B. Prithviraj.  2. ALWAYS A RAINBOW PLATE (Div. II) , (1,200m), rated 15 to 35: IN A BREEZE (P.S. Chouhan) 1, Dynamical (Kiran Rai) 2, Orleans (Indrajeet Singh) 3 and Chain Of Thoughts (Naveen K) 4. 6-1/4, 2-3/4 and Shd. 1m, 13.29s. Owners: Hyperion Bloodstock Pvt Ltd rep by. Mr & Mrs. Farouq K. Rattonsey, Mr. Sameer F. Rattonsey and Mr. Zaheer F. Rattonsey. Trainer: Irfan Ghatala.  3. K.N. GURUSWAMY MEMORIAL TROPHY (Div. II) , (1,200m), maiden 3-y-o only, (Terms): ANGELICO (Akshay K) 1, Divine Blessings (Neeraj) 2, Analect (P.S. Chouhan) 3 and Star Of The Hills (D. Patel) 4. 3-1/2, 5-3/4 and 8-1/4. 1m, 12.50s. Owners: Mr. S.R. Sanas, Mr. Mukul A. Sonawala, M/S. DT Racing & Breeding LLP and Mr. Inderraj Anand. Trainer: S. Attaollahi.  4. DHARMAPRAKASH L.S. VENKAJI RAO MEMORIAL TROPHY (1,400m), maiden 3-y-o only, (Terms): STOCKBRIDGE (Neeraj) 1, A Star Is Born (Yash) 2, Teresita (Zervan) 3 and Southern Dynasty (Kiran Rai) 4. 1/2, 3/4 and 1-1/4. 1m, 25.53s. Owner: United Racing & Bloodstock Breeders Ltd. Trainer: Arjun Mangalorkar.  5. K.N. GURUSWAMY MEMORIAL TROPHY (Div. I) , (1,200m), maiden 3-y-o only, (Terms): ALL ATTRACTIVE (P.S. Chouhan) 1, Brunhild (Dhanu Singh) 2, Ruling Goddess (Akshay K) 3 and Muirfield (Neeraj) 4. 1-1/4, 4-1/2 and 3-3/4. 1m, 11.92s. Owner: M/S. Kunal Gupta Stud Farm LLP. Trainer: B. Prithviraj.  6. MONSOON CUP (1,400m), rated 85 & above, 4-y-o & over, (Terms): MULTIFACETED (S. John) 1, Northern Alliance (A. Imran) 2, Automatic (S. Shareef) 3 and Mauritania (Akshay K) 4. 1, 2-3/4 and Snk. 1m, 24.60s. Owners: Mr. Rienzie M.K. Edwards & Mrs. P.P.M. Edwards. Trainer: Darius Byramji.  7. PADDIWICK PLATE (1,400m), rated 45 to 65: LAKE TAHOE (P.S. Chouhan) 1, Redoubtable (Akshay K) 2, Forever Together (Yash) 3 and Whizzo (A. Imran) 4. Lnk, 1/2 and Shd. 1m, 25.38s. Owners: Mr. Aditya P. Thackersey, Mr. Kersi H. Vachha & Mr. Mukul A. Sonawala. Trainer: Darius Byramji.  8. ALWAYS A RAINBOW PLATE (Div. I) , (1,200m), rated 15 to 35: DRUSILLA (Sandesh) 1, Flamingo Road (J.H. Arul) 2, Bloom Buddy (Anjar Alam) 3 and Embosom (Dhanu Singh) 4. Not run: Own Legacy. 3-1/2, 1-3/4 and Shd. 1m, 13.85s. Owner: Mr. Saurabh Jetli. Trainer: Neil Darashah.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/multifaceted-triumphs/article35795374.ece
08 August 2021||Tokyo,||‘I did feel like I’d do something unique’||Neeraj Chopra was elated after winning the country’s first athletics gold at the Olympics on Saturday. “I did feel like I’d do something unique. I felt good today,” said Neeraj moments after becoming only the second Indian individual to win Olympic gold. “I topped qualification and felt very good after that. I got it in the first throw itself, and it was a relaxed one. After that, I had a good feeling. The two days I got after that, I felt good in training also. I thought I’d get my personal best (PB) today. In the second throw, I thought I got my PB, but I don’t know what happened there. No worries. I have this (gold medal) with me. That’s more important.  “I am happy. Abhinav [Bindra] won it for India. I did it for the country too. The Olympic gold was the priority. I can break the national record later also by working hard.” “After the second throw, I thought I’d get my personal best. The Olympic record is 90.57m, and it did cross my mind [targetting] it. I think I tried to overdo it because of that. I think with the speed and stuff. My last throw was a little more stable, but the ones in between those were not great.” Asked how much the gold medal weighed, Neeraj said: “Even if it weighed 10kg, it would feel light to me. I am feeling very good!” Neeraj dedicated his medal to one of India’s greatest athletes Milkha Singh, who passed away last month. “When we were in Kourtane, Milkha Singh ji passed away and I felt very bad. I did not meet him when he was alive, and I wanted to meet him with an Olympic medal. Sadly, he’s not among us but I hope he’s seeing us from above and is happy (about the medal) that his dream has come true. Even other athletes like P.T. Usha and others who missed out on a medal by centimetres — I hope they’re all happy.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/i-did-feel-like-id-do-something-unique/article35795063.ece
08 August 2021||August 08 2021 00:00 IST,||Grand beginning||New initiative||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/grand-beginning/article35795408.ece
08 August 2021||Chennai,||Dragons in playoffs||Vivek Raj powered Dindigul Dragons into the playoffs of the Tamil Nadu Premier League, with a brilliant unbeaten 57 (28b, 5x4, 3x6) to beat iDream Tiruppur Tamizhans by six wickets on Saturday. In the day’s second match, Siechem Madurai Panthers went down to Salem Spartans by 11 runs and failed to qualify for the playoffs.  The scores: iDream Tiruppur Tamizhans 145/7 in 20 overs (S. Siddharth 36, Maan K. Bafna 52, R. Suthesh 2/16) lost to Dindigul Dragons 147/4 in 17 overs (C. Hari Nishaanth 33, R. Vivek 57 n.o., A. Karuppusamy 2/33).   Salem Spartans 144/5 in 20 overs (Vijay Shankar 47, Daryl S. Ferrario 30, M. Ashwin 30 n.o., R. Silambarasan 2/43, V. Gowtham 2/29) bt Siechem Madurai Panthers 133/8 in 20 overs (B. Anirudh Sitaram 52, M. Ashwin 2/25, G. Periasamy 2/22).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/dragons-in-tnpl-playoffs/article35795405.ece
08 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||Rhythm finishes on top||Rhythm Sangwan of Haryana was in brilliant form as she won the junior women’s sports pistol event, beating Simranpreet Kaur Brar 3-0 in the shoot-off in the National shooting selection trials on Saturday. The 17-year-old Rhythm, who had topped qualification with 587, was tied on 25 with Simranpreet in the final. While Rhythm had shot 293 in precision and 294 in rapid fire, Simranpreet had shot 561 in qualification. Naamya Kapoor who had shot the second best score of 583 in qualification was placed fifth.  The results: Junior women sports pistol: 1. Rhythm Sangwan 25(3) 587; 2. Simranpreet Kaur Brar 25(0) 561; 3. Tanu Rawal 21 (566) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/rhythm-finishes-on-top/article35795376.ece
08 August 2021||Saitama,||Durant leads US to fourth straight gold||NBA All-Star Kevin Durant poured in a game-high 29 points to lead the United States past France 87-82 for a fourth straight Olympic men’s basketball gold medal. The Americans started slowly but earned a 22-18 lead after the first quarter and were 44-39 ahead at halfway, then survived some nervous late moments. Gregg Popovich’s men had headed to Tokyo after defeats to Nigeria and Australia in lead-up exhibition matches, sparking questions about their global dominance. They then crashed to seventh-ranked France in their opening group game, their first defeat at an Olympics since Athens 2004. But spearheaded by Durant, they steadied the ship and began gelling, with a French team led by NBA stars Rudy Gobert, Evan Fournier and Nicolas Batum unable to repeat their feat in the final. Australia won a first-ever basketball medal beating Slovenia 107-93 in the bronze match for bronze.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/durant-leads-us-to-fourth-straight-gold/article35795077.ece
08 August 2021||Tokyo,||France regains handball gold||France won the Olympic gold medal in men’s handball by beating Denmark 25-23 in the final. France led by six goals before Denmark came back to make it a one-goal game in the final minute. France got a goal with six seconds left to secure the victory. France was playing its fourth straight final after winning in 2008 and 2012 and losing to Denmark in 2016||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/france-regains-handball-gold/article35795363.ece
08 August 2021||Yokohama,||Japan beats United States to baseball gold||Japan won its first-ever Olympic gold in baseball on Saturday, beating the United States 2-0 in the final. Japan had already won in softball at the Tokyo Games, with the two sports returning to the Olympics for the first time since 2008.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/japan-beats-united-states-to-baseball-gold/article35795076.ece
08 August 2021||August 08 2021 00:00 IST,||The Hohn influence on Neeraj||Uwe Hohn, India’s javelin coach, has played a significant role in shaping Neeraj Chopra’s career. It was while he was training with Hohn that Neeraj won the gold at the 2018 Asian and Commonwealth Games. A couple of months after Neeraj clinched the gold at the Asian Games in Jakarta with a National record of 88.06m, Hohn had said in an interview, at the Ekamra Sports Literature Festival at Bhubaneswar, that his ward was destined for greater glory. One of the world’s best “A medal at the Tokyo Olympics is not beyond him,” he had said. “He is already one of the best in the world.” That was three years ago. On Saturday at Tokyo’s Olympic Stadium, Hohn’s words came true. Neeraj had indeed made history. He did what no Indian track-and-field athlete had ever done: win a medal at the Olympics and a gold at that! Hohn himself had done with a javelin no one else ever has. He is the only one to throw 100m or more, his feat coming on Olympic Day of the athletics meet in Berlin on July 20, 1984. His effort: 104.80m. That was what he wanted to do since the age of 14, Hohn had said in an interview. Unfortunately for him, he could not compete at the Olympics that year at Los Angeles as East Germany had boycotted the Games. “I had to miss the Olympics for no fault of mine,” Hohn had said. “I could have won the gold.” That thought might still be rankling him, but Neeraj’s gold in Tokyo could make him feel better.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/the-hohn-influence-on-neeraj/article35795055.ece
08 August 2021||CHENNAI,||Ridhu picked for World youth archery meet||S. Ridhu Varshini will be the lone participant from Tamil Nadu to represent India in the World youth archery championships in Wroclaw (Poland). The 14-year-old from Coimbatore will be taking part in the cadet (u-18) compound girls’ category, beginning on August 9.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ridhu-picked-for-world-youth-archery-meet/article35795462.ece
08 August 2021||August 08 2021 08:36 IST,||Sudoku — August 8, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-august-8-2021/article35796201.ece
08 August 2021||August 08 2021 00:00 IST,||T-Rex on a pearl hunt||About 110 million years ago, the Irritator moved through the coastal lagoons of Brazil. We do not know exactly how it annoyed palaeontologists to earn that name, but what we do know is that it has earned itself a place in a coastal town again — that of Mamallapuram. The Irritator, with the short-handed T Rex, the teethy Velociraptor and other giant reptiles are the denizens of Dinosaur Museum, the latest addition to India Seashell Museum on ECR. The park, which opened last month, features 14 mechanical models fitted with sensors that prompt them to swish their tails, raise their necks, and roar every time a visitor moves past them. “Families want entertainment. We added the Dinosaur Museum for children so that they don’t get bored as their parents stroll through the seashell museum,” says Mohamed Riswan, proprietor of India Seashell Museum. The Dinosaur Museum isn’t the only addition — over the years, the seashell museum has expanded to accommodate a pearl museum, set up in 2018, and a mineral museum, which was set up last year but owing to the pandemic, could only open this year, after the lockdowns were relaxed. The collection belongs to Riswan’s father, Raja Mohamed, a fish merchant from Rameswaram who set up the museum in 2012. “For 38 years, my father has been collecting seashells, pearls and minerals,” says Riswan. But the idea of a mineral museum struck Raja only after a visit to Singapore. “When my father saw the Merlion, he wanted to recreate it with seashells,” says Riswan. And so, a giant Merlion, made of 25,000 seashells stands outside the mineral museum, flanked by a shell chandelier, shell tree and shell bouquet. The space is decorated in blues and greens to simulate the underwater world. A tunnel-like room leads us to the mineral collection — behind glass panels are onyx, amethyst, quartz, moonstones, topaz, jasper and jade, all polished and shaped into orbs. From here, our guide, Syed Salim, takes us to the pearl museum, rattling off at full speed the names of oysters that hold pearls inside them. “The colour of the pearl depends on the colour of the lips of the oyster,” he says, before explaining how pearls are formed. “When a foreign body enters a mollusc’s mantle, it forms a sac around it. Layers and layers of secretion around it creates a pearl.” Which is why pearls are not always in the circular shape we know them to be, but appear as coins, claws, nuggets, peanuts, crescents — including one unfortunate fish that has been encrusted into a pearl. Riswan shares how his father collected these pearls and shells. “My father grew up in Rameshwaram, in a coastal hamlet. He started as a fish merchant at the age of 19. He would walk across the seashore, collect shells and sell them in markets. Once he started earning money as a fish merchant through exports, he used that money to invest in his hobby of collecting shells.” Seashell museums are popular world over, however environmentalists have concerns over their mass collection. “Seashells feed the beaches — they have a function in the ecosystem, so their hardcore collection from one strip would be invasive,” points out naturalist M. Yuvan. “Collection shouldn’t be for collection’s sake, but to facilitate a deeper understanding about what lives on the beach.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/t-rex-on-a-pearl-hunt/article35795682.ece
08 August 2021||August 08 2021 00:00 IST,||Trees need check-ups too||Everybody loves a Gulmohar. Its fiery flowers command stretches of cityscaped horizon, and are often mistaken by the average morning walker for the flame of the forest — the fleshier, more distinctive blossoms of the Palash. And yet, for all their similarities of hue, there are enough differences between the two to keep five earnest children busy all morning. Masks on, forms out, pens at the ready, the middle-schoolers were out on their maiden tree survey, encouraged and guided by city-based friends of trees initiative Nizhal. They stopped at each tree down their street — Ormes Road — and repeated the same ritual of calculations that have been followed by groups across different Chennai neighbourhoods over the past two months. “The tree survey is being conducted all over the city. So far, we have had about 80 participants from Kilpauk, Nungambakkam, RA Puram, Mugalivakkam, Vepery and Thiruvanmiyur, to name a few,” says Avni Mohindra, Nizhal member and a programme coordinator for the survey. “We encourage participants to start with surveying trees on their street first, then take on more streets in their neighbourhood,” she adds. Though now meant as a way to make Chennaiites feel more involved with,the Nature around them, after a year of staying indoors, the idea of such surveys is not new to the city. “Our first tree survey was back in 2007,” says Shobha Menon, founder of Nizhal. “Now, the idea is to make an inventory of all trees in the city, and encourage planting of native trees. So, this time, we want to do it in neighbourhoods around Chennai, and get residents involved.” She adds that Nizhal hopes to build enough of a database to eventually create a GIS (Geographic Information System) survey of the city’s trees, with information visible by location on online maps. That, however, is the far-flung future plan: the immediate one is to increase awareness among participants. To that end, back on Ormes Road, the young gang of five meticulousl filled up rows of data per tree. They noted its species, estimated its age and its health, measured its height, canopy (in metres) and trunk circumference. Under “comments”, they noted whether or not it had been pruned, and how. They checked for symptoms of common tree diseases, as per a list provided by Nizhal. Most importantly, they checked it for five specific kinds of tree abuse: nails or cables, rubbish, injury by careless chopping, choking by paving, and surprisingly enough, tree guards. Meant to protect saplings, tree guards can deter growth when not removed from around a maturing tree, explains Shobha. Avni adds, “Tree abuse was something they were not aware of before participating in the survey.” Indeed, the information the children gained went far beyond the 10 trees they managed to survey that day. Says Avni: “One of the key learnings was identifying names of trees which they were not aware of previously. Another was the presence of a large number of exotic species like Gulmohar, Raintree, Copperpod in comparison to native tree species.” While Gulmohar was categorised as exotic, the Palash — had they found one — would have been a victory, as the sighting of a native species of tree. There were other little victories, however, in the form of a marked change in attitude. As Avni observes, “Some of the children noticed the biodiversity more closely like bees, birds, butterflies and they are motivated to set up bird baths in their street for their bird friends. This is the kind of impact we would like on our participants after the survey.”  Nizhal coordinates its tree surveys through a WhatsApp group. Please contact 9841449829 for details.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/trees-need-check-ups-too/article35795684.ece
08 August 2021||August 08 2021 00:00 IST,||Conquering waves||Fans of The Covelong Point Surf, Music and Yoga Festival might have to wait a year or two before the popular carnival by the beach makes a comeback. But serious surfing enthusiasts have no time to waste as Covelong Classic at Surf Turf kicks off soon. Taking place between August 9 and 11, the Indian National Surf and SUP Championship 2021, will see the best surfers from around the country in participation. “It is a Surfing Federation of India event. We are trying to do it differently this time by following the World Surfing League format,” says Arun Vasu, president of Surfing Federation of India, partner Surf Turf and one of the sponsors for the event. The idea is to get more serious now that surfing is part of the Olympics as well, he says. The older events had about 200 surfers and various categories like U-17 and Masters because the idea was to encourage people to come out and surf. “Now we want the best of the best and we want to strengthen them so they win more competitions abroad,” adds Arun. For the upcoming competition, there are 60 participants so far, registered from Covelong, Puducherry, Rameshwaram, Mamallapuram, Mangaluru, Goa and parts of Kerala among others. Given the pandemic-related restrictions, the event will focus only on national participation. Unfortunately, it is also not open to spectators this year. Categories include Boys — Under 15 and Girls — Under 15, and Open categories for both, for ages 16 and above. For stand up paddling, the distance is six kilometres for men and two or three kilometres for women. Winners will get Rs. 40,000. There are also prizes for the top five finishers. “We are going to have a talent watch and identify two to three new surfers. The SFI will take them on and train them,” says Vasu. Post that they will get to participate in the Asian Surfing Circuit that takes place in Bali, and countries like the Philippines, Sri Lanka, Maldives and Japan. The best from that lot will then qualify for the next level which is the World Surfing League.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/conquering-waves/article35795683.ece
08 August 2021||August 08 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Nursery schools’ open in Pallikaranai and Sholinganallur||Humans are uniquely privileged to act juvenile throughout their lifetime, hanging forever on their parents’ coattails. Ticking only to a biological clock, the avian nest allows no room for this indulgence. There are only short windows within which to bond and breed, feed and foster and move on to raising the next brood. The young are forced to be fast learners, often having to rough it out. In Chennai and surrounding areas, the month of July and August mark a rite of passage for many resident bird species, with their juveniles flapping towards independence. Meet some of these youngsters who have enrolled in the nursery classes for this avian academic year in Sholinganallur, Pallikaranai and Perumbakkam. A painting in progress On the evening of August 2, a juvenile painted stork animates the otherwise drearily empty northern bounds of the Sholinganallur Perumbakkam Marshlands. The whir of earth-mover engines on the adjacent Perumbakkam Main Road — which in fact signifies a multi-department exercise involving the Pallikaranai Marsh and associated marshlands — has led to the straggling resident birds to occupy the innards of the wetland. Birds generally have a heightened threat perception, sending their flight and fight mechanisms into overdrive. This painted stork is too young to appreciate these defence mechanisms. On a lone fishing expedition — probably net practice — the juvenile sticks around unmindful of the activity around it. Painted storks are largely group foragers, often together disturbing the shallow waters by scuffing their feet against the soggy earth underneath in an almost synchronised action, surfacing fish. Only flamingos can pull off this act more elegantly. This juvenile painted stork attempts this time-worn ruse, and it may be some time before it perfects the skill. Though instinct may order a bird’s steps, it learns to walk the path of instinct better through skill-training. It takes years of skill-training by young Eurasian oystercatchers (winter migrants in our parts) to prefect what is instinctual to them: picking and cracking open preys with different techniques — a behaviour sufficiently documented and studied. There is an air of uncertainty about the young painted stork, betraying that its initiation into independent living is recent. When I bring this up in a rambling conversation about recent bird sightings, with ornithologist V Santharam, he observes: “Among the resident waterbirds in these parts, painted storks breed a little later, starting in early-January and going on till April-May. It may probably be to avoid competition.” Painted storks are among waterbirds that breed in multi-species breeding colonies. Almost all the other big waterbirds in these parts stick to the regular breeding timeline: November to March. To all appearances, this painted stork did not succeed in its fishing mission, at least during the time it spent on the northern extremity, when it largely “stood and stared” much like what WH Davies wanted to do but could not. Here is a wager: if this writer sets eyes on this bird a couple of weeks from now, it would have progressed well into the ways of grown-ups — which only means no more 10-minute-long poses for a stranger’s camera. A perforated bill?  On August 3, at a mildly wooded section along the southern side of the Sholinganallur Perumbakkam Marshlands, a juvenile shikra was testing the strength of Indian-redwood branches, flitting from one tree to another. What appeared at first to be youthful inquisitiveness turned out to be an altogether different matter. In all probability, the young bird was being listless. One side of its beak, largely the lower mandible, was unusually damaged. Beak abnormalities can exist from birth. Diseases and injuries can also result in evidently disfigured beaks. A perforated bill is unusual in a terribly tragic way — a thought echoed by Santharam, when this writer shared an image of this hapless and doleful-looking young shikra with him. The ornithologist even proceeded to run it past a veterinarian to get to the bottom of it. Conclusive answers about what caused this unusual-looking beak may not be possible, but it would help to know if the unfortunate bird could be helped somehow. A raptor with a perforated bill goes hugely against the image of what it means to be a raptor. There is a practical and chilling side to it: Deformed and hugely damaged bills can prevent birds from feeding themselves, therefore causing them to starve and die. While damaged bills do not grow back, there are indeed encouraging stories of birds being fitted out with artificial beak parts, particularly with 3D printing technology in recent times. Or, this juvenile should learn to survive with a beak considerably low on functionality. A finishing school In many species, the learning that stretches from the fledging stage (when the young discovers the capacity for flight) to the fully-adult stage (when it discovers the capacity for reproduction and handling associated responsibilities) is also marked by the acquisition of “social graces” (pardon the usage loaded with anthropomorphism). Intra-species competition manifesting as a scramble for territories and mates cannot be wished away. However, birds instinctively cotton on to the fact that personal survival is not entirely the result of individual enterprise and also requires a mastery of community behaviours. “Coopetition” — a handy portmanteau term usually reserved for intra-team dynamics involving a delicate balance between cooperation and competition — best describes relations between birds within a species that may share territories and bloodlines. Partly learned and nurtured behaviours of cooperation shine through the instinctive competition that is hardwired into them. It is best illustrated by the concept of “helpers” noticed in a few species given to cooperative breeding practices. Helpers assist a breeding pair in facing the challenges that go with raising a brood. In our parts, a ready example for cooperative breeding is the purple moorhen. Across species that practise cooperating breeding, helpers are painted with two brushes: primary helpers (children-birds from an earlier brood) and secondary helpers (non-related). “Young birds may sometimes take a really long time for reproduction — in the second year. Sometimes, it may take much longer — four to five years — before they can breed, due to limited resources. These individuals may end up helping their parents raise their siblings (half-brothers and half-sisters, if you like). Usually, helpers (that is, primary helpers) are from an earlier brood, having stayed back and settled down to helping their parents, as they have not got enough mating opportunities due to limited resources,” explains Santharam. “This whole thing works when there is a shortage of mates, nesting sites and resources. Specialist birds that are fussy about their nest sites may have this system. It may also be present in species where the sex ratio is not equal.”  What appeared at first to be youthful inquisitiveness turned out to be an altogether different matter. In all probability, the young bird was being listless. One side of its beak was unusually damaged||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/nursery-schools-open-in-pallikaranai-and-sholinganallur/article35795266.ece
08 August 2021||August 08 2021 00:00 IST,||The mom and the jab||“We have ben instilling confidence in the expectant and new mothers visiting our centre about vaccination against COVID-19, clarifying their doubts and allaying their fears about taking the jab,” begins Dr. J. Pavithra, medical officer, Neelankarai UPHC. Somewhere along the way, the UPHC realised the need to look outside for apt influencers. “So, we invited 20 mothers and mothers-to-be who had already taken the jab to talk to our target group,” explains Dr. Pavithra. The twenty became conversation starters, driving a discussion among the other mothers, those unvaccinated who are visiting the centre for check-ups. “If one lady is getting vaccinated others will at least start interacting with her and may come at a later time to take the jab. Sometimes, this works better than just talking about taking the jab,” says Dr. Pavithra. She says the women who visit the centre are not compelled to take the vaccine, but an effort is made to demystify the myths around vaccination. “The COVID-19 vaccines that are available are safe and protects pregnant women against COVID-19 illness, as it does for any others. A few side affects after taking the jab are common across categories of vaccine takers.” The UPHC team admits the mission remains a challenge. “For the last few weeks, we were phoning 10 women every day asking them to come to the centre and even reserving vials for them, but only five would turn up. The others would make some excuse and back out. There are some who do not come as family members do not support vaccination. It is a huge challenge and our nurses do a fine job of following up with the women,” says Dr. Pavithra. Among the women who have taken the vaccine a few have become ambassadors for the UPHC. Kodiyarasi, an expectant mother in her 20s, has been calling up other pregnant women in her circle to talk about how she feels after the inoculation. “Women like Kodiyarasi make our job easy,” says Dr. Pavithra. The UPHC has set a target of vaccinating 200 antenatal and postnatal women in August. The doctor adds: “We currently have a database of 800 women in our records who are lactating and close to 50 who are expectant moms.”  Related story on page 6   For the last few weeks, we were phoning 10 women every day asking them to come to the centre and even reserving vials for them, but only five would turn up||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/the-mom-and-the-jab/article35795251.ece
08 August 2021||August 08 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Beach road in Palavakkam has to be mended’||The battered Palavakkam Beach Road has gone from bad to worse now. Elders in wheelchairs find it difficult to negotiate the potholes. Not to mention, the bumpy ride faced by motorists. In 2018, VGP Layout Association submitted a written representation to the Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) about the appalling condition of the road and the risk it posed to road users. However, the complaint was not acted upon. This road was relaid with cement about nine years ago. Considering this road runs along a beach, it has to be mended on a priority basis. The GCC has made a great effort to clean the beach. In the mornings, its tractor-towed machines do a commendable job of ensuring cleanliness on the Palavakkam beach. Unfortunately, during the day, the beach is littered with plastics, and is redeemed from squalor again the next morning. The Corporation can make this entire area even more enjoyable for the public by relaying the roads. Besides, parking lots should be created and measures should be taken to ensure that the beach and the road are plastic-free. Awareness should be created among the people about not spitting. If all of these are ensured, Palavakkam beach would be even more inviting. M.B. Madhusudanan is a resident of Palavakkam||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/beach-road-in-palavakkam-has-to-be-mended/article35795293.ece
08 August 2021||August 08 2021 00:00 IST,||Non-profits on board to expand vaccination drive||Non-governmental organisations have joined hands with voluntary groups that help the Greater Chennai Corporation run vaccination campaigns. The synergy has led to camps tailored for target groups. Sethu Foundation, which works in areas like education, social entrepreneurship, livelihoods and sustainability, is gearing up for its third vaccination camp at its facility in Teynampet. The non-profit has already helped 450 people get inoculated through two drives in the last two months. “We mainly work with 11 communities in Zone 9, covering areas like RA Puram, Alwarpet, Nandanam, SIT Colony and Teynampet,” says CJ Sethulakshmi, managing director, Sethu Foundation. While the Foundation was creating awareness about the need to take the jab, they also wanted to be the solution provider and that is how they started coordinating with GCC to conduct camps. ‘Mission28states’ is an initiative lead by Robin Hood Army (RHA), a volunteer-based zero funds organisation, which has joined hands with WhatsApp, Uber and Google to bring together volunteers who will help vaccinate people from various states. The focus of these drives is to reach out to people found on the peripheries of society, including homeless families, the transgender community and rural inhabitants. They would also be served meals. In Chennai, RHA has 250 volunteers and seeks more volunteers to carry the awareness message to less-covered pockets (to join the initiative as a volunteer, send a WhatsApp message to +91 8971966164) . The group hopes to receive the support of the local people in guiding them to communities where awareness about the pandemic and the necessity of vaccination is low. “We are looking at having on board design professionals who can create posters, and also those who can play a role in our field activities,” says Simon Bouvard, a volunteer from the core team. “We are focusing on the city outskirts and also the slums in Vadapalani and Koyambedu,” says Simon, adding that they would facilitate the running of camps by partnering with GCC and other groups. The mobile medical units of HelpAge India has also been spreading the message with the help of its beneficiaries. In the districts, it has roped in self-help groups to facilitate vaccination drives at its centres. In Chennai, with the help of 30 of its “helpline volunteers” the group identifies people living on pavements. They are first admitted to an old age home or a night shelter and later counselled to take the vaccine. This way, two goals are achieved: homeless seniors are enrolled in an old age home, and they get vaccinated. Better access The obvious benefits of non-profits helping the GCC include less crowding, which can be the case at a public camp. Sethulakshmi points out that the awareness campaigns are only aimed at helping people understand why it is essential to take the vaccine and also to bust the myths around vaccination. “Our community volunteers are our biggest strength; they lead us to families that require clarity in the matter. We have been conducting group meetings, having discussions with women’s group, sending voice messages and doing role play to propagate the right message,” says Sethulakshmi. R. Muthukrishnan, senior manager, HelpAge India, says NGOs play a big role in helping spread the message about vaccination to communities faced with vaccine hesitancy. The last couple of months, GCC achieved a lot by working closely with resident welfare associations to conduct on-site camps. “Now, the focus is on reaching out to less-privileged people, and community-level NGOs can help in the matter,” says Muthukumar. “In North Chennai, for instance, a lot more needs to be done especially for those working in the unorganised sector. The only way is to go to them and not wait for them to come to the vaccination centre.”  Useful links Online portal for booking vaccination slot - https://gccvaccine.in/ List of COVID vaccine centres - http://covid19.chennaicorporation.gov.in/covid/vaccine_centers/   Our community volunteers are our biggest strength; they lead us to families that require clarity in the matter. We have been conducting group meetings, having discussions with women’s groups, sending voice messages to promote the right message||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/non-profits-on-board-to-expand-vaccination-drive/article35795277.ece
08 August 2021||August 08 2021 00:00 IST,||The dumplings keep coming||It is a landmark that can be easily missed. Only a whit larger than a carrel, this shop can elude an inattentive sweep of the eye. It however signifies familiarity for habitues of the Sholinganallur junction. And for habitues of the shop, good taste. On Google reviews, it has racked up a 4.8 with 188 reviewers having sussed it out, at last count. It is interesting to note that Kuzhipaniyaram Kadai successfully grew its following, though its menu never grew beyond a single item — the traditional Tamil Nadu snack whose name it proudly bears. Kuzhipaniyaram Kadai is among a gazillion of small shops that have one simple, home-brewed formula for success, one it has to repeat every day going back over the same dreary details. There is no option of building on past successes. There is no room for adding new formulas. There is no bandwidth for experimentation, let alone expansion. A nickels-and-dimes business in the best of times, Kuzhipaniyaram Kadai is essentially designed to sustain just the couple who runs it. They are the chefs, the ushers and the servers. “We make all the preparations at our home in Perungudi. The kuzhipaniyarams are made at the shop, as the orders come in,” explains P. Karupaiah. Karupaiah and his wife Chellammal would not share the special recipe that has many young techies eating out of their hand, because there is no exotic recipe to share. “It is just the plain kuzhipaniyaram, sweet and sour, that we make,” elaborates Karupiah, suggesting that he cannot put a finger on why it sets tastebuds on fire. “We make it hygienically” — a fact attested by many reviewers. “We do not add any superfluities to make it look and taste better. A big no to soda salt. Even for the sake of experimentation, we have not added soda salt, not even once,” he remarks. That is something attested by the size of the dumplings. They are hardly fluffy, staying as frill-free as the shop itself. There are no elaborate accompaniments; only three regular chutneys. The preservatives-free dumplings are as easy on the purse as they are on the tummy. “Six dumplings are sold at Rs. 30; and an additional Rs. 2 is added for takeaways as they entail packing.” Though reduced in dimensions, Kulzhipaniyaram Kadai is not entirely unobtrusive. Quaintly cylindrical, the kiosk briefly holds the onlooker’s attention — that is, if they have noticed it. Its rotund steel body is partly wrapped in square fretwork, which betrays signs of corrosion and hardly any efforts to stem it. Karupaiah points out that the shop with its design was made possible by the generosity of a benefactor. The shop has served them well since 2013, and when the pandemic caused the business to run in fits and starts, not once did the thought of shuttering it for good or changing tack occur to either of them. Sometimes, a modest view of one’s abilities — which may also be a realistic appraisal — enables people to stay on track, and focussed on one’s primary strengths. “We started selling kuzhipaniyarams because we knew we could make it. And also because it is not easy to make them, and so there would not be much competition to deal with.” The pandemic has tested this couple’s capacity for stoicism. For days on end, the shop had to stay closed. For many of the days it was open, it had to bring down the shutters early due to state regulations. Before the pandemic, the shop would open at 5 p.m. and go on till 11 p.m., staying up to cater to techies who work odd hours as a matter of routine. Besides, due to work from home, many software professionals had left for their hometowns, leaving Kuzhipaniyaram Kadai with a depleted loyal-customer base. “However, whenever we opened, some of our regular customers returned, bothering to find out if we were in circulation again,” reveals Karupaiah. And that is keeping his hopes of a revival alive.  We started selling kuzhipaniyarams because we knew we could make it. And also because it is not easy to make them||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/the-dumplings-keep-coming/article35795255.ece
08 August 2021||August 08 2021 00:00 IST,||‘ Speed breakers need to be painted again’||Only a few roads at BKR (Bakyalakshmi Nagar, Krishna Nagar and Raja Nagar) in Sunnambu Kolathur, Kovilambakkam are bitumen-topped. On the already bitumen-topped roads, markings on speed breakers need to be repainted. Such roads include First Street, Second Street and Third Street at Bakyalakshmi Nagar. In June 2018 and January 2020, BKR Residents Welfare Association spent from its pocket to paint the speed-breakers. As the Panchayat said it would not be able to take up that work, we took it upon on ourselves. Markings on the speed breakers have faded again; and we request the authorities concerned to do the needful. G. Venkataramesh Kumar is the president of BKR Residents Welfare Association at Sunnambu Kolathur in Kovilambakkam Panchayat||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/speed-breakers-need-to-be-painted-again/article35795290.ece
08 August 2021||August 08 2021 00:00 IST,||‘ Water lorries eat into road space in Injambakkam’||Tanker lorries belonging to Chennai Metropolitan Water Supply & Sewerage Board (CMWSSB) eat into Anna Enclave Road in Injambakkam. At any given time, three to four lorries would be parked on both sides of the wide road, as CMWSSB’s water-filling station with an overhead tank is located here. These vehicles’ presence hinders the free movement of other vehicles. At times, motorists have to stop, wait and give way for oncoming vehicles. Further, these lorries come at a breakneck speed, which increases the risk of accidents — even more so, because this road is part of a residential area. Besides, the space where these lorries are parked are littered with food packets, leftovers and liquor bottles. We have been enduring this problem for many years now, with our repeated complaints to the CMWSSB eliciting little response. R.K.S. Murthi is a resident of Injambakkam||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/water-lorries-eat-into-road-space-in-injambakkam/article35795287.ece
08 August 2021||August 08 2021 00:00 IST,||An all-new focus by this photo studio clicks||A rather unusual assignment led pandemic-hit Bindu Studio at Kasturba Nagar and Indira Nagar in Adyar to find some work amidst lockdowns. It has to do with framing photographs of those who have lost the battle to COVID-19. Owner of Bindu Studio, T Prasad recalls receiving calls from bereaved relatives with this request, during the first wave. “There is the tradition of framing the photo of the deceased with a Rs. 500 or Rs. 2000 note on it,” points out 52-year-old Prasad, adding that this tradition followed by some people ensured some work for local photographers. The framed photo is required for the ceremony performed on the third day after the person’s death. “I had a couple of customers who got the necessary official permission to allow me open my shop and frame the photo within the given time,” says Prasad, adding that as it was a ritual that cannot be skipped, a rare exception was being made. As the work could be done without compromising on any of the COVID-19 protocols, it was made possible. “Some did not have individual photos of the deceased and would ask me to crop an image from the album and enlarge it as per their budget,” says Prasad. Prasad would do outdoor shoots, which were out of the question in the times. Framing photos of the dead filled a part of the void. “With the earnings I received from framing photos of the dead, I managed to make ends meet, for a few months,” reveals Prasad. Prior to establishing this studio in Adyar in 1998, Prasad was in the cinema field where he had developed many contacts. “Even if my studio was closed, people would track me down, that’s our network in the area,” says Prasad. That however did not mean Prasad was flourishing in his trade. “I was incurring an expense of Rs. 60,000, which included the rent for two of my shops and my home,” he says. Bindu Studio had three staff on its rolls, but with lockdowns clamped in place, two decided to go to their hometown. Other assignments For many months, his house doubled as a studio. “I had taken my printer along and whenever a customer wanted a printout of a photograph, I would hand it over to them, but would not entertain them at home,” he says. A meeting point near Prasad’s house would be decided upon, and the hard copy delivered. Prasad points out that wedding photography lost some of its sheen as people did not want to invest in albums when the guests would all be in masks. “They only wanted CDs, bringing down our profits,” he says. With a semblance of normality having returned, Prasad is witnessing different demands: Photos as proof for pension and bank-related formalities; and even for college admissions. “Not many want to set foot in a studio; they call me home. It’s a risk but I need to earn a living. I take all precautions and head for my assignments,” says Prasad, who tested positive during the second wave.  I had taken my printer along and whenever a customer wanted a printout of a photograph, I would hand it over to them, but would not entertain them at home||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/an-all-new-focus-by-this-photo-studio-clicks/article35795253.ece
08 August 2021||August 08 2021 00:00 IST,||From a ‘mud passage’ to a bitumen road||After a wait that spanned decades, Jasraj Nagar First Main Road is being bumped up to the status of bitumen road — from that of a “mud passage”, as residents of Pudupakkam would define it. Pudupakkam Village Panchayat started the work last Saturday. While welcoming the move, Jasraj Nagar and Sai Baba Nagar Residents’ Welfare Association has requested the Panchayat and Chengalpet District Collectorate to also lay the other roads in the localities. In Jasraj Nagar, they are: Second Main Road, Third Cross Street, Fifth Cross Street, Sixth Cross Street, and Seventh Cross Street. And in Sai Baba Nagar, they are: First Cross Street, Third Cross Street, Fourth Cross Street, and Fifth Cross Street. Fund crunch had been cited as reason for not laying the roads, residents point out. Uneven and pockmarked with protruding stones, these mud roads become slushy and slippery when it rains. “There have been instances of motorists falling from their two-wheelers while driving down these roads,” points out Allahdhi Chandrasekhar, vice-president of the Association. Association president A Devananth says, “At a monthly meeting in 2018, the Panchayat passed a resolution to lay Jasraj Nagar First Main Road. In 2019, estimates were prepared, funds allocated, and tenders were called for. But the work has begun only now. Further, the estimates have not been prepared for other stretches in the localities. Steps should be taken to lay these roads at the earliest.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/from-a-mud-passage-to-a-bitumen-road/article35795257.ece
08 August 2021||August 08 2021 00:00 IST,||Chitti dazzles at ROKA’s third e-waste drive||A hodgepodge of various items recreates the endearing Chitti from Enthiran . Only that this Chitti is owned body and soul — nay, discarded metals and circuits — by Residents of Kasturbanagar Association (ROKA). The residents welfare association calls it “ROKA's Chitti”, as it served its purpose very well as the mascot for its third e-waste collection drive. The four metric tonnes of e-waste collection spread across two days — July 24 and 25, 2021 — was preceded by elaborate preparations punctuated with creativity. At the e-waste collection venue, a team of young children from Kasturbanagar had parked a graffiti corner and a photo booth. Though it arrived later, ROKA’s Chitti walked away with much of the attention. The mascot had been fashioned out of the e-waste collected over the course of the first half-a-day of the drive. Visitors lugging bags chockful with e-waste were mesmerised by the new-avtar Chitti who was holding court amidst electronic discards. A majority of them would not leave the venue without a photo or a selfie with Chitti. The third e-waste drive’s success was made possible by multiple welfare associations and volunteers across Chennai who had made common cause. This achievement comes on the heels of a similar drive in January 2021 that yielded 1.25 metric tonnes of e-waste. The drive, the gains from it and also the approach taken in organising it received fulsome praise from Simranjeet Singh Kahlon, Regional Deputy Commissioner-South, Greater Chennai Corporation. Having taken time out of a Sunday morning to visit the hall, the official penned down encouraging words about ROKA’s initiative in the graffiti corner. GCC’s Zonal Officer for Zone 13, Thirumurugan also visited the venue and extended his full support to ROKA's efforts. Taking the drive to its logical conclusion, ROKA will ensure safe refurbishing, recycling and destruction of the various e-waste discarded through an authorised e-waste recycler. (Janani Veniktesh and S Sridharan are secretary and president of Residents of Kasturbanagar Association)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/chitti-dazzles-at-rokas-third-e-waste-drive/article35795260.ece
08 August 2021||August 08 2021 00:00 IST,||A clamour for privacy||In a clump of reeds at the Sholinganallur Perumbakkam Marshlands, a small bird is sitting on its high horse and giving a bird three times its size, a withering look. The bird that is bristling with anger, its feathers fluffed out menacingly, is a clamorous reed warbler. At the receiving end of this petulant behaviour is a white-breasted waterhen, endearingly untouched by the acrimony. All the while, the waterhen is mildly curious, and the fury from the warbler only seems to have intensified it. Unfolding in the second half of July, this scene raises a question. Deep down in the reed bed, was there something the clamorous reed warbler felt instinctively impelled to defend, and the white-breasted waterhen to be nosey about? Here is an additional piece of information that sharpens the question’s focus. This clamorous reed warbler was not entirely alone, having been in the company of a raucous companion only a little while earlier. The two rushed out of the reeds and through them, with the latter sliding out of view, and not being seen again. In Chennai and surrounding areas, the clamorous reed warbler enjoys a dual status: as resident and migrant. With occurrence data spread throughout the year, it can be labelled a resident, beyond doubt. “There are pockets in southern India where the clamorous reed warbler is a resident, and Chennai is one of those pockets,” states eBird reviewer Vikas Madhav Nagarajan. In the winter months, their tribe increases, being reinforced by a wintering population flying in from the north for a sojourn in southern parts. Given the time of the year, the two clamorous reed warblers sighted at the Sholinganallur Perumbakkam Marshlands are most likely from a resident population. And were they breeding? The clamorous reed warbler is usually a disembodied voice, its presence being noted and documented from its loud and raucous calls from the reeds. Therefore, documenting its nesting activity is as much of a possibility as having a Test cricket match in England totally uninterrupted by poor light and bad weather. “I have seen the clamorous reed warbler collect nesting material in 2016 at Chembarambakkam lake,” reveals Vikas. Given the extreme skulkiness of this warbler, that sounds like a rarity in itself.  In Chennai and surrounding areas, the clamorous reed warbler enjoys a dual status: as resident and migrant||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/a-clamour-for-privacy/article35795275.ece
08 August 2021||August 08 2021 00:00 IST,||Tansi Nagar RWA helps students of a neighbourhood school||Following in the footsteps of his parents, Saravana Rajesh Kumar has come forward to offer financial support to five students hailing from poor families. The IT professional has expressed his interest in associating with an initiative started by Tansi Nagar Residents Welfare Association for the benefit of underprivileged children at St. Antony’s Primary School, located in Tansi Nagar. As he himself has experienced deprivation in his early years, Dr. Sabarinath Ravichandar, a pulmonologist, is only too willing to support seven underprivileged students. Engineer Ashok Kumar Balakrishnan’s extends financial support to five students. Other residents of Tansi Nagar are similarly supporting the RWA in this social work. Long-term in its focus, the initiative commemorates the sixth death anniversary of former President Dr APJ Abdul Kalam. “The pandemic has rendered many jobless, and therefore our Association has come up with this initiative that seeks to benefit 47 primary class students of St. Antony’s Primary School. Fifteen residents support this cause. Most of the underprivileged students chosen as beneficiaries reside in Kallukuttai. We have identified students from class four and five and will continue to support them until they complete class twelve. These 47 children were chosen factoring in their past good record in academics and the financial constraints faced by their families,” says M Balakrishnan, secretary of the Association. A handful of donors have moved out of Tansi Nagar decades ago, but continue to support the association’s welfare programmes. “Raju V, a long-time resident of Tansi Nagar, left for Dubai decades ago, and he supports five students. Parameshwar Vishwanathan, another long-time resident of Tansi Nagar, settled down in Trivandrum 31 years ago, and she takes care of one student,” says Balakrishnan. The school’s headmistress, Sister Lourdu Amali says: “The Association has paid Rs. 61,700 for 47 students for this academic year. This school is a government-aided institution. Most of the students’ are from poor economic backgrounds. The pandemic has also taken a heavy toll on their families.” K Shanmuga Sundaram, Inspector, Law & Order, J7 Velachery Police Station, launched the initiative by handing over the cheques to a few students. The event was held on July 27 at the school. Over the last two years, the RWA has eased the burden of those hit hard by the pandemic, by providing them with food and groceries. Beneficiaries of these exercises include conservancy workers and fever surveillance workers of the Greater Chennai Corporation.  These 47 children were chosen factoring in their past good record in academics and the financial constraints faced by their families||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/tansi-nagar-rwa-helps-students-of-a-neighbourhood-school/article35795262.ece
08 August 2021||August 08 2021 00:00 IST,||A preschool for waterbirds||Residents of Kamakotti Nagar in Pallikaranai have one foot in the wild while being firmly planted in civilisation. A soggy patch in the locality collects water during the monsoons and retains sufficient amount of it long enough to serve as a preschool for growing waterbirds. While juveniles may carelessly splash about in the waters, and even park themselves on the sparse greenery around it, fledglings barely out of their nests take a cautious dip, under parental supervision. Around this time of the year, field notes by Sundaravel Palanivel, a resident of Kamakotti Nagar and a birder, would have references to juveniles of the major waterbirds that are resident in these parts. Last year around the same time, he would regularly observe a black-headed ibis take off with its juvenile in tow, from a tree on the nearby NIOT campus that overlooks this boggy patch. “The two would make a flying visit to the Pallikaranai marsh and return to their perch. The parent would appear to be teaching its young the essentials of flying,” remarks Sundaravel, whose field notes this year predictably include sightings of juveniles of the Eurasian spoonbill and the purple heron, apart from the other waterbirds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/a-preschool-for-waterbirds/article35795273.ece
08 August 2021||August 08 2021 00:00 IST,||Saplings planted in Palavakkam||Rajalakshmi Marketing Private Limited, franchise of Titan Eyeplus, has planted 50 tree saplings along KK Salai and Beach Road in Palavakkam (Ward 185). The company has taken part in Pasumai Chennai, a drive by the Greater Chennai Corporation to enhance the city’s green cover. “We have planted saplings that are 7 feet tall. They were sourced from a private nursery. But tree guards have been provided only to 11 saplings. Soon, other saplings will also be fenced. The tree species include vembu, thoongumunji maram, pungai, kathali and Ekali. We have set aside Rs. 50,000 for raising 50 saplings, which includes the cost of tree guards. The office of Zone 14 - Perungudi has given us manure for free. We are exploring the possibilities of watering the plants through drip irrigation,” says M Hari Baskaran, proprietor of the company. Hari Baskaran resides at Jai Shankar Nagar in Palvakkam and is the secretary of the Jai Shankar Nagar Residents Association. “In Jai Shankar Nagar, the roads are quite narrow and not suitable for huge trees. Hence, I chose KK Salai and Beach Road which are wide and when the saplings have grown, the roads will look beautiful being lined with trees. Another reason for choosing this road is that our showroom is located here. So I can keep a watch on the saplings. I would like to carry out a similar exercise in Besant Nagar as we have another showroom there,” says Hari Baskaran Greater Chennai Corporation officials — Assistant Executive Engineers U Saravanakumari and K. Dhandayuthapani, and Junior Engineer Rajesh Kanna took part in the event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/saplings-planted-in-palavakkam/article35795280.ece
08 August 2021||August 08 2021 00:00 IST,||Toppers honoured||The founder and chairman of Vels Group of Institutions, Ishari K. Ganesh has congratulated Vels Vidyashram’s school toppers in AISSCE - Class XII examination 2020-21.  They are: I. Yukthi Rao (498/500), S. Abirami (490/500), and M. Anirudh (488/500). According to a press release, he also congratulated the staff and students of Vels Vidyashram for securing 100% results. Of the 245 students who appeared for the exam, 101 secured above 90 %, adds the press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/toppers-honoured/article35795288.ece
08 August 2021||August 08 2021 00:00 IST,||Workshop on gardening||Tamil Nadu Agricultural University Information and Training Centre in Guindy is conducting a workshop on terrace gardening on August 13. The programme is open to all. For registration and further details, call 044 – 2225 0511/ 86080 40721 / 90955 75274||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/workshop-on-gardening/article35795285.ece
08 August 2021||August 08 2021 00:00 IST,||Online treasure hunt||Culture Caravan, a group dedicated to making heritage learning fun for children, is conducting an online workshop on August 14. The event will have cultural themes that include story narrations, art and craft and games. A theme-based treasure hunt will also be conducted to celebrate the Independence Day. For details, call 99406 52836 or visit https://www.facebook .com/teamculturecaravan/||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/online-treasure-hunt/article35795283.ece
08 August 2021||August 08 2021 00:00 IST,||Perumbakkam RWA’s plea on Grama Sabha meetings||Nesamani Nagar Residents’ Welfare Association, Perumbakkam sent a petition to the Chief Minister’s Cell on August 2 requesting the State government to ensure Grama Sabha meetings are conducted. The Association placed the same request with the Perumbakkam Village Panchayat. Grama Sabha meetings are held at Village Panchayats four times in a year on the following days — January 26 (Republic Day), May 1 (International Workers’ Day), August 15 (Independence Day) and on October 2 (Gandhi Jayanthi). The last Gram Sabha meeting was held on January 26, 2020. But the pandemic called a stop to these meetings. The Association is keen on knowing the status of two key issues — one involving road safety and the other, the construction of a library — it had raised in previous Grama Sabhas. In addition it would seek to highlight an incomplete drinking water pipe work in the next Grama Sabha, whenever it gets organised. “For the past seven years, we have been seeking that Pazhandi Amman Koil Street, Mettu Street, and Nesamani Nagar First, Second, and Third Streets be relaid. Another issue raised at a Grama Sabha is the provision of safety features at a busy junction in Perumbakkam, involving Sholinganallur-Perumbakkam-Medavakkam Road, First Main Road, and V. G. P. Prabhu Nagar Road. The traffic lights do not function at this junction, nor are traffic police personnel deployed there. We have also been requesting a road-over-bridge at the junction as it witnesses heavy traffic. It may be noted that a resolution was passed in the August 2018 Grama Sabha meet for the construction of a bridge. But it stays at the resolution stage. Yet another pending demand is the construction of a library. In 2016, a resolution was passed in this regard at the Grama Sabha. And the Perumbakkam Village Panchayat allocated an area of 1,500 sq.ft feet behind a Public Distribution System outlet on Mettu Street, for this purpose. It was meant for the construction of a library, which however has not started till today,” says the Association’s president, NK Raja. There is then the incomplete drinking water pipe work that needs to be addressed. “Under Jal Jeevan Scheme, a Central government scheme carried out by the Ministry of Jal Shakti, the Perumbakkam Village Panchayat started construction of canals and laying of pipes in November 2020. The scheme aims to ensure piped water supply for every household in India. As part of this project, Nookampalayam Road, Mettu Street, and roads in Nethaji Colony and Kalaignar Nagar were dug up. However, the work came to a halt in January 2021 and the Panchayat officials cited the pandemic for putting the work on hold. The work should be resumed at the earliest and by 2022, every household in Perumbakkam should have piped water supply.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/perumbakkam-rwas-plea-on-grama-sabha-meetings/article35795244.ece
08 August 2021||August 08 2021 00:00 IST,||Psychosocial resilience training conducted for transgenders||Franciscan Missionaries Mary (FMM), in collaboration with National Institute of Mental Health and Neuro Science, launched a programme to offer psycho social resilience training for those from the transgender community. The first edition of the programme covered topics like substance abuse, psychological issues, prevention of suicidal ideation and drug addiction. The training was also aimed at moulding the participants into trained counsellors, says a release. Social Upliftment for Development and Access to Resources (SUDAR), a social work centre, facilitated the training. Dr Jayakumar C, Associate Professor, Psychiatric Social Work from NIMHANS; Dr S Bala Shanthi Nikketha, Psychiatric Social Worker at Centre for Addiction Medicine, NIMHANS, Bangalore; Dr Patrik Jude, Social Worker; and Dr Dhinakaran D, Assistant professor of Psychiatry, NIMHANS were some of the speakers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/psychosocial-resilience-training-conducted-for-transgenders/article35795240.ece
08 August 2021||August 08 2021 00:00 IST,||Imparting painting skills to underprivileged women||Rotary Club of Madras East, in association with Nippon India, has launched an initiative to train underprivileged women to become painters in one year. The initiative called NShakti plans to train 1000 women. The MoU was signed by president Srinivasa Rao of Rotary Club of Madras East and Mahesh Anand, president Nippon India. To register for the programme, call 9841032035||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/imparting-painting-skills-to-underprivileged-women/article35795278.ece
08 August 2021||August 08 2021 00:00 IST,||Groceries distributed to undertakers at Kannammapet crematorium||Rotary Club of Chennai Silk City distributed groceries to the workers at the Kannammapet crematorium run by the Greater Chennai Corporation. According to a press release, through this gesture, the Club appreciates these workers’ unremitting service in the midst of the pandemic. The Club’s president TR Mala observes that like doctors, nurses and police personnel, these workers also render service while exposing themselves to the risk of contracting the infection. And therefore, they are also the unsung heroes who deserve recognition.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/groceries-distributed-to-undertakers-at-kannammapet-crematorium/article35795242.ece
08 August 2021||August 08 2021 00:00 IST,||Chitti dazzles at ROKA’s third e-waste drive||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/chitti-dazzles-at-rokas-third-e-waste-drive/article35795246.ece
08 August 2021||August 08 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Schools’ for avians open in Pallikaranai and Sholinganallur||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/schools-for-avians-open-in-pallikaranai-and-sholinganallur/article35795249.ece
08 August 2021||August 08 2021 00:00 IST,||A RALLY TO DRIVE HOME A COVID-19 MESSAGE||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/a-rally-to-drive-home-a-covid-19-message/article35795282.ece
08 August 2021||August 08 2021 00:00 IST,||The giant among pygmies||For most climbers and armchair mountaineers, the history of Everest begins with an Indian surveyor named Radhanath Sikdar rushing into the office of the Surveyor General of India around the 1850s, and announcing “Sir, I have found the highest mountain in the world!” Craig Storti in his opening chapter ‘Peak XV’ casts doubts on this story and attributes the discovery of the Everest to Surveyor General Andrew Waugh jointly with John Hennessey and Sikdar. In 1921, around 70 odd years later, the British launched the first expedition to find the route to the mountain. But, the extraordinary events which took place in between remain largely unknown, other than through some books on Tibet, the Great Game and early Himalayan expeditions. Audacious mission In his book, Storti brings it all together and conjures up a racy narrative with larger than life characters that tells this story starting with an audacious mission to Lhasa in 1903 by Sir Francis Younghusband, which in fact unlocked the key for the British to claim Everest as their own mountain. In 1893, Younghusband and Charles Bruce were walking across the polo grounds in Chitral on the North West Frontier when they conjured up a plan to sneak into Tibet and explore the region around Everest. This plan finally saw the light of day in 1921. Lord Curzon, who arrived in India in 1899 as Viceroy, was instrumental in sending the Younghusband Mission to Lhasa. Curzon remained obsessed with Tibet and was a part of the Great Game between Britain and Russia. He was determined to reach Tibet before the Russians did. In 1904 Younghusband finally entered Lhasa, but not before the British troops had mowed down hapless Tibetans using machine gun fire at a spot called Guru, south of Gyantse. From 1904 to 1913, Storti chronicles the explorations of Cecil Rawling, John Noel and Alexander Kellas, three of the most important players in the early history of Everest.  Rawling was sent by Younghusband to cross and map 800 miles of Tibet in 1905. Rawling and map maker Charles Ryder, of the Survey of India, crossed a 5000-metre-pass, the Kura La, and were possibly the first Westerners to see Everest “towering up thousands of feet, a glittering pinnacle of snow... a giant amongst pygmies.” The expedition then dropped down to the Tingri plains which would later become the main route to the base of the mountain. Captain John Noel, a gifted photographer and cinematographer, decided in 1913 without permission of the Lhasa Government to leave Darjeeling and search for Everest. Relying on the maps of Sarat Chandra Das, one of the Pundits, who had been into Tibet in 1887 and 1891, Noel entered Tibet through the Choten Nyima La in north Sikkim but was unfortunately stopped by the Dzongpen of Tinki and his men but not before Noel got a tantalising view of Mount Everest around 40 miles away. A quiet hero Alexander Kellas, the reticent Scottish chemist, has always been overshadowed by the likes of Mallory, Bruce and Norton, but Everest historian Walt Unsworth wrote of Kellas that “in terms of [the] Himalayan experience he was the greatest of all.”He undertook eight Himalayan expeditions between 1907 and 1921 and made five first ascents of peaks in north Sikkim including Pauhunri, Kangchenjau and Chomiomo, assisted solely by sherpa porters. But the most fascinating part of Kellas’s journey was his photographs from the Kharta and Kama valleys east of Everest in 1913 even though there is no official record of his entering Tibet. These photographs were presented in a Royal Geographical Society lecture by John Noel in 1919, which fired the British imagination and set the ball rolling for the first expedition to Everest. Charles Bell, who was British India’s “de-facto ambassador to Tibet”, managed to convince the 13th Dalai Lama to grant permission to the British. Storti’s fascinating tale comes to a climax with the Everest Reconnaissance Expedition of 1921. As George Mallory had said, “It would be necessary in the first place to find the mountain.” The 1921 expedition did just that leaving Darjeeling on a wet May morning, entering leech-infested and rain-drenched Sikkim, crossing the Jelep La into the cool dry air of the Chumbi valley in Tibet, and travelling north and then west to Khamba Dzong, Tingri and finally up the Rongbuk valley. From this now famous viewpoint, Mallory and Bullock were the first westerners to see that huge uninterrupted view of the north face of Everest. In Mallory’s words “The highest of the world’s great mountains... has to make but a single gesture of its magnificence to be lord of all.” In the final chapter, Storti brings to life the oft overlooked role of Oliver Wheeler, the map maker, who discovered the approach to the north col of Everest, 7020 metres, through the East Rongbuk Glacier which was the highest point reached by the expedition. Immaculately researched and presented, The Hunt for Mount Everest , which was 40 years in the making, fills a valuable gap in the early history of Everest and is recommended reading for all Everest historians and aficionados.  The reviewer is an avid trekker and author ofEverest, Reflections on the Solukhumbu.  The Hunt for Mount Everest Craig Storti John Murray Press/ Hachette  Rs. 699||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-giant-among-pygmies/article35795330.ece
08 August 2021||August 08 2021 00:00 IST,||Easy like Sunday morning||1On August 8, 1509, Emperor Krishnadeva Raya was crowned, marking the beginning of the regeneration of an empire that under him became the largest in India at the time. He was an able administrator, an excellent general and a patron of the arts. Kannada, Telugu, Tamil and Sanskrit flourished under his rule. Which empire did he head that was named after its capital city on the banks of the Tungabhadra? 2On August 8, 1709, Bartolomeu de Gusmão, a Brazilian-Portuguese priest, demonstrated his invention, which he called Passarola , in an audience before the king and queen of Portugal in Lisbon. Bartolomeu had seen a soap bubble rising in the hot air surrounding the flame of a candle, and was inspired to study the different densities of air. This led to his invention, which successfully took off inside the square, and after a few minutes, descended when a flame was extinguished. What was Passarola the very first type of? 3On August 8, 1786, the U.S. Congress unanimously chose an entity as an essential unit for the country. It resolved that the standard for gold and silver would be 11 parts fine and one part alloy. Its name comes from an old German word Thaler , a short form of Joachimsthaler. This originally referred to coins minted from the silver mined in Joachimsthal (Joachim’s Valley), now in the Czech Republic.What entity is this that’s also used by 64 other countries, although the American one is used worldwide as a standard? 4On August 8, 1898, William and his brother John left some cooked wheat while they went out on some work. On returning, they discovered the wheat had gone stale. Not wanting to waste it, they pressed it through a roller, and instead of getting a sheet they obtained flakes. They toasted these and served it to the patients at the sanitarium where they both worked. This went on to become one of the most popular breakfast foods of all time. What was their family name and what did they invent? 5On August 8, 1908, this gentleman, five years after making history with his brother at Kitty Hawk in the U.S., did something in public for the first time at the racecourse at Le Mans, France. His brother joined and they repeated the feat in different cities across Europe. News of this spread like wildfire and cemented their name in history. Who were these brothers, who just before this event stated that this honour was really a tribute to “an idea that has always impassioned mankind”? 6 On August 8, 1929, exactly 220 years after Passarola , the LZ 127 began a legendary around-the-world flight. Sponsored by publisher William Randolph Hearst, this was the very first circumnavigation by air. It had a crew of 36 and 24 passengers, and after covering 33,000 kilometres in 21 days, it landed safely in California. What vehicle was this which was named after a German count who had started the company? 7On August 8, 1960, this country declared independence from the French. Located on the southern coast of West Africa, its capital is Yamoussoukro, home to the world’s largest church. Other than being the largest producer of cocoa, it is best known as the birthplace of Didier Drogba. Which country is this that’s named after an intensive (now illegal) trade, which made it rich and also which gives its football team its name ‘Les Éléphants’? 8On August 8, 1969, photographer Iain Macmillan asked four subjects to stand on the side of a street just outside a studio in Westminster, London. He then asked them to cross the street, and proceeded to take an iconic photo that became the cover image of an album, one of the most instantly recognisable pop-culture posters; the location lent its name to the album. On what road was this picture taken? 9On August 8, 1992, the U.S. basketball team won gold at the Barcelona Olympics with a score of 117-85 over Croatia. Featuring superstars such as Michael Jordan, Magic Johnson, Larry Bird, Scotty Pippen, Charles Barkley and Patrick Ewing, what name was the team given that became a modern tradition in sports, comparable to ‘supergroups’ in music? 10August 8 is celebrated worldwide in recognition of one of humanity’s oldest and most beloved pets. The idea was put together for the first time in 2002 by the International Fund for Animal Welfare to celebrate the most popular pet on the Internet. What day is August 8 celebrated as which would have made the ancient Egyptians very happy? A molecular biologist from Madurai, our quizmaster enjoys trivia and music, and is working on a rock ballad called ‘Coffee is a Drink, Kaapi is an Emotion’. @bertyashley||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/easy-like-sunday-morning/article35795340.ece
08 August 2021||August 08 2021 00:00 IST,||Affinities beyond map lines||The distance between two places isn’t measured in kilometres, or by the length of time it takes to get there, or even by the ease of travel by air or rail or road. It’s about the distance in our minds, the gulf that widens or narrows by the stories we tell about each other, and in the red tape that one has to untangle to traverse it. For any Indian who has travelled abroad, and has met another South Asian, there’s often an immediate sense of fellowship, a knowledge that you can slip into shared cultural references. Yet, Pakistan and India are neighbours who love to hate each other — in popular media, in politics, and on the cricket ground. Teen talk Sumeer Bajaj and Umair Kazi are 30-something digital media professionals from opposite sides of the Indo-Pak border who met as teenagers during a college conference. They quickly discovered how much they had in common, including their Sindhi heritage. If it was so easy for them to talk to each other, shouldn’t it be just as easy for the two cultures to communicate? And so was born 883 to Infinity , a podcast launched in February this year, focusing on “content, culture and creativity” in a way that focuses on the similarities and resonances between Indians and Pakistanis. Mumbai is 883 kilometres from Karachi (closer than Delhi, which is around 1120 kms. “Wouldn’t it be convenient to just get into a car and drive there for a weekend — I drive to Goa all the time,” said Sumeer, speaking to me on a Zoom call. “But even if I started driving I’d never get there!” And, he notes, the potential for conversation is infinite. Myriad influences The usual trope of India-Pakistani stories tends to be the cleavage of 1947, and Sumeer is emphatic: “This is not a partition podcast; we’ve opened up the canvas to look at a variety of influences across both cultures.” Instead, the podcast looks at a broad range of cultural themes, from food to cinema to comedy and, of course to romance. In a series of three episodes dubbed ‘Veer Zara’ the hosts speak with couples who have found love and negotiated marriage across the border. In another, fashion designer Yousuf Bashir Qureshi talks about what identity means to him, and how it encompasses bits and pieces of both sides of the border. Moments of reflection While the conversation between the hosts is easy and punctuated with humorous banter, they do not shy away from serious — and sometimes thorny — subjects. In an episode that explores how the two countries relate to the Israeli-Palestine conflict, there are moments of reflection that verge on discomfort where the friends try to understand the deep histories of West Asia and its resonances with those of the subcontinent. Even as we recognise that they may be speaking to a small audience of the converted, Sumeer and Umair are hopeful that there will be a ripple effect, and already have plans to work with this idea beyond the podcast. The associated ‘883 to Infinity Art Project’ invites artists from both countries to “jam” on episode themes, and the first of these, ‘Train to Pakistan’ illustrates the hosts’ first trip to the other side of the border on the Samjhauta Express. And even as states play politics that keep people apart, it’s hard to deny affinities that are built on shared vocabularies, foods, and a history that precedes the drawing of a line on a map.  In a series of three episodes dubbed ‘Veer Zara’, the hosts speak with couples who have found love and negotiated marriage across the border||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/affinities-beyond-map-lines/article35795349.ece
08 August 2021||August 08 2021 00:00 IST,||The subtle tact in name dropping||Some men are born great. Others achieve greatness. And the rest of us are free to drop their names. In a world in which where you stand depends on whom you know, name dropping is our “upgrade” to first class. As a veteran name dropper myself, I must confess that if I have got this far in life, there is a lot I owe to expertly lacing my conversations with entries drawn from the who’s who of society. From the Page 3 types to sports stars and the cerebral celebrities, all of them are in my database. They have been my “Open Sesame” to closed doors, given me the trappings of respectability, and helped me (ahem) jump queues for everything from vaccines to visas. But as we all know “upgrades” don’t come easy. There is much more to effective name dropping than just having a copious database. It needs finesse in deployment. For instance, crash landing into a conversation to announce that you have just met Amitabh Bachhan is the way an amateur goes about it. It sounds boastful, crass, and you are probably not going to be believed. A seasoned name dropper, however, would try a different tack, gently easing himself into an ongoing chat to say: “Amitji said he enjoyed my child’s watercolour.” (You can substitute watercolours with nursery rhyme, dance or lisped mimicry of a hawker’s call …anything will do for, as they say, the material is immaterial). “Who,” your listeners ask, not sure if they can believe their ears. “Oh, Amitji — Mr. Amitabh Bachhan,” you explain. You have cleverly used your child’s watercolours or whatever as a decoy and made the name-drop seem almost incidental to the main story. You have also revealed that you know the star well enough to step over the Lakshman Rekha of the surname. It’s a master stroke, and your stock will rise to stratospheric heights. Demanding skill Name dropping is a demanding skill. It is sensible, for instance, to do your homework and study profile pictures of your “close friends”. Suppose you are at a film club get-together, and wowing members by claiming that a leading Kolkata filmmaker is a dear family friend. If said filmmaker also happens to be in the hall and displays no sign of recognition, you will have a lot of explaining to do. Also, as luck would have it, if you run into another of your ilk, a fellow name dropper at a party, don’t fall into the temptation of trying to match ace for ace. You say you know the beat inspector well. He counters saying that he knows the superintendent to which you could respond by saying that you are also on good terms with the DIG. This can spiral all the way to the top of the police hierarchy, and get neither of you anywhere. Far from impressing your audience, they will be sniggering at the spectacle. Modern technology, for all its benefits, has made life more difficult. I can no longer say for instance that I play golf every Sunday morning at the private course of a tycoon. Before I complete the sentence, the local busybody will proffer proof that the tycoon does not play golf at all. If you are the type who believes in the sterling virtues of hard work and perseverance, you can plod your way to your goals. Else, simply drop the right names and you will be well on your way up. You will know you have arrived when the name that people drop is your own. jairam.menon@gmail.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-subtle-tact-in-name-dropping/article35795305.ece
08 August 2021||August 08 2021 00:00 IST,||The spirit of Rumi||Easily the most beautiful set of books I possess is the Persian to Urdu translation of Rumi’s Masnavi . It is six volumes bound in blue leather, each with a frontispiece. The back of each has a photograph of Rumi’s tomb in Konya, Turkey. The text is arranged in two columns, with the Farsi text on top in large typeface and the Urdu below it, smaller. The translator Qazi Sajjad Husain has been credited, but not the typesetter and designer — which is a shame. The volumes are representative of a time, now gone, when books were objects representing more than just the words they carried. Rumi’s work is a long narrative poem in rhyming couplets, which is what a masnavi is, as against a short love poem in rhyming, but unrelated couplets, which make up a ghazal. Rumi’s Masnavi is the most famous example of Sufi verse. Few have read it in full (it has 50,000 lines) but many are familiar with some of its couplets and certainly many more have heard of Rumi. Heart of light Rumi was born in northern Afghanistan, near Mazar-e-Sharif, in 1207. He was a near contemporary of the great Indian writer of Farsi, Amir Khusro (1253-1325). Rumi began writing — or possibly dictating — the poem in his 50s and the work shows this maturity. Naipaul famously said that one could be a child prodigy in mathematics, music, even art, but not in writing because it requires experience rather than mere talent. The Masnavi demonstrates this. There is no real plot to the poem. It cannot be compared to epics like the Mahabharata or the Iliad . It is a collection of stories and parables, many from the Quran and Bible, some from history and some from mythology. But despite the wide range of characters and narratives, it is immersive because of its mystical heart. It retains coherence because of its sentiment, not its storyline. And because of its disjointed form, one can start reading it from anywhere. The opening line in my volumes in Urdu is: Bansuri se sun kya bayaan karti hai (R.A. Nicholson, one of the greatest Rumi scholars, renders the line as ‘Hearken to this reed forlorn’). Immediately, a picture is created and a sound heard in the mind. This is the sort of immersion that the book offers. It might be interesting to note here that a music album, A Meeting by the River , by guitarist Ry Cooder and mohan veena player Vishwa Mohan Bhatt, inspired by a story in Rumi’s Masnavi, won the Grammy in 1994. It is an outstanding album recorded without rehearsal in a cathedral and reproduces the spirit of Rumi. World as an illusion Sufism is, of course, a fruit of the Platonic tree. It was the conquest of Egypt by the Arabs that introduced them to Greek philosophy, especially neo-Platonism (the Egyptian aristocracy was Greek because Alexander’s general Ptolemy had ruled it till his last descendant, Cleopatra). The Sufis engaged with the Platonic idea of this world as illusory, a shadow of another, real world, through mysticism and poetry. Rumi has been translated for a long time and by many Western scholars into English. The accusation against some Orientalists is that they have secularised and whitewashed Rumi, erasing from his writing all traces of Islam. As someone who can look at the text in multiple languages, this seems true to me. Handling the books while writing this, I noticed a few old post-its sticking out from a volume. About 15 years ago, I had spent a few months translating the text from Urdu to English. After reviewing my output of some 100 pages, I stopped. I realised I could not replicate the beauty of those lines.  A Meeting by the River, a music album by Ry Cooder and Vishwa Mohan Bhatt, inspired by a story in Rumi’sMasnavi, won the Grammy in 1994||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-spirit-of-rumi/article35795310.ece
08 August 2021||August 08 2021 00:00 IST,||The beautiful moments||Towards the end of China Room , the unnamed first-person narrator, an 18-year-old recovering drug addict who has come down from his home in northern England to stay at his family’s derelict ancestral farm in rural Punjab, experiences a quiet epiphany. He realises that “life need not remain a wail of anger, that it can also be full of beautiful moments that just seem to arrive with the birds.” It’s a moment of existential clarity for the young man who has lurched into adulthood dealing with the searing racism of his home town, and shooting himself up with heroin to dull the pain. The novel, which has won a place in the Booker longlist, throbs with the sense of alienation that is central to Sunjeev Sahota’s work. The British Asian author’s debut novel, Ours Are the Streets (2011), explored the radicalisation of a British Muslim, the child of immigrant parents, who has borne the brunt of racism and feels he doesn’t quite belong anywhere. His second novel, the Booker shortlisted The Year of the Runaways (2015), narrated the experiences of a group of illegal immigrants from Asia.    China Room explores the same themes of in-betweenness and the search for self-fulfilment. However, coloured as it is by the author’s own memories of growing up brown in a white working-class neighbourhood in an English town, it is less political and more deeply personal. Penned in the China room Plaited with the story of the young man set in 1999, is another tale — that of Mehar Kaur, the narrator’s great grandmother. In 1929, 15-year-old Mehar arrives at the same farm when she is married to one of three brothers. As ordained by their Mai, a formidable matriarch, all three brothers are married in a single ceremony on the same day. The three new brides, who are forced to be rigorously veiled in company, have no idea which brother they have wed. They do their chores by day, and are penned in the China room by night — so called because of the willow-patterned china plates it contains. On some nights they are told to go to another room so their respective husbands can have sex with them. But the act takes place in the dark, and hurriedly. Its purpose is functional — the birth of sons. The girls still don’t get to see the faces of their husbands. But Mehar is desperate to find out which one of the brothers is hers. She is, in fact, married to the eldest, Jeet, but she jumps to her own conclusions and thinks her husband is Suraj, the youngest. One day, out in the fields, she drops her veil before Suraj. And he, instead of correcting her mistake, proceeds to make love to her. Yearning for freedom The two strands of the novel — the traumatised boy from England sweating out his drug habit in the rundown farmhouse, and the story of Mehar and her forbidden love — unspool in their own tracks, but they are also echoes of each other. Mehar’s world is one of chilling misogyny, one where young women have no rights, no voice, no space to even be — other than as a workhorse and an engine of reproduction. Yet her liminal yearning for the freedom to live and love as she wants to, her desire to escape the harsh, brutal world she is trapped in, are, in essence, not unlike the experience of her great grandson 70 years on. The China room, with its solitary, barred window, a room which the young narrator too inhabits for a while, is a metaphor for the same prison house, the same crushing social aggression that both he and Mehar face in their own time and place. Visual prose Despite the author’s obvious effort to draw a parallel between the two storylines, it is the tale of Mehar, told in languid present tense, that is the more vital and powerful one. Her great grandson and his agonies pale before Mehar’s appetite for love and life. Indeed, what draws the reader into the book is her romance and her attempt to break free, as does the author’s startlingly visual prose that is at once lyrical and photographically precise in its descriptions.  China Room ’s autobiographical foundation is never in doubt — Mehar’s story is based on the author’s own family lore, and the novel ends with a picture of his great grandmother cradling a baby Sahota in her lap. The book is loaded with other autobiographical details, too, including his experience of racism when he was a boy. It is as if Sahota is harking back — to his own 18-year-old self, to his foremother in pre-Independence India — and seeing a pattern of crisis and struggle, repeated again and again. Thus are the generations connected to each other perhaps — by the double helix of their traumas and triumphs. It is an appealing conceit, even though the two narratives never quite hang together. And though Mehar’s tale ends abruptly, you know that perhaps she too came to realise that life, no matter how excoriating at times, does throw up beautiful moments. The writer is a journalist and author.  China Room Sunjeev Sahota Penguin Hamish Hamilton  Rs. 599    The two strands of the novel — the traumatised boy sweating out his drug habit in the rundown farmhouse, and the story of Mehar and her forbidden love — unspool in their own tracks, but they are also echoes of each other||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-beautiful-moments/article35795312.ece
08 August 2021||August 08 2021 00:00 IST,||Luminous ladies||In her introduction to this collection, author Namita Gokhale aptly points to the “passionless neutrality” of these “quietly told stories.” Iconic Hindi fiction writer Mannu Bhandari tends to maintain a distance from her characters, watching them pursuing their goals without being emotionally involved with them. You will never find her favourably disposed towards any particular character, all of whom are described in the same matter-of-fact tone. Bhandari is one of the doyens of the Nayi Kahani or New Story movement, which included stalwarts like Nirmal Verma, Rajendra Yadav, Mohan Rakesh, Kamleshwar and Bhisham Sahni, among others. This literary movement of the 1950s and 60s dealt with the dilemmas, frustrations and anguish of the Indian middle class as it tried to come to terms with shifting social mores and moral values. One of the prominent themes is the changing dynamics between the sexes in light of the emergence of the working woman. Bhandari engages with these social themes without disturbing the flow of the stories. What makes her stories extraordinary is the ordinariness of the characters. None of them is larger than life but you fall in love with them. Emotional dilemma Most of Bhandari’s protagonists are middle-class women, who are strong, independent and candid about their sexuality. The opening story, ‘This is the Truth’, is translated from Yehi Sach Hai, which was adapted by Basu Chatterjee into the film Rajnigandha starring Amol Palekar and Vidya Sinha. The theme is the emotional dilemma of a working woman who vacillates between her feelings for her ex and her devotion to her caring current boyfriend. Bhandari depicts Deepa’s predicament skilfully, without judging her, letting readers reach their own conclusions. Insightful tips The eponymous story, ‘The Wise Woman’, is also a story of a working woman who has an affair with her married boss. She hopes that one day he’ll make their relationship official. At the end, she realises that familial bonds approved by society are way stronger than the intimate romantic relations forged between two individuals. Here are her interesting and insightful tips on liaisons with married men:  In this country love flourishes in the bosom of home and hearth, not in the realm of mind and body.   Don’t ever make the mistake of falling in love with married man. Heroes who can sacrifice their wife and children on the altar of ‘divine’ and ‘magnificent’ love are not produced here. Although you will find brave souls who are always willing to straddle two boats.   If you are a married woman, by all means have a romance with a married man. When you get bored you can always go back home.   Fear or worry you need not feel, when love, by marriage, is sealed.  There are other stories along similar lines such as ‘Trishanku’, ‘The Lonely One’, ‘Punishment’, ‘The Tale of a Weak Girl’. The translator Vidya Pradhan has succeeded in capturing the essence of the original Hindi in most of the stories. But in some of them, the literal translation of Hindi phrases and idioms is distracting, especially for readers like me who are familiar with the original. The novelist, screenwriter and banker’s debut novelPatna Bluesis being translated into 14 languages.  The Wise Woman and Other Stories Mannu Bhandari, trs Vidya Pradhan Roli Books  Rs. 395    Most of Bhandari’s protagonists are middle-class women, who are strong, independent and candid about their sexuality||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/luminous-ladies/article35795315.ece
08 August 2021||August 08 2021 00:00 IST,||An Indian space odyssey through the eyes of a pioneer||If you want to know the nitty-gritty of India’s multi-dimensional space programme, and how it came to be self-reliant and world-class, the book you ought to read is Space and Beyond, Professional Voyage of K. Kasturirangan . Edited by B.N. Suresh whom Kasturirangan calls ‘engineer extraordinaire’, the volume traces the Indian Space Research Organisation’s (ISRO) fascinating voyage which began by sending an imported Nike Apache rocket to the upper atmosphere that weighed a few hundred kilogrammes, from Thumba, Kerala, on November 21, 1963. Cut to the 21st century, ISRO has launched its own 640-tonne gigantic GSLV-Mk III rockets from the spaceport at Sriharikota, and has ambitious plans, including the forthcoming Gaganyaan mission to send Indians to space. Inspired by Sarabhai Through Kasturirangan’s words, Suresh also highlights the dire need to sustain Earth’s resources for future generations. The book offers solutions — from embracing nuclear power to adopting the measures outlined by the high-level working group’s report on the Western Ghats’ ecosystem. Kasturirangan gives fascinating insights into the extraordinary personalities of ISRO’s pioneers such as Vikram Sarabhai, M.G.K. Menon, Satish Dhawan, U.R. Rao and A.P.J. Abdul Kalam. They were clear-eyed that ISRO’s goal should be to ensure that the benefits of space technology reach “the grassroots”. Sarabhai, ISRO’s founder, made no bones that self-reliance should be the “life current” of its missions. He founded the Physical Research Laboratory, Ahmedabad, which became the cradle of India’s space progamme. As ISRO chairman, Kasturirangan worked with five successive Prime Ministers, P.V. Narasimha Rao, A.B. Vajpayee, H.D. Deve Gowda, I.K. Gujral and Manmohan Singh. They were keen listeners, good observers and had sharp minds. He says Prime Minister Narendra Modi was keen on leveraging the remote-sensing and communication capabilities of India’s satellites for Gujarat’s development when he was Chief Minister. Kasturirangan (80) has an enviable curriculum-vitae to write on all these subjects. He was ISRO Chairman (1994 – 2003) and earlier Director, ISRO Satellite Centre, Bengaluru, renamed as U.R. Rao Satellite Centre. He made a reputation by building India’s remote-sensing satellites. He was a nominated Member of the Rajya Sabha and held a host of other posts besides being chairman of the committee to draft the National Education Policy. The book has been superbly edited by Dr. B.N. Suresh. As a builder of launch vehicles, he went on to become the Director, Vikram Sarabhai Space Centre (VSSC), Thiruvananthapuram, ISRO’s nerve-centre. Later, he was Director of the Indian Institute of Space Science and Technology, Valiamala, Kerala, for three and a half years after it was inaugurated in 2007. It is a deemed-to-be university set up by the Department of Space. He is now its Chancellor. Kasturirangan says Suresh has an “awesome” knowledge of launch vehicles. Suresh has formatted the book in a way that its 22 chapters are organically linked to one another and can also be read separately. Cooperation with Russia There is a chapter on India’s international cooperation in space with the then USSR (now Russia), the U.S. and France. The USSR put into space India’s first three indigenously built earth observation satellites, Aryabhatta, Bhaskara-I and Bhaskara-II, and a series of Indian Remote Sensing satellites. Besides, India’s first cosmonaut, Rakesh Sharma, flew to space in a Soviet spacecraft Soyuz T-11. A refrain that runs through the book is the manifold uses to which the images of India’s earth observation satellites have been put to, from predicting droughts and cyclones to disaster management. Today, India is a world leader in building earth observation, communication, navigation and other satellites, and it could not have been possible without the visionaries that helmed India’s space programme from Sarabhai to Kasturirangan.  The reviewer is an independent journalist.  Space and Beyond, Professional Voyage of K. Kasturirangan Edited by B.N. Suresh Springer Nature  €43.59||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/an-indian-space-odyssey-through-the-eyes-of-a-pioneer/article35795327.ece
08 August 2021||August 08 2021 00:00 IST,||Vanity education||“In which school are your children studying?” It’s a question parents are either happy to face or hope to evade. It depends on whether they send their children to a premium school in town or not. I certainly have a problem with that question, because I send my children “only” to a quasi government school, for reasons best known to a middle class family. I, of course, know good parenting has little to do with affording education for children at premium schools of the world. Still my spontaneous response to the query carries a tinge of uneasiness, revealing my own disappointment with myself — as if I am Roger Federer and have lost a Wimbledon final. But there are moments of consolation as when I realise how voiceless my friends who are parents and patrons of a particular elite school in my town are. A recent example was about tuition fees. There was a court order directing the “management schools” (as the privately run schools are known) to collect only about 75% of the usual annual tuition fee, and that too in instalments, as the pandemic affected the household incomes. However, this school quite casually increased the tuition fee and demanded that it be paid in full. My friends fretted and fumed and then paid the amount one by one, falling in line. In my case, I was asked to pay only the fee stipulated by the government. I also had my way when it came to saving my children from the so-called online classes — the most awkward part of which was their insistence on a WhatsApp account. I could very well confront the staff with the argument that their online classes did nothing more than extending the children’s screen time. But I was in no mood to do that. I told them, in all politeness, that I could not afford a smartphone. There the matter ended. My take on the whole thing is about the balance of power between us, the parents, and them, the schools. Wherever there is such a thing, there are better chances of a fair deal. Impressive buildings, legacy, and even great teachers, how do they matter when schools take parents for granted? sankar@sankarg.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/vanity-education/article35795303.ece
08 August 2021||August 08 2021 00:00 IST,||The many lives of a superstar||Growing up in Tamil Nadu in the 1980s and ’90s meant growing up in a world that was polarised between Rajinikanth fandom and Kamal Haasan fandom. There were just two roads leading into the woods and you chose one, swearing life-long allegiance. For the people of Tamil Nadu, who have always preferred to split their loyalties between well-matched binaries (MGR-Sivaji, Jayalalithaa-Karunanidhi, and later, Vijay-Ajith) these two rising stars were perfectly poised to be split into two polar recipients of that adulation. And in this State, it is a self-fulfilling prophecy that stardom leads to politics. The prophecy has played out in the case of these two stars as well. Only, they found themselves trapped in a post-modernist, dystopian version. Rajini’s final (?) withdrawal from politics and Kamal Haasan’s rout in the recent election is where this story rests now. That was not the script though. Which is why news of a biography on Rajini was exciting. It’s not easy writing the life history of a superstar, and with this larger than life, reticent superstar who has preferred to cloak his life in mystique, filmy dialogues, and smoke-machine fog, it certainly could not have been a walk in the park. He’s star, wannabe politician, spiritualist — always more than one can chew. So, it was a bold move to attempt to chronicle this life, particularly without access to key dramatis personae. The greatest strength of this book is possibly that it provides the first elaborate cogent account of the early life of Rajinikanth, beyond his ‘conductor’ days — a trope even fans have looked past. Vaasanthi painstakingly puts together tidbits, including what the star let slip in a mellow mood on odd occasions over the years, to portray in detail an early life that is a significant window to the personality. She also creates structure from what could be a baggy monster of material, leading us through his cinematic journey, interspersed with the shadows thrown on it by the key character’s spiritualism and the brush with politics, and politicians. Flip-flop account It would not be fair to expect chronological sequencing in a later life, especially one that is fraught with flip-flops, but one can’t help wondering if a more cogent account, with an unabashed portrayal of Rajini as the central celestial figure around which things spin, might have worked better. Yes, it is true that the life of Rajinikanth is not just the life of an individual, you need to tell the story of a province, its political, social and cultural spaces spanning several decades, with a galaxy of characters to boot and multiple milestones. And yet no one will fault a writer who grants Rajinikanth the celestial space that he anyway already occupies, certainly not his fans. The story, in classic rags to riches progression, is a genre that is inspiring because of its content, and given in this case, the meteoric rise of the maverick Shivaji Rao Gaekwad into a superstar, no doubt it is a significant work as profiles go. However, the book is wedged somewhere between blind fans so trapped in a construct that obliterates reality, and political watchers most of whom have justifiably been sceptical of the man’s actual entry into politics, given his flip-flops. And, of course, if we were to allow Bollywood to deliver a punchline that is in the same league as Rajnikanth’s, then: Picture Abhi Baaki Hai, dost ! Indeed, there are further chapters in this biopic.  Rajinikanth — A Life Vaasanthi Aleph Book Company  Rs. 699||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-many-lives-of-a-superstar/article35795325.ece
08 August 2021||August 08 2021 00:00 IST,||My green balcony||Dear Agony Akka,  I live in a sylvan apartment complex in the heart of the city. Yesterday, our Residents’ Association president announced that we should celebrate Van Mahotsav this week, and pot different species of plants and trees in our houses and colony pathways. While a great initiative, the problem is my balcony is already overrun with 10 different kinds of plants (most of them invasive), thanks to my husband who is a gardening enthusiast. While I appreciate the greenery, I have barely an inch of space there to stand with my cup of tea. How do I dissuade my overenthusiastic husband from bringing more alien species into our house? —Suffering Torture of Eco-friendly Male   Dear STEM,  I ama bit shocked that you think the balcony is a place to stand and drink tea. Every sensible urbanite knows that the balcony has a lot of important roles to play in modern-day apartment living that have very little to do with drinking tea. I am now going to proceed to list a few such roles. 1.Aplace to dry clothes.Wearing wet clothes can give you pneumonia, so people usually prefer to dry before use. For this purpose, balcony is useful with plenty of sunlight and air. 2. A place to keep washing machine.Apartments these days don’t have enough space for humans, so gadgets and appliances have a particularly hard time. Outlawing them to the balcony is a smart move. 3.Aplace for washbasin.For some reason, Chennai architects find it compulsory to add a washbasin in dining room. It is as if after eating, one must wash hands within stretching distance itself. As a compromise solution, some flats now put the washbasin in balcony. 4.Room for children.One fan, one screen, one table-chair in the balcony and hey presto, the 2BHK becomes 3BHK. 5.Botanical gardens.My cousin sister in Velachery has created a mini tropical forest in her balcony and it overflows with orchids, cacti, creepers, ficus and two Venus flytraps. In the small patch that was left, she has now started a vegetable and herb section. Effectively, only bees and leopards can feel at home there now. 6.Shopping mall.The balcony is also a good place from which to have shouted transactions with watchman, neighbours and vendors, which often involves complicated manoeuvres of letting down bags with money and pulling up bags with bread or bananas. Given such varied use of this spot, if your balcony has only 10 different kinds of plants right now, it means you have too much vacant space. You can consider sub-letting it to a leopard or human being (after adding washbasin). Or you can allow your husband to follow your Residents Association president’s advice and add more plants. If you still insist on drinking tea there, then try to set up a machan between two-three of the largest potted plants and perch there with your cuppa. You will have the advantage of being able to keep an eye on the surrounding jungles to see when the Residents Association president is approaching. As he comes within range, carefully aim a small potted plant on his head. Frankly, your Residents’ Association president sounds slightly anti-national to me, almost verging on an urbane rascal. Instead of focussing firmly on keeping out external enemies and supervising internal security, he is wasting time on environmental affairs. At the very least, please ensure that the plants he is planting in the colony pathways follow the orange, white and green colour scheme. With August 15 coming up, it’s the least he can do. — AA agony.akka@gmail.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/my-green-balcony/article35795338.ece
08 August 2021||August 08 2021 00:00 IST,||Good deduction||South’ s sequence showed 22-23 points, so North had to raise despite his paltry values. East won the opening spade lead with his ace and returned the three. South reasoned that the spades were probably splitting 5-2 as East would have returned a different spade had he started with three. It was possible that East started with four spades, but then the spade suit was not a threat to his contract. Accordingly, South won the second spade with his king. He could bang down the ace and king of diamonds, hoping for the queen to drop, but that was against the odds and the contract would fail if the queen did not drop. There would be no entry to dummy’s queen of hearts, which he would need if there were only four diamond tricks. South decided that his best chance was that East held the queen of diamonds. He cashed the ace and king of hearts to unblock the suit, then led the nine of diamonds and overtook it with dummy’s 10. East won with his queen and shifted to a club. South rose with his ace, crossed to dummy with a diamond to the eight, and cashed the queen of hearts. Three more diamond tricks gave him the nine tricks that he needed. Nicely played!||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/good-deduction/article35795343.ece
08 August 2021||August 08 2021 00:00 IST,||Last of the Romans||Writer and publisher Roberto Calasso died on July 28. He was one of the last great thinkers of the 21st century, a scholar and polyglot who could speak of the Upanishads, Greek myths, Baudelaire, and Kafka in the same breath. His books urged us to think, an act that is almost outdated now. Adelphi, the publishing house Calasso directed, stuck to the old-fashioned belief that books should be published not on the basis of their saleability but only if they have something worthwhile to say. When Calasso was in Chennai in 2011 for the launch ofKa’s Tamil translation, he had said, speaking about India’s indifference to its cultural inheritance: “It’s really quite depressing to see how little people take advantage of what is available to them, both here and in Europe. It’s not just about knowing something about the past; these are things that can be used even today.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/last-of-the-romans/article35795295.ece
08 August 2021||August 08 2021 00:00 IST,||Sprint to freedom||Last week, Belarusian sprinter Krystsina Tsimanouskaya fled from Tokyo, dodging her country’s officials who tried to hustle her onto a homebound plane to face punishment for criticising the Olympic team’s management. She got a Polish visa. It was a dramatic turn of events, but not a first. In London in 1948, the Czechoslovakia women’s gymnastics coach, Marie Provaznikova, a supporter of President Edvard Beneš (recently overthrown by Communists) announced her defection to the U.S. In 1956, the Melbourne Games kicked off just as Soviet tanks rolled into Hungary to crush the revolution there. Hungarian athletes got into fights with their Soviet counterparts, and dozens fled to other countries. And it hasn’t always been about the Cold War either. In the 2012 London Olympics, athletes from several African countries sought asylum in the U.K.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/sprint-to-freedom/article35795297.ece
08 August 2021||August 08 2021 00:00 IST,||Into the metaverse||Is the cyberpunk future at our doorstep? Mark Zuckerberg recently announced his ambition to create a “metaverse”. The term was coined by Neal Stephenson in his 1992 novelSnow Crash, to describe a post-Internet virtual reality where people interact through digital “avatars” only. FromThe MatrixtoReady Player One, sci-fi has been imagining such setups for decades. Now, several companies are trying to make it a reality, including Epic Games, the makers ofFortnite,and Facebook, which has already made huge investments in this direction. Strategist Matthew Ball, identifying the characteristics of a metaverse, said it would, for instance, be live; will never pause; and will be a full universe where you can work, play, do business.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/into-the-metaverse/article35795299.ece
08 August 2021||August 08 2021 00:00 IST,||Video Mariamman and Other Stories||Imayam, trs Padma Narayanan  Speaking Tiger Rs. 499 In this collection of 14 of Imayam’s finest stories, the Tamil writer’s preoccupation with the complexities of the caste system and patriarchy come to the fore. His deep humanism and fierce sense of justice shine through them all.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/video-mariamman-and-other-stories/article35795307.ece
08 August 2021||August 08 2021 00:00 IST,||The Jamun Tree and Other Stories||Richa Gupta  Bridging Borders Rs. 399 This collection of short stories is on varied topics such as an almost-human jamun tree, an enticing woman on a mission, a family receiving news about their inheritance, a journalist looking for a scoop, a mother dealing with the death of her child, all of which open up vistas to understand life.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-jamun-tree-and-other-stories/article35795317.ece
08 August 2021||August 08 2021 00:00 IST,||Fatal Mistakes||Vedashree Khambete-Sharma  Harper Black Rs. 299 Mumbai Dailyreporter Avantika Pandit wants to cover crime. She pisses off her boss but can’t help snooping around when a bunch of mysterious texts hint at deadly, hidden crimes. Can she unearth the truth? Can she cross over to the hallowed ground of crime reporting?||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/fatal-mistakes/article35795319.ece
08 August 2021||August 08 2021 00:00 IST,||The Sweetness of Water||Nathan Harris  Headline Rs. 899 In the dying days of the American Civil War, newly freed brothers Landry and Prentiss find work on the farm of George Walker, a man reeling from the loss of his son in the war. A bond of trust blossoms between them. But it isn’t long before the townspeople turn against such alliances.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-sweetness-of-water/article35795321.ece
08 August 2021||August 08 2021 00:00 IST,||Right Between the Ears||Sandeep Dayal  Penguin Random House Rs. 599 The power of cognitive brands, says Dayal, is not accidental; it is built by applying scientific advances in psychology, behavioural economics, social anthropology and cognitive neuroscience. He provides a new lens with which we can deconstruct a brand’s success or failure.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/right-between-the-ears/article35795323.ece
08 August 2021||August 08 2021 00:00 IST,||Trans: When Ideology Meets Reality||Helen Joyce  HarperCollins Rs. 398 In 10 years, laws, company policies, school and university curricula, sport, medical protocols, and the media have been reshaped to privilege self-declared gender identity over biological sex. It is stifling inquiry into the significance of our bodies, argues Joyce.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/trans-when-ideology-meets-reality/article35795332.ece
08 August 2021||August 08 2021 00:00 IST,||City of Shadows: Slums and Informal Work in Bangalore||Supriya RoyChowdhury  Cambridge University Press Rs. 678 Alongside rising inequality, urban poverty has emerged as a matter of concern. In the backdrop of Bangalore’s evolution into India's Silicon Valley, the book presents research spanning old slums and new migrant settlements.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/city-of-shadows-slums-and-informal-work-in-bangalore/article35795334.ece
08 August 2021||August 08 2021 00:00 IST,||The Long Game||Rush Doshi  Oxford University Press Rs. 2,213 Drawing from primary sources, Doshi says China is playing a methodical game to replace America as a regional and global hegemon. He traces the basic evolution of Chinese strategy, showing how it evolved in response to changes in U.S. policy and its position in the world order.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-long-game/article35795336.ece
08 August 2021||August 08 2021 00:00 IST,||The Sunday Crossword No. 3162||Across  1 Pig scabs for fashionable bar snack (3,2,6) 9 Disney World’s setting for V. Woolf novel (7) 10 ‘20s style red coat altered (3,4) 11 Very much game for movie set in N. Dakota (5) 12 The writer pulled back, tensed up, given a cuddle (8) 14 In the altogether bald lie, he’s preposterous (10) 15 Discussed obscure monster of literature (4) 17 LanguageinPoetry:volumemissing (4) 19 French dish: mash pear evenly, for thin crinkled sheets (5,5) 21 Like Eric Clapton, narcoleptic? (8) 23 Angel or shark? (5) 25 Children regularly rejected your pizza (old sausage) (7) 26 Around wife, Everyman shall repeatedly feud (3,4) 27 With alcohol banned by trains, I’m mixing cocktails (3,8)  Down  1 Beckoned eastwards, Lukashenko approved Russia’s ‘Union State’ primarily, here? (7) 2 Norse god’s surrounded — Odin’s head — finally, finally wanting boats (8) 3 Ravenously eat up course (4) 4 Pay attention: ready money’s invested. Upset? Mostly upset (4,2,4) 5 Musical instrument, one that squeals, is taken up (5) 6 Not half easy navigating two-master that’s slight (7) 7 Fresh evasion, audacity: that’s rich at the table! (3-5,5) 8 They’d collared criminal without pity (4-9) 13 What may get you arms half akimbo, sweaty and gasping at the end? (6,4) 16 Without walls round US prison, spy finally escaping (4-4) 18 Do foes struggle to secure end of Nicola Sturgeon, perhaps? (7) 20 Run for seconds of baked goods in celebrations (7) 22 Heading off, intellectual given to falls? (5) 24 A little unpicturesque person of old (4)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-sunday-crossword-no-3162/article35795346.ece
08 August 2021||August 08 2021 00:00 IST,||Tuning the private sector share in vaccine administration||When the Indian government, under ‘Liberalised Pricing and Accelerated National Covid-19 Vaccination Strategy’, earmarked for the private sector 25% of total monthly covid-19 vaccines produced in the country, it did not seem to have considered the evidence. In India – a mixed healthcare system – though the private sector provides a majority of curative and diagnostic services, when it comes to preventive and promotive services, the private sector’s contribution is relatively small. In the almost four-decade-old universal immunisation programme of India, private facilities deliver 10% to 15% of total vaccines. The share of the private sector in mass vaccination campaigns such as Japanese encephalitis, polio, measles, etc has been even smaller. Differential rates Then, as part of the liberalised strategy, manufacturers were also allowed to charge differential rates in which the cost of vaccines to the private sector was fixed at four-to-nine-fold higher than the rate for the government. The stated rationales for differential rates and earmarked allocations were to allow manufacturers to earn profit and to push the private sector to support the vaccination drive in India. Ever since the liberalised vaccination strategy was implemented in early May, while Private Sector COVID-19 Vaccination Centres (PSCVC) received sustained and uninterrupted vaccine supply; the COVID-19 Vaccination Centres (CVC) in the government facilities struggled and had regular vaccine ‘dry days’ and were often shut down intermittently. The outcome was that those who could afford to pay had easier availability and early access to vaccination than the rest; further widening the vaccine inequity. Many public health experts flagged that PSCVC was just 3% to 5% of total CVCs in India; however, these had been assured a quarter of total vaccines produced every month. Yet, the vaccine sharing formula was not revised when the government announced a partial amendment in the liberalised strategy on June 7. In the last three months, there have been major impacts of differential pricing and vaccine sharing formula. One, the four–nine times higher price of vaccines for the private sector essentially meant that of the total cost of COVID-19 vaccination in India, people would have ended up spending more than the government spending on vaccines. This effectively counters the government’s claim that COVID-19 vaccination is free in India. Second, the differential rate of vaccines in two segments of a market, under government oversight, implicitly legitimised high differential pricing and has weakened the moral right and stand of the government to regulate the prices in future. Third, an easier access to paid vaccination (majority were in urban settings and major cities) skewed the vaccine availability (by income groups and geography) and introduced inequities, contrary to what a government policy should to- to ensure equity, against a stated principle in India’s National Health Policy 2017. On August 3, Union Minister for Health and Family Welfare, Government of India, responding to a question, informed the parliament that in the last three months the private sector has contributed only 7% of total vaccination in India against the allocated vaccine share of 25%. The minister also informed that the vaccine manufacturer has now been informed not to earmark the entire 25% of the vaccine and should supply as per the demand from the private sector and allocate remaining vaccine to the government. Tacit acknowledgement This is a tacit acknowledgement of failure of the private sector vaccine sharing formula. There is a long way to go for India’s vaccination drive. The country has administered 50 crore doses, and at least around 1.38 billion more vaccine doses are yet to be administered to the adult population. However, it is time more is done, and the policy makers need to review the entire vaccination policy and do more corrective actions. Refining strategy To start with, policy makers need to consider emerging evidence to refine strategy. First, the fourth national seroprevalence-survey has estimated a variable pool of susceptible populations amongst States. There is sustained transmission in a few States, high test positivity rate in many districts and effective reproduction number rising above in many States. These demand implementation of a better targeted vaccination by geography, population groups and other parameters. However, the availability of vaccines continues to be a constraint. Second, only 7% of total vaccine being administered by private sector, a capped service fee of Rs. 150 in private sector has been termed unviable by them, and a high differential price is arguably a ‘lose–lose situation’ for all stakeholders including vaccine manufacturers, private sector, government and the citizen, where none is gaining much and it is affecting vaccination drive. It is time the government should consider a few steps. First, revert to 100% procurement by Central Government (in any case, now 93% would be administered by government) as before April 30. This would give the government more flexibility in allocation, facilitate the targeted vaccination and tackle inequities. Second, renegotiate single price with each vaccine manufacturers for both public and private sectors. This could be higher than what the government currently pays but uniform for a vaccine. Third, once the government provides free vaccines to the private sector, an ideal situation would be that the cost of service charge in the private sector is also paid by the government; however, a more pragmatic way is that government revises the service charge in private sector upward to make these viable. The COVID-19 vaccination in India is a tale of a series of policy and delivery failures never witnessed in the history of health programmes in India. However, the bigger threat is that in failing to implement COVID-19 vaccination drive effectively, the trust of the citizen in government health service delivery has been further eroded. It is call for urgent policy corrections to regain the trust.  (Dr Chandrakant Lahariya, a physician-epidemiologist, is a public policy and health systems expert and co-author of ‘Till We Win: India’s Fight Against The COVID-19 Pandemic’.)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/tuning-the-private-sector-share-in-vaccine-administration/article35795036.ece
08 August 2021||August 08 2021 00:00 IST,||Some facts on hair - why it drops and how it grows||The six-yard sheet that covers our body is the skin. There is 1.5 to 2 square metres of it, which offers us protection from a variety of external sources that may be harmful. This protection is done by covering the skin through hair. Scalp is the skin covering the head, excluding the face – thankfully! Hair is produced by the cells at the outermost layer of the skin, using what are called follicles which are mini-organs which produce a variety of proteins. The entire list of these proteins, or what biologists call as the ‘proteosome’ or ‘proteome’, is a subject of contemporary interest which is being worked out. These mini-organs play key roles in producing hair, protecting the skin from external insults such as infections, offering temperature control and so on.  The proteome offers pigments that colour the hair – and for us humans, these pigments come largely in three lots – black, brown or shades of red. Lack of pigmentation causes hair to turn white (as we age). During evolution, we humans seem to have found these colours best suited for us. Indeed, relating the changes in pigmentation with time as we age offers us a picture of life events of an individual as he or she ages. Like tree rings This is somewhat like how tree rings offer information about what all a tree has gone through in time. As we age, our hair turns white. A group of dermatologists have done a quantitative mapping of hair colour and find that there are over 300 proteins that are more or less abundant in white hair than in dark hair. Many of these proteins are involved in energy production in the cell. Several of these are involved in increasing energy metabolism and in synthesising lipids and amino acids. Hair colour agents and hair tonics, with all their nice and refreshing smells do the same. Colour and stress Hair colour can also be predicted by looking at a small number of DNA variations that occur in eleven genes in a human sample. This test can predict whether the individual being sampled have black, brown, red or blonde hair colour with 90% accuracy. And this test goes beyond scientific curiosity. It can be very useful in forensics, as hair colour is an externally visible characteristic.  Hair goes grey as we age. Is this due to psychosocial stress, also called life stress events? Indeed, changes in hair colour appear to be associated with changes in stress levels. Researchers have found that greying is related to energy metabolism. As the latter decreases, the former increases. It may be possible to halt, or at least temporarily reverse, greying by triggering energy metabolism. How can this be done? Here is where proteome analysis will be of use. Drug chemists have suggested the use of compounds called phthalates, which smell good and promote hair health. However, there is a catch in this. Too much usage of these chemicals can lead to lung damage and kidney failure. But there are far easier ways to do this. Nutritionists point out that healthy appearing hair indicates excellent general health. If you have adequate nutrition, your hair grows well. Malnutrition, alcoholism, advanced age – all of these cause hair colour to change, get weakened or be lost. Deficiency of vitamins (A, C, E and selenium) does this, too. So, where do we go for these nutritious materials? Not too far. Our everyday meals, wherein we use onion, garlic and ginger, green vegetables, fruits and protein-rich pulses such as dal, soyabeans, will suffice. Yoga and hair growth Traditional yoga exercises are seen to stimulate the growth of hair by increasing blood circulation in the scalp. No wonder we see all yoga gurus full of hair! Yoga not only relieves stress and anxiety but also helps in massage. Some of the yoga asanas suggested by them are: a adho mukha savasana (the downward dog pose), s arvangasana (erect shoulder stand) and uttarasana (standing forward bend pose). These are well worth practising. In addition, doing breathing exercises such as pranayamam (deep breathing and holding for several seconds) also help. So, let us go for these as well and stay healthy and let our hair look attractive and plentiful! What about loss of hair as we age? Epidemiological studies suggest that moderate to extensive hair loss is seen in 16% of men in the 18-29 years age group, and 53% in those aged 40-49. Premature loss of hair can lead to strange psychosocial effects. Here too, proteomic comparison of dermal papilla cells, found in the hair follicle, from balding and non-balding males, indicates 128 up-regulated and 12 down-regulated proteins. Some of these differently expressed proteins may one day be ameliorative targets for baldness.  (This article has been written by D. Balasubramanian in collaboration with Sushil Chandani who is a professional computational biologist, sushilchandani@gmail.com)  dbala@lvpei.org||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/some-facts-on-hair-why-it-drops-and-how-it-grows/article35795030.ece
08 August 2021||August 08 2021 00:00 IST,||New technique to study ultrasmall particles in cells||Researchers from IIT Madras and IISER Kolkata have developed a method to detect minute quantities of chemicals in solution. They use a variation of absorption spectroscopy that surpasses the systemic limits imposed by conventional absorption spectroscopy. With this technique, they can, in principle, illuminate the insides of cells and detect minuscule quantities of substances present there. The work was published in Nanoscale.  Spectroscopy, the tool Absorption spectroscopy is a tool to detect the presence of elements in a medium. Light is shone on the sample, and after it passes through the sample is examined using a spectroscope. Dark lines are seen in the observed spectrum of the light passed through the substance, which correspond to the wavelengths of light absorbed by the intervening substance and are characteristic of the elements present in it. In usual methods, about a cubic centimetre of the sample is needed to do this experiment.In the method developed here, minute amounts of dissolved substances can be detected easily. Usually in absorption spectroscopy, the principle used is that light because of its wavelike nature, shows diffraction patterns, that is, dark and light fringes, when it scatters off any object. A related concept called the Abbe criterion sets a natural limit on the size of the object being studied. According to this criterion, the size of the observed object has to be at least of the order of the wavelength of the light being shone on it. “If you want to perform absorption spectroscopy using visible light, namely, blue, green and red, the wavelengths [of these colours] are about 400 nm, 500 nm and 600 nm, respectively. the diffraction limit is typically half of that, about 200 nm for the blue light,” explains Basudev Roy, from the Department of Physics of IIT Madras and one of the corresponding authors of the study along with Ayan Banerjee of IISER Kolkata. In the method used by the researchers here, tiny, nano-sized particles that can absorb light being shone on them and re-emit red, blue and green light were employed. “We use a nanoparticle of sodium yttrium fluoride (a kind of glass) with some dopants, which has the special property that when you excite this with infra-red light at 975 nm, it emits blue, green and red light from the particle itself,” says Dr Roy. These particles were made by M. Gunaseelan at Department of Physics, University of Madras. Like a bar magnet The particles emit electric fields that are analogous to how a tiny magnet would give off magnetic lines of force – this is called a dipole, and the particle is like a tiny mobile phone’s antenna. “Our dipole… generates an electromagnetic field depending upon the quantum properties of the erbium dopants in the glass. Our emission pattern is typically limited to a cone of 45 degrees, starting from a diameter of the size of the particle,” he adds. The absorption leaves a gap in the reflected light, which is what is observed and used to analyse the nature of the absorbing material. Since this works at the level of photons, this surpasses the limit on the size of the substance or sample being studied. Inside living cells There are many potential applications. “We are ourselves going to put these particles inside living cells, and the emission can be used as a tiny flash lamp to look for absorption from individual molecules in the close proximity to the particle,” he says. “This is way in which small molecules almost ten-millionth of a mm in diameter can be detected while these pass the emission region of the glass particle… The future is to use it to measure individual molecules, see an absorption spectroscopy of a single DNA or protein molecule.”  If you want to perform absorption spectroscopy using visible light, namely, blue, green and red, the wavelengths are about 400 nm, 500 nm and 600 nm, respectively. the diffraction limit is typically half of that, about 200 nm for the blue light, Basudev Roy IIT Madras||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/new-technique-to-study-ultrasmall-particles-in-cells/article35795028.ece
08 August 2021||August 08 2021 00:00 IST,||Ladakh glacier retreat due to warming, low winter precipitation, finds study||The Pensilungpa Glacier located in Ladakh’s Zanskar Valley is retreating due to increase in temperature and decrease in precipitation during winters, a recent study has found. Since 2015, the Wadia Institute of Himalayan Geology (WIHG) at Dehradun, an autonomous body under the Department of Science and Technology, has been working on various aspects on glaciology – glacier health (mass balance) monitoring, dynamics, discharge, past climatic conditions, speculation for future climate change and its impact on glaciers in this region. A team of scientists from the institute ventured to study the less explored region of the Himalayas at Zanskar in Ladakh. Stake networking ”Based on field observations for glacier mass balance collected via stake networking... over the glacier surface since 2016-2019, they assessed the impact of climate change through the lens of past and present response of the Pensilungpa Glacier, Zanskar Himalaya, Ladakh,” the study said. In stake networking, stake made of bamboo, is installed on the glacier surface using the steam drill for mass balance measurement. Rate of decline The study also said that field observations for four years (2015–2019) showed that the glacier is now retreating at an average rate of 6.7 plus/minus 3 metre per annum. In the study published in the journal Regional Environmental Change, the team attributes the observed recessional trends of the Pensilungpa Glacier to an increase in the temperature and decrease in precipitation during winters. Debris cover The study also points at the significant influence of debris cover on the mass balance and retreat of the glacier's endpoint, especially in summer. Furthermore, the mass balance data for the three years (2016–2019) showed a negative trend with a small accumulation area ratio. The study also suggests that due to continuous rise in the air temperature in line with the global trend, the melting would increase, and it is possible that the precipitation of summer periods at higher altitudes will change from snow to rain, and that may influence the summer and winter pattern.  The study showed that the glacier is now retreating at an average rate of 6.7 plus/minus 3 metre per annum||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/ladakh-glacier-retreat-due-to-warming-low-winter-precipitation-finds-study/article35795024.ece
08 August 2021||August 08 2021 00:00 IST,||Warming aurorae||What makes Jupiter so hot? An international team of esearchers has found the mechanism behind Jupiter’s atmospheric heating. Using data from the Keck Observatory in Hawaii, the researchers created the most-detailed yet global heat map of the planet’s upper atmosphere and confirmed that Jupiter’s powerful aurorae are responsible for heating the planet. Using the Keck telescope, the researchers found that temperatures start very high within the aurora, and despite their taking up less than 10% of the area of the planet, appear to heat the whole planet. The researchers were able to confirm that the equatorial heating is directly associated with auroral heating. Previous maps of the upper atmospheric temperature had insufficient resolution to explain how the temperature varied across the planet, thereby providing few clues. This study created five maps of the atmospheric temperature at different spatial resolutions. Models of the atmospheres of gas giants suggest that they work like giant refrigerators, with heat energy drawn from the equator towards the pole. These new findings suggest that fast-changing aurorae may drive waves of energy against this poleward flow, says a release from the University of Leicester. Observations also showed a region of localised heating in the sub-auroral region that could be interpreted as a limited wave of heat propagating towards its equator, which could be interpreted as evidence of the process driving heat transfer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/warming-aurorae/article35795026.ece
08 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||Communal harmony, fairness is of utmost importance: Asthana||An Open House will be held for Delhi Police officials every Friday for those who want to share grievances, Commissioner of Police Rakesh Asthana said during an address on Saturday. Mr. Asthana’s video address was attended by over 10,000 police personnel of all ranks. Assuring that no police person shall face any difficulty for bonafide discharge of duty, Mr. Asthana reportedly said it is the job of the senior leadership to take care of the force as mentors and not find faults with them unnecessarily. In addition to the Open House, fairness and transparency will be ensured in matters of postings and transfers “by taking into account the strength and expertise of the officers, which will be examined by the Police Establishment Board”. “In this regard, an exercise has been launched by an internal committee to categorise police stations in terms of their intensity of law and order, crime, communal sensitivity, VIP intensiveness and logistics intensiveness for posting of appropriately skilled officers to bring in more professionalism,” the police said in a statement. Speaking about investigations, Mr. Asthana said Station House Officers, Inspectors and Investigating Officers should concentrate on evidence-based policing and scientific investigation.  Police credibility “Most of the battle of investigation is fought in the court when evidence is appreciated. If undertaken properly from the beginning, cases will result in conviction and enhance police credibility. The Commissioner said that professional work will earn respect of the masses as well as the courts,” the statement added. Mr. Asthana said communal harmony is of utmost importance and it has to be maintained by the police through engagement with leaders and respectables of all communities. Insisting on fairness and impartiality, he added: “Criminals have no religion or community and strict action on criminals be done unequivocally.” Ahead of Independence Day, Mr. Asthana directed officials to enlist cooperation of street vendors, small shop keepers, auto drivers, rickshawalas etc. “who act as our eyes and ears” against terrorists and criminals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/communal-harmony-fairness-is-of-utmost-importance-asthana/article35795493.ece
08 August 2021||August 08 2021 00:00 IST,||How will digital voucher payment system work?||The story so far: On August 2, Prime Minister Narendra Modi launched a new digital payment system to send the government’s monetary benefits directly to beneficiaries’ mobile phones. The e-RUPI platform, developed by the National Payments Corporation of India (NPCI), the Department of Financial Services, the National Health Authority and the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, is said to be ‘leak-proof’ and offers non-transferable monetary service to citizens. The e-RUPI system is accessible to anyone with a mobile phone, even if the recipient does not have a bank account. It comes in the form of one-time use e-vouchers to access government health services. It could gradually be implemented to cover welfare services a beneficiary is already receiving from different government agencies. What is the need for this? The e-RUPI is a digital voucher that can be redeemed by beneficiaries to avail themselves of a specific service. The digital platform does not require a card, app or internet access to redeem an e-voucher. The e-vouchers can be issued by the government or private entities to the beneficiaries through QR codes or long-string SMS. The service is aimed at plugging holes in the existing welfare payment disbursement system. “The idea here is to track and trace how the subsidies and benefits given to citizens are used,” Mihir Gandhi, partner at PwC, told The Hindu . Secondly, with e-RUPI, government agencies can keep track of how much of the allocated funds have been disbursed to citizens. Otherwise, carrying out reconciliation for unused subsidies could be an accounting “nightmare for the government”, Mr. Gandhi explained. How does e-RUPI work and where can it be used? The contactless prepaid payment system can be issued by both government agencies and corporate entities to a specific individual to avail a targeted service. The Union government plans to use e-RUPI for its COVID-19 vaccination drive for citizens and gradually implement it as part of other government schemes. To begin with, the NPCI has tied up with more than 1,600 hospitals where e-RUPI can be redeemed. The transaction begins with a QR code or a long-string SMS pushed into a beneficiary’s mobile device. The beneficiary will then need to show it to the welfare service provider to authenticate the transaction. Citizens do not have to carry any printout, and as these vouchers are created for a specific purpose, they cannot be transferred or cashed out. e-RUPI is powered by the NPCI’s UPI platform, and the service has authorised 11 banks to issue digital vouchers. These include both private and public banks. Beneficiaries will be identified by their mobile numbers, and the e-vouchers will be sent to their phone through the bank’s voucher management system. The digital voucher can only be issued by a government agency or a corporate entity. It cannot be issued by one person to another. Is it a digital currency? The e-RUPI is built for a specific transaction to avail a service at a particular welfare centre. The digital vouchers have a one-time use case and they can’t be transferred. This puts e-RUPI within a voucher-based payment system rather than a virtual currency. But the government’s move could be a good starting point to experiment with digital currency. “It can be a preamble to a digital currency, but it may not directly be the platform that is used for the digital currency because UPI will be the overlay on top and below it can be actual or digital currency,” Mr. Gandhi said. What are some of the challenges in implementation? A 2018 research by Harvard University revealed a 33-percentage point gender gap in mobile phone ownership in India. In their study titled ‘A tough call: Understanding barriers to and impacts of women’s mobile phone adoption in India,’ the authors point to the economic and normative barriers as important drivers of the mobile gender gap. They also note that the disparity exists across Indian society, and is not limited to rural, less educated or poorer groups. In the same study, even among men, only 71% owned a cell phone, an essential device to access digital schemes like the e-RUPI vouchers. Online data portal Statista pegs India’s smartphone penetration rate at 42% in the financial year 2020 and estimates it to reach 51% by 2025. Closing the mobile gender gap and enabling a large proportion of citizens to own a mobile phone will remain a problem to be solved.  A Harvard University study of 2018 found that even among men, only 71% owned a cell phone, essential to access digital services like e-RUPI vouchers. Online data portal Statista pegged India’s smartphone penetration rate at 42% in FY2020||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/how-will-digital-voucher-payment-system-work/article35794961.ece
08 August 2021||August 08 2021 00:00 IST,||What causes a mental block mid-air?||The story so far: Simone Biles was seemingly adept at defying gravity and always blended aesthetics with accuracy. But something was amiss and it became evident when the acclaimed gymnast from the U.S. withdrew from the floor final at the Tokyo Olympics. Attention was immediately drawn to mental health, a grim theme coursing through the sporting world, and Biles joined the aggrieved ranks of tennis star Naomi Osaka and cricketer Ben Stokes. What made Biles withdraw from several of her events? Deep within Biles was battling depression and she knew that her mind and limbs were not in sync. Gymnasts flip mid-air and are expected to land like a cat while maintaining a peacock’s graceful vibe. But if the mind is at sea, a life can be in peril. The 24-year-old Biles was performing a vault when she appeared disoriented and stumbled as she landed. India got familiar with the Produnova vault which Dipa Karmakar pulled off at the Rio de Janeiro Games in 2016. But it has another name: the vault of death. What are ‘twisties’ and why is it considered dangerous? Sport is about skill, athleticism, muscle-memory and balance. The last two attributes have greater significance in gymnastics as its purveyors often levitate without a smidgeon of a doubt. Later Biles said: “It’s honestly petrifying trying to do a skill but not having your mind and body in sync.” She was trying to explain ‘twisties’, a condition in which the concerned athlete is up in the air and inexplicably has no idea where the ground is nor about how or where to land. It is like an aeroplane’s ‘Mayday’ distress call, and triggers doom. What makes the athlete feel that he or she is diving into a pool without water? When the ‘twisties’ strike, the imbalanced athlete can lose the reflexive attribute of seeking the floor. While diving into a swimming pool, the water breaks the fall and its tactile stimulation and the resultant reflexive swimming ensures that the diver is safe. But imagine if the pool is devoid of water, the athlete then has to pirouette in time and land well, else the risk of fractures and a spinal injury quadruples. Gymnasts are expected to deal with this quandary in their profession. What role does the brain play in executing skills and maintaining balance? According to Kathleen Cullen, a professor of biomedical engineering at the Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, who spoke to livescience.com, “the brain draws sensory information from the eyes — proprioceptive nerve cells pass on information about the body position — and the vestibular system, the sensory system in the inner ear, which controls balance.” When something goes askew, vertigo strikes and the person feels that the world is spinning. The ‘twisties’ is another variant. Experts mention that gymnasts, through practice, condition their brains to accept their unique movements. The brain and the limbs are on autopilot but when athletes are dealing with stress or, worse, depression, they become acutely conscious and in trying to over-think their physical responses to external stimuli, it unhinges the synergy between the brain and the limbs. How can an athlete regain balance and confidence? The first step is to admit there is a problem, and Biles did that. A break from sport and sustained counselling is mandatory and once the athlete has shed the mind’s cobwebs, repetitive practice with foam cushions in place on the floor, just in case the ‘twisties’ strike, should help in sharpening muscle-memory. Biles did come back to compete in the beam final and won a bronze on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/what-causes-a-mental-block-mid-air/article35794960.ece
08 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||One dead in house collapse||A 60-year-old man died and three persons suffered injuries when a house collapsed in north-east Delhi’s Nand Nagri on Saturday. Police have lodged a case. A PCR call was received at 1.30 p.m. regarding a wall collapse and persons being trapped underneath. A police team along with officials of Delhi Fire Services, and a National Disaster Response Force team reached the spot and launched a rescue operation. Bystanders to the rescue Police said that four persons were trapped under the debris. One was rescued by bystanders before the teams reached the spot. Two more people were rescued and sent to a hospital where they are undergoing treatment. The body of the fourth person, identified as Kanti Lal, was recovered around 5.30 p.m. Police said a family lived on the first and second floor of the building, and a flour shop was located on the ground floor. The building is owned by Dhani Ram, who lives there with his wife, two sons, a daughter-in-law and two granchildren. The injured included Dhani Ram (65), his wife Anaro devi (65) and one Raj Kumar (64). The flour shop is run by the family. Police said a few neighbours would gather near the shop to spend time with Mr. Ram and the deceased Kanti Lal was one of them. Police said a case under relevant sections has been lodged at Nand Nagri and further probe is under way. Survey of weak buildings Meanwhile, the East Delhi Municipal Corporation on Saturday decided to conduct a survey of weak buildings situated in areas under its jurisdiction.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/one-dead-in-house-collapse/article35795495.ece
08 August 2021||August 08 2021 00:00 IST,||Rejection, way out||The story so far: A recent circular issued by the police in Kashmir has asked field intelligence units to look into the past record of involvement in stone-pelting incidents and other street protests whenever someone applies for a passport or a government job. Security clearance can be denied to applicants if the police find evidence of any criminal activity in their records. The development brings to the fore the circumstances in which applicants can be refused a passport or a government job based on their antecedents. Can antecedents of an applicant be used to deny a government job? It is fairly well-known that verification of the character and antecedents of a person is part of the recruitment process for government jobs. This is usually based on a form filled up by the applicants themselves in which they will have to say whether or not they have been arrested, detained or prosecuted in the past, as well as state whether any criminal proceedings are pending against them. While the presence of a criminal record is not an automatic disqualification, it can be used to cancel the applicant’s candidature. Case law from various High Courts and the Supreme Court shows that the employers are not bound to appoint anyone with a criminal record, but they do have the discretion to consider the nature of the pending proceedings or concluded cases and make a decision. However, suppression of relevant information on one’s criminal record is considered quite grave, and can lead to both criminal prosecution and cancellation of candidature, if yet to be appointed, or termination of services, if already recruited. If there is a long delay between the appointment of a person and the surfacing of the truth about a past incident, an inquiry will be required to establish the circumstances in which the facts were suppressed before a confirmed employee’s services are terminated. The Supreme Court summarised principles culled out from a series of judgments over many decades and set out some guidelines in Avtar Singh vs. Union of India (2016). When can the passport authority deny an applicant a passport? Under Section 6(2) of the Indian Passports Act, 1967, the passport authority can refuse to issue a passport for specific reasons such as the applicant being not a citizen of India; that the applicant may engage, outside India, in activities prejudicial to the country’s sovereignty and integrity, or that the applicant’s departure may be detrimental to the country’s security; or that the person’s presence abroad may prejudice India’s friendly relations with a foreign country. Refusal of passport may also be related to a person’s antecedents. Conviction for any offence that involves “moral turpitude” with a sentence of not less than two years in the five preceding years would mean denial of passport. It can also be refused if any proceedings are pending in a criminal court against the applicant; and if any arrest warrant or summons for appearance is pending. There is a general power to deny a passport or travel document to anyone “if in the opinion of the Central government, it is not in public interest”. Is there a legal remedy if an application is rejected? Section 22 of the Act confers power on the Union government to exempt any person or class of persons from its provisions by way of notification. On August 25, 1993, the Ministry of External Affairs issued a notification to provide relief to citizens against whom proceedings are pending before a criminal court. Under this notification, they can be issued a passport or travel document if they produced an order from the court concerned permitting them to depart from India. If the court specified a period in its order, they could be issued passports with validity for that period, or, if no period was specified, it could be given for one year. What have the courts said on these provisions? In January 2016, the Delhi High Court upheld the validity of Section 6(2)(f) of the Act, which allows the Centre to refuse a passport to anyone against whom criminal proceedings are pending. Prashant Bhushan, senior advocate, the petitioner in this case, appealed against the verdict in the Supreme Court. His main contention was that the clause makes no distinction between serious and non-serious offences, or even bailable and non-bailable offences, and is, therefore, unreasonable and arbitrary. The 1993 notification is also under challenge in the same case for imposing an ‘arbitrary’ one-year limit for the validity of a passport issued on the basis of a court order.  In January 2016, the Delhi High Court upheld the validity of Section 6(2)(f) of the Passport Act, which allows the Centre to refuse a passport to anyone against whom criminal proceedings are pending, but it has been challenged||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/rejection-way-out/article35794962.ece
08 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||Every DU student to plant a sapling, keep it healthy||Delhi University (DU) on Saturday announced that from the upcoming academic year, students will have to plant a sapling and will be required to send regular status updates. ‘Planting a tree’ will be part of the new curriculum, senior DU officials said. DU vice-chancellor P.C. Joshi said the new curriculum will be applicable to students enrolled in undergraduate, postgraduate, M.Phil and Ph.D programmes. “The programme will be scientifically monitored and evaluated by respective colleges, centres and departments. Details of the methods and process for evaluation have been simplified and made easier for the students so that they actually contribute to society and towards better environmental protection,” said Mr. Joshi. Students will also have to send regular updates about the status of the tree they planted, and their degrees will also be based on it. “At the end of the course, students will have to show the status of the trees that they planted. If they are unable to show it, then their degrees will not be awarded. There might be cases where the tree could have been damaged due to some natural calamity. In such instances, students will have to provide relevant proof. Through this programme, restoration of native species will be promoted,” Mr. Joshi added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/every-du-student-to-plant-a-sapling-keep-it-healthy/article35795498.ece
08 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||Man caught with 20 guns||Ahead of Independence Day, a 27-year-old man has been arrested along with a cache of arms, the police said on Saturday. The accused was holding balloons to mislead the police and conceal the weapons.  Deputy Commissioner of Police (Dwarka) Santosh Kumar Meena said Mufeed Khan, a resident of Mathura, was previously involved in an attempt to murder case in Uttar Pradesh.  Police said they got a tip-off on Friday about a criminal with a consignment of pistols coming to Delhi. “A man in his 20s holding a few balloons and a bag was spotted around 10.30 p.m. He appeared to be a balloon vendor. But when he was approached, he tried to run while waving a pistol at the police. He was overpowered and apprehended,” Mr. Meena said adding that a pistol with four live rounds were recovered.  On checking his bag, 19 sophisticated pistols were also found, police said. Wall of containers Meanwhile, in a first, Delhi Police has erected a wall of shipping containers at the main gate of Red Fort for security reasons ahead of Independence Day celebrations. The containers have been placed in such a way that no one is able to see inside the premises of the Mughal-era fort.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/man-caught-with-20-guns/article35795491.ece
08 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||DU to set up facilitation centre in Bhatti Kalan||Delhi University will be setting up a facilitation centre at Bhatti Kalan village in Fatehpur Beri to ease administrative processes for students in the area. “The facilitation centre will enable DU students, living in and around Bhatti Kalan, to complete various administrative processes, including admission, examination and so on, with ease and without having to travel long distances,” said Vikas Gupta, DU Registrar. There are plans to set up similar centres in Najafgarh, South Extension and other areas, DU officials said, adding students will not have to travel to North or South Campuses to complete administrative work. Officials said the foundation-laying event, which was supposed to be held on Sunday, has been postponed. Union Minister Dharmendra Pradhan was to lay the foundation stone of the facilitation centre. The university is also planning to launch an online system where duplicate mark sheets will be available for students who graduated after 2012. D.S. Rawat, DU’s Dean of Examinations said: “We are hoping to launch the online portal within a week. There will be a fee.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/du-to-set-up-facilitation-centre-in-bhatti-kalan/article35795497.ece
