10 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||IPCC report forecasts a future of severe weather||The Indian Ocean is warming at a higher rate than other oceans, said the latest report by the Intergovernmen- tal Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) released on Monday, with scientists warning that India will witness increased heatwaves and flooding, which will be the irreversible effects of climate change. The current overall global warming trends are likely to lead to an increase in annual mean precipitation over India, with more severe rain expected over southern India in the coming decades. The authors of the IPCC’s Sixth Assessment Report, “Climate Change 2021: The Physical Science Basis”, said the warming of the ocean would lead to a rise in sea levels, leading to frequent and severe coastal flooding in low-level areas. With a 7,517-km coastline, India would face significant threats from the rising seas. Across the port cities of Chennai, Kochi, Kolkata, Mumbai, Surat and Visakhapatnam, 28.6 million people would be exposed to coastal flooding if sea levels rise by 50 cm. Monsoon extremes are likely to increase over India and South Asia, while the frequency of short intense rainy days are expected to rise. Models also indicate a lengthening of the monsoon over India by the end of the 21st century, with the South Asian monsoon precipitation projected to increase. Stating that human activities are causing climate change, the report said the planet was irrevocably headed towards warming by 1.5 degrees Celsius over pre-industrial times in the next two decades. Keeping global warming below 2 degrees Celsius of pre-industrial levels by the turn of century and endeavouring to limit it to 1.5 degrees Celsius was at the heart of the 2015 Paris Agreement. Unless extremely deep emission cuts are undertaken by all countries immediately, these goals are unlikely to be met. The report recommended that countries strive to achieve net zero emissions — no additional greenhouse gases are emitted — by 2050. (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/global-warming-may-set-off-severe-rain-ipcc/article35828241.ece
10 August 2021||New Delhi,||Working to solve border row: Himanta||A return to the 19th century border demarcation as being demanded by Mizoram may be impractical but a resolution can be found to the border dispute between the two States, Assam Chief Minister Himanata Biswa Sarma said. Six policemen and a bystander were killed on July 26 during clashes between the police forces of the two States arising out of the dispute. Two conflicting demarcations of the borders between communities on both sides — one in 1875 and another in 1933 — are at the root of the dispute. The Mizos want the 1875 demarcation to prevail. ‘Not provocative’ Talking to The Hindu ahead of his meetings with Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Monday, Mr. Sarma rejected the suggestion that his statements on the conflict were provocative. “I spoke only after the killing of our policemen. If I do not speak for them, I would be letting them down. You must understand that the Assam police have been fighting the ULFA and other insurgencies for a long time. We cannot allow their morale to drop,” he said. Asked whether he had a larger role to play in reconciliation, considering that he was also the BJP’s pointsman for the entire northeastern region, he observed that his priority was to protect the interests of Assam. “I am the CM of Assam first, and I cannot sacrifice the interests of the State. We are in touch with Meghalaya and Arunachal Pradesh. At some point, I will also speak to Mizoram CM, with whom I have a good personal relationship,” he stated. The ambiguities regarding the boundaries between Assam and States such as Meghalaya and Mizoram we- re allowed to fester for a long time and now the issues had become more complicated. “These issues should have been resolved decades ago. Now that we are here, we have to be careful that our attempts to solve the problems should not lead to worse problems,” he said. “I came only two months ago.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/working-to-solve-border-row-himanta/article35828246.ece
10 August 2021||CHENNAI,||T.N.’s finances unsustainable: Minister||There is a need for profound structural and “once-in-a-generation” reforms as Tamil Nadu’s fiscal position is in an “unsustainable” situation, Finance Minister Palanivel Thiaga Rajan said while releasing a White Paper on the government’s finances on Monday. The Minister said that with the State’s finances in “dire circumstances”, a “business-as-usual” approach could not continue. He also mooted the idea of taxing the rich more and spending the money on development schemes for the poor and other citizens and for carrying out public works. However, he ruled out any immediate measure and said this should happen through consultations with the Chief Minister and his Cabinet colleagues. The White Paper, one of the election promises of the ruling DMK, was released ahead of the revised Budget for 2021-22 that will be presented on August 13. Debt outstanding According to the report, the State’s estimated total debt outstanding will be Rs. 5,70,189 crore as of March 31, 2022. “As per statistics, there are 2,16,24,238 families in Tamil Nadu. Based on that, the public debt burden on each family is Rs. 2,63,976. This debt excludes loans taken by undertakings like electricity board, transport undertakings and metro water,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tns-finances-unsustainable-minister/article35828322.ece
10 August 2021||Kolkata,||First CNG bus rolls out in Kolkata||The first CNG bus hit the roads of Kolkata on Monday — more than two decades after such buses began running in Delhi. State Transport Minister Firhad Hakim inaugurated the service himself driving a CNG bus for the cameras. “Kolkata now has CNG. In future, buses will be mostly electric and CNG. This will bring down cost of running buses and also reduce pollution,” Mr. Hakim said after the launch. At the moment, two CNG buses will be run on a trial basis and if found operationally feasible, the conversion will be expanded. The two buses have been converted from diesel and will be run by the West Bengal Transport Corporation (WBTC), which has nearly 1,000 buses in its fleet, including 80 electric ones. “The number of electric buses will also increase substantially soon,” said WBTC managing director Rajanvir Singh Kapur, adding that the electric buses had received international recognition from IEA Paris and C40. The WBTC later said: “To combat increasing fuel prices, Kolkata transport is going environment friendly.” On June 21, the WBTC and the Bengal Gas Company Ltd had signed a CNG bus fuel agreement at the Kasba transport office, with the Minister laying the foundation for the first CNG station in Kolkata for government buses. Mr. Hakim had said at the time that the CNG station would become operational in six months. Kolkata has the most modes of transport, with motorised boats (many of them belonging to the WBTC) and trams (owned by it) also catering to its people. While ferry ghats manage to get a fair share of daily commuters, tram depots are fast becoming extinct. Dip in popularity During the peak of their popularity as a mode of transport, in the 1960s, there were 52 tram routes in Kolkata, but since 2019, only six have been functional.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/first-cng-bus-rolls-out-in-kolkata/article35828619.ece
10 August 2021||Kolkata,||Spike in protests amid vaccine shortage in Kolkata||Over the past few days, COVID-19 vaccination centres have almost run dry in Kolkata, but political activity has witnessed a spike, with major political parties taking out rallies and staging protests in West Bengal. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Monday evening brought out ‘torch rallies’ from the party headquarters in central Kolkata. Hundreds of its supporters got into a scuffle with the police and many were detained. The Trinamool Congress leadership also brought out rallies on the anniversary of Quit India Movement, in Kolkata and other parts of the State. Three months after the Assembly polls, the rallies and counter rallies are not only raising the political temperature but also the risk of COVID-19 infection. Chairman of the Board of Administrators of the Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC) Firhad Hakim said the Centre was sending vaccines to the State as if they were beggars. He said, “We have got 40 lakh doses, of which we have used 27 lakh. There are reports that no consignment is due before August 11.” On August 6, the KMC issued a press note saying that there would be no vaccination at 102 Covishield community vaccination centres and 50 mega vaccination centres. Another note on August 8 said Covishield vaccination centres would remain closed from August 10 till further orders owing of lack of vaccines from the Centre. Mamata’s plea to PM In a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on August 5, Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee said the State needed 14 crore doses of vaccines to cover all people in eligible categories, but it received only 2.68 crore vaccines. Leader of the Congress in the Lok Sabha Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury also wrote to the Prime Minister to increase the supply of vaccines. While the number of new cases has dropped to 557 as on Monday, and active cases stand at 10,312, the danger of spike in the cases is still there. Meanwhile, Metro services have resumed in the city and about two lakh people were ferried. With the festival season approaching, vaccinating as many people as possible can be the best protection, say experts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/spike-in-protests-amid-vaccine-shortage-in-kolkata/article35828623.ece
10 August 2021||Pune,||Over 7,500 recoveries, 4,895 new cases in Maharashtra||Maharashtra on Monday recorded 7,508 recoveries as against 4,895 new COVID-19 cases. Active cases have now dipped below the 70,000-mark to touch 68,375. State Health Minister Rajesh Tope said cases seemed to be plateauing, showing neither a particularly significant increase nor a very rapid decline on a daily basis. As many as 68 deaths pushed the death toll to 1,34,064, with the case fatality rate standing at 2.1%. The total case tally has reached 63,57,833, while cumulative recoveries have risen to 61,51,956, with the case recovery rate at 96.76%. “Of a total of 4,95,25,694 laboratory samples tested thus far, 63,57,833 (with the average case positivity falling incrementally to 12.79%) have returned positive, with over 1.60 lakh samples being tested in the last 24 hours,” said State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate. Pune reported 645 new cases, taking its total case tally to 10,97,736, while 12 deaths pushed the total death toll to 18,419. As per district authorities, the active case tally has declined to a little over 8,200. Mumbai reported 218 new cases to take its total case tally to 7,37,497, while active cases declined to 4,599. Three fatalities took the city’s death toll to 15,954. Ahmednagar reported more than 750 cases and six deaths, taking its total cases to 2,93,341, of whom 5,641 are active. The district’s cumulative death toll has risen to 6,277.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/over-7500-recoveries-4895-new-cases-in-maharashtra/article35828678.ece
10 August 2021||Mumbai,||SRA to take over 500 redevelopment projects||The Slum Rehabilitation Authority (SRA) will take over 500 slum redevelopment projects in Mumbai after it was found that developers availed of loans from financial institutions on the basis of Letter of Intent (LoI) from the authority and did not execute the project for many years, displacing slum-dwellers without providing them houses as per the law. State Housing Minister Jitendra Awhad said, “The developers picked up loans from financial institutions on the basis on LOI. The institutions, however, did not contact the authority to check on the progress of the said projects. Hundreds of crores of rupees have been invested here. The SRA will take over these projects and complete them by itself.” SRA issues LOI to the developer assigning a particular slum pocket to be redeveloped. “The LOI does not mean that the said builder owns the land,” the Minister said. On the basis of LOI, the developer provides accommodation to the eligible slum-dwellers at a different place till the project is completed and the slum razed. He said, “We have hundreds of examples where the slum is razed and those residing in it have nowhere to go. The developer has not even paid for the rent of their new house. SRA under the housing department will execute such projects now.” Mr. Awhad said the department will add a time-frame in which project has to be completed once the LOI is issued. “It has been observed that builders sits with the LOI, raises money from the financial institutes and does nothing. Nobody knows what happens to the money that has been raised through loans. We cannot let this happen,” he said. As per the conservative estimate from sources in the department, Rs. 50,000 crore is invested by various financial institutions in all SRA schemes. “We cannot let people suffer for the sake of builders,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sra-to-take-over-500-redevelopment-projects/article35828679.ece
10 August 2021||August 10 2021 00:00 IST,||PM sets out framework for maritime security||A week into India’s United Nations Security Council (UNSC) month-long presidency, Prime Minister Narendra Modi chaired a debate on maritime security. The debate, titled, ‘Enhancing Maritime Security — A Case for International Cooperation’, had heads of state or government in attendance, including Russian President Vladimir Putin, President of Kenya Uhuru Kenyatta and Premier of Vietnam Pham Minh Chinh. The UNSC adopted a ‘Presidential [India’s] Statement’ on maritime security which reaffirmed that the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS) establishes the legal framework for maritime activities. Prime Minister Modi outlined a five-principle framework for the debate. The first was removing barriers to maritime trade.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/pm-sets-out-framework-for-maritime-security/article35828244.ece
10 August 2021||KURNOOL,||Journalist killed for ‘exposing’ illegal activities||A police constable and his brother were taken into custody on Monday on charges of murdering a journalist of a local news channel, EV5, at Nandyal in Andhra Pradesh’s Kurnool district, late on Sunday night, allegedly for exposing the illegal activities of the policeman. Venkatasubbaiah, a constable attached to the Two Town police station in Nandyal, and his brother, Nani, reportedly called the reporter Chennakeshavalu, 35, to a place in NGO Colony to discuss the news telecast by him regarding the illegal sale of tobacco products (gutka) and the gambling (matka) activities carried on by the constable, according to Superintendent of Police Sudheer Kumar Reddy. When Mr. Chennakeshavalu arrived at the appointed place, the constable and his brother allegedly stabbed him with a screwdriver and fled. “Passers-by immediately took the journalist to the hospital about 11 p.m., but he died,” the SP added. Suspended last week Mr. Venkatasubbaiah was suspended last week for his alleged involvement in gutkha and matka activities, reportedly exposed by Mr. Chennakeshavalu. The journalist is survived by his wife, one-year-old daughter and parents. The Nandyal police registered a case under Sections 302, 34 of the IPC on a complaint by the journalist’s wife. The SP said that since the victim belonged to the Scheduled Caste, relevant Sections of the SC/ST Prevention of Atrocities Act were also included. The SP visited the crime scene before interacting with the family members. The victim’s family members were assured of assistance and protection. The Andhra Pradesh Union of Working Journalists and the APWJ Federation have expressed dismay at the turn of events.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tv-journalist-killed-constable-arrested/article35828189.ece
10 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Nation First, Always First’ theme for I-Day events||‘Nation First, Always First’ will be the theme of India’s 75th Independence Day celebrations at the Red Fort from where Prime Minister Narendra Modi will address the nation on Sunday. All the Olympians who won medals at the 2020 Tokyo Games have been sent special invites for the event. Like 2020, this year’s event will be restricted for the public and no cultural performance will be staged by children. A group of NCC cadets will attend the event, said an officer. From paintings to floral arrangements, all aspects of the programme will bear ‘Nation First, Always First’ theme, said Delhi police sources. Drone alert After the recent drone attacks in Jammu, the Union Ministry of Home Affairs has asked the Delhi police to strictly adhere to the Standard Operating Procedures for drone operations. “We have increased the total number of secured rooftops from which the Red Fort or the potential route of the Prime Minister’s cavalcade is remotely visible. Personnel have been told to take down drones or aerial objects in case they see one approaching the Red Fort or to alert higher-ups if they don’t have the requisite skills,” said a police officer. A makeshift wall of containers has been erected at the periphery of the Red Fort to rule out any security breach owing to the ongoing farmers’ protest. The containers have been painted in hues reflecting the solemnity of the august occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/nation-first-always-first-theme-for-i-day-events/article35828389.ece
10 August 2021||New Delhi,||SC seeks Centre’s reply on vaccine data||A judicial order to publish data on clinical trials of COVID-19 vaccines and post vaccination side effects may feed vaccine hesitancy amid the pandemic, the Supreme Court said on Monday. “Do you really think this is in the larger public interest? Fifty crore people have been vaccinated... By asking us to launch an enquiry now, are you not throwing doubts into the minds of people about the vaccines,” Justice L. Nageswara Rao asked senior advocate Prashant Bhushan. “But if you don’t have transparency, there is more reason for vaccine hesitancy,” Mr. Bhushan replied.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sc-seeks-centres-reply-on-vaccine-data/article35828386.ece
10 August 2021||Mumbai,||‘Need to conduct State-specific sero survey’||Maharashtra COVID-19 taskforce member Dr. Shashank Joshi on Monday said it is necessary to conduct a State-specific sero survey to assess the presence of anti-bodies among people as the State is still reporting a high number of COVID-19 cases. He said the State is faced with a “thick tail” of COVID-19 though the second wave has ebbed but has not gone away completely. Dr. Joshi said the State has given a big relaxation by allowing fully vaccinated people to travel by local trains in Mumbai from August 15 and if the cases continue to drop, more curbs may be eased from September 1.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/need-to-conduct-state-specific-sero-survey/article35828675.ece
10 August 2021||New Delhi,||No transaction with Pegasus maker: MoD||The Ministry of Defence (MoD) on Monday said it did not have any transaction with NSO Group Technologies, the Israeli company that developed the Pegasus spyware, in the first pointed reference to the company since the sno- oping controversy broke. The government had so far shied away from mentioning the company.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/no-transaction-with-pegasus-maker-mod/article35828242.ece
10 August 2021||Chennai,||T.N.’s finances unsustainable, says Minister||There is a need for profound structural and “once in a generation” reforms in Tamil Nadu as its fiscal position is unsustainable, Finance Minister Palanivel Thiaga Rajan said while releasing a White Paper on State finances on Monday. He mooted taxing the rich more and spending the funds on welfare schemes and public works.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tns-finances-unsustainable-says-minister/article35828418.ece
10 August 2021||New Delhi,||CPI(M) plans age limit for Central panel||In a bid to revamp its ageing leadership, the Central Committee of the Communist Party of India (Marxist) has decided to set a retirement age of 75 for all its members. Once the proposal is endorsed at the party’s 23rd Congress, scheduled to be held in Kannur, Kerala, in April 2022, the age limit will become applicable.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cpim-plans-age-limit-for-central-panel/article35828387.ece
10 August 2021||HYDERABAD,||River Boards want TS, AP to go by timelines||The Krishna and Godavari River Management Boards have made it clear that Andhra Pradesh and Telangana are duty bound to extend their unreserved cooperation to the Boards towards implementation of various clauses of the gazette notification issued notifying their purview in “letter and spirit” and as per prescribed timelines.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/river-boards-want-ts-ap-to-go-by-timelines/article35828499.ece
10 August 2021||bengaluru,||99.99% pass SSLC exam||As many as 99.99% of the students who appeared for the Secondary School Leaving Certificate examination this year have passed. Though the Department of Primary and Secondary Education had said that all SSLC students would be declared as pass, one private candidate was allegedly caught impersonating and failed. As many as 157 students secured full marks in the exam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/9999-pass-sslc-exam/article35828276.ece
10 August 2021||IMPHAL,||Arms seized in border town of Manipur||A team of police commandos and personnel of 43 Assam Rifles recovered two AK 56 rifles, two M-16 rifles, one 9 mm pistol, one saucer 9 mm pistol, one Beretta pistol, one China made hand grenade, 14 assorted magazines, assorted ammunition from the house of one Thanglet Haokip on Sunday at the border town of Moreh. An FIR was filed by the Moreh police after taking the suspect into custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/arms-seized-in-border-town-of-manipur/article35828620.ece
10 August 2021||Belagavi,||Action sought against Eshwarappa||Athani-based lawyer and RTI activist Bheemanagouda Paragonda has complained to Governor Thaawarchand Gehlot against Minister for Rural Development and BJP leader K.S. Eshwarappa for what he called a hate speech in Shivamogga on Monday. Mr. Paragonda has urged the Governor to remove Mr. Eshwarappa from the Cabinet and to direct the State government to initiate criminal proceedings against him. The advocate has objected to Mr. Eshwarappa’s statements calling party cadre to “attack and take out one or two” of their adversaries. These statements were reportedly made on Sunday in a party meeting held in a religious place. The Minister’s statements are not only immoral and uncivilised but also illegal, the complaint said. They violate criminal laws under IPC Sections 153 A and B, 295, 505, 509 and under the Cr.PC, the People’s Representation Act and other laws. The activist has quoted from several Supreme Court and High Court judgments in the complaint. A Supreme Court Bench has directed the Union government to form rules to stop people’s representatives from making provocative statements and hate speech in general, as it held such statements illegal and unacceptable. The Minister’s statements are also against the spirit of the Constitution that guarantees individual freedom, secularism and right to life and liberty. Sadly, this is not the first time that Mr. Eshwarappa is making such statements, the complaint said. Copies of the complaint have been sent to the Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai and also the Chief Secretary and the Director and Inspector-General of Police. Mr. Paragonda told The Hindu that he will explore other legal options if there is no action on his complaint.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/action-sought-against-eshwarappa/article35828475.ece
10 August 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||Schools may be reopened in phases||Reopening of schools in the State will be considered in a phased manner, subject to approval from the Centre and agencies, General Education Minister V. Sivankutty told the Assembly on Monday. The shortage of digital equipment will be addressed by the time the shift from digital classes to online classes is made.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/schools-may-be-reopened-in-phases/article35828552.ece
10 August 2021||Mumbai,||Elgar Parishad case: NIA submits draft charges||The National Investigation Agency on Monday submitted before a special court draft charges under the stringent Unlawful Activities Prevention Act and the Indian Penal Code against 15 accused in the Elgar Parishad case of 2018. The special court will consider the draft charges on August 23 and then frame charges against the accused. Framing of charges is the first step before trial commences in a case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/elgar-parishad-case-nia-submits-draft-charges/article35828676.ece
10 August 2021||MANGALURU,||VHP to stage protest in Ullal tomorrow||Activists of the Vishwa Hindu Parishad will stage a protest in Ullal on Wednesday displaying placards condemning the support of some residents of Ullal to IS, said secretary of VHP Mangaluru Division Sharan Pumpwell here on Monday. Talking to reporters, Mr. Pumpwell said that activists will display placards between 7.30 a.m. and 9 a.m. across Ullal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/vhp-to-stage-protest-in-ullal-tomorrow/article35828654.ece
10 August 2021||Bengaluru,||Stuntman electrocuted during film shooting||A 35-year-old fightmaster was electrocuted during the shooting of a Kannada film in Jogenahalli near Bidadi on Monday. Alleging that negligence of the film crew led to the mishap, the police have detained the stuntmaster, Vinod, charging both him and the film crew.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/stuntman-electrocuted-during-film-shooting/article35828278.ece
10 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||Delhi schools to have staggered timings||The Delhi government on Monday issued a set of guidelines and a standard operating procedure for the reopening of schools for students of Classes X to XII. Students can now visit the schools for admission-related work, counselling and practicals. Safety measures include staggered timings to ensure there is no crowding at the gates and a quarantine room for emergencies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/delhi-schools-to-have-staggered-timings/article35828385.ece
10 August 2021||Ghaziabad,||Govt. being run by big corporates: Rakesh Tikait||The demands made by farmers against the agriculture reform laws are not being addressed by the Narendra Modi government as it is “being run by big corporates”, said Bharatiya Kisan Union spokesperson Rakesh Tikait on Monday. He was addressing farmers at a panchayat in Modinagar, ahead of the scheduled mahapanchayat in Muzaffarnagar next month.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/govt-being-run-by-big-corporates-rakesh-tikait/article35828699.ece
10 August 2021||LUCKNOW,||Prefer Akhilesh as CM over Adityanath: Rajbhar||OBC leader and Suheldev Bhartiya Samaj Party president Om Prakash Rajbhar has said he prefers Akhilesh Yadav as the next Chief Minister of Uttar Pradesh and not Yogi Adityanath. “Yogi is a sadhu baba . He should stay in a temple. Akhilesh Yadav is a neta  (leader),” Mr. Rajbhar told reporters in Varanasi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/prefer-akhilesh-as-cm-over-adityanath-rajbhar/article35828391.ece
10 August 2021||Kolkata,||Amit Shah behind attack on TMC workers: Mamata||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday visited the State-run SSKM hospital to meet Trinamool Congress youth leaders who were injured in an attack in Tripura on Saturday. Ms. Banerjee said, “These attacks have been carried out on the instructions of Union Home Minister Amit Shah. The Chief Minister of Tripura does not have the audacity to do that.” She said the BJP was running a “demonic system “ in Tripura and also in other States where it was in power.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/amit-shah-behind-attack-on-tmc-workers-mamata/article35828622.ece
10 August 2021||Kolkata,||Bengal logs 557 new COVID-19 cases, 11 more deaths||The COVID-19 death toll in West Bengal rose to 18,240 on Monday after 11 more people succumbed to the disease. With 557 new cases being recorded, the total case tally has surged to 15,34,360. North 24 Parganas accounted for four deaths, while Paschim Medinipur and Nadia districts registered two deaths each. As many as 719 fresh recoveries raised the total number to 15,05,808. The recovery rate stands at 98.14%, while there are 10,312 active cases. So far, 1,61,22,345 samples have been tested in the State.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bengal-logs-557-new-covid-19-cases-11-more-deaths/article35828624.ece
10 August 2021||HUBBALLI,||No public celebration of Ganesh festival||With the focus now being more on preventing a possible third wave of COVID-19, the Dharwad administration has banned the public celebrations of Ganesh festival.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/no-public-celebration-of-ganesh-festival/article35828476.ece
10 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||I am here for a healing touch, real development: Himanta||Measures taken by his government to restrict beef sale and consumption, encourage smaller families among Muslims, and protect indigenous faiths and culture in Assam were meant to promote social harmony, says Assam Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma, rejecting suggestions that they were advancing Hindutva politics. “I am talking from a different perspective… Not the rightist connotations that are being alleged...When I am talking of protecting indigenous culture, I am talking of the impact, not only of conversions but also of Sanskritisation... Koran, Vedas or Bible... whatever it may be...We have to ensure that the traditional cultures do not get erased,” Mr. Sarma told The Hindu in an exclusive interview. Population control “I am here to offer a healing touch... A real kind of development. That development can be impeded by large family sizes and Muslim leaders are completely in agreement with me on this. Statistics and projections are ok, but we know the ground situation, that large sizes often limit the capacity of families to come out of poverty,” Mr. Sarma, whose campaign speeches ahead of the Assembly elections earlier this year were highly combative, remarked. The State government, he stated, had formed eight sub-groups with representatives of indigenous Muslim community to focus on issues such as health, education, skill development, preservation of cultural identity, financial inclusion, women empowerment, etc. It recently announced a raft of measures to incentivise small families and penalise large ones, specially focused on Muslims. Population control had been a topic close to his heart even when he was in the Congress. “I wrote my first article calling for it in 2001,” he pointed out. Mr. Sarma left the Congress for the BJP in 2015. His politics has sought to make a distinction between Assamese-speaking indigenous Muslims and the Bengali- speaking ones. The restrictions on beef were intended to bring down communal tensions. A recent law in the State criminalised slaughter and consumption of beef in the Hindu, Jain and Sikh majority areas and within a five-km radius of their places of worship. Stopping conflicts “We are not stopping anyone from eating what they eat. By bringing in these restriction, we are trying to stop the conflicts arising out of beef. The feedback that we have as of now is that all communities are happy [about the new law]. Far from creating any communal tension, the new law will ensure communal harmony,” he stressed. Miscreants routinely used beef as a ruse to trigger conflicts, he asserted. The reverification of the controversial National Register of Citizens (NRC) that was promised during campaign would be considered only after the pandemic was over, he added. The exclusion of 18 lakh people from the NRC remains a contentious issue and Mr. Sarma had promised 10-20 reverification of the entire exercise to identify wrongful inclusions and exclusions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/i-am-here-for-a-healing-touch-real-development-himanta/article35828159.ece
10 August 2021||New Delhi,||SC seeks Centre’s reply on vaccine data||A judicial order to publish data on clinical trials of COVID-19 vaccines and post vaccination side effects may feed vaccine hesitancy amid the pandemic, the Supreme Court said on Monday. “Do you really think this is in the larger public interest? Fifty crore people have been vaccinated... By asking us to launch an enquiry now, are you not throwing doubts into the minds of people about the vaccines,” Justice L. Nageswara Rao asked advocate Prashant Bhushan. “But if you don’t have transparency, there is more reason for vaccine hesitancy,” Mr. Bhushan replied. The court also voiced scepticism about Mr. Bhushan’s criticism of the government’s “coercive vaccine mandates”, which banned the unvaccinated from public spaces, offices, shops and so on. Mr. Bhushan said the government could not force people to use “inadequately tested vaccines” through “mandates which are repugnant to the right of humans to autonomy and right to self-determine what may be injected into their bodies”. “Are you pressing personal autonomy against the concern for public health,” Justice Rao asked. Courts across the globe, including in the U.S., Europe, and Canada, had favoured similar government steps to ensure that all were vaccinated for the sake of public health, he said. Mr. Bhushan represents Jacob Puliyel, a former member of the National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation, who wants the court to direct the government, its bodies and the two domestic vaccine manufacturers — the Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech — to transparently reveal clinical trial and vaccination data, including the recording and reporting of adverse events. Side effects Though the court sought a reply from the government in four weeks, the Bench, including Justice Aniruddha Bose, was sceptical about enquiring into the efficacy and adverse effects of the vaccines when the “situation regarding the pandemic was still grave”. At one point, when Mr. Bhushan said thousands of deaths had been reported around the world due to the vaccines’ side effects, Justice Rao pointed to how the vaccines may have saved lakhs of lives. Mr. Bhushan said it was the first time in history that vaccines were granted Emergency Use Authorisation by the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI). The authorities were required to publish the clinical trials’ data under the Declaration of Helsinki, recognised by India, and rules of the World Health Organization (WHO), he submitted. Justice Rao said, “You say that this [rolling out vaccines without publishing data of clinical trials] has never happened before. But we had not had a pandemic like this for 100 years... We have to balance the immediate need to give the vaccines with the potential risk.” Mr. Bhushan observed, “But experts need to see the data... Why keep it under a shroud? I am not saying they stop the vaccination. I am only urging them to be transparent. People have the right to be informed”. In his petition, Mr. Puliyel said the Centre, its agencies like the DCGI and the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and vaccine manufacturers had maintained opacity about the clinical trial data of the vaccines.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-seeks-centres-reply-on-vaccine-data/article35828183.ece
10 August 2021||New Delhi,||Glaciers will keep shrinking: IPCC report||Glaciers in the Hindu Kush Himalayan (HKH) region will keep shrinking and the snow cover will retreat to higher altitudes, the latest IPCC report said on Monday. The Sixth Assessment Report (AR6) of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), approved by 195 member-countries, warned that extreme precipitation is projected to increase in major mountainous regions with potential cascading consequences of floods, landslides and lake outbursts in all scenarios. One of the authors of the report, Krishna Achuta Rao, said that in the HKH region, the snow cover had reduced since the early 21st century and glaciers had thinned, retreated and lost mass since the 1970s. However, he said, the Karakoram glaciers had either slightly gained mass or were in an approximately balanced state. “Snow-covered areas and snow volumes will decrease during the 21st century, snowline elevations will rise and glacier mass is likely to decline with greater mass loss in higher greenhouse gas emission scenarios. Rising temperatures and precipitation can increase the occurrence of glacial lake outburst floods and landslides over moraine-dammed lakes,” Mr. Rao said. Permafrost thaw According to the report, mountain glaciers will continue to shrink and permafrost to thaw in all regions where they are present. Another author of the report, Swapna Panickal, who is a scientist at the Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology, said human influence was responsible for the retreat of glaciers since the 20th century and that was not only the case in the two poles, but also for mountain glaciers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/glaciers-will-keep-shrinking-ipcc-report/article35828224.ece
10 August 2021||New Delhi,||LS passes three Bills in 20 minutes||The Lok Sabha on Monday passed three Bills in 20 minutes as disruption by Opposition members over the Pegasus snooping controversy and the farms continued into the last week of the monsoon session of Parliament. The government also introduced three Bills in the din, prompting Congress leaders Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury and Manish Tewari to question the government’s commitment to democratic norms. RSP’s N.K. Premachandran had also objected to the manner in which Bills were being passed in the House without a debate. The exact expressions used by the members, however, were later expunged by the Chair. The three Bills passed are the Limited Liability Partnership (Amendment) Bill 2021, The Insurance and Credit Guarantee Corporation (Amendment) Bill 2021 and The Constitution (Scheduled Tribes) Order (Amendment) Bill 2021. However, following a meeting of 15 parties, Opposition leaders agreed that they would cooperate in the passage of the Constitution (One Hundred and Twenty-Seventh Amendment) Bill, 2021 that is slated for debate on Tuesday. The Bill seeks to restore the power of State governments to identify Other Backward Classes (OBC) that are socially and economically backward after the Supreme Court, in a May 2021 order, had empowered only the Centre for such identification. The amendment has been necessitated after the Supreme Court in its Maratha reservation ruling upheld the 102nd Constitutional Amendment Act that inserted Articles 338B and Article 342A (with two clauses) after Article 342. Though there were protests right from the beginning of the day’s proceedings started at 11 a.m., at the time of the introduction of the Bill, Opposition MPs briefly stopped sloganeering and returned to their seats, allowing the Minister for Social Justice Virender Kumar as well as the Congress leader Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury to speak on it. Sonia attends For the first time since the pandemic, Congress president Sonia Gandhi attended Parliament and was seen exchanging greetings with fellow parliamentarians. When the House met for the day in the morning, Opposition members sought to raise various issues, including the Pegasus spyware controversy and started shouting slogans. Speaker Om Birla first paid tributes to those who had participated in the Quit India Movement and then congratulated the medal winners for India at the just-concluded Olympic games in Tokyo. When the name of Neeraj Chopra, who won the gold medal in the javelin throw at the Olympics, was mentioned, members were seen thumping their desks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ls-passes-three-bills-in-20-minutes/article35828166.ece
10 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||Rs. 11,000 crore for self-sufficiency in edible oil production: PM||The Centre will spend Rs. 11,000 crore on a new mission to ensure self-sufficiency in edible oil production at a time when India’s dependence on expensive imports has driven retail oil prices to new highs, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Monday. This financial outlay for the National Mission on Edible Oil-Oil Palm (NMEO-OP) will be over a five-year period, Agriculture Ministry officials later said. The Prime Minister was speaking at a virtual event to release the ninth instalment of income support worth Rs. 19,500 crore to 9.75 crore farmers under the PM Kisan scheme. “Today, when India is being recognised as a major agricultural exporting country, then it is not appropriate for us to depend on imports for our edible oil needs,” Mr. Modi said noting that the share of imported palm oil is more than 55%. “We have to change this situation. The thousands of crores that we have to give to others abroad to buy edible oil should be given to the farmers of the country only,” he added, naming north-eastern India and the Andaman and Nicobar Islands as prime locations for oil palm cultivation. In response to a Rajya Sabha query in February 2020, Commerce Minister Piyush Goyal had said the NMEO proposal would aim to reduce import dependence from 60% to 45% by 2024-25, by increasing domestic edible oil production from 10.5 million tonnes to 18 million tonnes, a 70% growth target. It projected a 55% growth in oilseed production, to 47.8 million tonnes. It is not clear whether these targets have changed under the final version of the mission. Rise in yield The NMEO-OP’s predecessor was the National Mission on Oil Seeds and Oil Palm, which was launched at the fag end of the UPA government’s tenure and later merged with the National Food Security Mission. Laying out its achievements in May 2020, the Agriculture Ministry said oilseed production had grown 35% from 27.5 million tonnes in 2014-15 to 37.3 million tonnes by 2020-21. Although oilseed acreage rose only 8.6% over that six year period, yields rose more than 20%. At the PM-Kisan event, Mr. Modi noted that although the country’s granaries were full of cereals such as rice and wheat, with the government making record purchases from farmers at MSP rates, self-sufficiency was yet to be attained in pulses and oil. Previous efforts to boost the production of pulses in the country had resulted in a 50% growth over the last six years, he said. “The work we did in pulses, or in the past with wheat and paddy, now we have to take the same resolution for the production of edible oil also. For our country to be self-sufficient in this edible oil, we have to work fast,” he added. “Through this mission, more than Rs. 11,000 crore will be invested in the edible oil ecosystem. The government will ensure that farmers get all needed facilities, from quality seeds to technology. Along with promoting the cultivation of oil palm, this mission will also expand the cultivation of our other traditional oilseed crops,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rs-11000-crore-for-edible-oil-mission-pm/article35828137.ece
10 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||Parliament passes Bills on tribunal reforms, taxation||Parliament on Monday cleared three Bills to abolish several appellate tribunals, to end retrospective tax on indirect transfer of Indian assets, and create a new Central university in Ladakh. The three Bills were cleared by the Rajya Sabha, having been passed by the Lok Sabha earlier in the ongoing Monsoon Session of Parliament. The first of the three Bills to be cleared, the Tribunals Reforms (Rationalisation and Conditions of Service) Bill, 2021, will replace an ordinance. During the discussion on the Bill, Biju Janata Dal’s Sujeet Kumar, who was the first speaker, said that the legislation would help in removing an extra layer of adjudication. He, however, pointed out that there were still some key flaws in the Bill, including the fact that short tenures of the members would ensure executive hold on the tribunals. Also age criterion set in the Bill was meaningless. “If you can become a High Court Judge at 40 years, it is not logical that to be a member of tribunals as per the Bill you have to be 50 years old,” he said. The Opposition utilised the opportunity to speak on the Bill to raise the Pegasus cyber attack issue. DMK MP N.R Elango said, “I oppose the Bill. The government wants to remove certain tribunals, which will increase the burden of the High Courts. Rather, I would demand that the government establish a tribunal to investigate Pegasus cyber attack.” In her response, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman questioned the Congress for raising concerns about judicial independence, being a party that curtailed the same during the Emergency. She said the government fully respected the independence of the judiciary, but also respected the power of the legislature. The House then took up and returned the Taxation Laws (Amendment) Bill, 2021, after the Opposition staged a walkout over what they termed was the last-minutes inclusion of the Bill in the day’s list of business. Ms. Sitharaman said the amendment would undo the 2012 amendment that brought in retrospective taxation. India’s sovereign right would not be diluted by the Bill, she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/parliament-passes-bills-on-tribunal-reforms-taxation/article35828161.ece
10 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||Jharkhand judge death: SC not happy with CBI report||The Supreme Court on Monday said there was no word in the CBI’s “sealed cover” report about the motive behind the murder of Jharkhand district judge Uttam Anand, whose death saw Chief Justice of India (CJI) N.V. Ramana voice his concern over the mounting attacks on judges and total disregard shown by Central agencies and State police forces to these criminal acts which threaten judiciary’s independence. “You have filed a report in a sealed cover. It says ‘we went there’, ‘we went here’, etc. But your people have not indicated the motive... We wanted something concrete,” the CJI expressed the court’s dissatisfaction to Solicitor-General Tushar Mehta, appearing for the CBI. Mr. Mehta said two people had been arrested in the case. “They are under interrogation... cannot reveal anything now.” Weekly status report The top court directed the CBI to file a weekly status report on the investigation with the Chief Justice of the Jharkhand High Court. “The Chief Justice of the High Court will monitor every week,” the CJI said. The gravity of the matter, that is, the murder of a sitting judge, required the CBI to report to the Chief Justice of the High Court, he stated. The previous hearing had seen the CJI lash out at Central agencies such as the CBI, the Intelligence Bureau and State police forces for ignoring complaints from judges about abusive messages and threats even as attacks on the judiciary were on the rise. The court, which has taken suo motu cognisance of the rising number of attacks on judicial officers and even High Court judges, suggested the formation of a special force to protect judges, especially trial judges who decide criminal cases involving high-profile accused. ‘No freedom to work’ “We have seen that in criminal cases involving high-profile people, there is a new trend of maligning judges. There is no freedom for judges to work. The CBI, the police, the IB do not help the judiciary. I am making this statement with some sense of responsibility... In several cases across the country involving gangsters and high-profile and powerful accused, they threaten judges, not just physically but also mentally through abusive messages, peeping into judges’ online accounts, etc. We are very sorry to say that the CBI did nothing about complaints made to it... There is still no change in the attitude of the CBI,” the CJI orally observed on August 6. The court had blamed the Jharkhand government’s “negligence” in providing adequate security cover to Judge Anand.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/jharkhand-judge-death-sc-not-happy-with-cbi-report/article35828164.ece
10 August 2021||Kolkata,||Amit Shah behind attack on Trinamool workers: Mamata||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday visited the State-run SSKM hospital to meet Trinamool Congress youth leaders who were injured in an attack in Tripura on Saturday. Ms. Banerjee said, “These attacks have been carried out on the instructions of Union Home Minister Amit Shah. The Chief Minister of Tripura does not have the audacity to do that.” She said the BJP was running a “demonic system “ in Tripura and also in other States where it was in power. “Even in Assam, the BJP government did not allow our delegation to visit when there were protests over the NRC [National Register of Citizens]. In Uttar Pradesh, when there was an incident at Hathras, our team was not allowed to come out of the airport,” she said. Ms. Banerjee said the Trinamool delegation was attacked in the presence of the police. “They were attacked and they were arrested. For 36 hours, they were not administered any medical help. Not even a glass of water was given to them.” On the attack on the convoy of his nephew and party general secretary Abhishek Banerjee, she said, “Abhishek’s life is in danger”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/amit-shah-behind-attack-on-trinamool-workers-mamata/article35828153.ece
10 August 2021||New Delhi,||Cong. plans celebrations for 75th year of Independence||On August 15, when India enters the 75th year of her Independence, the Congress will announce a series of steps, including forming committees that will plan year-long celebration of the Independence movement, Congress general secretary (organisation) K.C. Venugopal said on Monday. The party will organise a public event to honour the freedom fighters and their families, and freedom march at Block and District levels. Every Pradesh Congress Committee will prepare 2 minute videos as part of social media campaign to highlight the events of freedom movement in their State. “Despotic and autocratic individuals and organisations, majority of whom then had sided with the British and opposed the Freedom Movement, continue to challenge the very foundation of our polity and democracy. Undermining individual freedoms, perpetuating social injustice, subverting institutional autonomy, creating caste and religious divide and compromising the very fundamental of our Constitution and nationhood are their overt and covert agenda,” Mr. Venugopal said in a statement. The party also said the recent blocking of former party chief Rahul Gandhi’s twitter handle and that of Indian National Congress TV were “part of the Modi government’s agenda to curtail freedom of speech”. Members of the Indian Youth Congress and the Mahila Congress even took to the streets to protest against Twitter and alleged that they were being pressured by the government. The issue was also discussed at a meeting of general secretaries, State-in-charges and PCC presidents. “The atrocious stance is nothing but another instance of anti-scheduled castes and anti-women mindset and inherent prejudice of the Modi Government as also violation of freedom of expression by Twitter India under the diktat of Modi Government,” Mr. Venugopal said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cong-plans-celebrations-for-75th-year-of-independence/article35828148.ece
10 August 2021||New Delhi,||At Sibal’s dinner meeting, Oppn. leaders call for unity||Opposition leaders across party lines, at a private dinner hosted by senior Congress leader Kapil Sibal on Monday, talked of the need to jointly take on the BJP and the Narendra Modi government. And a start should be made in the Uttar Pradesh Assembly election, where a victory could give the Opposition the much-needed momentum, the leaders argued. Several leaders, a source told The Hindu , stressed on the Congress party resolving its “internal problems”. Among the leaders who attended the dinner were Nationalist Congress Party chief Sharad Pawar, Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) patriarch Lalu Yadav, Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav, Sitaram Yechury of the CPI-M, D. Raja of the CPI, Omar Abdullah of National Conference, Sanjay Raut of Shiv Sena, Pinaki Misra of the Biju Janata Dal, Derek O’Brien of Trinamool Congress, Tiruchi Siva of the DMK, and Naresh Gujral of the Akali Dal. Aam Aadmi Party, Telangana Rashtra Samithi, Telugu Desam Party, YSR Congress Party, Rashtriya Lok Dal were also part of the gathering. The source claimed that 20 of the Congress’s group of 23 dissenters (G-23) were also in attendance along with a few other senior party leaders. Though the dinner was a private affair to celebrate Mr Sibal’s 73rd birthday, leaders made their political observations. The ball was set rolling by Mr. Sibal who spoke of how the BJP was targeting democratic institutions. Thereafter, he is said to have invited all the senior leaders to share their views. Mr. Pawar is said to have pointed out how the Congress-NCP-Sena was working together in Maharashtra, and stressed on the need for Opposition unity. Mr Yechury pointed out that Mr Sibal's official residence, 8 Teen Murti lane, used to be the home of former CPI-M general secretary Harkishan Singh Surjeet, one of the architects of the United Front government in mid-1990s.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/at-sibals-dinner-meeting-oppn-leaders-call-for-unity/article35828229.ece
10 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||Govt. delaying Collegium recommendations, says SC||The Centre’s delay, for months and years on end, to act on the recommendations of the Collegium and appoint judges to High Courts has affected the early adjudication of important cases, especially high-stake commercial issues, the Supreme Court lashed out in an order on Monday. “The Delhi High Court will be with less than 50% judges in a week’s time, having only 29 judges out of a strength of 60 judges... Two decades back when one of us [Justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul] was appointed as a judge, it was as the 32nd judge of the Court whereas the strength was 33 judges,” a Bench of Justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul and Hrishikesh Roy noted in the order. The government’s “recalcitrant attitude” has left the High Courts with skeletal judicial strength, the order said. “The recommendations take months and years to reach the Collegium and thereafter months and years no decisions are taken post the Collegium. The judicial institution of the High Courts is manned by a number of judges where it will become almost impossible to have an early adjudication even on important issues,” the Supreme Court said. “If there is some element of loss being caused by the inability of the judicial institution to take up matters, this is a direct consequence of there being inadequate number of judges,” the apex court said. The court said the government “must realise” that adequate number of judges is a ‘necessity’ for early adjudication of commercial disputes. The order was passed in an appeal involving government investigation arising from anti-dumping proceedings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/govt-delaying-collegium-recommendations-says-sc/article35828234.ece
10 August 2021||JAIPUR,||Tribals in Rajasthan seek more panchayats in scheduled areas||The tribal outfits in Rajasthan have demanded inclusion of over 165 village panchayats of seven districts in the scheduled areas under the Tribal Sub-Plan (TSP) to facilitate the control of local communities over minor minerals and minor forest produce as well as development activities in the region. It will also ensure statutory protection of the tribal population. On the occasion of the International Day of the World’s Indigenous Peoples on Monday, the tribal groups said the population of Scheduled Tribes in these panchayats had crossed 50%, making them eligible to be declared as scheduled areas. Consequently, the provisions of the Panchayats (Extension to Scheduled Areas) Act, 1996, will apply to these areas. The scheduled areas at present comprise 5,697 villages in southern Rajasthan, having a tribal population of more than 50%, as notified in 2018. As per the 2011 Census, the total population of scheduled areas was 64.63 lakh, in which the tribals were 45.57 lakh, making up 70.43% of the population. Separate State The tribal groups have also been spearheading a movement for creation of a separate State, Bhil Pradesh, to be carved out of the tribal-dominated areas of Rajasthan, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra. The issue has gained strength after the victory of two Bharatiya Tribal Party (BTP) candidates in Dungarpur district in the 2018 State Assembly election. In addition to the BTP, the tribal groups also submitted memorandums addressed to the President on this subject in several districts in the four States last month. BTP State president Velaram Ghogra said the tribals were not getting full benefit of reservation in the TSP areas despite forming the majority. “The government should stop its drive to bring the tribals to the so-called mainstream, because they are living in harmony with nature and taking care of precious natural resources,” he said. Former civil servant Satyanaryan Singh, who earlier served as the TSP Director, told The Hindu that the demand for creation of Bhil Pradesh was not practicable. “The allocation of funds and implementation of development programmes in the TSP areas have benefited tribals,” he said. The demand is also apparently linked with political developments last year, when the BTP withdrew its support to the ruling Congress over the latter allegedly blocking the election of a BTP-backed independent candidate to the post of Zila Pramukh in Dungarpur during the panchayat elections. As an ally of the ruling party, the BTP had voted for the Congress’ candidates in the Rajya Sabha elections held in June last year and backed Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot during the subsequent political turmoil. BTP MLAs Rajkumar Roat and Ram Prasad supported the Congress during the confidence vote on the floor of the State Assembly on August 14, 2020.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tribals-in-rajasthan-seek-more-panchayats-in-scheduled-areas/article35828392.ece
10 August 2021||Patna,||RJD leader’s statement on jeans invites flak from leaders, workers||The Rashtriya Janata Dal workers and leaders from other political parties have criticised a statement by RJD State president Jagdanand Singh that “those who wear jeans, can’t be leaders of our party”. Tej Pratap Yadav, RJD MLA from Hasanpur constituency and elder son of party chief Lalu Prasad, called him “Hitler who wants to run the party on his whims and discipline”. “One should not make the mistake of thinking that the chair [of State party president] is his ancestral property,” Mr. Tej Pratap said while addressing a meeting of students’ wing at the party headquarters here. “Politics is not fit for those who wear jeans and they can’t be leaders, especially of our party which is a party of poor, downtrodden and suppressed people,” Mr. Singh had said addressing party workers on August 7. He was apparently provoked after seeing youths wearing jeans moving around and not paying attention to his speech. However, later, Akash Kumar, State president of the RJD students’ wing, said, “I don’t think his Statement is proper and justified... Today’s politics has nothing to do with wearing jeans or uniform.” Some senior RJD leaders, requesting anonymity, said, “wearing jeans has nothing to do with politics... what’s wrong in it.” JD(U) spokesperson Abhishek Jha said that Mr. Singh had “insulted youth in politics”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rjd-leaders-statement-on-jeans-invites-flak-from-leaders-workers/article35828701.ece
10 August 2021||CHENNAI,||Webinar on outlook for poultry sector||A webinar on the “Post-pandemic outlook for the poultry sector”, presented by Godrej Agrovet and The Hindu BusinessLine , will be held from 4 p.m. on August 12. The webinar will focus on the poultry sector’s outlook and performance post COVID-19, the pre-pandemic scene, and the lessons learnt from the problems the sector faced in 2020 and 2021. It will shed light on steps to modernise the poultry sector. Balram Singh Yadav, Managing Director, Godrej Agrovet, will deliver the special address, and M. Angamuthu, Chairman. APEDA, the keynote address. Prashant Vatkar, Chief Executive Officer, Godrej Tyson Foods; Suresh Chitturi, Managing Director, Srinivasa Farms, and Chairman, International Egg Commission; and G. Chandrashekhar, senior journalist and policy commentator; will also speak at the webinar, to be moderated by M.R. Subramani, Commodities Editor, The Hindu BusinessLine  To register for the webinar, visit https://bit.ly/BLGODREJ or scan the QR code given.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/webinar-on-outlook-for-poultry-sector/article35828140.ece
10 August 2021||New Delhi,||‘We need to act now’||The impact of climate crisis can be seen around the world and not acting now will destroy lives and livelihoods, environmental experts warned on Monday. “The Indian government is sanguine about doing more than other countries in terms of comparable action to reduce CO2 emissions. But we have no measurable targets to reduce emissions. This is why we are doing well — our nationally determined contribution is to reduce not absolute emissions but the emission intensity of our economy,” CSE Director General Sunita Narain said. “Despite warnings for so many years, the world did not listen. We need to act now,” said Inger Anderson, Executive Director of UNEP.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/we-need-to-act-now/article35828225.ece
10 August 2021||LONDON,||Nirav Modi can appeal, says U.K. High Court||A U.K. High Court judge here on Monday granted fugitive diamond merchant Nirav Modi permission to appeal against a magistrates’ court order, in favour of extradition to India to face charges of fraud and money laundering before the Indian courts, on mental health and human rights grounds. Justice Martin Chamberlain delivered his verdict remotely under COVID-19 rules concluding that the arguments presented by the diamond merchant’s legal team concerning his “severe depression” and “high risk of suicide” were arguable at a hearing. “At this stage, the question for me is simply whether the appellant’s case on these grounds is reasonably arguable. In my judgment, it is. I will grant permission to appeal on Grounds 3 and 4,” the ruling notes. Grounds 3 and 4 relate to Article 3 of the European Convention of Human Rights (ECHR), or the right to life, liberty and security, and Section 91 of the U.K.’s Criminal Justice Act 2003 related to fitness to plead. The judge notes an overlap between both grounds as they both rely principally on the appellant Mr. Nirav Modi’s mental ill health. “I will not restrict the basis on which those grounds can be argued, though it seems to me that there should be a particular focus on whether the judge was wrong to reach the conclusion he did, given the evidence as to the severity of the appellant’s [Nirav Modi’s] depression, the high risk of suicide and the adequacy of any measures capable of preventing successful suicide attempts in Arthur Road prison,” the ruling notes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nirav-modi-can-appeal-says-uk-court/article35828146.ece
10 August 2021||August 10 2021 00:00 IST,||IPCC forecasts a future of severe weather||Keeping global warming below 2 degrees Celsius of pre-industrial levels by the turn of century and endeavouring to limit it to 1.5 degrees Celsius was at the heart of the 2015 Paris Agreement. Unless extremely deep emission cuts are undertaken by all countries immediately, these goals are unlikely to be met. The report recommended that countries strive to achieve net zero emissions — no additional greenhouse gases are emitted — by 2050. In the most ambitious emissions pathway, the projection is that the globe would reach the 1.5 degrees Celsius scenario in the 2030s, overshoot to 1.6 degrees Celsius, with temperatures dropping back down to 1.4 degrees Celsius at the end of the century. India has not yet committed to a net zero timeline. The Sixth Assessment Report has been finalised and approved by 234 authors and 195 governments and updates the scientific consensus on extreme weather, human attribution, the carbon budget, feedback cycles, and charts the future state of the climate since the Fifth Assessment Report of 2014. The 3,000-plus-page report said warming is already accelerating sea level rise and worsening extremes such as heatwaves, droughts, floods and storms. Tropical cyclones Tropical cyclones are getting stronger and wetter, while Arctic Sea ice is dwindling in the summerand permafrost is thawing. All these trends will get worse, the report said. India is currently the world’s third largest greenhouse gas emitter, but per capita emissions are much lower. The U.S. emitted nearly nine times more greenhouse gases per capita than India in 2018. Based on existing commitments by countries to curb their emission, the world is on track for global temperature warming by at least 2.7°C by 2100, predicts the report, calling it ‘Code red for humanity’. The latest scientific assessment will influence discussions on the Conference of Parties meeting in Glasgow later this year where countries are expected to announce plans and steps they have taken to curb emissions. The report release follows a two-week long plenary session held virtually from July 26 to August 6, 2021, in which the report was scrutinized line-by-line for approval by government representatives in dialogue with report authors. Alok Sharma, COP26 President, said in a statement: “The impacts of the climate crisis can be seen around the world and if we don’t act now, we will continue to see the worst effects impact lives, livelihoods and natural habitats. The next decade is decisive, follow the science and embrace your responsibility to keep the goal of 1.5C alive. We can do this by coming forward with ambitious 2030 emission reduction targets and long-term strategies with a pathway to net zero.” “Developed Countries have usurped far more than their fair share of the global carbon budget. Reaching net zero alone is not enough, as it is the cumulative emissions up to net zero that determine the temperature that is reached,” Environment Minister Bhupendra Yadav said in a statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/global-warming-may-set-off-severe-rain-ipcc/article35828144.ece
10 August 2021||August 10 2021 00:00 IST,||PM sets out framework for maritime security||Prime Minister Modi outlined a five-principle framework for the debate. The first was removing barriers to maritime trade. In this context, Mr. Modi highlighted SAGAR (‘Security and Growth for all in the Region’) — a 2015 Indian framework for regional maritime security. Second, Mr. Modi said, maritime disputes “should be resolved peacefully and in accordance with international law,” adding that this was “extremely important for promoting mutual trust and confidence, and ensuring global peace and stability.” “It was with this understanding, and maturity, that India resolved its maritime boundary with its neighbour Bangladesh,” the Prime Minister said. Mr. Modi underlining the need for maritime disputes to be resolved peacefully is presumably aimed at China’s actions in the South China Sea, where it has militarised islands and unilaterally enforced its claims over disputed waters. The third principle Mr. Modi proposed at Monday’s debate was that countries jointly tackle maritime threats from non-state actors and natural disasters. Fourth, he said the maritime environment and marine resources needed to be conserved, highlighting pollution from plastic waste and oil spills. Fifth, Mr. Modi called for responsible maritime connectivity, saying a structure was required to boost maritime trade, with the development of global norms and standards. External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar chaired the meeting after Mr. Modi. Blinken-Putin spat Mr. Putin was the only Head of State/ Government of the Permanent-5 members of the UNSC who participated in the discussion. “Russia has always played an important role in global maritime security. It is an important player in global security, safety and prosperity,” Mr. Modi said after Mr. Putin’s remarks. This was in sharp contrast to U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken’s comments on Russia later in the debate. “In the Black Sea, Kerch Strait, the Sea of Azov, we see continued aggressive actions against Ukraine with dangerous incursions on the sea and in the air, and the harassment of vessels, which are disrupting commerce, and energy access,” Mr. Blinken said, in a reference to Russia. He suggested China was violating maritime laws and he held Iran responsible for the attack on MV Mercer Street . The U.S. has not ratified UNCLOS but recognizes it as international law. China was represented by its Deputy Representative to the UN, Dai Bing, who said,“The UNSC is not the right platform for a discussion on the South China Sea.” Mr. Dai said, referring to Mr. Blinken’s remarks.  (With inputs from Ananth Krishnan)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pm-sets-out-framework-for-maritime-security/article35828151.ece
10 August 2021||August 10 2021 00:00 IST,||No transaction with Pegasus maker: MoD||The government had so far shied away from mentioning the company. “Ministry of Defence has not had any transaction with NSO Group Technologies,” Minister of State for Defence Ajay Bhatt said in a written reply in the Rajya Sabha to a question from V. Sivadasan of the CPI(M). However, the response is specific to the Defence Ministry and does not exclude other Ministries or agencies that may have engaged with the firm.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/no-transaction-with-pegasus-maker-mod/article35828155.ece
10 August 2021||New Delhi,||CPI(M) plans age limit for Central Committee||In a bid to revamp its ageing leadership, the Central Committee of the Communist Party of India (Marxist) has decided to set a retirement age of 75 for all its members. Once the proposal is endorsed at the party’s 23rd Congress, scheduled to be held in Kannur, Kerala in April 2022, the age limit will become applicable. The Central Committee is the highest decision-making body of the party which, in turn, elects the Polit Bureau (PB) from its members. “Our decision is that those who have crossed 75 years will be relieved from the Central Committee. The State Committee normally has a lower age ceiling but we have left it to them to decide it,” party general secretary Sitaram Yechury said at a press conference on the conclusion of the Central Committee meeting from August 6 to 8. A few exceptions If the rule is scrupulously applied, then 76-year-old Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan who is also a member of the Polit Bureau, will have to step down. “Last time also, we made exceptions for certain people. The party will decide for those holding key positions. But in principle, the decision is to fix 75 years as the retirement age,” Mr. Yechury added. An exception was made in 2018 Party Congress for Polit Bureau member S. Ramachandran Pillai. The retirement age was 80. But Mr. Pillai, who was 81 at that time, was retained. In the current 17-member Polit Bureau, Mr. Ramachandran is the oldest member and 64-year old Mohammed Salim and Nilotpal Basu are the youngest. First step The first step towards reducing the average age of members in the decision-making bodies was taken by the West Bengal State Committee. Currently, the State Committee has decided not to induct any member over the age of 60. The age-ceiling will be applied in a two pronged way. First, the retirement age will be fixed at 75 for members in all the CPI(M)’s bodies including the Polit Bureau; second no new member above a certain age will be inducted in any of these forums.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cpim-plans-age-limit-for-central-committee/article35828167.ece
10 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||IMA wants withdrawal of Bill on PG courses||The Indian Medical Association (IMA) has demanded that the National Medical Commission (NMC) withdraw the draft post-graduate medical education regulations 2021 Bill which notes that there shall be common counselling for admission in all medical educational institutions to all post-graduate broad specialty courses (Diploma/MD/MS) on the basis of the merit list of the National Exit Test. Course correction Calling the move “anti-student and anti-patent care”, it said on Monday the NMC should withdraw the move and initiate dialogue with the stakeholders to understand the ground reality and do course correction to ensure uniform standards of education. The association has also demanded that the existing system of admission and selection criteria must continue for the postgraduate seats, because the State medical colleges are staffed and managed by the budget of the State governments. When not even 50% seats are earmarked for the respective States, the maintenance and running of the institution will lose its charm and priority, the association said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ima-demands-withdrawal-of-bill-on-pg-medical-education/article35828169.ece
10 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||Govt. directed to submit report on oxygen supply||The Supreme Court on Monday gave the government two weeks to submit a report detailing the action taken to comply with the recommendations of the court-appointed National Task Force (NTF) to augment, secure and streamline the manufacture, allocation and supply of medical oxygen to the States and the Union Territories fighting the COVID-19 pandemic. A Bench of Justices D.Y. Chandrachud and M.R. Shah directed the government to also place on record the report of the 12-member NTF along with its action taken report. Justice Chandrachud said, “The NTF consists of eminent doctors... The Union of India has to assure that recommendations have been acted upon at an enhanced level for the future...” The NTF was formed by the court during the peak days of the second wave of the pandemic to ensure the “effective and transparent” allocation of liquid medical oxygen on a “scientific, rational and equitable basis”. The court had expressed its dissatisfaction at the Centre’s earlier “oxygen for bed” formula. This “rough and ready” arrangement, as the court put it then, was based on calculating the allotment of oxygen based on the number of ICU/non-ICU beds. The court had reasoned that the formula did not take into consideration the fact that many COVID-19 patients in dire need of oxygen do not get beds or were confined in home care. The NTF was “drawn of renowned national experts with diverse experience in health institutions” to function within the Central government apparatus in order to mould a public health response to the pandemic, based on scientific and specialised domain knowledge. Justice Chandrachud had said that the ambit of its recommendations should go beyond cobbling together ad hoc solutions and lay the foundation for the future in the face of public health crisis. In June, the NTF had come out with a report, focussing on the urgent need to make all 18 metro cities in the country oxygen-independent, with at least 100 MT storage in the city itself. It had recommended adopting a strategy to manufacture oxygen locally or in the neighbourhood of big cities to fullfil at least 50% of their Liquid Medical Oxygen (LMO) demand as road transportation is vulnerable. “This may be taken up in respect of Delhi and Mumbai on priority, due to their population density,” it had stated. Need for reserves The NTF highlighted the need to make efforts to further scale up LMO production in preparation for a third wave of the pandemic. “We should have strategic reserves of oxygen for country to cover two-three weeks’ consumption, similar to the arrangement made for petroleum products. Similarly, all hospitals should have a buffer capacity for emergencies. There is an urgent need to increase production of LMO from about 5% - 8% of gaseous industrial oxygen,” the report said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/govt-directed-to-submit-report-on-oxygen-supply/article35828185.ece
10 August 2021||Nagpur,||Aadhaar helps identify U.P. teen||A 15-year-old specially abled and speech impaired boy found at Nagpur railway station two years ago was reunited with his parents in Uttar Pradesh due to his Aadhaar card details, an official said on Monday. The teen was brought to the Government Children’s Home for Boys (Junior) here last year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/aadhaar-helps-identify-up-teen/article35828626.ece
10 August 2021||August 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Bread and butter||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bread-and-butter/article35828175.ece
10 August 2021||New Delhi,||‘Key functions available on new I-T portal’||The Union government said on Monday that certain key functionalities such as user profile, filing of ITR 1, 2 and 4, e-proceedings and viewing of old ITRs are available on the new income tax portal. On the glitches in the portal, Minister of State for Finance Pankaj Chaudhary said the Tax Department had taken corrective steps on feedback of taxpayers and the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/key-functions-available-on-new-i-t-portal/article35828145.ece
10 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||NSD to hold festival on freedom fight||The National School of Drama on Monday announced it would hold a three-day festival on its campus from Thursday as part of the government’s “Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav” to celebrate 75 years of Independence. Three plays will be staged to showcase the contribution of Mahatma Gandhi, Kasturba Gandhi and others in the freedom movement, the NSD said. The festival will start with the staging of Jagdamba performed by Rohini Hattangadi and directed by Pratima Kulkarni.    Bapu by Natyamandap Patna will be staged on Friday, and Pehla Satyagrahi by the NSD Repertory on Saturday. NSD Chairman and actor Paresh Rawal said: “The struggles and events in the freedom struggle have their own inspirations, their own messages, which today’s India can imbibe and move forward. We have to use different mediums to spread these inspirations to the masses. This platform is one of them.” NSD Acting director Dinesh Khanna said arrangements would be made to make the festival COVID-safe, including social distancing and limiting the number of audience to 50% of the auditorium’s capacity, or nearly 120 people. Masks would be mandatory, he said. Passes for the festival will be issued on the campus free of cost from Tuesday on a first come, first served basis. Only one pass allowing entry to two will be issued to a person, he said. The event is being organised as part of the government’s 75-week series of events in the run-up to Independence Day in 2022.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nsd-to-hold-festival-on-freedom-struggle/article35828143.ece
10 August 2021||August 10 2021 00:00 IST,||On the draw||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/on-the-draw/article35828142.ece
10 August 2021||Srinagar,||Rahul Gandhi arrives in Srinagar||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Monday evening arrived in Kashmir on a two-day visit, first since the Centre has revoked J&K’s special constitutional position on August 5, 2019. Mr. Gandhi was received by party supporters in Srinagar. He will visit the Kheer Bhawani temple, one of the revered temples of Kashmiri Pandits, in Ganderbal on Tuesday and will address a function at the party office.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rahul-gandhi-arrives-in-srinagar/article35828227.ece
10 August 2021||Mumbai,||IT rules draconian: plea in HC||The new Information Technology (IT) Rules sought to monitor and censor speech on the Internet and was the most draconian law on free speech of recent times, the Bombay High Court was informed on Monday. A Division Bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice G.S. Kulkarni was hearing a petition filed by legal news website The Leaflet and a public interest litigation plea by journalist Nikhil Wagle challenging the Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules for “violating” the fundamental rights under the Constitution. Senior advocate Darius Khambata representing The Leaflet argued that the Rules went far beyond the permissible restrictions of freedom of speech and freedom of trade for digital news publisher. He said, “These Rules seek to effectively monitor and censor speech on the Internet by a different ministry, the most draconian law on free speech of recent times. They have nothing to do with regulating or recognising the e-transactions on the Internet. These rules are so vague, so draconian that they have a chilling effect on free speech, so much so that they have to be stayed immediately.” Advocate Abhay Nevagi, appearing for Mr. Wagle, said he was challenging all the parts of the Rules. There were no provisions in the IT Act to make such wide rules. The Rules were in violation of Article 51(c) of the Constitution that was to foster respect for international law and treaty obligations in the dealings of organised peoples with one another; and encourage settlement of international disputes by arbitration. He wanted the Rules to be declared illegal and arbitrary. The hearing will continue on August 10 when the additional solicitor general will argue on behalf of the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/it-rules-draconian-plea-in-hc/article35828154.ece
10 August 2021||New Delhi,||‘Tokyo games to be etched in history’||Rajya Sabha Chairman Venkaiah Naidu said that the recently concluded Tokyo Olympics would be etched in the history as the ‘first moment of national awakening in sports’ in Parliament on Monday. The Tokyo games, he said turned out to be the best Olympic moment for our nation in the last 121 years of it’s Olympic journey. He applauded the Narendra Modi government for mobilising its best effort through manifold increase in the spending, identifying and nurturing talent besides providing holistic professional and scientific support required. Over 40% of our Tokyo contingent came from Haryana and Punjab. These two States deserve appreciation for putting in place a right eco-system of sports, he said. “Five of the 9 medal winners in the last two Olympics were women, a matter of celebration. Particularly so, when our women have to overcome orthodoxies and prejudices that restrict them from taking to sports,” Mr. Naidu said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/olympics-to-be-etched-in-history/article35828157.ece
10 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||Oppn. stages walk out in Rajya Sabha||Opposition MPs in the Rajya Sabha staged a walkout on Monday saying additional Bills, including an important one on taxation, were added in the supplementary list of business for the day at the last minute, depriving them of the time needed to prepare for the discussions. As the Upper House reconvened at 3.30 p.m. after a 15-minute adjournment due to disruptions, Leader of Opposition Mallikarjun Kharge raised a point of order. He said the Taxation Laws (Amendment) Bill, 2021 and the Central Universities (Amendment) Bill, 2021, were added in the supplementary list of business and members received the revised list at 2.15 p.m. He questioned how members could argue on such important Bills with just one or two hours’ notice. “We don’t support such wrong things so we walk out,” Mr. Kharge said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/oppn-stages-walk-out-in-rs-over-bills/article35828162.ece
10 August 2021||New Delhi,||‘Statements on border conflict not provocative’||Assam Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma on Monday rejected the suggestion that his statements on the border conflict with Mizoram were provocative. “I spoke only after the killing of our policemen. If I do not speak for them, I would be letting them down. You must understand that the Assam police have been fighting the ULFA and other insurgencies for a long time. We cannot allow their morale to drop,” he said. “I am the CM of Assam first, and I cannot sacrifice the interests of the State. We are in touch with Meghalaya and Arunachal Pradesh. At some point, I will also speak to Mizoram CM, with whom I have a good personal relationship,” Mr. Sarma added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/statements-on-border-conflict-not-provocative/article35828323.ece
10 August 2021||New Delhi,||HC extends stay on proceedings in INX case against Chidambaram||The Delhi High Court on Monday extended the stay on proceedings in the CBI’s INX Media corruption case before a trial court here in which Congress leader P. Chidam- baram and his son Karti are accused. The High Court was hearing the CBI’s challenge to a March 5 order passed by the trial court allowing inspection of documents kept in ‘Malkhana’ (room keeping case properties) by the accused and their counsel. It allowed the CBI’s counsel to go through to a Supreme Court decision on the issue while posting the case for August 27.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hc-extends-stay-on-proceedings-in-inx-case-against-chidambaram/article35828135.ece
10 August 2021||Imphal,||Indefinite relay hunger strike by paddy farmers enters third day in Manipur||The indefinite hunger strike demanding fertilizers by paddy farmers, including women, at Kumbi in Bishnupur district of Manipur entered its third day on Monday. One farmer said, “The fertilizer has to be applied within August. The rosy picture of the Union government to double the income of farmers has become hazy. We fear that we won’t be able to produce paddy to feed our families.” Complaints of non-distribution of fertilizers before it is too late are rising. State Agriculture Minister Oinam Lukhoi, however, has said there is enough stock. Lisam Nimai, another farmer, said, “The officials distribute fertilizer bags on first come, first served basis. So we have to queue in front of the offices shortly after midnight for a bag of fertilizers”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/indefinite-relay-hunger-strike-by-paddy-farmers-enters-third-day-in-manipur/article35828181.ece
10 August 2021||Munger,||Four held in Bihar for human sacrifice, days after mutilated body of girl recovered||The police here on Monday claimed to have cracked the case of a girl’s murder with the arrest of four persons — a sorcerer who had ordered human sacrifice, a villager who fell into the trap and two others who helped perform the heinous act. The body of the eight-year-old girl, whose both eyes were gouged out, was spotted last week and injury marks on her private parts gave rise to suspicion that she was raped. The post mortem report did not confirm rape but the probe unearthed spine-chilling details.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/four-held-in-bihar-for-human-sacrifice-days-after-mutilated-body-of-girl-recovered/article35828700.ece
10 August 2021||Pune,||Renaming of khel ratna award is petty politics: Sena||The Shiv Sena and the BJP traded barbs on Monday over the renaming of the Rajiv Gandhi Khel Ratna Award — the country’s highest sporting honour — as the Major Dhyan Chand Khel Ratna Award after the former accused the BJP-led Centre of petty politicking with this move. “Major Dhyan Chand could have been honoured without insulting the sacrifice made by late [Congress Prime Minister] Rajiv Gandhi,” said an edit which appeared in the Sena mouthpiece Saamana .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/renaming-of-khel-ratna-award-is-petty-politics-sena/article35828150.ece
10 August 2021||Patna,||Bihar RJD chief’s statement on jeans-wearing party workers invites jibes||RJD workers have criticised a statement by RJD Bihar president Jagdanand Singh that “those who wear jeans, can’t be leaders of our party”. Peeved over the statement, Tej Pratap Yadav, RJD MLA from Hasanpur constituency and elder son of party chief Lalu Prasad, called Mr. Singh “Hitler who wants to run the party on his whims and discipline”. Akash Kumar, State president of the RJD student’s wing, said, “I don’t think his statement is justified... politics has nothing to do with wearing jeans or uniform.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bihar-rjd-chiefs-statement-on-jeans-wearing-party-workers-invites-jibes/article35828156.ece
10 August 2021||New Delhi,||Police register case on video with hate slogans||Delhi Police on Monday registered a case in connection with a video in which people can be heard chanting anti-Muslim slogans allegedly during a ‘Bharat Jodo’ event at Jantar Mantar. The video, showing people raising slogans against the Muslim community and threatening them, had gone viral on social media. Deputy Commissioner of Police (New Delhi) Deepak Yadav said, “We received a video and we are examining it. A case has been registered under relevant sections and an investigation is in progress.” Shipra Srivastava, media in-charge of ‘Bharat Jodo Aandolan’, said a protest was held on Sunday at Jantar Mantar under the leadership of advocate and former BJP spokesperson Ashwini Upadhyay. Unknown people “The protest was held against colonial laws and demanding to abolish 222 British-era laws. We have seen the video, but have no idea who the people are. The police should take strict action against the persons who raised the slogans,” Ms. Srivastava said. Hundreds of people had attended the protest in New Delhi on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/police-register-case-linked-to-video-with-hate-sloganeering/article35828170.ece
10 August 2021||New Delhi,||Indian Army to participate in International Army Games 2021 in Russia||A 101-member contingent of the Army will participate in the International Army Games 2021 in Russia from August 22 to September 4. “The Army contingent has been selected out of the best from various arms after three levels of screening. Participation in these annual games is a reflection of the level of professionalism of the Indian Army amongst the world Armies,” the Army said in a statement on Monday. In the 7th edition of the games this year, more than 280 teams from 42 countries would participate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/indian-army-to-participate-in-international-army-games-2021-in-russia/article35828180.ece
10 August 2021||New Delhi,||Foreign nationals can now get jabs in India||Foreign nationals residing in India have been allowed to register on the Co-Win portal to take COVID-19 vaccines. The Health Ministry on Monday said foreign nationals can use their passport as an identity document to register. “A significant number of foreign nationals are living in India, especially in large metropolitan areas. In these areas, the potential of spread of COVID-19 is high due to higher population density. To counter any possibility of such occurrence, it is important to vaccinate all eligible persons,” the Ministry said in a release. It added that the initiative will ensure the safety of foreign nationals residing in India and also bring down the possibility of further transmission from unvaccinated persons. “It will also ensure overall safety from further transmission of COVID-19 virus,” said the Ministry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/foreign-nationals-can-now-get-jabs-in-india/article35828177.ece
10 August 2021||Bhubaneswar,||Technical universities open in Odisha||A fortnight after the Odisha government opened schools for Classes X and XII, technical universities and institutions running professional courses resumed physical classes for students from Monday. The decision was taken following significant improvement in the COVID-19 situation in the State. Professional institutes opened classrooms following standard operating procedures issued earlier by the Skill Development and Technical Education department. The resumption of classes was aimed at ensuring practical teaching to students in laboratories. All COVID-19 safety norms have to be followed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/technical-universities-open-in-odisha/article35828176.ece
10 August 2021||New Delhi,||8,486 Myanmar refugees crossed into India since coup, 5796 pushed back: govt||Since the military coup in Myanmar on February 1, 2021, 8,486 people crossed over into India from across the border and out of this, 5,796 were sent back, the government informed Parliament on Monday. With regard to the Pakistan border, the Defence Ministry said that there were 33 infiltration attempts this year till June 30. There were no cases of infiltration reported along the border with China this year, Minister of State for Defence Ajay Bhatt said in a written reply in the Rajya Sabha.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/8486-myanmar-refugees-crossed-into-india-since-coup-5796-pushed-back-govt/article35828178.ece
10 August 2021||Kolkata,||Mamata conducts aerial survey of flood-hit areas||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday conducted an aerial survey of flood-hit areas of Udaynarayanpur in Howrah district on her way to Jhargram, an official said at the State secretariat. Ms. Banerjee, the official said, is "very much unhappy" over Damodar Valley Corporation releasing "excessive water" leading to the flood situation. She is likely to conduct an aerial survey of the flood-hit areas of Ghatal in Paschim Medinipur district on Tuesday, they said. At least 23 persons have lost their lives and several lakh people have been displaced in seven districts of Bengal in the flood.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mamata-conducts-aerial-survey-of-flood-hit-areas/article35828627.ece
10 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘We have political will to fix finances’||Finance Minister Palanivel Thiaga Rajan on Monday released a White Paper that showed Tamil Nadu’s finances were “in dire circumstances”, and hence a “business as usual” approach could not continue. There was a need for structural reforms, starting with the government’s functioning and expanding to areas of policy and legislation, he said. Among such reforms was an idea to tax the rich more and use those taxes for the welfare of the poor and and the middle class, and for public works. He, however, ruled out any immediate measure to implement such an idea and said this should happen through consultations with the Chief Minister and the Cabinet. ‘Improper governance’ Mr. Thiaga Rajan blamed the current situation on a lack of political and administrative will and the AIADMK’s “improper governance” in the last seven years. However, he exuded confidence that the DMK government would fix the issues, a daunting task, in its current term. He also made it clear that the White Paper was not an attempt to create a rationale for diluting or abandoning the commitments made to people by the DMK during the recent Assembly election. In a presentation that lasted over two-and-a-half hours, the Finance Minister said the State had revenue surplus during the DMK government in 2006-07 and 2008-09 and registered revenue deficits in 2009-10 and 2010-11 owing to the global financial crisis and the implementation of the recommendations of the Sixth Pay Commission. In 2011-12 and 2012-13, during the tenure of late Chief Minister Jayalalithaa, the State again registered revenue surplus. “Since 2013-14, Tamil Nadu has had revenue deficits every year, even as comparator States like Maharashtra, Gujarat and Karnataka recorded revenue surpluses, even as late as 2017-18 and 2018-19. This worsening situation has become truly alarming,” he said. Mr. Thiaga Rajan said the fiscal deficit was primarily due to high revenue deficits, with the State borrowing more and more to pay for salaries and interest on its past loans than on productive capital expenditure. “The current levels of fiscal deficit are unsustainable because the share of revenue deficit in fiscal deficit exceeds 50% or more since 2017-18,” he said. The State’s estimated total debt outstanding would be Rs. 5,70,189 crore as on March 31, 2022. “As per statistics, there are 2,16,24,238 families in Tamil Nadu. Based on that, the public debt burden on each family is Rs. 2,63,976. This debt excludes the loans taken by undertakings like electricity board, transport undertakings and metro water,” he said. PSUs bog down finances The White Paper showed that the accumulated debt of the power sector and the transport sector alone was Rs. 1.99 lakh crore, while the accumulated losses of the two water sector boards — the Tamil Nadu Water Supply and Drainage Board and Chennai Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board — were Rs. 5,282.57 crore as on March 31, 2021. The overall guarantees provided by the government of Tamil Nadu in 2006-07, which was Rs. 3,960.09 crore, had ballooned to Rs. 53,697 crore in 2014-15, mainly owing to large increases in guarantees to the power sector, which started declining after Ujjwal DISCOM Assurance Yojana (UDAY) was implemented. However, the guarantees have risen again owing to the adverse financial situation in 2020-21 in the power and transport sectors and stand at Rs. 91,818.44 crore. Of this, Rs. 82,916.90 crore was due to the power sector. The guarantee for the transport sector, which was Rs. 4.25 crore in 2018-19, stands at Rs. 4,642.72 crore at the end of 2020-21. These guarantees represent a large contingent liability for the government, he said. The State’s Own Tax Revenues (SOTR), which accounted for close to 70% of Total Revenue Receipts (TRR) until 2013-14, have declined and is 62.82% in 2020-21. “SOTR, as a proportion of the Gross State Domestic Product (GSDP), has been declining each year, and was just 5.46% in 2020-21. This is a source of grave concern,” the Minister said. Higher taxes Mr. Thiaga Rajan also made out a case for taxing the rich more as was the practice in several developed countries. “The concept of a zero tax budget is meaningless. How can a government run without taxes? A fair share of taxes should be taken from the well-to-do class in the economy [the rich] and spend them for the development of the poor and the middle class, and for public works,” he added. He questioned how a house on the posh Boat Club Road (in Chennai) and some other colony attract the same property tax rates. “How is it fair? Water taxes are the same for a connection in a bungalow and for a hut.” The White Paper has been published in the public domain to invite comments, he said. The process of consulting experts and stakeholders was ongoing for taking corrective measures. He also alleged that some vested interests would oppose reforms, but there should be a course correction and the DMK government had the political will and administrative skill to carry it out.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/we-have-political-will-to-fix-finances/article35828330.ece
10 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||1,929 more test positive for COVID-19||The number of active cases went up in the State with 1,929 fresh COVID-19 infections being detected in a day. The number of active cases on Monday was 20,427. Till date, 25,77,237 persons have tested positive for the infection, according to the daily bulletin of the Directorate of Public Health. Coimbatore, Erode, Chennai and Chengalpattu accounted for the most number of cases. While Coimbatore saw 235 additional infections, 178 more people tested positive in Erode. In Chennai, 182 new infections were detected. Chengalpattu saw 107 fresh infections. Though fresh infections in the other districts were restricted to double digits, Thanjavur (95), Tiruvallur (88), Cuddalore (87) and Salem (85) recorded higher number of cases. Theni (8), Thenkasi (5), Ramanathapuram (4) and Perambalur (8) recorded the lowest number of fresh infections. In Chennai, 5,39,856 persons have tested positive till date. While 5,29,522 persons had been discharged, 1,994 are currently under treatment either in healthcare facilities or at home. The district has recorded 8,340 deaths so far. As many as 1,886 persons were discharged in a day. Thus far, 25,22,470 persons had been treated and discharged, the bulletin stated. Of the 23 deaths recorded in the last several hours, two persons who had been admitted to private hospitals succumbed to the infection, and 21 others died in government medical facilities. While four persons had no co-morbidities, 19 had pre-existing health conditions. The bulletin included eight deaths that occurred in May. The reconciled reports were of persons who had been admitted to hospitals in Salem and Tiruppur districts. Among them was a 61-year-old man from Salem, who tested positive for COVID-19 on May 16, and was admitted to the government hospital in Attur with complaints of fever, cough and breathing difficulty for three days. He died on May 18 and the hospital recorded the death as having occurred due to COVID-19 pneumonia.  As many as 1,54,702 samples were tested in a day. So far, 3,88,51,889 samples have been tested. A total of 2,14,891 persons were vaccinated in 2,173 sessions on Monday. Till date, 2,34,45,122 persons have been vaccinated in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/1929-test-positive-for-covid-19/article35828347.ece
10 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||White Paper wants property tax collection enhanced||The White Paper, presented by Finance Minister Palanivel Thiaga Rajan on Monday, described as “critical” the task of enhancing property tax collection by urban local bodies. Pointing out that the introduction of the Goods and Services Tax implied that “the State’s ability to take up additional resource mobilisation measures in a major area of State taxation is considerably constrained”, the document said the enhanced property tax collection would “increase the self-reliance” of the urban local bodies and reduce the burden of the State augmenting local bodies’ resources through scheme grants and devolution. Also, this would “bring in more public resources for infrastructure creation and effective service delivery”. The 15th Union Finance Commission had recommended that the urban local bodies, to be eligible for its grants, fulfil the entry-level additional mandatory conditions. The stipulations included “fixation and operationalisation of minimum floor rate” for property tax in 2021-22 by the State concerned, “consistent improvement” in the collection of the tax in tandem with the growth rate of the Gross State Domestic Product (GSDP) and “timely placing” of audited accounts in the public domain. The condition of notifying the floor rates in 2021-22 would apply to the State for receiving the Commission’s grants from 2022-23. Dwelling on the issue of periodic revision of the tax in view of the recommendations of the State and Union Finance Commissions, the document talked about the target of 0.6% of the GSDP fixed by the Fifth State Finance Commission for 2021-22 and said this was reduced by the State government to 0.25%. “Achieving even this reduced target is doubtful. This leaves a large potential of tax collection untapped even after more than 25 years of local self-governance.” Tax revision It also referred to the laws on the urban local bodies empowering the municipal corporations to fix the rate of taxation for levy of property tax within the range of minimum (15.5%) and maximum (35%) percentages, and municipalities and town panchayats to revise the tax once in five years. But the last general property tax revision was done in 2008. Recalling that the government, on the orders of the Madras High Court, decided to have the general revision of the tax with effect from April 1, 2018, the White Paper said this was, however, kept in abeyance owing to the “anomalies in the revised taxation structure”. A committee had been formed to examine the matter. “As on date, the committee’s report is awaited, and the revision has not been given effect to,” the document added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/white-paper-wants-property-tax-collection-enhanced/article35828332.ece
10 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Drop Marine Fisheries Bill, T.N. fishermen urge Centre||Hundreds of fishermen on Monday joined the nation-wide protest urging the Centre to not pass the draft Marine Fisheries Bill, 2021, as it was against the interests of traditional fishermen. Members of over 40 fishermen organisations from Chennai, Tiruvallur, Chengalpattu, Villupuram, Cuddalore and Ramanathapuram districts and Puducherry, protested here under the banner of Tamil Nadu Puducherry Meenavar Peravai. While thanking Chief Minister M. K. Stalin for urging the Centre not to pass the Bill in its current form, the fishermen said the Tamil Nadu Assembly should pass a resolution against the Bill. The Peravai requested the State government to amend the Tamil Nadu Marine Fishing Regulation Act that had sections similar to that of this draft Bill, which equates fisherwomen, who were major contributors to the industry, with those selling fish commercially.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/drop-marine-fisheries-bill-tn-fishermen-urge-centre/article35828337.ece
10 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||277 train passengers from Kerala tested, all negative||All the passengers from Kerala who had given samples at Puratchi Thalaivar Dr. MGR Chennai Central railway station in the past four days have tested negative for COVID-19. The Greater Chennai Corporation collected samples from 277 passengers who did not have COVID-19 vaccination certificate. On Monday, Health and Family Welfare Minister Ma. Subramanian inspected the testing facility at Central Railway Station in the presence of Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Minister Sekarbabu, Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan and Corporation Commissioner Gagandeep Singh Bedi. A total of 191 samples from passengers were collected. The results will be released on Tuesday. The testing of passengers from Kerala started on August 5. On the first day, all the 41 passengers tested negative. On August 6, a total of 77 passengers were tested and all samples tested negative. On August 7, all the 79 passengers tested negative. On August 8, all the 80 passengers tested negative. The facility for testing passengers from Kerala has been set up because of the rise in number of COVID-19 cases in that State. 33.43 lakh doses given Chennai Corporation has administered 33.43 lakh vaccine doses to residents. Corporation officials said the number of COVID-19 cases had reduced significantly in many zones. Some zones in Chennai reported zero cases on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/277-train-passengers-from-kerala-tested-all-negative/article35828345.ece
10 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||ED books money laundering case against Senthilbalaji||The Enforcement Directorate has registered a case under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act against V. Senthilbalaji, Minister for Electricity, Prohibition and Excise. He has been summoned to appear before the agency in Madurai on August 11, official sources told The Hindu on Monday. The offence of money laundering is derived from three other criminal cases registered against the Minister by the Central Crime Branch of Chennai Police on charges of cheating and other misdeeds during his tenure as the State Transport Minister in the AIADMK regime. The case under PMLA Act was registered last week and summons sent to the Minister’s known address. Of the three cases booked against Mr. Senthilbalaji, one was quashed by the Madras High Court. Though money laundering cases are based on First Information Reports of other law-enforcing agencies, the outcome of such cases need not have a bearing on the investigation into the offence under PMLA Act, the sources said. The CCB of the Chennai Police chargesheeted the Minister and several others, including the then Transport Department officials, in three different cases. The latest chargesheet filed in March 2021 accused him of serious corrupt practices in the recruitment of staff. It was alleged that Mr. Senthilbalaji, while holding office as Minister for Transport, entered into a criminal conspiracy with the Managing Directors and other officers of all the State Transport Undertakings (STUs) “with an ulterior motive to obtain illegal gratification from the candidates in the matter of appointing them as driver, conductor, junior tradesman, junior assistant, junior engineer and assistant engineer in the Transport Corporations.” Key officials who were part of the criminal conspiracy were accused of not following the communal reservation and fraudulently altering and forging the original interview marks of the candidates in the records with the intention of cheating the meritorious candidates. The registers containing the name, application number, interview number, caste, educational marks, interview marks and other details maintained in the personnel section were tampered with and forged to give appointment orders to ineligible candidates, the chargesheet said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/money-laundering-case-filed-against-senthilbalaji/article35828361.ece
10 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Rise in power subsidy alarming, says report||The growth in the power subsidy being provided by the State is “particularly alarming”, according to the White Paper on Tamil Nadu’s finances. Observing that the subsidy now represented more than 1% of the Gross State Domestic Product (GSDP), the document explained the reasons for the increase in power subsidy. According to the figures of revised estimates for 2020-21, the average rate of realisation by the Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation (Tangedco) was Rs. 6.7 per unit against the average cost of supply of Rs. 9.06 per unit, leaving a shortfall of Rs. 2.36. As for the agriculture sector and domestic consumers, Tangedco was not getting the full subsidy payout for the energy sold to them. It had got a subsidy payout of Rs. 3.32 per unit for the farm sector and Rs. 1.09 per unit for the domestic category. While the recovery from the former was nil, it was Rs. 2.23 per unit from the latter. With 32,639 million units of electricity supplied to the domestic sector, the total loss on account of domestic supply was Rs. 18,735 crore during 2020-21. Over the years, there had been a “steady decline” in Tangedco’s share in supply to industries. It was mainly due to the availability of alternatives, such as captive power plants and open access to third party consumers through power exchanges, which were cheaper than the industrial tariff of the utility that had, in turn, made Tamil Nadu “uncompetitive as an industrial destination”. At the same time, on the revenue side, there had been no “revision of tariff” for the past seven years, the document said, adding that “as the focus was on short-term survival and cash management, huge liabilities had been created for the long term. A complete restructuring cannot be postponed much further.” As for the overall subsidies that included food and transport apart from power, the document said the subsidies which amounted to Rs. 4,841.80 crore in 2006-07 (12.65% of total revenue expenditure and 1.48% of the GSDP) had reached Rs. 62,338.84 crore in 2020-21 (27.06% of TRE and 3.21% of the GSDP). Even if 2020-21 was an outlier year because of the COVID-19 pandemic, the subsidies had reached 19.5% of total revenue expenditure and 2.36% of the GSDP in 2018-19 itself. As for food subsidy, a significant portion of the subsidy on rice was “actually met” through the framework of the National Food Security Act, 2013. In the State, rice was being given free to all rice card-holders under the public distribution system. It was the State that was meeting the “entire subsidy” on edible oil and tur dal, which were being supplied at subsidised prices. Advocating “urgent course correction measures for improved targeting and reorientation of subsidies to areas which enhance the public good and have positive externalities,” the White Paper said the cost effectiveness of alternative means of delivering financial assistance to stakeholders could also be explored.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/the-growth-in-power-subsidy-particularly-alarming/article35828334.ece
10 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Tamil Nadu to admit 600 students in four new medical colleges this year||The State government has received approval to admit students in four new medical colleges this year, State Health Minister Ma. Subramanian said on Monday. Government medical colleges in Namakkal, Krishnagiri, Dindigul and Tiruppur had been permitted to admit 150 students each this academic year. The Minister said the government had urged the Union government to permit the State to admit students in the other seven medical colleges as well. The addition of 600 seats would increase the sanctioned intake to 4,000 seats. With this the State would have 29 medical colleges. Mr. Subramanian said during his visit to Delhi last month along with a delegation, led by Chief Minister M.K. Stalin, he had urged the Union Health Minister to conduct inspection of all the 11 new medical colleges immediately. Inspection was taken up for Namakkal, Krishnagiri, Tiruppur and Dindigul medical colleges. “We have urged the Union Ministry officials to take up inspection of the rest of the seven institutions as well,” the State Health Minister said. “Construction work is apace in the 11 medical colleges and as of now we have got permission to admit 600 students in the four colleges,” he added. The State had, last year, sought permission from the National Medical Commission to admit students in MBBS in the upcoming government medical colleges in Ramanathapuram, Virudhunagar, Dindigul, the Nilgiris, Ariyalur, Nagapattinam, Kallakurichi, Tiruvallur, Tiruppur and Namakkal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/state-to-admit-600-students-in-four-new-medical-colleges-this-year/article35828443.ece
10 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HC dismisses PIL to prevent CM from chairing HR&CE Advisory Committee||The Madras High Court on Monday dismissed a public interest litigation petition that sought to restrain Chief Minister M.K. Stalin from chairing an Advisory Committee of the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments (HR&CE) department until he takes a pledge that he professes Hinduism. Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice P.D. Audikesavalu rejected the PIL petition, filed by Chennai-based advocate S. Sridharan, right at the admission stage itself. The first Division Bench termed the case as “utterly mischievous” and “in extremely bad taste”. It restrained the lawyer from filing any PIL for the next two years without court nod. “Discord, disharmony and suspicion in the name of religion have to stop. This is a secular country and secularism implies tolerance for other religions. This country also provides for freedom of expression to its citizens, which, in turn, implies lending an ear to the other point of view,” the Division Bench wrote in its dismissal order. The court observed that there was no public interest involved in the plea insisting upon the Chief Minister to take the oath before he chairs the Advisory Committee in his ex-officio capacity. Even the Constitution permits the oath of office to be taken either in the name of god or in the name of the Constitution, it pointed out. Penning the order, the Chief Justice wrote: “It does not appear that any religion teaches narrow-mindedness or requires followers of another faith to be hurt or injured. The sentiment expressed in the petition cannot be appreciated.” While not imposing costs on the litigant, the judges imposed restrictions on filing PILs for two years. In his affidavit, the litigant said the HR&CE Act of 1959 requires people serving in Hindu temples to be professing Hindu faith and it was mandatory for them to take a pledge. He said the Supreme Court recognised such requirement while appointing Thiruvananthapuram district judge as the ex-officio chairperson of an administrative panel in July 2020.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-dismisses-pil-to-prevent-cm-from-chairing-hrce-advisory-committee/article35828351.ece
10 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Sacked conservancy workers call on GCC Commissioner||Representatives of conservancy workers from Anna Nagar zone, who were terminated earlier this year, met Greater Chennai Corporation Commissioner Gagandeep Singh Bedi on Monday, following their sit-in protests last week. Around 500 conservancy workers from Anna Nagar zone, engaged under the National Urban Livelihood Mission (NULM), were terminated in January without notice. Since then, they have organised multiple protests demanding their reinstatement. Last week, a group of affected men and women held a sit-in protest inside the zonal office in Shenoy Nagar for three days, before they were evicted on Saturday after assurance by officials that they could meet the Commissioner on Monday. R. Sharmila, one of the terminated workers, said that although work in Anna Nagar zone was not outsourced to a private contractor, the NULM workers there were terminated in order to accommodate permanent workers who had been rendered redundant in other zones. “A majority of the terminated employees were women. We came to conservancy work because our husbands were not earning any income. We were fully dependent on this income and are now struggling to feed our children,” she said. Another worker said they were suddenly terminated without any notice or financial compensation. Long service “Most of us have worked for more than 10 years. However, there was no provident fund or any such benefits,” he said. Ms. Sharmila said when the workers protested earlier this year, the DMK, which was then the Opposition, assured them of reinstatement once the party came to power. “They have not taken any action to support us although we supported them and worked hard during the first wave of the COVID-19 pandemic,” she said. The other worker said that officials were suggesting that they find employment with private companies that had taken up conservancy work in other zones. “Those companies will not employ all of us as they have certain age limits and other conditions. The pay is poorer. Moreover, we toiled for more than 10 years with the hope that we will be made permanent,” he said. Ms. Sharmila said Mr. Bedi assured them on that he would look into their issue and get back within a few days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sacked-conservancy-workers-call-on-gcc-commissioner/article35828359.ece
10 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Chennai airport gets rapid RT-PCR testing facility||Chennai airport has set up the rapid RT-PCR testing lab which will provide results in 30 minutes to passengers. The cost is fixed at Rs. 4,000 now and sources say it may be brought down in the coming weeks, sources said. Officials of the Airports Authority of India (AAI) said the facility had been introduced for those travelling to West Asia as those countries had made it mandatory for passengers to carry RT-PCR negative certificate before boarding the flight. Numbers to go up “Earlier, we had only passengers arriving from Dubai, Kuwait or Abu Dhabhi but now we have a few departure flights too that resumed four days ago. We have four or five flights every day to Dubai. So far, we have been testing 200 to 250 passengers a day and we hope that when the international passenger traffic goes up, this number will also rise,” an official said. Fee Some passengers feel that the fee for rapid RT-PCR test is high and should be brought down. Passengers, both domestic and international, have been using the RT-PCR testing lab set up at the airport where results are available in 4 to 7 hours for a fee of Rs. 900 and for TrueNat test, it is Rs. 2,500 and the results come within 2-4 hours, the officials said. Recently, the State government has made it mandatory for passengers arriving from Kerala to produce vaccination certificate or RT-PCR negative certificate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/chennai-airport-introduces-rapid-rt-pcr-testing-facility/article35828342.ece
10 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||White Paper signals hike in bus fare, power tariff: Jayakumar||The White Paper on Tamil Nadu’s finances, which the DMK government released on Monday, is a “signal” to people to be prepared for an increase in power and public transport tariff, AIADMK organisation secretary and former Finance and Fisheries Minister D. Jayakumar has said. Questioning the need for the DMK government to release the document days ahead of the presentation of the Budget, Mr. Jayakumar told The Hindu that the proper forum would be the Assembly. “Why should this be done now? What was the compulsion? Is it not clear that they [the government] are going to increase bus fare and power tariff?” he said. Mr. Jayakumar said another message from the White Paper was a possible curtailment of the schemes based on social justice. On the increase in borrowings under the AIADMK government, he wondered which State had managed its finances without taking loans. Further, the loans drawn by the previous government were meant for productive expenditure that would spur growth, bringing in more revenue. As for expenditure, Mr. Jayakumar said it was not possible for the AIADMK government to reduce salaries and wages or food subsidy when COVID-19 broke out. In the last five years, as the State government absorbed the debt of Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation (Tangedco) — following the implementation of Ujwal DISCOM Assurance Yojana (UDAY), aimed at financial restructuring of the distribution companies — the State’s revenue deficit had increased.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/white-paper-signals-hike-in-bus-fare-power-tariff-jayakumar/article35828326.ece
10 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘White Paper shouldn’t be used to raise taxes’||PMK youth wing leader Anbumani Ramadoss on Monday said the worsening economic crisis in Tamil Nadu should be corrected through reforms, not by increasing the burden on the people. Reacting to the White Paper released by Finance Minister P.T.R. Palanivel Thiaga Rajan, he said, “The financial situation of Tamil Nadu has been well-known for many years. Even when the DMK was preparing the manifesto, these facts were in the public domain. The DMK knew about it and yet made promises in the manifesto. So, the DMK should strive to implement the promises it has made to the people as much as possible.” He said the Minister’s speech raised serious concern over whether it could be a prelude to announcements that would severely affect the poor and the middle class. “One shudders to think if electricity tariff, bus fares and property tax would be raised,” he said. TNCC leader K.S. Alagiri said the report laid bare the mismanagement by the erstwhile AIADMK government in the last 10 years. “In 2011, former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa pledged that if the AIADMK was voted into power, she will make Tamil Nadu the No. 1 State. Instead, her rule and the subsequent AIADMK regimes increased the debt to historic highs and almost pushed the State to the brink of bankruptcy,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/white-paper-shouldnt-be-used-to-raise-taxes/article35828327.ece
10 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Poor transport units make services unviable||The White Paper has highlighted the mismanagement of the finances of the State Transport Undertakings (STUs) that have been weighed down by an outstanding debt of nearly Rs. 40,000 crore. The eight STUs have been leaking money, with their total outstanding debt of Rs. 39,883 crore being the second highest after that of the Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation (Tangedco). The State’s total debt stood at Rs. 1,99,572 crore as on March 31. The operation of the STUs — of which accumulated losses stood at Rs. 42,143 crore (2020-21) as against Rs. 8,761 crore in 2011-12 — has become unsustainable with Rs. 59.15 being lost per kilometre for every bus operated, the White Paper says. As against the cost of Rs. 96.75 per kilometre, the STUs are earning just Rs. 37.60, even after the government compensates a portion of the loss with grants, diesel subsidies and free student passes. Having borrowed heavily from the Tamil Nadu Transport Development Finance Corporation and banks, the STUs have been incurring huge losses on account of the high cost of salary and pension, diesel and servicing of interest on loans, the White Paper says. The employee cost remains the highest, at Rs. 8,235 crore, against the total cost of Rs. 13,353 crore for 2020-21. It was Rs. 3,757 crore in 2011-12. Compared with the 2011-12 figures, the only cost which has come down is that of diesel (Rs. 1,966 crore).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/poor-transport-units-make-services-unviable/article35828328.ece
10 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Ailing baby flown from Kolkata, treated in city||A three-month-old critically ill baby, weighing just 1.5 kg, was airlifted from a private hospital to Dr. Rela Institute and Medical Centre (RIMC) here for treatment recently. A release by the hospital said the baby was born preterm at 32 weeks in Ranchi, Jharkhand. While her mother tested positive for COVID-19 during pregnancy and died after giving birth to twins, this baby tested positive for COVID-19 a few days after birth. The baby subsequently developed post-COVID complications in lungs and intestine, following which most parts of her small intestine had to be surgically removed. As she was not tolerating milk after surgery, she was shifted to a hospital in Kolkata. Naresh Shanmugam, paediatric gastro and liver specialist at RIMC, said some babies lose their small intestine due to necrotising enterocolitis (severe infection of intestine) or volvulus (twisting of intestine). “We are managing her conservatively at our paediatric intestinal rehabilitation unit. She is stable, weaned off the ventilator and the remainder of her small intestine is absorbing nutrition,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ailing-baby-flown-from-kolkata-treated-in-city/article35828338.ece
10 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Admissions open for IIT-M online data science course||The Indian Institute of Technology Madras has opened applications for its online data science programmes. The programme is open to anyone who has studied English and Mathematics in Class 10 and has cleared Class 12. The programme will commence in September. In the first batch, the applicants were from across 27 States and Union Territories and included students, bankers, engineers, researches, managers, teachers and CEOs. Students may pursue the diploma along with their on-campus courses. The last date to apply is August 30. Applications may be accessed athttps://onlinedegree. iitm.ac.in. Andrew Thangaraj, professor in-charge of Data Science Programme at the Institute, said the first batch would be completing the foundation level this month. Scholarship of up to 75% of the course fee is offered to students from disadvantaged backgrounds. In the first batch, 7,116 persons had joined the programme at diploma level. At this level, candidates may opt to do a diploma in programming or a diploma in data science or both.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/admissions-open-for-iit-m-online-data-science-course/article35828343.ece
10 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||T.N. to admit 600 students in 4 new medical colleges||The State government has got the approval to admit students in four new medical colleges this academic year, Health Minister Ma. Subramanian said on Monday. The government medical colleges in Namakkal, Krishnagiri, Dindigul and Tiruppur have been permitted to admit 150 students each. The addition of 600 seats would increase the sanctioned intake to 4,000 students. The Minister said a delegation led by Chief Minister M.K. Stalin to New Delhi last month had urged the Union Health Minister to conduct inspection of all the 11 new medical colleges immediately. The inspection was taken up for Namakkal, Krishnagiri, Tiruppur and Dindigul medical colleges.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tn-to-admit-600-students-in-4-new-medical-colleges/article35828381.ece
10 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Commodore Gopal Rao passes away||Commodore Gopal Rao, who fought in the 1971 Pakistan war, and was a recipient of the Maha Vir Chakra and Vishisht Seva Medal, died on Monday at the age 95. Born in Madurai, he hails from a family of lawyers who served at the Madras High Court. He studied at the Presidency College and was commissioned into the Indian Navy in April 1950. A specialist in gunnery, he was the commanding officer of INS Kiltan in the Eastern Naval Command. In 1971, when it appeared that the war with Pakistan was imminent, Admiral S.M. Nanda, the then chief of Naval Staff, personally appointed Cmde. Rao to join the Western Naval Command. He commanded the ‘Operation Trident’ against Pakistan, his relatives said. When the Indian government gave the signal to attack Karachi harbour, Cmde. Rao led the attack that destroyed two of that country’s big ships. His daughter Tara said, “My father was way ahead of his times. He took pride in doing housework. He raised us without assigning stereotypical gender roles. He was passionate about animals and looked after eight dogs, six cats and all the strays in the neighbourhood. He was a spiritual human being and kindhearted. He had a terrific sense of humour and quick wit.” He is survived by his wife Radha, two daughters and a son.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/commodore-gopal-rao-passes-away/article35828353.ece
10 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Tangedco revamp can’t be deferred’||The Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation (Tangedco) has created huge liabilities for the long term and a complete restructuring cannot be postponed, the White Paper released by Finance Minister Palanivel Thiaga Rajan said. The outstanding debt of Tangedco as on March 31, 2021 is Rs. 1,24,974.49 crore. Including loans from the State government, the debt stands at Rs. 1,34,119.94 crore, according to the report. The losses of Tangedco are caused by both high costs and low recoveries. There has been a sustained increase in costs over the last 10 years, it added. “In the case of domestic consumers, on an average Tangedco recovers Rs. 2.23 per unit. Domestic tariff subsidy is on an average Rs. 1.09 per unit as against the total cost of supply of Rs. 9.06 per unit leaving a large under recovery gap of Rs. 5.74 per unit. With 32,639 million units of electricity supplied to the domestic sector, the total loss on account of domestic supply is Rs. 18,735 crore in the year 2020-21, the report added. On the revenue side, there has been no revision of tariff for the past 7 years. Against the average cost of Rs. 9.06 per unit, the recovery from 18% of the electricity supplied to the agriculture sector is nil, while the subsidy payout is Rs. 3.32 per unit. Hence, Tangedco does not get fully subsidised for the full cost of supply to agriculture which is Rs. 8,225 crore and the cross subsidisation is beyond the permissible 20%. Over the years, there has been a steady decline in Tangedco’s share in supply to industries, mainly due to captive power plants, it added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tangedco-revamp-cant-be-deferred/article35828335.ece
10 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Case booked over fake ID of Minister on social media||Abhiramapuram Police have registered a case against “unknown” persons for creating a fake ID in the name of Finance Minister Palanivel Thiaga Rajan and uploading posts causing religious hatred against a minority community on social media. The police have filed a case under seven sections of the Indian Penal Code and the Information Technology Act based on a complaint filed by a representative of the Minister. A police officer said some miscreants had created a fake ID in the name of Mr. Rajan and uploaded posts targeting a minority community.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/case-booked-over-fake-id-of-minister-on-social-media/article35828804.ece
10 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Mangadu temple land to be cleaned’||Steps will be taken to prevent the flow of sewage into eight acres of land belonging to the Kamakshiamman temple in Mangadu on Kundrathur Main Road, Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments (HR and CE) Minister P.K. Sekarbabu said here on Monday. Addressing presspersons after inspecting the plot of land along with Rural Industries Minister T.M. Anbarasan, he said the local body was letting out untreated sewage on to the land creating a pool of wastewater. Steps would be taken to construct a sewage treatment plant and lines to dispose the treated sewage safely. Although plans were drawn up for the project a few years ago and the Madras High Court had directed that steps be taken to prevent the flow of sewage onto temple lands, the proposal could not be implemented for want of funds.  Fresh estimates A consultant would be appointed to draw up fresh estimates. Tenders would be called in a couple of months for the project. After the work is completed, a bus terminus with shelter will come up on the location, the Minister added. MLA Selvaperunthagai, HR and CE Commissioner J. Kumaragurubaran and Kancheepuram Collector M. Aarthi were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mangadu-temple-land-to-be-cleaned/article35828349.ece
10 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Wakf Board chief meets Prince of Arcot||Tamil Nadu Wakf Board Chairman M. Abdul Rahman called on Prince of Arcot Nawab Mohammed Abdul Ali at his ancestral home Amir Mahal in the city on Sunday. The Prince extended greetings to Mr. Rahman on becoming the chief of the Board. According to a press release, while thanking the Chairman, the Prince urged him to develop the income of the Wakf properties in the State so that the religious places could be improved. Sri Lanka envoy’s visit Later, the Sri Lankan Deputy High Commissioner, D. Venkateshwaran, along with his wife, paid a courtesy visit to the Prince of Arcot. During their discussions, the Prince recalled the historic, cordial and long relationship between India and Sri Lanka with regard to socio-cultural activities and trade.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/wakf-board-chief-meets-prince-of-arcot/article35828358.ece
10 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||KYC drive saves Aavin Rs. 36 lakh a month||The Tamil Nadu Cooperative Milk Producers’ Federation, which sells dairy products under the Aavin brand, has managed to weed out 80,000 old monthly cards by updating know your customer (KYC) details over the past month. With this, the dairy cooperative would be saving Rs. 36 lakh a month, its Managing Director K.S. Kandasamy said here on Monday. The old cards belonged to families that had either left the city or had not renewed them for other reasons and were being misused by milk vendors who were buying milk cards at subsidised rates and selling milk at market prices, he said. Mr. Kandasamy said the deadline for submission of KYC had been extended by another three months and consumers need not share details such as income, educational qualification and Aadhaar number.  Consumers had objected to short time given to submit KYC forms and the requirement to share Aadhaar details.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kyc-drive-saves-aavin-rs-36-lakh-a-month/article35828348.ece
10 August 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Vegetable traders demand open auction||As many as 89 shops that the Coimbatore Corporation had constructed west of T.K. Market by demolishing a bicycle stand is becoming contested place, more so after the Corporation cancelled the auction to allot shops. The Corporation Commissioner had in the last week of July cancelled the auction to allot the 89 shops after the Madras High Court ordered an interim stay for four weeks on the confirmation of allotment of shops. On a writ petition moved by a section of vegetable traders the Court also observed, “The request of the petitioners to consider them by giving preference in allotting the shops shall also be considered earlier by the authority concerned and submit a report before this court.” In the order, the Court had also recorded the Corporation’s submission that the civic body had given no assurance in writing to the traders concerned that it would give preferential treatment of shops and that it had issued the auction notification only to earn more revenue to the Corporation. Sources familiar with the issue said the traders who had sought preferential treatment were those whose shops the Corporation had removed in an encroachment eviction on Then Vadal Street in June 2020 and that too after a court order. The Corporation had removed more than 85 makeshift structures from the Street that was under encroachment for over 35 years. The Market sources said the Corporation had not removed encroachments for 35 years because there was vested interest in letting the encroachments continue. A few persons were collecting rent on a daily basis from the vegetable traders in the last few years they had earned Rs. 2 crore to Rs. 3 crore. It was those persons who had suffered loss because of the eviction were now trying to scuttle the auction process, the sources said and argued that giving preferential treatment to the encroachers would send a wrong precedent. It would convey the message that encroachers after eviction could claim preferential treatment to be compensated for the illegal occupation and legal eviction, the sources further said. The vegetable traders evicted from the Then Vadal Street should participate in the open auction just as any other trader and compete with others, the sources demanded and added that if the Corporation were to accord preferential treatment, they would staunchly protest such a move. For, only an open auction would ensure that the Corporation earned more money, they added. Corporation officials could not be reached for their comments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vegetable-traders-demand-open-auction/article35828373.ece
10 August 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Hindu outfit seeks reopening of temples before Vinayaka Chathurthi||Hindu Makkal Puratchi Padai on Monday petitioned the district administration demanding reopening of temples ahead of the September 10 Vinayaka Chathurthi. As the number of COVID-19 positive case was coming down and people were affected for one-and-half years because of the pandemic and lockdown, it would be only appropriate that the administration reopened temples. Student seeks relief from neighbour K.T. Dharaneesh, a Plus One student from Kannampalayam, has sought petitioned the district administration seeking relief from a neighbour, noise from whose looms affected his online classes. In a petition to the district administration, the student said a few years ago the neighbour increased the number of looms and moved the looms closer to a wall of his house. As a result, the noise and vibration increased preventing his sister, a second year student, and him from concentrating on studies. This had forced them to use headphones for long hours causing stress and headache. After his parents failed to reason it out with the neighbour, they sought the help of a few elders in the locality. His parents then reached out to the village administrative officer as the mediation efforts failed. The officer promised to forward the petition to the Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board, from where his parents got a reply but no follow-up action. After reaching out to the district administration on a social media platform, the Board officials went to the neighbour’s house but did not take action saying the organisation would be able to act only against big industries, Mr. Dharaneesh claimed. and sought from the collector to reduce the noise coming from the neighbour’s house. Forum opposes Vanniyar reservation The MBC/DNT Communities Joint Forum for Social Justice on Monday presented a petition opposing the 10.5% reservation given to Vanniyars. In its petition to the district administration, the Forum said the then AIADMK government, for political gain had given 10.5% internal reservation to the community. This was done in haste in the absence of quantifiable data, went against the rights of 115 most backward class and denotified communities and had undone 100 years of labour of the social justice movement. The present government had also supported the internal reservation. It should reconsider its decision to implement reservation in the absence of a thorough caste study and not make changes to the 20% MBC reservation, it added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hindu-outfit-seeks-reopening-of-temples-before-vinayaka-chathurthi/article35828368.ece
10 August 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Monitoring officer reviews COVID-19 arrangements||The State government’s monitoring officer for Coimbatore for COVID-19 management and Principal Secretary M.A. Siddique on Monday reviewed the district administration’s preparedness to manage the pandemic. A release from the district administration said Mr. Siddique, accompanied Collector G.S. Sameeran and Coimbatore Corporation Commissioner Raja Gopal Sunkara visited the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital (CMCH) , Government Medical College and ESI Hospital and a few COVID Care Centres. At the CMCH, he visited the oxygen storage facility, oxygen generation plant, black fungus treatment ward, intensive care facility at the paediatric ward and the special ward established for treating fever in children. He asked the officials at the Hospital to take steps to improve infrastructure by establishing as many oxygen generation plants and storage units as required. At the Government Medical College and ESI Hospital he inquired about the oxygen generation plants installed, their capacity and the Hospital’s requirements. The release also said that after visiting the COVID Care Centre at the Codissia Trade Fair Complex, Mr. Siddique asked officials to take to care centres or hospitals those who had tested COVID-19 positive but showed no symptoms to cure them at the earliest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/monitoring-officer-reviews-covid-19-arrangements/article35828371.ece
10 August 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||BU inks pact with Harvard Business School||Bharathiar University has inked an agreement with Harvard Business School for offering the latter’s online certificate programmes. A release from Vice-Chancellor P. Kaliraj said the flexible, online programmes were for faculty, alumni and students in the University and also affiliated institutions.  The release also said the University had an online agreement signing ceremony on August 9.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bu-inks-pact-with-harvard-business-school/article35828369.ece
10 August 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Crew of movie starring Sivakarthikeyan fined||Coimbatore District Police registered a case against 31 members of the crew of an upcoming Tamil movie starring Sivakarthikeyan on the charges of violating the COVID-19 safety protocol during the shooting held in Anamalai on Sunday. The Anamalai police said that they registered the case against Cibi Chakravarthy, director of the upcoming film Don , along with 30 other crew members under sections 269 (Negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 271 (Disobedience to quarantine rule) of the Indian Penal Code along with section 3 (Penalty) of the Epidemic Diseases Act. Mr. Sivakarthikeyan was not one among the 31 crew members who were booked, the police clarified. Apart from this, the Revenue Department imposed a fine of Rs. 19,400 on the crew for allegedly violating the standard operating procedures issued by the State government to prevent the spread of COVID-19. Around 400 persons, including the crew and spectators, gathered at the shooting spot in Mukkonam by the banks of River Aliyar on Sunday in violation of the COVID-19 safety protocol, officials said. The Anamalai tahsildar visited the spot at around 5 p.m. with a team of staff and dispersed the crowd on Sunday. The crew allegedly did not receive prior permission from Anamalai town panchayat to conduct the shooting, according to the officials. The movie’s crew members were let off with a warning that strict action will be taken if they were found violating the safety protocols again, the Anamalai police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/film-crew-booked-for-violating-sop/article35828354.ece
10 August 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Better connectivity to Madukkarai rly. station sought||MDMK’s State youth wing secretary V. Eswaran petitioned the district administration to improve road connectivity to Madukkarai railway station. In his petition to Collector G.S. Sameeran, he said of the nearly 855 m between Church Colony and Marappalam bus stop, there was no connectivity for a stretch of about 195 m. As this stretch came under railway property, the road could be laid with the approval of the authorities from the Southern Railway. With over 30,000 residents living in Madukkarai town panchayat limits, most of them had to travel several kilometres to reach the station due to the lack of connectivity, Mr. Eswaran said, adding that the town panchayat officials had also appealed to the railway authorities regarding this issue. By laying a road on the 195 m stretch connecting Marappalam and Church Colony, more residents could access the railway station.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/better-connectivity-to-madukkarai-rly-station-sought/article35828379.ece
10 August 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||‘Reallocate Pollachi railway section to Madurai Division’||Pollachi MP K. Shanmugasundaram, on Saturday, wrote to Railway Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw demanding reallocation of Meenatchipuram-Pollachi-Kinathukadavu railway section to the Madurai Division from the Palakkad Division of Southern Railway. In his letter, he alleged step-motherly treatment of Palakkad Division in the lack of operation of trains in this section. Pollachi, Kinathukadavu and Minatchipuram (located near the inter-State border) junctions were previously with Madurai Division till 2006 during the metre gauge period, the MP noted. Pollachi Junction required basic facilities like digital display for train departure/arrival details, the MP said in his letter to Mr. Vaishnaw.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/reallocate-pollachi-railway-section-to-madurai-division/article35828366.ece
10 August 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Panel discussion on NEP on August 11||A panel discussion on National Education Policy – 2020 will be virtually on August 11. The discussion is organised by IGEN Edu Solutions in association with AWS, Intel, ASSOCHAM and AICTE. Prof. Anil Dattatraya Sahasrabudhe, Chairman, AICTE, will be the chief guest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/panel-discussion-on-nep-on-august-11/article35828375.ece
10 August 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Gold seized at Coimbatore airport||Sleuths of the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) and Customs on Monday seized 883g gold valued around Rs. 42.82 lakh from two passengers who arrived from Sharjah by Air Arabia flight. The seizure was made from Ramasamy Sekhar and Tharma Arul Nethaji during customs clearance. The two passengers were found carrying a paste like substance mixed with gold which was concealed inside their under garments. The paste like substance seized from the two persons weighed 1,171g. Officials extracted 883.06 grams of gold from the paste.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/883-grams-gold-seized-at-coimbatore-airport/article35828380.ece
10 August 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||power shutdown||In view of the proposed maintenance works to be carried out under the Mathampalayam sub-station, there will be no power supply from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. on August 11 (Wednesday) in the following areas: Mathampalayam, Thaneerpandal, Periyamathampalayam, Balaji Nagar, Santhimedu, Ambedkar Nagar, Chinnamathampalayam, Selvapuram, Bharathi Nagar and Vattaparai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/power-shutdown/article35828376.ece
10 August 2021||DHARMAPURI,TAMIL NADU||12 persons get job orders||Twelve persons were issued job orders for the post of village administrative officers by Collector S. Dhivyadarshini on compassionate grounds here on Monday. The beneficiaries were kin of the deceased staff of various departments. According to the administration, eligible family members of persons who died while in service in the departments of highways, health, forest, revenue, silk development, and rural development, were issued the job orders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/12-persons-get-job-orders/article35828465.ece
10 August 2021||DINDIGUL,TAMIL NADU||Couple’s plea to court||In an unusual prayer to the court, a couple reportedly sought permission to end their lives as they were being humiliated and alleged to have been deceived by their family members of not giving their due share of property here on Monday. Ramesh Babu was married to Sharmila, a differently-abled person in 1996. The couple have two children. Since the marriage, the father-in-law had promised to give immovable assets, but had not given till date. The couple moved a court in Nilakottai, but the case was dismissed long ago. They approached the government and petitioned the CM Special Cell etc, but there was no tangible action till date. Hence, the couple decided to seek permission from the court to end their lives and the woman turned up with a bottle purportedly containing acid. The police moved them out for an inquiry. The State’s health helpline 104 provides anti-suicide counselling and Chennai-based Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline is 044-24640050.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/couple-seek-permission-to-end-their-lives/article35828447.ece
10 August 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Businesses, hotels abide by new restrictions||With the district administration’s new regulations to control the spread of COVID-19 coming into force from Monday, all the shops except pharmacies and milk shops were closed at 5 p.m. Most of the retail shops, commercial establishments, grocery stores and other shops in the city and municipal areas in the district downed shutters by 5 p.m. Pharmacies and shops selling milk and essentials continued to function till 9 p.m. Hotels and restaurants functioned from 6 a.m. to 5 p.m. with 50% seating capacity and takeaway services from 5 p.m. to 9 p.m. Though only parcel services were allowed in tea shops, most shops served tea to their customers who stood outside the shops. Roadside shops selling vegetables and snacks continued functioning till night, while the vehicle movement was as usual. All the 214 Tasmac shops were closed at 5 p.m. across the district. Corporation officials said that instructions were given to traders and shopkeepers to adhere to new restrictions. “Spot fines will be imposed on shopkeepers found violating the norms,” officials said. Meanwhile, tight vigil is being maintained at the Tamil Nadu – Karnataka borders at Hasanur and Bargur Hills. Only people with COVID-19 negative certificate or vaccination certificate for two doses were allowed entry. Those without the certificates were made give samples for RT-PCR tests at the checkposts. Collector H. Krishnanunni told media persons that steps were taken to close shops on weekends in areas where people gathered in large numbers. He said restrictions were only temporary and a committee has been formed to monitor places where more cases were reported. Steps have been taken to start a COVID-19 screening centre at the railway station, he added. Salem In Salem city, the shops in Shevapet market and Paal Market, malls and textile showrooms downed shutters by 6 p.m. Heavy vehicle movement was witnessed in the market areas in the evening. With Monday being a working day, very few travellers visited Yercaud and they were asked to produce RT-PCR negative report or vaccination certificate for two doses. Delivery persons of app-based food delivery services queued up in front of popular restaurants as the dining facilities were closed after 6 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/businesses-hotels-abide-by-new-restrictions/article35828472.ece
10 August 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Trade unions protest against Central govt.’s policies||Stating that the policies of the Central government benefits only the corporates and are against the welfare of people and labourers, members of various central trade unions staged a protest at Veerappanchatiram here on Monday. The members said Mahatma Gandhi launched the Quit India Movement on August 9, 1942 to protest against the British rule in the country. “But now, we have to observe the day as ‘Save India Day’ as the policies of the Centre are affecting people in the country,” they said. The government’s policies favoured only the corporates. “They are anti-people and anti-workers,” they said. The disinvestment proposal of public sector undertakings including banks and industries, Life Insurance Corporation of India, BSNL, railways and power sector was a direct attack on the nation’s economy. Farm bills The three farm bills were against the interest of the farming community and were intended to benefit only the corporates, they said. The members said amendments to labour laws took away the basic rights of the working force in the country and wanted them dropped. They wanted steps to control the fuel and LPG price rise and increase the number of working days under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme. They wanted free vaccination and increase in allocation for healthcare. The protest was led by AITUC State secretary S. Chinnasamy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/trade-unions-protest-against-central-govts-policies/article35828474.ece
10 August 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Youth’s body exhumed||The body of a 22-year-old youth was exhumed here on Sunday. Moorthy (45) of Ennamangalam in Anthiyur Taluk, was living with his son Swaminathan and wife at Kalliyur in Appakudal. They were working at a brick kiln unit that belongs to Palanisamy. Swaminathan used to transport the bricks in pushcart to the godown. On July 31, while doing so, the pushcart hit the wooden bed in which the neighbour brick kiln unit owner Kumar was sitting. It led to an altercation between the two and other workers pacified them. On August 1, Swaminathan was found dead near his house and later his body was buried at his native village. However, Moorthy suspected foul play in his son’s death and lodged a complaint with the Appakudal police. Revenue officials were informed and it was decided to exhume the body. On Sunday, doctors from the Government Erode Medical College and Hospital at Perundurai exhumed the body in the presence of Anthiyur Tahsildar Vijayakumar, Village Administrative Officer Satheesh Kumar and Bhavani DSP Karthikeyan. Vital organs were lifted and sent for laboratory analysis. Only after receiving the report, further action could be initiated, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/youths-body-exhumed/article35828468.ece
10 August 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Compensation sought||Communist Party of India (CPI) has urged the State government to provide compensation to the families of those died in wild animal attacks. Party’s Hasanur Panchayat meeting was held here on Sunday in which its general committee member S. Mohan Kumar participated. A resolution passed in the meeting said under the State Disaster Response Fund, a compensation of Rs. 4 lakh was provided to the family of victim who died of wild animal attack. Injured person was provided compensation based on the gravity of injuries as per the Forest Department order in 2016. “But compensation is provided only if the loss of life takes place in human habitations or the farm land,” the resolution said. The resolution said tribal people and other communities who lived inside the forest area depended on forest resources for their livelihood which was also ensured to them as per the Forest Rights Act. Pointing out the recent incidents where humans were killed inside the forest area for which compensation was denied, the resolution called for providing compensation as per the law. “Providing compensation to the victim’s family has been followed for many years and the Forest Department is denying it only recently,” the resolution said. The resolutions said denying compensation as per law was unfair and wanted the State government to intervene.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/wild-animal-attacks-compensation-sought-for-victims-families/article35828467.ece
10 August 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Man attempts to end life||A 27-year-old man’s attempt to end life on the Collectorate premises on Monday was thwarted by the police. Ramachandran of Periyar Nagar said his wife Kavitha left him last week for another man. Though he lodged a complaint at the Erode Town Police station, the police refused to accept it. His efforts to meet the Superintendent of Police also failed. So, he came to the Collectorate with his two sons and attempted to end life. The police held talks with him and pacified him. Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-attempts-to-end-life/article35828469.ece
10 August 2021||GUDALUR,TAMIL NADU||Entry fee, boating fare come down at Thekkadi||In a bid to attract more tourists to Thekkadi and other locations, the officers at the Tourism Department in Kerala have lowered the entry fee and the boating fare from Monday. Prior to the covid-19 pandemic, the tourists had to cough up Rs. 70 as entry fee and Rs. 385 towards boating per person. However, from now on, the fee has been revised to Rs. 45 as entry fee and Rs. 255 for boating per person. The Kerala government shut the boating since April 27 owing to lockdown. With the trend showing a decline in the majority of the districts in Tamil Nadu, there have been relaxations in the curfew. However, the scene was different in neighbouring Kerala as the number of covid-19 cases was on the rise in some districts. The government had announced certain relaxations last week, the officials said. In a phased manner, they commenced giving permission to tourists in non-containment zones and districts, which have reported lesser numbers or a declining trend of the virus. With the Onam festival approaching and the holiday revolving around the Independence Day celebrations, the officials hoped the tourism sector may get a start towards revival. The staff at the boating point said that they have five trips daily for 90 minutes each beginning from 7.30 a.m., 9.30 a.m., 11.15 a.m., 1.45 p.m. and 3.30 p.m. In the last two days, the crowd was so thin that they operated only on smaller boats. With the entry fee and boating fare being lowered, the staff hoped to witness some rise in the tourists. However, the restrictions and surveillance/screening of tourists in Tamil Nadu and in Kerala border checkposts appear to be discouraging the public to travel in large numbers, the officials in Theni said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/entry-fee-boating-fare-come-down/article35828450.ece
10 August 2021||KODAIKANAL,TAMIL NADU||Rs. 37 lakh collected for hospital upgrade||The Palani Assembly Constituency MLA I.P. Senthil Kumar handed over a cheque for Rs. 37 lakh to the Dindigul Collector S Visagan here on Monday. The cheque, according to the MLA, was a contribution raised from the major hoteliers among others in Kodaikanal which included one month salary of Rs. 1.05 lakh as his contribution. Following representations from the residents in the upper hill to establish infrastructure in the Government Hospital and in the Urban Primary Health Care Centre, it was decided to have a 500 litre capacity oxygen generation plant, 125 kva generator, cell counter machine among others. After a preliminary inspection, an assessment report was prepared by the officials for Rs. 75 lakh and the estimate was submitted to the Collector. Towards this project, the MLA handed over Rs. 37 lakh to the Collector. The officials said that soon they would start the work and get the remaining funds from the MLA Community Development Fund. The Municipal Commissioner T. Narayanan, Kodaikanal Hotel Owners’ Welfare Association general secretary Abdul Gani Raja and others were present. While assuring to strictly adhere to the COVID-19 norms laid out by the government, a few of the hotel owners and their representatives represented to the Collector to consider opening up the tourist spots in the upper hills as Bryant Park, Green Valley View et al.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rs-37-lakh-collected-for-hospital-upgrade/article35828449.ece
10 August 2021||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Auto drivers stay off roads over fuel prices||Auto drivers’ association led by their trade union staged a strike here on Monday against the fuel price hike by the Union government. Protesting the hike in petrol and diesel prices, GST, and the hike in premium for vehicle insurance, the trade union condemned the Centre for policies that were allegedly hurting the livelihood of auto drivers and their families. The protesters said there were about 1,000 autos plying in the town and over 3,000 families dependent on them. With the pandemic adding to the woes, the consistent hike in price of diesel and petrol compelled the auto drivers to increase the fare, which hurt the common public, the association stated. Over 600 autos went off the roads to participate in the strike.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/auto-drivers-stay-off-roads-over-fuel-prices/article35828466.ece
10 August 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Meenakshi temple is open, but only to a sparse crowd||After about a week, Meenakshi Sundareswarar Temple was thrown open to devotees on Monday. The crowd was thin as Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowment (HR and CE) officials had imposed numerous regulations in view of the COVID-19 pandemic. With a view to preventing a surge in COVID-19 cases, the State government had recently announced that all places of worship would be closed during important festivals when crowds gather the most, and Fridays to Sundays. Following the strictures, major temples wore a deserted look on Adi Amavasai and other auspicious days last week. While the big temples were open to the public on Monday, additional armed police personnel have been posted to bolster security. Meanwhile, Collector S Aneesh Shekar, in a press release, has stated that all temples would remain closed on August 11, Wednesday, on Adi Pooram. The decision was taken after consultations with the temple administration, he said. He has appealed to the devotees and general public to cooperate with the administration. The objective of restricting the movement of people was to protect people from the contagious infection through social distancing. While the administration had taken various measures to face challenges that may arise due to the pandemic, people must remain indoors and needlessly go out so that COVID-19 could be controlled to a great extent, the Collector said. Doctors at Government Rajaji Hospital said that the number of fresh positive cases continued to remain low. Corporation authorities said that the vaccination centres in the city were getting a steady crowd.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/meenakshi-temple-is-open/article35828455.ece
10 August 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||No provision for age relaxation in appointment, says High Court||There is no provision for granting age relaxation for appointments made on compassionate grounds in Tamil Nadu Municipal Service Rules, 1970, the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court said while dismissing a petition. Justice D. Krishnakumar observed that there is no age relaxation in the statute. The court was hearing the petition filed by K. Ravi whose father was employed in the municipal office of Aruppukottai in Virudhunagar district. After his father died during service in 2015, the petitioner sought appointment under compassionate grounds. The authorities rejected the application. Challenging it, the petitioner said that he belonged to a Scheduled Tribe and was entitled to age relaxation as per Tamil Nadu State and Subordinate Service Rules. He said that the maximum age limit prescribed was not applicable to candidates belonging to Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes. This contention was objected to by the Aruppukottai Municipality. It was submitted that as per the Tamil Nadu Municipal Service Rules, the maximum age limit for appointment by direct recruitment on compassionate grounds shall be 30 years in respect of sons or unmarried daughters and 40 years for wife or husband of the municipal employee. Taking note of the submissions, the judge observed that Tamil Nadu Municipal Service Rules are applicable to the facts and circumstances of the case on hand. There is no provision for granting age relaxation for appointments made on compassionate grounds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-provision-for-age-relaxation-in-appointment-hc/article35828454.ece
10 August 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Interim compensation given in negligence case, HC told||The State on Monday informed the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court that an interim compensation of Rs. 75,000 was given as per the court direction to the family of an infant whose left thumb was cut due to negligence of a staff nurse in Thanjavur. The infant’s thumb was cut while the nurse attempted to remove the paediatric venflon (cannula) at the Government Hospital in Thanjavur. The father of the infant, M. Ganesan of Thanjavur, sought compensation from the State government. Taking note of the submission, Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy adjourned the hearing in the case. In the previous hearing, the court was told that the parents had taken the infant to the Tamil Nadu Government Multi Super Speciality Hospital in Omandurar Estate, Chennai. The court was informed that the best possible treatment would be provided to the infant. The overall function of the thumb of the infant would be restricted to a limited extent and scientific development would be taken advantage of to treat the infant, the State had submitted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/interim-compensation-given-in-negligence-case/article35828445.ece
10 August 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Tiruchi Corporation directed to file status report on Uyyakondan canal||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has directed the Tiruchi Corporation and Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board to file a status report on Uyyakondan canal to ascertain as to whether effluents were being discharged into it by hospitals. A Division Bench of Justices N. Kirubakaran and M. Duraiswamy directed the officials to file the report and also spell out steps taken to prevent pollution in the canal. The court was hearing a petition filed by advocate R. Rajagobal of Tiruchi district. During the course of the hearing, the authorities told the court that the discharge of effluents from the Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Hospital into the canal was stopped. Earlier, the court had taken a serious view of the condition of the Uyyakondan canal. The court had directed the Corporation and the Pollution Control Board authorities to inspect the canal and file a comprehensive report on discharge into the canal, growth of weeds and measures taken to prevent them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/file-status-report-on-uyyakondan-canal/article35828444.ece
10 August 2021||NAGERCOIL,TAMIL NADU||Coconut value-addition centre to function soon||The coconut value-addition centre coming up at Shenbhagaramanpudur near here on an outlay of Rs. 16 crore under National Agriculture Development Programme would commence its operation shortly, Minister for Information Technology T. Mano Thangaraj said. After visiting the upcoming coconut value-addition centre on Monday, Mr. Mano Thangaraj said the centre would produce virgin coconut oil, desiccated powder, wooden press oil, coconut charcoal, coal blocks etc. The coconut would be dried naturally using the sunlight using solar driers, besides being dried in traditional methods. The centre would have two storage points each having the capacity of storing 500 tonnes of coconut, auction hall, packing hall, dormitory for the farmers and the workers, canteen, retail shops, administrative office etc. Mr. Mano Thangaraj also said the Department of Horticulture was working on conserving traditional coconut seedlings being grown largely in Kanniyakumari district like Jawa, Jaffna Nettai, Malaysian Green, Malaysian Orange, Nakkuvaari, Sowcot Orange Short, Eeththamozhi Nettai, West Coast Nettai etc. in the coconut seedlings farm at Puththamalm near Rajakkalmangalam. The Minister said farming operations in Kanniyakumari district, which was once carried out on over 1.05 lakh acres, had shrunk to just 3,000 acres owing to poor policies being pursued by the previous government. Hence, steps would be taken to invigorate farming operations, especially paddy, rubber, coconut, plantain and other cultivation, in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coconut-value-addition-centre-to-function-soon/article35828797.ece
10 August 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||AINRC, BJP set sights on U.T.’s lone Rajya Sabha seat||The viability of the National Democratic Alliance will be put to test in the upcoming Rajya Sabha election as the All India N.R. Congress and the Bharatiya Janata Party are reportedly eyeing the lone seat in the Union Territory. The tenure of the present member of the Rajya Sabha N. Gokulakrishnan will end on October 6. With the Election Commission of India set to start the election process early September, Puducherry is likely to witness some tense political moments. Highly placed sources in the AlNRC told The Hindu that party chief and Chief Minister N. Rangasamy had informed some of his legislators and close associates of his firm decision to nominate a senior minister in the previous Congress government, alluding to former Health Minister Malladi Krishna Rao, who since quitting the Congress to set the stage for the fall of previous V. Narayanasamy Ministry, has been largely keeping away from the public eye. The former Minister had met the Chief Minister on more than two occasions in the last two weeks, sources said, adding the party wanted an experienced hand to be its own nominee so that he could coordinate with various Ministries to get funds and clearance for schemes for the Union Territory. The former Minister is considered very close to the Chief Minister even while he was in the Congress camp. The Chief Minister would convey his party’s decision when he goes to New Delhi by end of next week, an AINRC source said. While the AINRC has zeroed in on who they want as Rajya Sabha nominee, there are multiple claimants from the BJP camp. The local unit wants a party senior leader from Puducherry itself to be the nominee, the Central leadership reportedly has other plans. The names of three persons, including an unsuccessful candidate from Karaikal are doing the rounds. “We are keen to have our member in the Rajya Sabha so that the strength of the party goes up in the Upper House. It will not lead to any friction as we are capable of arriving at a solution,” a senior BJP leader said. Mr. Gokulakrishnan’s nomination to the Council of States was itself highly dramatic as he was thought to be on course to be elected to the house on an AINRC ticket. But at the crucial stage of filing the nomination papers, he got nominated on an AIADMK ticket and was later elected unopposed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ainrc-bjp-set-sight-on-uts-lone-rs-seat/article35828463.ece
10 August 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Trade unions protest at multiple locations in Puducherry||Major trade unions held demonstrations at three locations in Puducherry on Monday raising “Save India” slogans to press for repeal of three bills, protest the “looting of public assets” and to demand distribution of pandemic relief to the people. The protests at places, including Mission Street and Rajiv Gandhi Square, was part of the nation-wide “Save India Day” action by a host of Central trade unions against the policies of the Modi government. The protests coincided with the anniversary of another historic mass struggle, the Quit India Movement. The trade unions demanded withdrawal of the Labour Bill, the “anti-people” Farmer’s Bill and the Electricity (Amendment) Bill. The other demands included provision of Rs. 7,500 as relief to all families under the purview of Income Tax, filling up of vacancies in government departments and roll back of the hikes in prices of petrol/diesel and LPG. Among the participating trade unions were the Indian National Trade Union Congress, All India Trade Union Congress, All India Central Council of Trade Unions, Labour Liberation Front, Marumalarchi Labour Front and the All India United Trade Union Centre. Leaders of the unions addressed protestors. The Centre of Indian Trade Unions also held protests against the “pro-corporate and anti-labour” policies of the Centre.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/trade-unions-protest-at-multiple-locations-in-puducherry/article35828772.ece
10 August 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||No COVID-19 deaths reported in Puducherry||No COVID-19 deaths were reported in the Union Territory while 63 new cases were detected against 78 recoveries on Monday. The cumulative toll remained at 1,800 — Puducherry (1,426), Karaikal (231), Yanam (105) and Mahe (38). Puducherry reported 44 of the new cases, which were confirmed from 3,677 tests, followed by Karaikal (8), Yanam (1) and Mahe (10). The test positivity rate was 1.71%, case fatality rate 1.48% and recovery rate 97.84%. The active cases stood at 834 with 182 patients in hospitals and 652 in home isolation. The Union Territory has recorded an aggregate of 1,21,665 cases against 1,19,031 patients recovered. Of an estimated 15.47 lakh tests administered so far, over 13.23 lakh returned negative. Meanwhile, 1,658 persons took the COVID-19 jab in the last 24 hours, taking number of those vaccinated to 7,38,344. The vaccinated population comprises of 37,939 healthcare workers, 22,986 frontline personnel and 5,27,803 members of the public.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-covid-19-deaths-reported-in-puducherry/article35828464.ece
10 August 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Drive against vector-borne diseases held||Health officials organised source reduction drives at locations in Puducherry as part of measures to prevent mosquito-borne diseases, such as dengue and zika. The campaign, under the National Vector Borne Disease Control Programme, also focused on raising awareness on modes of spread and how to avoid vector breeding in water containers in households. The drives were held at locations such as Karuvadikuppam, Samipillaithottam, Edayanchavady, Lawspet and Sorapet. In Lawspet, A. Ganesan, assistant director (malaria), supervised larvicidal operations by sanitary workers of the Oulgaret Municipality. V.S. Shanthi, medical officer, and Pandian, sanitary inspector of the Oulgaret Municipality, also participated in the campaign. While 275 dengue cases had been reported so far this year, no death had occurred, Dr. Ganesan said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/drive-against-vector-borne-diseases-held/article35828769.ece
10 August 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Congress holds rally||Congress workers on Monday took out a bicycle rally in the town to mark the 79th anniversary of the Quit India Movement. The rally led by former Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy, chief of the Pradesh Congress Committee (PCC) A.V. Subramanian and party legislator Vaidhyanathan, started from PCC office. During the rally, they garlanded the statue of Mahatma Gandhi, former Prime Ministers Indira Gandhi, Rajiv Gandhi and former Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu K. Kamaraj.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/congress-holds-rally/article35828770.ece
10 August 2021||PUDUKOTTAI,TAMIL NADU||All measures in place to tackle third wave: Minister||Health Minister Ma. Subramanian on Monday said Chief Minister M.K. Stalin has initiated all precautionary measures to tackle the third wave of COVID-19. One lakh beds with oxygen supply and special wards for children are ready, Mr. Subramanian told reporters after inspecting the COVID-19 prevention measures and the works taken up under the ‘Makkalai Thedi Maruthuvam’ scheme in Pudukottai district. The Health Minister said Mr. Stalin had been giving more importance to the Health and Family Welfare Department and claimed that Tamil Nadu was a pioneer in the country in protecting the people during the pandemic. The State was in the forefront in the country in terms of vaccinating pregnant women. Nearly 60% of those who died after being severely infected with COVID-19 had succumbed due to diabetes, high blood pressure and obesity, he said. The newly launched ‘Makkalai Thedi Maruthuvam’ scheme was essentially aimed at protecting those affected either by diabetes or high blood pressure and those who were obese, he said, adding that a total number of 25,617 persons benefited from this scheme in three days of its launch. Earlier, Mr. Subramanian, accompanied by Minister for Law S. Reghupathy, inspected vaccination camps at a government school in Mathur and at the Government Hospital in Keeranur. He later inspected the facilities available at the Government Anna Hospital in Tirumayam and distributed medicines to those affected by high blood pressure and diabetes at Lembalakudi village. Pudukottai Collector Kavitha Ramu, Director of Public Health and Preventive Medicine T.S. Selvavinayagam and National Health Mission director, Tamil Nadu, Darez Ahamed, accompanied the Health Minister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/all-measures-in-place-to-tackle-third-wave-says-health-minister/article35828355.ece
10 August 2021||Pudukottai,TAMIL NADU||All measures in place to tackle third wave of COVID-19: Minister||Health Minister Ma. Subramanian on Monday said that the Chief Minister had taken all precautionary measures to tackle the third wave of COVID-19. One lakh beds with oxygen supply have been kept in a state of preparedness and special wards for children were ready in all the districts, Mr. Subramanian told reporters after inspecting the COVID-19 prevention measures and works taken up under the ‘Makkalai Thedi Maruthuvam’ scheme in Pudukottai district. The Health Minister said that the Chief Minister was giving more importance to the Health and Family Welfare Department and claimed that Tamil Nadu was a pioneer in the country in protecting the people during the pandemic period due to the special measures taken by the government. Tamil Nadu was in the forefront in terms of vaccinating pregnant women. Nearly 60 % of those who died after being severely infected with COVID-19 had succumbed due to diabetes, high blood pressure and obesity. The newly launched ‘Makkalai Thedi Maruthuvam’ scheme was essentially aimed at protecting those affected either by diabetes or high blood pressure and those who were obese, he said adding that a total number of 25,617 persons have been benefited by this scheme in three days of its launch. Earlier, Mr. Subramanian accompanied by Minister for Law S. Reghupathy inspected COVID-19 vaccination camps at a government school in Mathur and at the Government Hospital in Keeranur. The Health Minister later inspected the facilities available at the Government Anna Hospital in Tirumayam and distributed medicines to those affected by high blood pressure and diabetes under the ‘Makkalai Thedi Maruthuvam’ scheme at Lembalakudi village. Pudukottai Collector Kavitha Ramu, T.S. Selvavinayagam, Director of Public Health and Preventive Medicine and Darez Ahamed, Mission Director, National Health Mission, Tamil Nadu also accompanied the Health Minister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/all-measures-in-place-to-tackle-third-wave-of-covid-19-minister/article35828420.ece
10 August 2021||RAMESWARAM,TAMIL NADU||ED officials raid properties of DMK worker||In a search operation, which went on for over four hours, Enforcement Directorate officials seized incriminating documents from the residence of DMK functionary Villayutham in Rameswaram on Monday. Following specific inputs, the ED officials conducted the search at the residence situated near ngala Eswari Temple. The officials also conducted searches at Villayutham’s office, his lodge and his fish processing unit nearby. He is the secretary of the DMK’s fishermen wing. He was arrested recently for possessing sea cucumber on his premises. The raids by the central agency revealed that he had amassed wealth disproportionate to his known income sources. The ED official sources said that further investigation would be conducted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ed-officials-raid-properties-of-dmk-functionary/article35828452.ece
10 August 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Nothing surprising in report, says Palaniswami||Leader of the Opposition Edappadi K. Palaniswami said on Monday that there was nothing surprising about the White Paper on Tamil Nadu’s finances. Talking to journalists at Konganapuram here, he said that when the DMK went out of office, the State had a debt of Rs. 1.10 lakh crore, and more than 50% of the loans taken during the AIADMK government had become investments. Mr. Palaniswami said bus fares were not increased proportionate to the increase in diesel prices. In the power sector, the salaries, coal prices and the cost of coal transport had increased, while tariff remained the same, leading to losses, he said. He said the DMK government was laying the foundation for and inaugurating schemes that were announced when the AIADMK was in power. The former Chief Minister said the government was collecting petitions from people across the State. When the AIADMK was in power, after an announcement made under Rule 110 of the Assembly, the Chief Minister’s special grievance redress camp was conducted across the State and 9.75 lakh petitions were collected. Action was taken on 5.25 lakh petitions. The DMK government was following the same method but it did not seem to have collected an equivalent number of petitions, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nothing-surprising-in-report-says-palaniswami/article35828324.ece
10 August 2021||SIVAGANGA,TAMIL NADU||DMK men exchange blows||Tense moments prevailed when two groups of the ruling party (DMK) men allegedly exchanged blows even as the auction for more than 30 works worth over Rs. 3.5 crore was under way at the office of the TWAD Board situated on the Sivaganga-Thondi Road here on Monday. A large posse of police personnel deployed near the office saved the situation, which looked like a free-for-all since forenoon. According to reliable sources in the TWAD Board, the DMK Sivaganga deputy secretary Sengai Maran and his men were present at the TWAD office, where the tenders for various works were being taken up for auction. Even as the process was on, another set of DMK men led by Soman, farmers’ wing coordinator of the district, picked up a wordy altercation. When some of the officials present attempted to calm down the situation, the DMK men flexed their muscles. Raising their voices, they came closer and lifted the chairs and attacked each other. For about 20 minutes, there was noise and physical blows. Even before the police could step in, Mr Soman suffered head injuries and was rushed to his vehicle. Some of the supporters of Mr. Sengai Maran chased their rivals and pelted stones, a police officer said. As the news spread, some shops downed shutters and people in the vicinity moved to safer places. According to the supporters of Mr Soman, he was admitted in the Government Hospital for bleeding injuries. The police are investigating and the case is yet to be registered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmk-functionaries-exchange-blows/article35828459.ece
10 August 2021||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||Delta farmers eagerly await Agriculture Budget||Despite the precarious position of the State exchequer, delta farmers are pinning their hopes on the first-ever Agriculture Budget to be presented by the DMK government in which they expect the announcement of State-funded crop insurance scheme similar to those implemented in a handful of States. States such as Gujarat, West Bengal, Andhra Pradesh and Bihar have exited from the Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana (PMFBY) last Kharif season citing abnormal increase in insurance premium. Madhya Pradesh attempted to implement a surplus-sharing model in a district by remaining in the PMFBY. Chief Minister M. K. Stalin had also written a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi recently highlighting the financial burden placed on the State following the cap on the Central Government’s contribution towards the crop insurance premium. The Chief Minister had also sought the revival of 49:49:2 percent model of sharing the insurance premium to be paid to the insurance companies. At this juncture, delta farmers who have taken up ‘kuruvai’ cultivation in about 3.50 lakh acres following the release of water for irrigation from the Stanley Reservoir at Mettur on the scheduled date of June 12, have found themselves in quandary due to the silence by the State government over the crop insurance procedures for ‘kuruvai’ crop.  Now with the ‘kuruvai’ season coming to an end and with some farmers preparing themselves for ‘samba’ and others going in for ‘thaladi’, they expect the State government to either announce a State-funded crop insurance scheme or to declare `samba’ and `thaladi’ package in the Agriculture Budget so that they could take up the `samba’ or `thaladi’ cultivation with confidence.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/delta-farmers-eagerly-await-agriculture-budget/article35828422.ece
10 August 2021||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||Thanjavur Congress unit observes Quit India Movement anniversary||The Congress party office-bearers and cadre observed the Quit India Movement anniversary by garlanding the statue of Mahatma Gandhi at the premises of Thanjavur Corporation office here on Monday. Contribution of the freedom fighters were recalled and those residing in Thanjavur were honoured by the party on the occasion. Meanwhile, the All India Farmers Protest Coordination Committee, Thanjavur district, and all Trade Unions organised a protest demonstration near the Thanjavur Railway Junction urging “corporates to quit India.” Participating in the demonstration, representatives from INTUC, AITUC, LPF and other Opposition political parties affiliated trade unions raised slogans against the BJP government at the Centre for its alleged bias towards corporates.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/thanjavur-congress-unit-observes-quit-india-movement-anniversary/article35828421.ece
10 August 2021||THENI,TAMIL NADU||Misappropriation unearthed||The Commercial Crime Investigation Wing Criminal Investigation Department of Theni unit have registered a case against the former secretary and president and nine others, including a junior audit officer, of the Myladumparai Primary Agricultural Cooperative Loan Society for misappropriation of Rs. 91.27 lakh under six sections of IPC here on Monday. Following a complaint from the Deputy Registrar N. Muthukumar, Periakulam in Theni district, the police registered a case. The complaint was that during 2016, the then government had announced a farm loan waiver scheme. Out of 403 farmers eligible for the scheme in the society, discreet inquiries revealed that 46 among them in the list were not farmers and ineligible for the waiver. It came to light that the Cooperative Loan Society office-bearers had allegedly connived with some staff members and included these names fraudulently to benefit, causing a loss of Rs. 91.27 lakh to the exchequer. While the police arrested P. Dharmar (figuring as A3) in the FIR and sent him to remand, a hunt was on to secure others as they were absconding, an officer said and added that teams had gone to Usilampatti and Madurai as some named accused were employed in the MDCC Bank, Madurai. The officers said that the scheme was in force during July 2016 and December 2016. So far, only one witness had been examined out of the 50 persons given in the complaint.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/misappropriation-unearthed/article35828460.ece
10 August 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||SMK appeals to Collector to remove weeds from irrigation tanks||The Samaththuva Makkal Katchi has appealed to the Collector to take steps for removing water weeds from the irrigation tanks across the district before the start of the northeast monsoon. In a petition submitted at the Collectorate on Monday, the Samaththuva Makkal Katchi cadre said water weeds grown abundantly in the irrigation tanks in Sivaththaiyapuram, Peikulam, Arumugamangalam, Korkai and Pazhayakayal were not removed for the past several years. Hence, the capacity of these irrigation tanks had come down drastically besides getting polluted by the water weeds. Oil refinery Uppattru Odai Conservation Committee members and the residents of Mela Thattapparai village submitted a petition seeking a move to establish an oil refinery in other nearby places except Uppattru Odai. They said over 2,200 acres of land was to be acquired by a private oil refinery in Keeza Thattapparai, Umarikkottai, Varadharajapuram, Paeroorani, Allikulam and Therkku Silukkanpatti. Since the Uppattru Odai, Kurnijan Odai and Kombadi Odai were coming under the land to be acquired for the oil refinery, it would seriously create environmental issues besides polluting the waterbodies. Hence, the move to establish oil refinery by destroying the watercourse should be stopped, they said. Stone crushing unit A group of villagers from Srimoolakkarai near Srivaikundam submitted a petition seeking action against a private stone crushing unit that had allegedly encroached upon Naraikkulam and the cremation and the burial grounds of the village. They also sought cancellation of license given for the crusher.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/smk-appeals-to-collector-to-remove-weeds-from-irrigation-tanks/article35828798.ece
10 August 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Four more Uzhavar Sandhais likely for Tiruchi district||At least four more Uzhavar Sandhais are likely to be established in Tiruchi district during the current financial year. The Department of Agricultural Marketing and Agri Business is also planning to give a facelift to the seven existing Uzhavar Sandhais in the district. Conceptualised by former Chief Minister M. Karunanidhi and established under his regime, the Uzhavar Sandhais in most places have stood the test of the time and are still running successfully as they provide a platform for farmers to market their produce and consumers to get vegetables at cheaper rates. In Tiruchi district, seven Uzhavar Sandhais are functioning at Anna Nagar and K. K. Nagar in Tiruchi city and at Musiri, Thuraiyur, Tiruverumbur, Lalgudi and Manapparai. The Anna Nagar Uzhavar Sandhai in Tiruchi is among the top five Uzhavar Sandhais in the State in terms of farmers arrivals and volume of vegetable traded, sources in the department said. According to sources, one of the four new Uzhavar Sandhais are likely to be located at Manachanallur as space is available at the Tiruchi Market Committee complex in the town. Efforts are on to identify suitable locations for the other three new Uzhavar Sandhais in the district. “There has been a lot of representations from people seeking Uzhavar Sandhais in their areas. The MLAs are also keep on establishing them in their respective areas. The only issue is identifying the right location and suitable land of about 25 cents for establishing an Uzhavar Sandhai,” an official observed. In places such as Tiruchi city, it is very difficult to get a suitable site, he pointed out. The allocations for the new Uzhavar Sandhais is expected to be made in the Agriculture Budget and work on establishing them would begin within this financial year in all probability, he added. In addition to the establishment of the new Uzhavar Sandhais, proposals have also been sent for upgradation of the existing Uzhavar Sandhais at a total outlay of Rs. 361.25 lakh. The one at K. K. Nagar in the city is likely to be developed as a model one at the State level. The other Uzhavar Sandhais would also be renovated. Renovation of civil structures, replacement of old mechanical balances with new electronic balances,construction of grading and sorting halls, improving toilets and water supply and providing paver block pathways would form part of the upgradation works.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/four-more-uzhavar-sandhais-likely-for-tiruchi-district/article35828442.ece
10 August 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||An elevated corridor for Tiruchi is on the anvil||Minister for Public Works and Highways, E. V. Velu on Monday indicated that an elevated corridor would be built in the city and necessary announcements would be made in the State Assembly soon. Speaking to reporters after reviewing the progress of ongoing projects in Tiruchi, Pudukottai, Thanjavur, Nagapattinam, Mayiladuthurai and Tiruvarur districts, Mr. Velu said that the State government had taken a decision to upgrade all two-lane State highways into four-lane road and four- lane roads into six-lanes. Chief Minister M. K. Stalin had instructed him to take suitable steps to upgrade the roads and the works would be carried out in a phased manner. Similarly, the Minister added that he had a number of representations from elected representatives to upgrade panchayat union roads up to the standards of the State Highways. As per the Chief Minister’s instruction, he had been visiting various districts to study the demand. Nearly 10,000 panchayat union roads would be developed as per the State Highways standards. According to a survey, Mr. Velu said that there were 245 causeways in different parts of the State. All of them would be made as road over bridges and it would ensure smooth movement of vehicles. “Tiruchi has been growing at a rapid pace in terms of vehicular traffic and requires a massive facelift. Many infrastructure projects were in the pipeline including flyovers to solve the traffic issues. The Chief Minister has planned to accord a fillip to Tiruchi”, he said and indicated that an elevated corridor would be built in the city. Mr. Velu said that work on the Junction flyover had been dragging on for a while due to the long process of getting Defence land at Mannarpuram in Tiruchi. A senior official of the State highways had a detailed discussion with a senior Defence official recently and a positive outcome was expected within a few days, he added. The Minister said five District Revenue Officers would be appointed soon to handle land acquisition for executing the State Highways projects. This was intended to prevent delays in completing land acquisition, he said. The Public Works Department had taken a lead role in establishing oxygen supported beds in government hospitals to face COVID-19 crisis. State Ministers K. N. Nehru, N. Regupathy, Anbil Mahesh Poyyamozhi, and Siva.V. Meyyanathan and senior officials participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/an-elevated-corridor-for-tiruchi-is-on-the-anvil/article35828424.ece
10 August 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||With major temples shut on weekends, hospitality sector sees slump in business||The fresh curbs on opening major temples have hit the hospitality industry hard in Tiruchi. The sector, one of the highest direct and indirect employment providers, is facing severe crisis since the imposition of nationwide lockdown in the wake of spread of COVID-19 cases. Hotels and restaurants had to close down their operations again in May due to rise in fresh cases. They were allowed to open gradually after about two months with restrictions. Though most of the hotels have reopened for guests, there are restaurants, which are yet to reopen due to stringent restrictions and lack of customer support. According to sources, most of the hotels and restaurants have been running with just one third of regular staff members. More than 60% of the workers and managerial staff members of the hospitality industry were still jobless as the hoteliers were reluctant to employ them due to poor business prospects. The fresh restrictions on opening leading temples have brought fresh troubles for them. According to a notification, temples such as Sri Ranganathawamy Temple in Srirangam, Sri Mariamman Temple in Samayapuram and Sri Thayumavaswamy Temple in Tiruchi will be closed for public darshan on Fridays, Saturdays and Sundays till further orders. Hoteliers say this has brought down the number of footfalls and it has had its impact on hotel bookings and business in restaurants. Most restaurants in Central Bus Stand and Srirangam reported sharp slump in business on Sundays, a usually busy day. “We have not even done 30% of our usual business. People prefer to visit temples and tourist destinations on holidays. They are our customers. The closure of temples has impacted the business hard,” said an employee of a hotel at the Central Bus Stand in Tiruchi. “It has become hard to predict the number of customers and this has resulted in huge wastage of food,” said an employee of a hotel in Srirangam. The hoteliers are of the view that instead of closing the temples, the devotees can be allowed to visit the temples in limited number as per the previous arrangements done in 2020 after allowing the temples to reopen.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/with-major-temples-shut-on-weekends-hospitality-sector-sees-slump-in-business/article35828426.ece
10 August 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||365 new cases in central region||The central region on Monday reported 365 fresh cases of COVID-19. Six more persons succumbed to the infection in the region. Five of the deaths accounted in the State Health Department bulletin were from Thanjavur district and the other victim hailed from Ariyalur district. Thanjavur continued to top the nine districts in the region in terms of fresh cases with 95 persons testing positive for the virus. Tiruchi reported 67 fresh cases, followed by Tiruvarur with 52 cases and Nagapattinam with 41 cases. Thirty-six persons tested positive in Pudukottai, 24 in Ariyalur, 19 in Karur and 23 in Mayiladuthurai. Perambalur continued to report the least number of cases in the region with eight persons testing positive. Thanjavur had the highest number of active cases in the region with 995 persons under treatment, including those in home treatment. Tiruchi had 753 active cases, Tiruvarur 433, Nagapattinam 432, Pudukottai 337, Ariyalur 255, Mayiladuthurai 250, Karur 179 and Perambalur 110.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/365-new-cases-in-central-region/article35828432.ece
10 August 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Trade unions stage demo against Centre||Members of various trade unions staged a demonstration here on Monday opposing the Bharatiya Janata Party’s policies on various fronts and in support of their charter of demands. Office bearers and representatives of the Labour Progressive Front, Centre of Indian Trade Unions, All India Trade Union Congress, Indian National Trade Union Congress, Hind Mazdoor Sabha and the All India Central Council of Trade Unions besides Farmers Struggle Coordination Committee participated in the hour-long demonstration that was held in front of the Head Post Office here. Raising slogans in support of their demands, the trade union members demanded the Centre to withdraw the ‘anti-farmer’ farm laws besides the withdrawal of the Electricity Amendment Bill and the four labour codes. They wanted the Centre to control the steep hike in the prices of petrol, diesel, cooking gas and essential commodities and stop privatisation of public sector undertakings and government departments. They also wanted the Centre to desist from attempting to usurp the administration and the funds of various State welfare boards. The demonstrators also urged the Centre to ensure that COVID-19 vaccines were administered to all citizens free of cost and to give up the vaccine policy in favour of the corporates. Increasing financial allocation for Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme and the number of days under the scheme; creation of new job opportunities and filling up of vacant posts in government departments were among their other demands. The demonstration was headed by S. Joseph Nelson, district secretary Labour Progressive Front in which K. Suresh, district general secretary, AITUC, S. Rengarajan, district general secretary, CITU and others participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/trade-unions-stage-demo-against-centre/article35828439.ece
10 August 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||‘Cancel permission given to lift irrigation schemes’||A group of farmers, led by P. R. Pandian, president, Coordination Committee of All Farmers’ Associations of Tamil Nadu, staged a demonstration in the city on Monday urging the government to revoke the permission reportedly given to 42 lift irrigation schemes after 2019 in Paramathi Velur and nearby areas in Namakkal district. The agitation staged in front of the office of the Chief Engineer (CE), Public Works Department, was also to press the government not to permit any new irrigation schemes without hearing the views of the farmers in downstream areas of the Cauvery river in the State. The agitators, who went in a procession towards the CE’s Office, raised slogans urging the government to protect the rights of tail-end farmers and those dependent on the 17 irrigation canals between Mettur dam and Kallanai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cancel-permission-given-to-lift-irrigation-schemes/article35828440.ece
10 August 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Holy gifts set to leave Srirangam for Sri Andal Temple||Holy gifts will be sent from the Srirangam Sri Ranganathaswamy Temple to Sri Andal Temple at Srivilliputhur on Tuesday in connection with the ‘Aadi Pooram’ festival that is to be celebrated on Wednesday. The gifts including ‘pattu vasthram’, different types of fruits, bangles and dry fruits were kept for public display at the Renga Vilas Mandapam inside the Srirangam Temple on Monday evening. They were taken out in a procession up to Renga Renga Gopuram. The Srirangam Temple Joint Commissioner Marimuthu and others participated. The gifts would be taken to the Srivilliputhur temple from Srirangam on Tuesday morning.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/holy-gifts-set-to-leave-srirangam-for-sri-andal-temple/article35828429.ece
10 August 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||‘Nearly, 3 lakh people are being vaccinated daily’||The State has been doing extremely well in vaccination programme for the last two months, said Health Minister Ma. Subramanian here on Monday. Talking to reporters at the Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Medical College in Tiruchi, he said that the Centre had allotted 72 lakh doses of vaccines to the State in July. Since it had exceeded the mark, the Central allotted 19 lakh more doses. The Central government had committed to send 79 lakh doses for August. The State would do better in August too. Nearly three lakh people were being vaccinated daily in the State. More than 2.32 crore people had been vaccinated in the State. About 17 lakh people had got vaccination from the private hospitals. He said that the State would follow the Indian Council of Medical Research guidelines on implementing mixed vaccination programme. The latest survey of the ICMR had found that a combination of Covishield and Covaxin vaccines had elicited better immunogenicity than two doses of the same vaccines. The State would wait for communication on this and based on the guidelines, it would take steps to vaccinate the remaining population. Later, he laid the foundation stone for an emergency and trauma care facility at the Government Hospital in Thuraiyur. He said that it would come up at a cost of Rs. 9.21 crore. Minister for Municipal Administration K. N. Nehru and Minister for School Education Anbil Mahesh Poyyamozhi took part.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nearly-3-lakh-people-are-being-vaccinated-daily/article35828436.ece
10 August 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Privately owned elephant runs amok||An elephant owned by a private individual ran amok in Srirangam creating a scare among the public on Monday. The incident happened in the evening when the female elephant was said to have been taken for a walk. The mahout who was taken back by the animal's act ran behind it. On noticing the elephant running amok, passers-by ran helter-skelter to safe places nearby. The mahout finally managed to bring the animal under control at Raghavendrapuram area, it is said. The animal was brought to a vacant site nearby where the mahout fed it with water besides spraying water on the animal. A Forest Department official said an explanation has been sought from the animal owner Bhaskar of Panchakarai area regarding the incident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/elephant-runs-amok/article35828437.ece
10 August 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Vaccination camps today||COVID-19 vaccination camps will be held in the following places in the city on Tuesday: Covishield doses would be administered at Renga Matriculation School, Srirangam; Madhuram Higher Secondary School, East Boulevard Road; Satish Nursery and Primary School, Tharanallur; Urban Primary Health Centre, Subramaniapuram; Government Adi Dravidar Higher Secondary School, Periyamilaguparai; and Corporation School, Kuratheru, Woraiyur. Covaxin doses would be administered at Bishop Heber Higher Secondary School, Teppakulam; Kothamangalam Elementary School, Edamalaipattipudur; Panchayat Higher Secondary School, Mela Kalkandarkottai; and All Saints School, Takkar Road, Woraiyur. The camps will commence at 9.30 a.m. a Corporation press release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vaccination-camps-today/article35828433.ece
10 August 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Fishermen in southern districts oppose Marine Fisheries Bill||Condemning the ‘anti-fishermen’ features of the Indian Marine Fisheries Bill 2021, fishermen in Tirunelveli, Thoothukudi and Kanniyakumari districts struck work on Monday and submitted petitions at the Collectorates urging the Union government not to table the Bill in Parliament in its present form. In Tirunelveli district, having 13 coastal villages between Koottapuli and Periyathazhai, more than 5,000 country boats abstained from venturing into the sea. The fishermen, who submitted a petition at the Collectorate, said the Bill proposed to allow fishing operation by the Indian country boat and mechanised boat fishermen up to 12 nautical miles from the shore. Since the fishermen had to venture further in the seriously polluted sea to get a decent harvest, the Bill aimed at crippling them. The Indian Coast Guard, which had been entrusted with the job of monitoring and imposing fine on the fishermen crossing this limit, would act in an autocratic manner. While entering the territorial waters of another nation led to imprisonment in that country, the proposed Bill threatened the Indian fishermen of incarceration with fine up to Rs. 5 lakh, they said. The fishermen also came down heavily on the Bill for mandating them to catch fishes of particular species in permitted quantity after obtaining permission from the government. In Thoothukudi, more than 3,500 country boats and 420 mechanised boats operating from Vembar to Periyathazhai abstained from fishing. More than 500 fishermen came to the Collectorate to submit a petition. After Superintendent of Police S. Jayakumar held talks with them, their representatives were allowed to meet Collector K. Senthil Raj to submit the petition that appealed to the Tamil Nadu Government to pass resolution in the Legislative Assembly against the Bill. They also sought an appointment with Chief Minister M.K. Stalin to explain to him the ‘anti-fishermen’ features of the Bill. Dr. Senthil Raj assured the petitioners that he would take up the issue with the government. In Tharuvaikulam near Thoothukudi, the striking fishermen had tied black flags in the areas where the country boats and the mechanised boats had been anchored. T hey, while standing in the sea, raised slogans against the Bill and urged the Centre to withdraw it. “Since the Bill has been moved with the ulterior motive of decimating India’s country boat and mechanised boat fishermen while giving a lot of incentives to fishing trawlers of corporate companies and international firms, it should be withdrawn,” they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fishermen-in-southern-districts-oppose-marine-fisheries-bill/article35828461.ece
10 August 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Accommodate us in a government department: Special school teachers||Teachers working with special schools for child labourers have appealed to the Tamil Nadu government to accommodate them in a government department as they were not given salary since March 2020 ‘in an apparent move to abandon the child labourers rehabilitation programme.’ In a petition submitted at the Collectorate, they said 35 teachers were working in the special schools being run by the National Child Labour Project for the child labourers rescued from their workplaces after they dropped out of schools for different reasons. However, they were neither given the salary since March 2020 nor the rent for the child labour school buildings. “Since the NCLP has apparently abandoned the teachers, we fear that the scheme would not be continued. As we were working in the special schools for the child labourers, we have not tried for any other employment. Hence, the State government should accommodate us in any of the departments to save our families,” they said. Drainage facility A group of residents from Arunachala Nagar near Naranammalpuram near here submitted a petition seeking drainage facility in their village. The petitioners, all from Arunthathiyar community, said the domestic sewage from 250 families of their hamlet was getting drained in the channel that passed through the patta land of an individual over the past 40 years. Since the individual had blocked the channel, the sewage was stagnating in Arunachala Nagar. “The sudden rain that lashed the village on Sunday worsened the situation further. Hence, the Collector should instruct the officials concerned to find permanent solution for this issue,” said M. Selvaraj, one of the petitioners said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/accommodate-us-in-a-government-department-special-school-teachers/article35828801.ece
10 August 2021||TIRUVANNAMALAI,TAMIL NADU||Vandavasi trader gifts tomatoes to celebrate Neeraj Chopra’s win||The Taluk Office Road in Vandavasi, around 30 km from its district headquarters in Tiruvannamalai, has seldom been busy on Sundays, as most shops down their shutters in the small town. But, last Sunday, the half-a-kilometre-long stretch was busy with people heading to one shop. It's a vegetable shop where Usman Sait, who runs the outlet, was giving 2 kg of tomatoes to whoever visited his shop that day. The gesture was to celebrate Neeraj Chopra's Olympic gold medal in athletics. "I was an athlete during my school days. So, in a small way, I wanted to celebrate his (Neeraj Chopra) win as it has happened after many years," said 35-year-old Usman Sait, the trader. Sunday's gesture by the trader cost him 4,500 kg of tomatoes that was given free to the visitors and passersby on the Taluk Road in the town. Most of the vegetables including tomatoes, brinjal, cabbage and greens were brought from the wholesale market in Chittoor in the neighbouring Andhra Pradesh by more than 800 vegetable traders from the Vandavasi town every day. During the lockdown since last year, Sait has been giving free dry rations that includes rice, daal, cooking oil, salt and sugar to 80 families in the town every month.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vandavasi-trader-gifts-tomatoes-to-celebrate-neeraj-chopras-win/article35828809.ece
10 August 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Gaur freed from nylon rope entangled around its neck||The Forest Department managed to finally free a gaur that had gotten itself ensnared with a nylon rope in Kattabettu range in Kotagiri on Sunday. According to Forest Department officials, the gaur was first spotted roaming the area with the rope entangled around its horns and neck more than a month ago. Forest staff had tried to approach the animal but were unsuccessful in their efforts. After local residents again informed the forest department of the gaur’s presence in the area, the Forest Department officials organised an operation to capture and free the animal, as they believed that the rope could cause it a serious injury which could lead to its death. A team of veterinarians, anti-poaching watchers, anti-depredation squad members and other staff were dispatched to the range in the Nilgiris forest division on Sunday. They managed to successfully contain the animal and free it from the rope in which it had gotten entangled. Forest Department officials believe that the animal had got accidentally entangled in the rope, but said that investigations were ongoing.  Health being monitored Following the operation, the gaur was released and is said to have joined its herd. Forest staff are continuing to monitor the health of the gaur but said that its injuries are expected to heal fully.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gaur-freed-from-nylon-rope-entangled-around-its-neck/article35828377.ece
10 August 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Office at new bus terminus site gutted||A fire broke out in a container-turned-office at the under-construction bus terminus near the District Central Library in Vellore on Monday. No one was injured in the incident, which was suspected to have been caused by an electrical short circuit. According to the police, it was around 5.40 a.m. on Monday when they received information about the incident. Firemen from the Vellore fire station, led by Station Fire Master, J. Thanigaivel, put out the fire after an hour.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/office-at-new-bus-terminus-site-gutted/article35828807.ece
10 August 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Vellore reports 38 new cases||The total number of COVID-19 cases in Vellore district reached 48,287 with 38 new cases reported on Monday. While a total of 46,891 persons have been discharged, the active cases in the district stand at 300. The district’s death toll is 1,096. In Ranipet, 16 cases were reported and the total stood at 42,119.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vellore-reports-38-new-cases/article35828773.ece
10 August 2021||VILLUPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Suspended DGP and SP served chargesheet in harassment case||The Chief Judicial Magistrate court in Villupuram on Monday served copies of the chargesheet to Special Director General of Police Rajesh Das (now under suspension) in connection with the case pertaining to the sexual harassment of a woman Superintendent of Police in February this year. The court also served the copies to Superintendent of Police D. Kannan (since suspended) on the charge of waylaying the woman officer when she was on her way to lodge a complaint. Court summons According to the prosecution, as per the summons of the court, the duo appeared before the Chief Judicial Magistrate S. Gopinathan. The court served the chargesheet filed by the Crime Branch-Criminal Investigation Department (CB-CID) and the first information report. After serving the papers, the court adjourned the matter till August 16. In February 27, the CB-CID registered an FIR against the former Special DGP under Sections 354A (sexual harassment), 341 (punishment for wrongful restraint), and 506 (1) criminal intimidation of the Indian Penal Code, and Section 4 of the Tamil Nadu Prohibition of Harassment of Women Act, 2002. The then Chengalpattu Superintendent of Police was also named in the FIR for stopping the woman police officer while she was proceeding to Chennai to lodge a complaint against the senior officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/suspended-dgp-and-sp-served-chargesheet-in-harassment-case/article35828357.ece
10 August 2021||August 10 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatoretoday||KPR College of Arts and Science: Webinar, 2 p.m.  Jansons Institute of Technology: Bridge Course webinar, 10 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatoretoday/article35828374.ece
10 August 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Farm produce, handicrafts identified as ‘Goods with Export Potential’||The Union government has recognised some farm produce, handicraft products and industrial products from Belagavi District as “Goods with Export Potential”. The farm products include hulled wheat, organic jaggery, sugar, raisins, turmeric, milk-based value-added products and pomegranate. Among handicraft products, Kolhapuri Chappals, that are produced in Athani and surrounding villages, has been selected. Among industrial products, iron castings, industrial castings, hydraulic pressure equipment, pump and valve accessories, engineering components and aerospace components have been selected. This was informed by Union Ministers Sandhya Ray and Anupriya Patel to a question by member Krishnapal Singh Yadav in the Lok Sabha. The reply said that products and services with export potential are identified under the “Districts as Export Hubs” initiative across the country. Various products have been identified for various districts in Karnataka and also, in other States, according to the reply. This plan includes identifying specific actions required to support local exporters and manufacturers in producing and manufacturing identified products in adequate quantity and with the requisite quality and reaching potential buyers outside India. This includes identifying and addressing challenges for exports of the identified products and services, improving the supply chains, market accessibility and hand-holding for increasing exports. The focus under “Districts as Export Hubs” initiative will be on export growth of identified products, while manufacturing of some of these products will also get a boost, leading to less import dependency. Scaling up production and improving the quality standards of the products helps in creating a conducive environment for exporters and manufacturers to compete internationally, the reply said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/farm-produce-handicrafts-identified-as-goods-with-export-potential/article35828477.ece
10 August 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Yallapa Kanar passes away||Yallapa Kanar (43), a journalist with Vijay Karnataka, a Kannada daily, died of COVID-19-related complications in Londa village in Belagavi district on Monday. He is survived by two daughters and a son.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/yallapa-kanar-passes-away/article35828479.ece
10 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Many govt. buildings owe BBMP huge outstanding service charges||Many government buildings and departments owe the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP), whose major revenue source is property tax, a lot of pending service charges. 25% service charge As per the earlier Karnataka Municipal Corporations Act, 1976, and the more recent BBMP Act, 2020, the civic body is liable to collect 25% of the property tax, known as service charge, from government buildings and departments. Ironically, many citizens have received notices from the civic body asking them to remit property tax dues owing to wrong zonal classification despite having paid property tax diligently. They are now outraged and seek to know what action the civic body is taking against the defaulters.  Activist H. Pramod recently filed an RTI application seeking information about the dues of government buildings. In response, the BBMP’s Vasanthnagar sub-division officials have listed out 110 buildings owned by both the Union and the State governments. While a handful of these have paid the service charges up to 2021-22, there are several that have huge outstanding dues. Income Tax Department For instance, three buildings belonging to the Income Tax Department owe BBMP Rs. 2.39 lakh, the HAL office on Cubbon Road owes Rs. 17.07 lakh, the BWSSB office on K.G. Road owes Rs. 3.89 lakh, and the National Bank for Agricultural and Rural Development, also on K.G. Road, owes Rs. 4.84 lakh. Mr. Pramod told The Hindu that while the BBMP was penalising citizens who have been judiciously paying their taxes, meagre attempts were made to recover dues from these government departments and bodies. Concurring, Srikanth Narasimhan, co-founder and general secretary of the Bengaluru NavaNirmana Party (BNP), said: “This is the classic case of the civic body hounding citizens who have paid taxes and letting go others who have huge outstanding dues, amounting to several crores totally,” he said and added that the civic body should focus on defaulters to mop up more revenue. BBMP Chief Commissioner Gaurav Gupta, however, said that both actions – issuing notices to citizens and collecting pending service charges from government bodies – were important. He said the civic body had already issued notices to government departments and buildings that had not yet cleared their dues. “The approach to both issues are different. We understand that government departments may have not paid due to incurring expenses or delay in allocation release. Civic officials are working on collecting the dues,” he said. He also said that several representations have come from various citizens and civil society groups on notices issued for filing tax under wrong zonal classification. While claiming that no coercive action is being taken apart from issue of notices, the BBMP was also checking on the extent to which the citizens’ claims were true.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/many-govt-buildings-owe-bbmp-huge-outstanding-service-charges/article35828292.ece
10 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||35-year-old stuntman dies during film shoot||A 35-year-old stuntman was electrocuted during the shooting of a Kannada film in Jogenahalli near Bidadi on Monday. The police alleged that negligence of the film crew led to the mishap and detained the stuntmaster Vinod, charging him and the film crew with death due to negligence. The film crew did not take permission from the authorities concerned for the shooting, they said. The deceased has been identified as Vivek and the film is Love You Rachchu , with Ajay Rao and Rachita Ram as leads. According to the police, the stunt was being shot near a private resort and Vivek, along with the stunt crew, were part of a fight scene. They used a metal rope and cranes to shoot the fight sequences, and when Vivek came in contact with a high-tension wire, he was electrocuted on the spot. The Bidadi police sealed the area for further investigation. The police summoned Vinod and the director of the movie for questioning . Mr. Ajay Rao was said to be present at the shoot, but 200 metres away from the spot where the fight was being shot. He heard the screaming and rushed to see what happened and came to know that Vivek died on the spot. Two others who were part of the shooting sustained injuries in the mishap and were taken to a private hospital for treatment . Many crew in the unit escaped soon after the incident. The police are on the lookout for them. Speaking to presspersons, Mr. Rao said that he was supposed to be part of the fight scene, but at the last minute he refused citing security reasons and COVID-19 guidelines. The scene, as per the script, involved a pool where the lead actor had to fight with the goons. However, the shoot went ahead without Mr. Rao. The police suspect that the crew was busy watching the monitor and filming the fight and no one noticed the crane coming close to the high-tension wire and then touching it, leading to the mishap. “It is very unfortunate that Vivek died and I have no words to convey to his family or face them,” Mr. Rao said. This is the second such incident in recent memory. In November 2016, two stuntmen, Anil and Raghav Uday, drowned after they jumped from a helicopter into a lake during the shooting of Masti Gudi . However, Duniya Vijay, the lead actor, miraculously survived after rescue team members helped him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/35-year-old-stuntman-dies-during-film-shoot/article35828493.ece
10 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Admission module for NEP will be launched on August 23, says Ashwath Narayan||Two days after issuing an order for implementation of the National Educational Policy (NEP) – 2020 with effect from the current academic year (2021-22), Minister for Higher Education C.N. Ashwath Narayan, on Monday, said that the admission module to be followed under the NEP will be launched on August 23. The admission of students will be facilitated through the Unified University and College Management System (UUCMS). All institutions in State private, aided, and government colleges will be able to make use of the admission module and information regarding major subjects, minor subjects, core electives, vocational training, and others provided in the module. The Minister addressed a press conference after attending a meeting with Vice-Chancellors on preparation of a new curriculum under the new policy. The Minister informed that 32 subject –wise and faculty-wise committees have been constituted to prepare the curriculum for first-year undergraduate and postgraduate levels. The curriculum will be ready in the first week of October. “The NEP has been brought after seven years of deliberations on reforming the education system in the country. The draft for the policy was prepared in Bengaluru by education experts. The State government had formed a task force on implementation of the policy and the State cabinet too had given its approval. The NEP gives the students flexibility of designing their own courses based on their own courses. The policy focuses on conceptual learning, critical thinking and analytical thinking. Impetus is also provided for gaining knowledge from digital platforms of UGC and others,” the Minister said. The Minister also said that learning Kannada in degree courses will be made mandatory for students for two years and students will have the option of learning one more language of their choice. The Minister dismissed allegations of opposition parties in the state that NEP was being implemented without proper consultation. “Wideconsultations were done while preparing the policy. The Congress was also consulted during the process,” he said. The Minister also informed that though the Union government had set 15 years to implement NEP, in the State it will be done within 10 years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/admission-module-for-nep-will-be-launched-on-august-23-says-ashwath-narayan/article35828280.ece
10 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||COVID-19: Tough measures after August 15, says Ashok||With the reproductive rate (R factor) of the virus crossing one in the city recently raising concerns, the civic body is gearing up to impose fresh restrictions in the coming weeks. Though the number of cases in the city is under control — in the range of 400 and 500 daily for the past three weeks — the civic body expects the third wave to hit the city in September, sources said. Revenue Minister R. Ashok, in-charge of pandemic management in the city, on Monday, while assuring that the situation in the city was under control, said tough measures to control the spread of the virus will be imposed in the city after August 15. When quizzed whether this would mean weekend curfews and a closure of economic activity, he said nothing can be ruled out and decisions will be taken based on the evolving situation. “The vaccination rate in the city is good, which we hope will reduce the number of hospitalisations and deaths in the city, even if the cases shoot up,” he said . At a COVID-19 review meeting, restrictions on markets, commercial hubs, temples, and even public transport and a weekend curfew were discussed, sources said. “We are of the view that we need to reduce the time window and strictly restrict the number of people at markets, commercial hubs, temples, and hotels, but that is for the state government to take a call,” a senior civic official said. The issue is expected to come up for discussion in the Chief Minister’s review meeting later in the week. On Sunday, devotees flocked temples in the city on account of Bheemana Amavasye, which flagged off the festival season. “As the devotees thronged inside, it was a potential superspreader event. Similar is the scenario at markets and commercial hubs. If we do not restrict the time window they are open, we need to strictly regulate the flow of people in these spaces,” a senior civic official said. Mr. Ashok said they will discuss with the City Police on the feasibility of regulating people flow into these spaces. “But we need to definitely regulate crowds at these spaces. In view of the festival season ahead, we will impose restrictions on crowds at temples. Markets are closely linked to farmers and hence need to be discussed further,” he said. Meanwhile, the civic body has also made the guidelines to identify a containment zone more stringent — three or more cases in a 100-metre radius, from the earlier 10 cases. The city presently has 160 containment zones, most of them apartments. Mahadevapura, Yelahanka and Bommanahalli Assembly segments are those with maximum number of apartments in the city reporting high prevalence of the virus. The civic body interacted with members of the Bangalore Apartments’ Federation on Monday. Chief Civic Commissioner Gaurav Gupta said the BBMP will come out with a new set of guidelines for apartments in the next few days. “The existing guidelines are a few months old and the landscape has changed considerably since then,” he said. The new guidelines are expected to impose more restrictions on common areas. D. Randeep, Special Commissioner, Health, BBMP, appealed to apartment residents to avoid any gettogethers for the next three to four weeks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/covid-19-tough-measures-after-august-15-says-ashok/article35828296.ece
10 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||NABARD set to push two more weavers’ clusters in Karnataka||In a bid to improve the livelihood of weavers in Karnataka, the National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD) is set to identify weavers’ clusters in Bagalkot and Tumakuru districts for financial assistance to producers’ organisations. While it is already working on clusters in Shivamogga, Dharwad, Udupi, Mandya, and Gadag districts, the financial assistance is being extended to clusters in Bagalkot and Tumakuru districts. Among those receiving support for revival from NABARD are Kodiyala saris in Mandya, Udupi saris, Pattada Anchu saris in Gadag, Kasuti, Gudarpatti and quilting products in Dharwad and natural dye fabric production in Shivamogga. “Once the clusters are identified, we want to support producers’ organisations through capacity building and design development among other things,” NABARD chief general manager Niraj Kumar Verma told reporters here on Monday. “Each organisation could receive between Rs. 50 lakh and Rs. 1.5 crore. Budget to support the organisations is not a constraint.” Stating that NABARD is also engaging with the State government in the project, he said that six such projects have been supported already. “The support scheme is not rigid and it will be tuned in to suit different needs.” Explaining the cluster development, Mr. Verma said that besides handlooms, NABARD was supporting the traditional toys sector too, and that the scheme aimed at overall development of the cluster. Meanwhile, as part of the marketing initiative, NABARD will hold a virtual global meet, focusing on the North America region on August 15 to promote Karnataka weaves . As part of National Handloom Day on Monday, an exhibition of handloom products has been organised through the week at the K.G. Road office.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/nabard-set-to-push-two-more-weavers-clusters-in-karnataka/article35828306.ece
10 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Persons other than senior citizens, parents have right to appeal: HC||The High Court of Karnataka has declared that the right to appeal against an order passed by the Assistant Commissioner under the provisions of the Maintenance and Welfare of Parents and Senior Citizens Act, 2002, is not confined only to parents or senior citizens but even to their opposite parties. While interpreting the provisions of the Act, the court said that though the plain reading of Section 16 the Act indicates that the right to appeal before the appellate tribunal is provided only to parents and senior citizens against the order passed by the Assistant Commissioner, the combined reading of it along with Section 15 does not indicate that the right to appeal is confined only to them. Justice H.T. Narendra Prasad passed the order while disposing of a petition filed by M. Sunitha of Ballari questioning an order passed by the tribunal in favour of her mother-in-law. Under the Act It was contended in the petition that no right to appeal provided before the appellate authority (Deputy Commissioner) to persons other than parents and senior citizens against the order passed by the Assistant Commissioner (who acts as a tribunal under the Act), and hence, the petitioner had knocked on the doors of the High Court to challenge the order of the tribunal. The court said that the Act has no provision that excludes right to appeal to persons other than parents and senior citizens and hence, non mentioning of right to appeal to others “is a case of accidental omission and not conscious exclusion” by Parliament. Peculiar situation If the right to appeal is confined only to parents and senior citizens then it would lead to a peculiar situation in which the parents and senior citizens require to approach appellate tribunal against the tribunal’s order, and their opposite parties requiring to approach the High Court directly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/persons-other-than-senior-citizens-parents-have-right-to-appeal-hc/article35828311.ece
10 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Non-availability of drugs at govt. hospitals hits thalassaemia patients||Non- availability of life-saving iron chelation drugs at designated government hospitals is causing hardship to thalassaemia patients in the State. The Thalassaemia and Sickle Cell Society, Bengaluru has accused the State Blood Cell Coordinator for the lapses in procuring and distributing drugs funded under the National Health Mission. Gagandeep Singh Chandok, president of Thalassaemia and Sickle Cell Society Bengaluru, said that some drugs were not be made available from February 2020 and others from December 2020 . “In the time of pandemic, thalassaemia patients were turned down by the hospitals. Patients relying on the tablets were forced to pay out from their pockets and left to die if they cannot afford it.” Ayesha Begum, a thalassaemia patient, said, “Earlier, we used to get the required drugs from government hospitals through a doctor’s prescription. Since November, I am not getting the medicines and when contacted, they are saying that there is no supply. These medicines are very expensive and I am not in a position to afford it.” Namitha A. Kumar from Opford, an open platform for orphan diseases who provides free health counselling for people with thalassaemia, said that there are many instances of donors funding patients to get the medicines after government hospitals stopped providing them for free. Mr. Chandok said that the non-availability of drugs hit an estimated 17,000 patients in the State. When contacted, Dr Arundhathi Chandrashekar, mission director of NHM in the State, said that the supply of drugs were hit after a vendor approached the court, but said instructions have been given to the hospitals concerned to procure drugs required by using available funds.  In the time of pandemic, thalassaemia patients were turned down by the hospitals. Gagandeep Singh Chandok, President, Thalassaemia and Sickle Cell Society Bengaluru||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/non-availability-of-drugs-at-govt-hospitals-hits-thalassaemia-patients/article35828282.ece
10 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Highest centums in third language, least in science||Maintaining the trend from last year, the highest number of centums were seen in the third language, while the least were in science. According to a press release by the Karnataka Secondary Education Examination Board (KSEEB), 36,776 students scored 100/100 in the third language. In 2020, 21,745 students had done so. The least centums were bagged in science, 3,649 students . Last year too, the least centums were in science with 910 students. D. Shashi Kumar, general secretary, Associated Managements of Primary and Secondary Schools in Karnataka, said that the least centums were scored in science as they were not able to do the practicals adequately this year. “As they did not have practical exposure, many students found science very tough. Meanwhile, maximum centums were bagged in third language as the syllabus is very easy,” he said. Meanwhile, among the regular freshers category, 1,28,931 students — 16.52 % — bagged an A-plus grade (90 to 100), while 32.07% scored the A grade. The largest percentage of students — 36.86 % — bagged the B grade (60 - 79), while 14.55% bagged the C grade (35 to 59). An official of the Department of Public Instruction said that a majority of the students bagged the B grade owing to the question paper pattern. “It has been a tough academic year for students and a majority would have scored C grade if the examination was conducted in the regular pattern. As it was an objective type paper, students could perform better and got the B grade,” he said. Students from 14,927 schools appeared for the SSLC examination. Of these, 13,258 schools bagged an A grade (75 to 100%), while 1,653 bagged the B grade (60 -75%), and 16 scored below 60% and fell under the C category.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/highest-centums-in-third-language-least-in-science/article35828284.ece
10 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||State govt. announces health survey in city||The State government has announced a health survey of every household in the city on the lines of the ‘Vaidyara Nade Halliya Kade’ scheme to proactively control a possible third wave of COVID-19 in the city. This, coupled with a serosurvey of 2,000 individuals across the city flagged off recently, is set billed to help the civic body identify vulnerable populations and allow early intervention. R. Ashok, Minister in charge of Bengaluru for the pandemic management, held a COVID-19 review meeting on Monday and announced the health survey initiative. “This time we are going for a proactive approach, even before the cases peak,” he said. “The survey will take off in 54 wards, two high incidence wards in every assembly segment from August 15. The civic officials will prepare a questionnaire for the survey over the next few days. It will ideally include details about vaccination, comorbidities and the like. If anyone is found with symptoms they will be tested,” the Minister said. D. Randeep, Special Commissioner, Health, BBMP, said the civic body was mulling including a test of oxygen saturation levels for vulnerable population. Each of the teams conducting the survey will be led by a doctor and include a nursing staff and a health worker. “We have decided to recruit doctors and nursing staff on a contract basis on a large scale. After the survey, these teams will come in handy for physical triaging and patient management as well,” Mr. Ashok said. Presently, 108 teams will be put in place to take up the survey in 54 wards from August 15, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/state-govt-announces-health-survey-in-city/article35828294.ece
10 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Scholarships fixed for children of farmers||The State government has fixed scholarship amounts for farmers’ children studying various courses during 2021-22 academic year. According to the Government Order, the yearly scholarship amount will be directly credited into the bank accounts of children through direct benefit transfer (DBT) who have completed class X and are pursuing courses in educational institutions or universities. Many courses Boys studying PUC or ITI courses will be eligible for Rs. 2,500, while girls will get Rs. 3,000. Scholarship amount of Rs. 5,000 will be given to boys pursuing BA, BSc., BCom, MBBS, BE, and other professional courses, while it will be Rs. 5,500 for girls. Boys pursuing law, paramedical, nursing, and other vocational courses will be eligible for Rs. 7,500, while girls will get Rs. 8,000. The scholarship would be Rs. 10,000 and Rs. 11,000 respectively for boys and girls studying MBBS, BE, BTech, and PG courses, the order stated. At his first Cabinet meeting, soon after being sworn in as the Chief Minister, Basavaraj Bommai had announced the scholarship scheme to farmers’ children and announced outlay of Rs. 1,000 crore in 2021-22. The order said that farmers’ children who have already availed of other merit scholarships will not be eligible for the State government scheme. The scholarships will be given for one course. For example, if students get a scholarship for a PG course in a particular subject, they would not be eligible for it again if they join another PG course, the order said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/scholarships-fixed-for-children-of-farmers/article35828313.ece
10 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||New pattern helped many||The new examination pattern that had multiple choice questions and delay in conducting the examination helped many students bag 625/625 marks. Some students  said that their schools had sufficient time to help them cope with the new examination pattern. Aklesh Dey, a class X student of Shree Mookambika School who bagged 625 marks, said that he was elated with his scores. “I prepared for the examination in the previous question paper pattern, referred many videos online and used all tech tools available to help in my preparation. I also got to appear for several mock examinations online.” He added that his teachers were available around the clock to help clarify his doubts. Adithi R., a student of Carmel Convent High School who also bagged full marks, said that she would watch videos on Youtube on the new exam pattern.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/new-pattern-helped-many/article35828285.ece
10 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||ED attaches bank accounts of Nagpur, U.P. firms that received hacker’s transfers||Enforcement Directorate (ED) officials attached Rs. 1.44 crore in cash lying in 14 bank accounts under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002, in a cybercrime case against Nimmi Enterprises and others, including 25-year-old Srikrishna, a hacker arrested by the CCB last November. Srikrishna alias Sriki is known to hack online poker games to win money and Bitcoins online and use it to purchase drugs from the darknet. Multiple charges The CCB arrested Srikrishna on multiple criminal charges, including hacking into private and government websites besides peddling drugs through the dark net. He is also the prime accused in stealing Rs. 11 crore from the State government's e-procurement portal in 2019. Investigation The ED initiated a money-laundering investigation on the basis of an FIR filed by the Cyber Crime Police Station, CID, Bengaluru, on a complaint regarding hacking and subsequent siphoning of deposit funds of bidders to the tune of Rs. 11.55 crore from the bank account of e-procurement cell, Centre for E-Governance, Government of Karnataka. During the investigation, it was revealed that Srikrishna had hacked into the Portal of Centre for E-Governance, Government of Karnataka, and funds were diverted to bank accounts of NGOs, identified as Uday Grama Vikash Sanstha, Nagpur and Proprietorship, Nimmi Enterprises, Bulandshahr, Uttar Pradesh respectively. Vendors’ accounts Further investigation revealed that Uday Grama Vikash Sanstha, Nagpur, received funds into the bank accounts of various vendors and traders under the guise of business transactions without any actual purchase or sale of goods. Similarly, Nimmi Enterprises, Bulandshahar, Uttar Pradesh, layered the received funds into the bank accounts of various vendors and persons in the guise of business transactions and personal loans to show the source of the money received from the accused. Background The accused Srikrishna is a resident of Jayanagar. After pursuing PU in Bengaluru, he completed his graduation in B.Sc in Computer Science from a university in Amsterdam. With proficiency in hacking, he started hacking into government websites and websites of business houses and extorted money on the pretext of releasing the hacked data. Hydro ganja Apart from this, he, along with his associates procured hydro ganja through the dark web and paid the supplier with bitcoins, officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ed-attaches-accounts-of-nagpur-up-firms/article35828293.ece
10 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||3 arrested for robbing people on NICE road||The Talaghattapura police arrested three persons, including a former Home Guard, and recovered four gold chains, 1.5 lakh in cash, a car, knife, handcuff, and a Home Guard ID card from them. The arrested are Shiva Kumar, Praveen Kumar and Raghu M. The trio, posing as patrolling police, used to target couples on NICE road and extort money threatening to book them under indecency if they refused to pay. The accused were arrested earlier and jailed, but after coming out on bail, they continued to rob people, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/3-arrested-for-robbing-people-on-nice-road/article35828299.ece
10 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||5,063 choose to skip this time||As many as 5,063 SSLC students did not appear for the exam either because were worried about the pandemic or because they did not get the hall tickets. The Department of Primary and Secondary Education may conduct another round in September. “There was an option to skip the exams due to COVID-19 and 5,063 students opted for this. They will be allowed to appear for the exam in the third week of September as a first attempt,” said S.R. Umashankar, Principal Secretary of the department.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/5063-choose-to-skip-this-time/article35828492.ece
10 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||App-based fuel delivery service in Bengaluru||App-based door-to-door fuel delivery service provider, The Fuel Delivery, announced the launch of its operations in the city. To start with, the firm will deliver diesel. Its service would cover diverse sectors, including infrastructure development, hospitality, healthcare, corporate offices and IT parks, manufacturing and industrial units, educational institutions, shopping malls, warehouses, agriculture, and mining machinery, and individual buyers, it said. Rakshit Mathur, Founder and CEO, The Fuel Delivery, said Bengaluru is a vibrant commercial hub that has witnessed a tremendous surge in fuel demand. Agreement with IOCL The company had also announced the signing of an all-India business agreement with Indian Oil Corporation Limited, it said. Customers can place orders on their mobile phone or the web app, with their name, mobile number, quantity, address, location, and time of delivery. The service is available 24x7, as per the company.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/app-based-fuel-delivery-service-in-bengaluru/article35828281.ece
10 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Peddlers held||The city market police on Monday arrested two drug peddlers from Rajasthan and recovered brown sugar and MDMA worth Rs. 2 crore. The accused Pappuram Ravi Purohith, 20, and his associate Chunnilal, 20, were caught red-handed at Godown Street in City Market while waiting to deliver drugs to clients.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/peddlers-held/article35828300.ece
10 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||1,186 new cases in Karnataka||The State reported 1,186 new COVID-19 cases and 24 deaths on Monday, numbers lower than what was reported on Sunday. The total number of cases now stands at 29.19 lakh and total deaths at 36,817. The number of active cases was 23,316. The positivity rate for the day went below 1 at 0.89%, compared to 1.09 the previous day. The case fatality rate, though, was up to 2.02% from Sunday’s 1.25. There were 1,776 recoveries, while the number of tests was 1.32 lakh. The number of cases in Bengaluru Urban was 296, while Dakshina Kannada reported 273.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/1186-new-cases-in-karnataka/article35828302.ece
10 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Decision on reopening primary classes later||The decision on reopening primary classes will be taken later this month, said Primary and Secondary Education Minister B.C. Nagesh on Monday. Speaking at a press conference, S.R. Umashankar, Principal Secretary of the department, said that while many reports had suggested that children in lower classes had the least risk if they contracted COVID-19, the State government had decided to open high school classes owing to practical reasons. “First of all, it will be difficult to expect younger children to follow COVID-19 appropriate behaviour. Another reason to postpone opening is because most parents of these children will be in the 18 to 45 age category and the vaccination percentage of this group is lower than for those above 45 years,” he said. However, offline classes for classes IX, X, and I and II PU will reopen on August 23. He said that the students would have to be given the option to attend either offline or online classes. Mr. Umashankar said that the government had decided to vaccinate teachers on a priority basis and 84% of them had taken one dose, while 19% had taken both. The Health and Family Welfare Department has directed Education Department officials to ask schools to prepare a list of unvaccinated teachers, non-teaching staff, and even parents of classes IX and X students. They will be vaccinated on priority.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/decision-on-primary-classes-later-this-month/article35828286.ece
10 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Why victory celebrations, asks HDK||Former Karnataka Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy has slammed the newly sworn-in Cabinet Ministers, many of whom allowed huge crowds to welcome them when they returned to the districts allocated to them. “The Cabinet Ministers have been temporarily allocated districts to manage the flood and COVID-19 situations. Instead, these Ministers are forgetting their responsibility, and have participated in victory celebrations,” he tweeted on Monday. “The BJP changed the Chief Minister to change its image. However, the Ministers have continued. They have continued with their old ways. These Ministers do not want to address the people’s plight, but want celebrations and felicitations.” He said it was not sufficient for the Chief Minister to be changed, as Ministers also need to follow the Chief Minister. “People are embarrassed at the felicitations and celebrations. The change of attitude is not being seen among Ministers even though the Chief Minister has changed. Experts are predicting a third wave of COVID-19 and the number of cases is also increasing. The Cabinet Ministers have to understand that they have a responsibility to serve the people,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/why-victory-celebrations-asks-hdk/article35828305.ece
10 August 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||KRRS, Hasiru Sene support power sector staff protest||The Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha and the Hasiru Sene have decided to lend support to the nationwide protest by the power sector staff on August 10 against the proposal to privatise the sector. Announcing this at a press conference in Bengaluru, Kodihalli Chandrashekhar, president of KRRS and Hasiru Sene, appealed to farmers to take part in the protest. “We will petition Deputy Commissioners of all districts against the proposed privatisation,” he said. He expressed concern that privatising power sector would make IP sets’ tariff unaffordable for farmers and also increase the burden on them. They may even have to pay the power bill in advance on the lines of pre-paid mobile currency, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/krrs-hasiru-sene-support-power-sector-staff-protest/article35828307.ece
10 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Waive fees of govt. college students: ABVP||The Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP), student wing of the BJP, on Monday urged the State government to waive education fee of students studying in government colleges considering the financial difficulties caused by COVID-19. In a memorandum submitted to Minister for Higher Education C.N. Ashwath Narayan, the ABVP suggested that Departments of Social Welfare, Backward Classes, Minority Development, Women and Child Welfare and Transport should work in coordination with regard to functioning of hostels and providing scholarships. It demanded that the government fill vacancies in government and aided colleges.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/waive-fees-of-govt-college-students-abvp/article35828312.ece
10 August 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Mother, son clear exam||B.R. Hemanth, an SSLC student at Lakshmipura in Sakaleshpur taluk, is happier than his classmates, who all passed the examination on Monday. It is because along with him his mother C.N. Theertha, with whom he shared his study material, also cleared the examination. Hemanth got 562, while his mother got 235. Theertha, 34, had dropped her education after Class 8. She could not study further. However, this year she took the exam at Ranganath High School at Ballupete in Sakleshpur. Hemanth was a student at Sri Malleshwara High School at Valalahalli. “As my son was in SSLC, I also took the examination as a private candidate. I used to study with my son and that helped me clear it. I am happy that both of us cleared the exam together,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mother-son-clear-exam/article35828287.ece
10 August 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Farmers should get higher relief: KSE||RDPR Minister K.S.Eshwarappa has said the State government would send a proposal to the Centre to revise the NDRF guidelines on providing relief for farmers who suffered huge losses during the floods. Flood water has left heaps of sand on 1,174 ha of agricultural land in Shivamogga district, he said in a meeting in Shivamogga on Monday. As per the NDRF guidelines, the government could provide only Rs. 1.43 crore relief. However, it would be a meagre amount considering the cost the farmers had to spend to make their land cultivable. “We will send a proposal to the Centre for suitable changes in the guidelines so that farmers get suitable relief”, he said. The district administration had assessed the total loss caused due to the rains at Rs. 491 crore. Four people and 27 heads of cattle died. The government gave relief of Rs. 5lakh each to the families who lost their members. The officers said 126 houses were damaged completely, 478 houses suffered serious damage and 532 were partially damaged. Similarly, 76 cattle sheds had been damaged badly. The people who lost their houses would be provided with shelter at care centres. A proposal would be submitted to grant rent for them until their houses were built. “We will make a decision on this after holding a meeting with all elected representatives”, the Minister said. MLAs Hartal Halappa, Ashok Naik, MLCs Ayanur Manjunath, Prasanna Kumar, and Rudre Gowda, and senior officers attended the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/farmers-should-get-higher-relief-kse/article35828681.ece
10 August 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Smart City works reviewed||Minister for RDPR K.S. Eshwarappa has instructed officers to complete works taken up under the Smart City project within the deadline. He gave this direction after reviewing some of the works under progress in Shivamogga city on Monday. “So far the progress is satisfactory. I have instructed the officers to ensure the contractors execute the work without compromising the quality. If there are any issues with the quality, the contractors concerned will face action”, he said. The Minister said during his visit he interacted with the local people to check if they were satisfied with the quality.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/smart-city-works-reviewed/article35828691.ece
10 August 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Youth Cong. workers stage protest in Shivamogga||Shivamogga district unit of Youth Congress staged a protest in Shivamogga on Monday urging Kuvempu University to promote students based on the score secured in the previous semester examinations. Hundreds of students joined the protest at Gopi Circle. They said the university could not conduct off-line classes for several months. Students in rural areas had difficulty in attending online classes due to network issues. Many students had lost members of their families to the COVID-19 pandemic. Given this situation, the student community was not in a position to take the examination, they maintained. K.S.Eshwarappa, Minister, and K.B. Shivakumar, Deputy Commissioner, met the protesters and received the memorandum. The Minister assured the protesters that he would talk to officers concerned on this issue. Youth Congress state general secretary M. Praveen Kumar, and district Congress general secretary K. Ranganath led the protest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/youth-cong-workers-stage-protest-in-shivamogga/article35828692.ece
10 August 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||We are being ignored: MLCs||Three members of the Legislative Council staged a protest alleging that the district administration violated protocol by not inviting them for official programmes, during a meeting chaired by Minister for RDPR K.S. Eshwarappa in Shivamogga on Monday. Ayanur Manjunath, senior BJP leader and MLC, said the taluk officers did not invite the MLCs for programmes at taluk centres, and did not give due respect to the MLCs. “This has happened many times. The officers continue to ignore us”, he said and attempted to walk out of the meeting hall along with MLCs Rudre Gowda and Prasanna Kumar. Deputy Commissioner K.B. Shivakumar intervened to pacify the MLCs. He said such things would not repeat. Mr. Eshwarappa also assured the MLCs that he would instruct the officers to take action against the erring officers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/we-are-being-ignored-mlcs/article35828693.ece
10 August 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||This year too, there’s no public celebration of Ganesh festival||With the focus now being more on preventing a possible third wave of COVID-19, the Dharwad district administration has banned the public celebrations of the Ganesh festival in the district as a precautionary measure. The Ganesh festival is celebrated in a grand manner by installation of Ganesh idols in Ganesh pandals that come up in almost every locality, particularly in the twin cities of Hubballi-Dharwad with a large number of people visiting these pandals. A decision on banning public celebration of Ganesh festival was taken during a meeting of officials chaired by Deputy Commissioner of Dharwad Nitesh Patil in Dharwad on Monday. Last year, also the administration banned public celebration on account of the pandemic. Mr. Patil said that while the festival will be celebrated in September, the decision was taken as a precautionary measure and also because the preparations for installation of Ganesh pandals begin early. This apart, those bursting fire crackers during the festival should use only green fire crackers authorised by the CSIR and NEERI, he said. He said that the decision was taken in anticipation of a possible third wave hitting the State in September. He said that according to experts, there could be a spike in the number of cases by August-end, particularly in the wake of a surge in the number of infections in the neighbouring States of Kerala and Maharashtra. The Deputy Commissioner said that it will be in the best interest of public health that the festival is celebrated indoors. Already, idol makers have been warned against making idols out of PoP. Getting PoP idols from other States is also totally banned and those violating the rule will be liable for punishment, he said. Chabbi Ganesh Regarding Chabbi Ganesh (Ganesh idols installed at Chabbi village), Mr. Patil said that as the Ganesh idols in several houses in Chabbi village of Hubballi taluk attracted people even from other States, it would be mandatory for those coming for darshan to have RT-PCR test negative report to enter the village.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/this-year-too-theres-no-public-celebration-of-ganesh-festival/article35828486.ece
10 August 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Special programmes, protests mark Quit India anniversary||Members of Left parties, Congress and other organisations organised special programmes and staged demonstrations in Hubballi and Dharwad on Monday to commemorate the anniversary of Quit India movement seeking the ouster of the “British like BJP” and demanding “protection of India from corporate companies”. Members of Samyukta Karnataka, a federation of various organisations, staged a demonstration in front of the Deputy Commissioner’s Office in Dharwad and said that the day had come for Indians to launch an agitation against corporate companies asking them to quit India. During the agitation, the speakers said that thousands of farmers have been agitating on the borders of Delhi for the last nine months. In Hubballi As part of Save India Day to commemorate Quit India movement and also to condemn the anti-people, anti-farmer laws of the Union government, members of CITU, AITUC, KPRS and other organisations staged a demonstration in front of the Mini Vidhana Soudha in Hubballi. They also submitted a memorandum addressed to the Prime Minister urging him to immediately repeal all anti-people, anti-labour laws introduced by the Union government. They also sought an immediate stop to all privatisation moves, adequate relief to all workers, financial assistance Rs. 10,000 per month and foodgrains to all families that were not under the Income Tax net. Office-bearers Mahesh Pattar, Devanand Jagapur, B.S. Soppin, B.A. Mudhol, Amrut Ijari, Babajan Mudhol and others led the protest. In Gadag the former Minister H.K. Patil took part in a programme to commemorate Quit India movement and the foundation day of the Youth Congress. He urged the Congress members to put up a united fight against forces that were trying to divide the country on communal lines. Similar protests and programmes were held at various places in the districts of Dharwad, Gadag, Haveri and Uttara Kannada.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/special-programmes-protests-mark-quit-india-anniversary/article35828491.ece
10 August 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Demands Day||Members of the All India Unemployed Youths Agitation Committee observed Demands Day on Monday to mark the anniversary of Quit India movement. Observing the Demands Day, the members of the committee led by Bhanishankar Goudar, Ranajit Dhupad, Vijay Doddamani and others said that their basic demand was to make employment a right and getting jobs for all. Subsequently, the protestors submitted a memorandum addressed to the Prime Minister and the Chief Minister to the district authorities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/demands-day/article35828485.ece
10 August 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Minister inspects border areas of Bidar district||Animal Husbandry Minister and Bidar district in-charge Prabhu Chavan paid visits to Karnataka-Maharashtra border areas in Bidar district on Monday and took stock of the functioning of check-posts established there for preventing the spread of COVID-19 from the neighbouring State. “Kerala and Maharashtra are witnessing a surge in COVID-19 positive cases. The government has, hence, decided to keep a strict vigil in areas in the State that share their borders with these States to prevent infected people from coming. “Officials at the check-posts should work round the clock and ensure that infected persons do not enter the State. There are reports that people travelling from Maharashtra are infiltrating into the State through remote roads, avoiding the check-posts. The officers concerned should look into the issue,” Mr. Chavan told the officers at a check-post near Examba in Aurad taluk, while issuing a warning to lethargic government servants who fail to discharge their duties of stringent action. Expressing displeasure over people not following guidelines and COVID-19 appropriate behaviour, the Minister said that irresponsibility on the part of people in following government directions will defeat the very purpose of preventing the deadly virus from further spreading. “The very purpose of restrictions for the weekends imposed in the border districts is to prevent the further spread of the pandemic in the State. Despite our best efforts, people are found violating guidelines. I once again request people to strictly follow the restrictions,” Mr. Chavan said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/minister-inspects-border-areas-of-bidar-district/article35828482.ece
10 August 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Residents demand revenue village status for Shivapur||Residents of Shivapur village and Shivapur tanda of Yaddrami taluk in Kalaburagi staged a protest here on Monday demanding that the government accord the status of revenue village to Shivapur. Prominent leaders of the village staged the protest under the banner of the Communist Party of India (CPI) outside the Deputy Commissioner’s office and submitted a memorandum urging the district authorities to give Shivapur the revenue village tag. The residents also demanded that the name of Shivapur village be changed to Ramgarh and urged the authorities to upgrade the primary school in their village to a high school. Their demands include the development of roads under the Namma Hola, Namma Raste scheme in their village, construction of underground drainage, installation of drinking water unit and allocation of land for a graveyard.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/residents-demand-revenue-village-status-for-shivapur/article35828484.ece
10 August 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Of how farmers can achieve self-sufficiency||When a majority of farmers are reeling under agrarian distress and are resorting to suicide owing to what they call “unprofitable agriculture”, here is a farmer who is making decent money by adopting traditional and multi-crop farming in his small piece of land. Gunderaya Dhulugonda, a 52-year old farmer from Pattana village in Kalaburagi district, is the man who is attracting young farmers and farm enthusiasts by practising profitable agriculture with silk farming, sugarcane cultivation, forest farming, livestock farming and many more. Last year, he made a net profit of around Rs. 10 lakh from just 3.5 acres of land that he has inherited from his father. Mr. Dhulugonda attributed the success chiefly to his reliance on his family’s labour, traditional farming methods with little or no costs on machines, fertilizers and pesticides and the elimination of middlemen while selling his produce to consumers. He has cultivated sugarcane on one acre of land. The crop is not meant for sugar factories as is the case with most of the sugarcane growers. He and his wife, Shashikala, harvest the crop little by little on a daily basis, extract the sugarcane juice using a crushing machine and sell it directly to the people at Pattana Cross on Kalaburagi-Aland Road, which is very close to his farm. Last year, he earned over Rs. 5 lakh by selling sugarcane juice alone. Another Rs. 1.5 lakh came from silk farming that he had undertaken on one acre of land. Mr. Dhulugonda has undertaken forest farming on one acre of land where he has planted a number of long-term crops which include 32 sapota trees, 200 teak trees, 200 custard apple trees, 30 purging croton plants, six Indian gooseberry plants and five java plum (Jamun) plants. Many of them, including sapota and custard apple, which are around 10 years old, are already giving returns. The teak plants are five years old and have another 10 years to yield returns. Now, Mr. Dhulugonda is planning to plant 56 sweet tamarind plants in the same stretch this year. The remaining portion of his land is full of many crops and plants which include ginger, turmeric, mint, a variety of vegetables, curry plant, lemon plants, a jackfruit tree and guava plants. The farmer himself harvests all these crops and sells them directly to consumers along with sugarcane juice at Pattana Cross. Mr. Dhulugonda has also undertaken livestock farming around his small farmhouse. There are 30 chicken, eight sheep and seven cows. “Now, we are planning to take up beekeeping from next year,” Ms. Shashikala said. Mr. Dhulugonda, who has passed SSLC, believes neither in over mechanisation nor in the use of chemical-based fertilizers and pesticides. He does not own even a tractor. He cultivates the entire stretch of land with the help of a single bullock. He himself prepares vermi-compost using the dung generated from the livestock and uses it as fertilizer. For irrigating his land, Mr. Dhulugonda has constructed a big farm pond measuring 50 m in length, 40 m in width and 38 ft in depth. There is another big well in the field. “I never faced any water scarcity for irrigating my land in the last many years. Instead of announcing freebies for farmers, the government should chalk out a programme for constructing ponds, tanks and lakes in every village, improving road connectivity and providing unlimited electricity. These measures will help farmers take up cultivation and transport their crops to the market in a better way. The construction of water storage facilities will also help raise the groundwater table,” Mr. Dhulugonda told The Hindu , standing on the banks of his farm pond. Mr. Dhulugonda is not heavily dependent on farm workers. Apart from him and his wife, there is only one another person who toils in the field on a permanent basis. He employs more workers only when it is absolutely necessary. “For the last 20 years, I have not taken any loans for farming. I am self-sufficient. Recently, I bought one acre of land with my savings and I want to build a home and school for poor and destitute children,” Mr. Dhulugonda said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/of-how-farmers-can-achieve-self-sufficiency/article35828488.ece
10 August 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||I am waiting for CM’s decision: Anand Singh||Tourism Minister B.S. Anand Singh, who openly expressed discontent over the portfolio allocated to him, has said that he has placed his demand before the Chief Minister and is waiting for his decision on it. “I don’t come before the media time and again and make statements on the allocation of portfolios. My statements before the media may annoy the Chief Minister. I have once again requested the Chief Minister what I wanted and am now waiting for his decision,” he told media representatives after offering puja at Venugopal Temple in Hosapete on Monday. To a question, Mr. Singh said that he will abide by the decision the Chief Minister will take in the matter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/i-am-waiting-for-cms-decision-anand-singh/article35828480.ece
10 August 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Set up welfare board, say domestic workers||The Kalaburagi district unit of the Domestic Helpers Union under the aegis of the Akhila Bharatiya Janawadi Mahila Sanghatane on Monday demanded that the State government constitute a welfare board for domestic helpers on the lines of the Construction Workers Welfare Board. State vice-president of the sanghatane K. Neela demanded that the government constitute a domestic helpers welfare board and also make provisions for allocation in the budget for a social security fund for their benefits. The Labour Department should issue identity cards to domestic workers, she added. The sanghatane is working towards ensuring dignity, recognition and social security for domestic helpers, Ms. Neela said and demanded that the government provide education, hostel facilities and employment opportunities for the children of all domestic helpers. She demanded that the government conduct a survey of domestic helpers who work in households. Ms. Neela sought the implementation of the resolution of the 189th International Labour Organisation Convention.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/set-up-welfare-board-say-domestic-workers/article35828489.ece
10 August 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Udupi dist. making all preparations to face third wave, if any: Minister||Minister for Energy, Kannada and Culture and Udupi district in-charge V. Sunil Kumar said on Monday that the Udupi administration is making all preparations to face the third wave of COVID-19, if any. Speaking on Udupi District Hospital premises after dedicating an ambulance donated to the government by Lakshmi Venkatesh Credit Cooperative Society Ltd., the minister said that people in general and private institutions should join hands with the government to contain the spread of COVID-19 and maintain a healthy society. The ambulance cost the society Rs. 16.5 lakh. Mr. Kumar said that many donors, public organisations and institutions have helped the Health Department by donating various material and equipment during the first and second wave of COVID-19. He thanked all of them for their kind gesture. Later, speaking to presspersons, the Minister said that he will hold a meeting on Thursday to address the issues concerning the Government Koosamma Shambhu Shetty Memorial Haji Abdulla Mother and Child Hospital in Udupi and take an appropriate decision on resolving them. He said that the employees of the hospital should drop their strike plan scheduled for August 11, as the government will address their grievances. The government is committed to protecting the interests of the employees and the hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/udupi-dist-making-all-preparations-to-face-third-wave-if-any-minister/article35828661.ece
10 August 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Youth told to keep away from drugs||Mangaluru Police Commissioner N. Shashi Kumar on Monday asked youth to keep themselves away from drug abuse. Participating as a guest speaker at a webinar on creating awareness on drug abuse jointly organised by the Central Excise and Central Taxes (GST) and Customs Commissionerates of Mangaluru, the Police Commissioner said that youth are most susceptible to drug abuse and some students are also part of drug racket either as peddlers or consumers. Anti-social elements used the money earned through the drug racket to fund illegal activities. Drugs can directly lead to various types of offences in public spaces such as nuisance and since the abuser is under influence of drugs, it can lead to petty crimes such as theft, robbery and to even serious crimes such as murder. Drug addicts have very high chances of going into depression, Mr. Kumar said and added that youth should come together to eradicate drug menace from society. The webinar was organised to commemorate 75 years of Independence. Around 500 students from 15 colleges spread across Dakshina Kannada, Udupi and Uttara Kannada and officers of Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs (CBIC), Mangaluru, including Customs, CGST, DRI, DGGI, Audit and PAO, attended the session. Speaking on the occasion, Commissioner of Central Excise, Central Taxes (GST) and Customs, Mangaluru Imamuddin Ahmad explained the challenges the country is facing, mainly because of its location between the world’s two largest areas of illicit opium production — the Golden Crescent and the Golden Triangle. He spoke about the ill-effects of the three main drugs — heroin, cannabis and cocaine — on the human body. The connection between drugs and organised crime, terrorism and insurgency were also explained to the college students in a crisp manner. Elaborating on the various steps taken to curb the drug menace, he gave details of the steps taken at international and national level. He also applauded the noteworthy work in drug seizures done by DRI and Customs all over the country. Joint Commissioner of Customs Joannes George also spoke on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/youth-told-to-keep-away-from-drugs/article35828672.ece
10 August 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Withdraw false cases against Hindutva activists: Poojari||Minister for Social Welfare and Backward Classes Welfare Kota Srinivas Poojari on Monday urged Home Minister Araga Jnanendra to arrange to issue orders withdrawing false cases filed against BJP workers and Hindutva activists, particularly in Dakshina Kannada and Udupi districts. Meeting Mr. Jnanendra at the Vikasa Soudha in Bengaluru, Mr. Poojari said that the organisations have been representing to him to get false cases filed by vested interests withdrawn. He pointed out that previous governments had withdrawn cases filed against activists of similarly placed other organisations. However, cases filed against Hindutva activists were not withdrawn, he pointed out. A statement from Mr. Poojari’s office said that the Home Minister responded positively to the demand. He said that he would get information collected from all districts on such cases. It would be brought before the Cabinet and suitable decision taken, Mr. Jnanendra promised Mr. Poojari, the statement said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/withdraw-false-cases-against-hindutva-activists-poojari/article35828659.ece
10 August 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||20 SSLC students from twin districts secure 625 marks||As many as 11 SSLC students from Udupi and nine students from Dakshina Kannada are among the 157 students in the State who have secured the full 625 marks in this year’s examination conducted last month. The 11 students from Udupi district are Abhishek Jayanth Holla from Government High School, Valakadu, Udupi; Anushree Shetty, Praneetha and Srajan K. Bhat from VKR Acharya Memorial English Medium High School, Kundapur; Anushri Shetty from Mother Teresa Memorial School, Shankaranarayana, Kundapur taluk; Navaneet S. Rao from T.A. Pai English Medium School, Kunjibettu, Udupi taluk; Pratheeksha Pai from Sri Anantheshwara English Medium School, Bailakere, Udupi; Samata H.S. from Government Junior College for Girls, Udupi; Sathwik Padmanabha Bhat from Narayana Guru English Medium School, Malpe; Shreya from Stella Maris High School, Gangolli, Kundapur taluk, and Srinidhi from Viveka Junior College, Kota, Udupi taluk. The nine students from Dakshina Kannada district are Ananya M.D. and Venessa Sharina D’Souza from Kumaraswamy English Medium School, Kukke Subrahmanya; Ganesh Hanamantappa Veerapur from Alva’s Kannada Medium School, Moodbidri; Keerthana Shenoy from Canara High School, Urva, Mangaluru; M. Sanyuktha Prabhu from St. Mary’s English Medium School, Laila, Belthangady; N. Prateek Mallya from SVS Temple English Medium High School, Bantwal; Rithika from St. Gerosa Girls High School, Jeppu, Mangaluru; K. Shreesha Sharma from St. George English Medium High School, Nelyadi, Puttur taluk, and Tanisha Rai from Bethany English Medium High School, Darbe, Puttur. Congratulating the students for doing well in the new format of the examination, Deputy Directors of Public Instructions of Dakshina Kannada and Udupi Malleswamy and N.H. Nagur, respectively, said that the efforts put in by students and teachers during the lockdown has paid dividends. Mr. Malleswamy said that apart from solving model question papers given by KSEEB, students were asked to solve additional multiple choice questions from the question bank given by teachers. Mr. Nagur said that students were called in batches to schools for training in marking answers on OMR Sheets. All 12,862 students in Udupi district and 32,657 students from Dakshina Kannada have passed the examination. No district ranking was given this year as performance of all districts are in 1A grade, Mr. Malleswamy said. In the light of second wave of COVID-19, the Karnataka Secondary Education Examination Board changed the format and gave 40-mark multiple choice questions in each one of the six subjects. The multiple choice questions pertaining to Mathematics, Science and Social Science were answered in three hours on July 19 and those pertaining to the first, the second and the third languages were answered on July 22.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/20-sslc-students-from-twin-districts-secure-625-marks/article35828665.ece
10 August 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Vishwa Hindu Parishad plans to stage protest in Ullal||Activists of the Vishwa Hindu Parishad will stage a protest in Ullal on Wednesday displaying placards condemning the support of some residents of Ullal to IS, said secretary of VHP Mangaluru Division Sharan Pumpwell here on Monday. Talking to reporters, Mr. Pumpwell said that activists will display placards between 7.30 a.m. and 9 a.m. across Ullal. “We will not allow Ullal to become a hub of IS activities. Effective action should be taken by the government against those supporting IS,” he said. The VHP, he said, has been talking about anti-national activities in Ullal. The recent raid by the National Investigation Agency sleuths on the house of the former MLA and poet late B.A. Idinabba has given proof of efforts to spread IS in Dakshina Kannada. The NIA has arrested late Idinabba’s family member and his wife, who married him after converting herself to Islam, he said. Calling this as a case of Love Jihad, Mr. Pumpwell asked Muslim religious leaders not to encourage their youth into such marriages. “If you do not deal firmly with such youths, we will be forced to take legal action and it may lead to clashes,” he said. He further called upon Mangaluru Police Commissioner N. Shashi Kumar to investigate the case and find out the reasons that forced the arrested woman into Love Jihad.  ‘We will not allow Ullal to become a hub of IS activities and effective action should be taken by the government against those supporting IS’||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/vishwa-hindu-parishad-plans-to-stage-protest-in-ullal/article35828667.ece
10 August 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||RITES to execute electrification project||The RITES Ltd., (formerly Railway India Technical and Economic Services) has bagged the contract of electrification of about 400 km railway line in Karnataka, including the 300 km Mysuru-Hassan-Mangaluru line. A public sector undertaking under the Ministry of Railways, RITES recently informed the National Stock Exchange and the Bombay Stock Exchange that it bagged the contract from the Railway Ministry, being the lowest bidder work on turnkey basis. The electrification work of Mysuru-Hassan-Mangaluru (300 km) also includes electrification of Arsikere-Hassan (47 km) line, RITES said. It would also electrify the 45 km line between Kadur and Chikkamagaluru in Chikkamagaluru district. All these lines come under the Mysuru Division of South Western Railway (SWR). The total estimated cost of the project was Rs. 461.23 crore. Union Budget 2018 provided for electrification of Mysuru-Mangaluru Railway line at an estimated cost of Rs. 315 crore. Following the Railway Ministry’s decision to encourage its PSUs to participate in tender process involving railway infrastructure, RITES too submitted its bid for the project. Sources in the SWR told The Hindu that though the contract has been awarded to RITES, a memorandum of understanding was yet to be signed between the Zone and RITES. Once the MoU and agreement were finalised, the modalities of executing the contract would be known, they said adding the work has to get completed by June 2024 anyway as per the direction of the Railway Ministry. Electrification of Chikkabanavara-Hassan stretch of Bengaluru-Hassan direct line was being executed separately. Challenging work Execution of Railway electrification on the Mysuru-Mangaluru line would be challenging for the RITES, as the line passes through the verdant Western Ghats between Sakleshpur and Subrahmanya Road (55 km) stations, dubbed as the “Green Route.” The broad gauge line passes through 57 tunnels and 109 bridges, both small and big, with the elevation difference of about 780 mts. While Sakleshpur was located at an altitude of 906 mt MSL, Subrahmanya Road was located at an altitude of 120 mt MSL. Erecting the overhead equipment including the poles and the power cables along this narrow stretch would pose challenges to RITES engineers with the region witnessing heavy to very heavy rainfall during the monsoon. Sources in RITES Bengaluru office told The Hindu that its headquarters wants the Bengaluru unit to execute the project. Finer details would be known shortly, they added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rites-bags-bid-to-execute-rail-line-electrification-project/article35828669.ece
10 August 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Olympics: Union Minister congratulates women athletes||Shobha Karandlaje, Union Minister of State for Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare and Udupi-Chikkamagaluru MP, congratulated the women athletes at the Olympics. In ‘an open letter to Indian womanhood’ on August 9, the Minister said that by winning medals, women athletes have reminded all of their strength and resilience to rise above subjugation. The achievements made by sportswomen of India in the Olympics should make parents of female children feel supportive of whatever paths they want to chose just like they would for a boy. “...I especially want to congratulate all the strong female athlete role models dominating the Indian Olympics stage. These women are not only breaking sports barriers in India, but also creating substantial social impact being the powerful role models that they are...” “...India never had a dearth of women role models like Rani Lakshmi Bai of Jhansi, Onake Obawa, Kittur Chennamma, sports icons like Saina Nehwal, P.V. Sindhu, Sania Mirza, Mary Kom and several others, and astronauts like Kalpana Chawla,” she stated. She also congratulated all participants who represented India in the Olympics.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/olympics-union-minister-congratulates-women-athletes/article35828670.ece
10 August 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||IRCS to hold free health camp in Udupi||The Udupi unit of the Indian Red Cross Society (IRCS) will organise a free health check-up camp, including checks for diabetes, and an eye surgery camp at IRCS Bhavan in Udupi at 9.30 a.m. on August 15. Doctors specialised in different disciplines will check patients.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ircs-to-hold-free-health-camp-in-udupi/article35828658.ece
10 August 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Hospital staff defer strike||The staff of the Government Koosamma Shambhu Shetty Memorial Haji Abdulla Mother and Child Hospital (B.R. Shetty Hospital) in Udupi on Monday deferred their plan to launch an indefinite strike on August 11 over non-payment of their salary for the last three months. They took the decision after Udupi MLA K. Raghupati Bhat met them and assured them of their salary dues being cleared by availing of funds from Suvarna Arogya Suraksha Trust. The MLA told them that he will try to meet Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai by this month-end to discuss whether the hospital can be managed by the government to avoid any financial problems in paying their salary in future as B.R. Shetty’s firm is in financial trouble. Sources said that about 180 staff members working in various wings such as administration, nursing, pharmacy and transport, besides doctors, have not been paid their salaries for the last three months.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hospital-staff-defer-strike/article35828662.ece
10 August 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||CM averse to reviewing weekend lockdown in Mysuru||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai does not appear to be in a mood to review the weekend curfew imposed on Mysuru and other border districts in the State. Fielding queries from reporters after holding a COVID-19 review meeting in Mysuru on Monday, Mr. Bommai said there was a need to impose restrictions in all border districts and Mysuru district cannot be seen in isolation. Recalling that Karnataka’s second wave of COVID-19 came from bordering States of Kerala and Maharashtra, the Chief Minister said the districts in the border will be the first to be affected. Hence, there is a need to secure the state’s borders and vaccinate people residing in the border areas. After Bengaluru, the highest number of visitors in the State come to Mysuru. The visitors to Mysuru, which is a tourist destination, come from not only Kerala, but also from different parts of Karnataka and other States, he said while justifying the weekend lockdown. When his attention was drawn to the strong opposition by trade bodies and business organisations in Mysuru to the weekend lockdown, Mr. Bommai said he will discuss their opinion at the state-level with the experts. With regard to the situation in Mysuru, the Chief Minister said the seven-day average Test Positivity Rate (TPR) in Mysuru was 1.19 per cent and the last seven days had seen a total of 763 cases, besides 20 deaths. During the last one week, a total of 1.26 lakh people had been vaccinated in the district.  A decision was taken at the meeting on Monday to increase the COVID-19 testing in Mysuru. More testing “Presently, 9,000 tests were being conducted in Mysuru district every day. We have to increase the tests particularly at the borders and in the city”, he said while pointing out that the city witnesses a lot of arrival of people from not only neighbouring Kerala, but also from places including Bengaluru and Kodagu. Oxygen Out of the 14 oxygen generators sanctioned for Mysuru, three had already been commissioned and six others will likely be commissioned in about a week’s time. Mr. Bommai said he will ask the Health Commissioner in Bengaluru to immediately arrange for five more oxygen generators for Mysuru. Separate arrangements were also underway to ensure medical oxygen for ICUs. The district administration had sought 20 ICU ventilators for children, said Mr. Bommai adding that officials in Bengaluru will procure them for Mysuru. In view of the experts’ views about the possibility of third wave affecting children, Mr. Bommai said he had asked the Deputy Commissioner of Mysuru Bagadi Gautham to hold a children’s health camp in all schools in each village. “All children in the age group of 6 to 16 years should be checked for malnutrition and undergrowth.” Children suffering from malnutrition and poor growth will be provided with nutritious food from Women and Child Welfare Department, besides necessary supplementary medicine from the Health Department. The purpose of the exercise is to ensure immunity among the children to counter various diseases including COVID-19, he said. Earlier, Mr. Bommai held a meeting, which was attended among others by Minister for Health K. Sudhakar and Minister for Cooperation S.T. Somashekar, besides G.T. Deve Gowda, Tanveer Sait, L. Nagendra and Harshavardhan, MLAs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cm-averse-to-reviewing-weekend-lockdown-in-mysuru/article35828688.ece
10 August 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Vaccination: Centre promises 1 crore doses a month for State||The Centre has promised to increase Karnataka’s allocation of COVID-19 vaccine doses from around 65 lakh to one crore per month. Briefing reporters in Mysuru after holding a COVID-19 review meeting, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai said Karnataka is currently receiving an average of 65 lakh doses every month. When he met the Union Health Minister during his visit to Delhi and sought an increase in the allocation, he was assured that Karnataka will receive one crore doses during August. Mr. Bommai had urged the Centre to raise the allocation to 1.5 crore doses from September, which will facilitate administration of five lakh doses every day. His proposal to give the vaccination drive a boost in anticipation of an increased allocation from the Centre comes a day after Karnataka administered 3.29 crore doses (as of August 8 afternoon) as per data shared in the Health and Family Welfare media bulletin dated August 8. In view of the threat of a third wave and a surge in COVID-19 cases in neighbouring Kerala and Maharashtra, Mr. Bommai had instructed authorities in border districts to tighten vigil. Instructions on priority Necessary instructions have been issued to prioritise vaccination to people residing in border areas. A decision has been taken by the government to vaccinate on priority everybody residing within a distance of 10 km from the State’s border, he said. Also, personnel deputed for checking people at the border should be compulsorily vaccinated. The Chief Minister was averse to revisiting the government’s decision to impose weekend lockdown in border districts. When his attention was drawn to opposition from trade and business organisations in Mysuru, he said Mysuru district cannot be seen in isolation when restrictions have been imposed on all border districts of the State. Besides, he said Mysuru received the most number of visitors in Karnataka, after Bengaluru, because it is a tourist destination. However, he said, he would discuss the matter with experts from the COVID-19 task force.  On the Mekedatu project, Mr. Bommai said he will soon visit the national capital and press for clearance of the project. He said the State government had submitted a Detailed Project Report on Mekedatu to the Central Water Commission. Though the State has been given an assurance that the project will be cleared soon, there are a few formalities that need to be completed, he said. Mr. Bommai said he will also meet the Union Minister concerned and brief him about the ground situation and also brief him about the Supreme Court orders. He said Irrigation Minister Govind Karjol will also accompany him to New Delhi, where they will meet the legal team and hold discussions. Fielding queries on the State’s finances and the status of GST dues from the Centre, Mr. Bommai said necessary directions had been issued to officials to maximize tax compliance in the State while continuing the efforts to secure GST dues from the Centre.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/vaccination-centre-promises-1-crore-doses-a-month-for-state/article35828309.ece
10 August 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||82 new cases in Mysuru||COVID-19 cases have continued to drop for the second consecutive day on Monday amidst heightened surveillance over the threat of spread from neighbouring Kerala where the cases are said to be surging. Being a border district, the government has declared a weekend lockdown in the district, till August 15. On Monday, 82 new cases were reported along with 11 discharges and one death. The active case tally has fallen below 1,500 and stands at 1,318 on Monday. Among Monday’s cases, 70 are from the contacts of infected persons, 9 ILI and 3 SARI. According to the bulletin from the Department of Health and Family Welfare, the number of samples tested on Monday was 10,705. The break-up of cases: Mysuru city – 54, Mysuru taluk -7, Nanjangud and H.D. Kote one case each, 7 cases each in Hunsur and Periyapatna, three and two cases in K.R .Nagar and T. Narsipur respectively. The active cases in Mysuru have dropped below 1,000 as the tally stands at 793. The second highest active cases – 200 - are in Periyapatna. Hassan Hassan district reported 56 fresh cases of COVID-19 and two deaths on Monday. With that, the total number of cases increased to 1,07,575 and the death toll rose to 1,290. As many as 1,081 people are under treatment and among them 49 are in the intensive care unit. Shivamogga Shivamogga reported 48 fresh cases and one death on the day. Among the fresh cases, 15 were reported in Shivamogga, 11 in Bhadravati taluk, five in Tirthahalli, three in Shikaripur, six each in Sagar and Hosanagar, one in Sorab and one more from other districts. As many as 272 people are under treatment in the district. The district reported 98 cases on Sunday, 141 on Saturday, 90 on Friday and 105 cases on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/82-new-cases-in-mysuru/article35828683.ece
10 August 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Govt. grants Rs. 9.5 cr. for PHCs’ makeover in Mandya district||Amidst the fears of an impending third wave of pandemic, healthcare infrastructure in Mandya is getting a makeover to overcome the hurdles faced while handling the devastating second wave early this year and tackle the ensuing pandemic situations successfully. Six primary healthcare centres (PHCs) in K.R. Pet taluk, which was one of the worst affected by COVID-19 in the previous wave, are being upgraded at a cost of Rs. 9.5 crore. The grant for their remodelling has been released by the government and the work is expected to start soon. An action plan for their upgradation was sent to the Department of Health and Family Welfare after discussing the proposals with the district officials to ensure that the problems faced in the last wave don’t recur. Minister in charge of Mandya district K.C. Narayana Gowda, who represents K.R. Pet in theAssembly, said the proposals had been cleared with an allocation of Rs. 9.5 crore for the works. While Santhebachahalli PHC has been allocated Rs. 2 crore, the remaining five – at Ballakere, Sindhagatta, Somanahalli, Beeruvalli and Vittalapura – had been granted Rs. 1.5 crore each.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/govt-grants-rs-95-cr-for-phcs-makeover-in-mandya-district/article35828682.ece
10 August 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Three bridges develop minor cracks in Kodagu district||Three minor bridges in Kodagu have suffered fissures in Mukkodlu, Avandi and Amyala villages and they are expected to be repaired by next month using funds sanctioned for carrying out rain damage works, said Madikeri MLA Appachu Ranjan. Speaking to reporters after visiting the villages affected by Friday’s heavy rains and minor landslides, he said the issue has been brought to the notice of the district administration. The vicinity of the three villages had reported minor landslides and damage to roads. The roads at the sites of landslides had been temporarily cleared for traffic. “Since 2018, farmers of the three villages have been suffering crop losses and are unable to get adequate compensation despite losing their crops successively because of excessive rains. I have brought the matter of successive crop losses in the three villages to the notice of deputy commissioner for considering giving adequate compensation,” he said. Mr. Ranjan suggested that the district administration can write to the government for considering allocating more compensation under the NDRF for crop loss. A house was also damaged in Friday’s heavy rains, the MLA said, adding that three villages have over 1,500 houses and the threat of damage to houses looms large during every monsoon with the villages reporting heavy rains since 2018.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/three-bridges-develop-minor-cracks-in-kodagu-district/article35828686.ece
10 August 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Ramdas stays away from CM’s programmes in Mysuru||Former Minister S.A. Ramdas, who was among the ministerial aspirants, was conspicuous by his absence at Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai’s programmes in Mysuru on Monday. On his first visit to Mysuru on Monday, Mr. Bommai was accompanied by a battery of Ministers including K. Sudhakar, S.T. Somashekar, B.A. Basavaraj, Murugesh Nirani, K.C. Narayana Gowda, and V. Somanna and MLAs including L. Nagendra and M.P. Renukacharya, besides G. T. Deve Gowda when he reached Chamundi Hills to offer prayers at Chamundeshwari Temple. Mr. Ramdas, who was absent at Chamundi Hills, stayed away from the review meeting on COVID-19 situation in Mysuru district chaired by the Chief Minister on the Zilla Panchayat premises. The meeting was attended not only by the officials of the district administration, but also by the people’s representatives including MLAs Tanveer Sait and .L Nagendra and Mr. G.T. Deve Gowda and others. Mr. Ramdas, who represents Krishnaraja Assembly constituency, was busy attending a function to hoist the party flag at the house of booth-level committee’s presidents. He said he was unable to attend the Chief Minister’s programmes as he could not have cancelled the party programme that had already been scheduled for the day. However, he told reporters that he will write to the Chief Minister shortly. However, he said he will not reveal the contents of the letter, which he will personally deliver to the Chief Minister in a sealed cover. Mr. Ramdas said his sphere of activity had been restricted to his constituency now. “Had I been made a Minister, the entire State would have been my jurisdiction. So, I will confine myself to my constituency and take the programmes of the Union and State governments to the people of my constituency.” Mr. Ramdas said he had met Mr. Bommai at his residence after he became the Chief Minister and extended support to him. ‘Old friend’ When reporters inquired about the absence of Mr. Ramdas, Mr. Bommai described Mr. Ramdas as an old friend and said he will soon talk to him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ramdas-stays-away-from-cms-programmes-in-mysuru/article35828689.ece
10 August 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Mysuru farmers seek higher FRP for sugarcane||Farmers in Mysuru are once again hitting the streets seeking a higher Fair and Remunerative Price (FRP) for their sugarcane and opposing moves to fix meters to irrigation pumpsets. With the government still not heeding to their demands, farmers’ organisations led by State Sugarcane Growers’ Association will be holding a demonstration at the JSS College Ooty Road Circle on Tuesday in support of their demands. Accusing the Centre of conspiring to privatise electricity distribution, the farmers said the government has not hiked the FRP since the last three years and the price remains at Rs. 2,850 a tonne which was fixed in 2018-19. “The Centre claims to double the farmers’ income but the input cost has gone up substantially with the steep hike in diesel prices and fertilizers. The government is shedding crocodile tears while allowing production costs to go up with no checks on arresting price rise,” said Association President Kurubur Shanthakumar in a statement here. He demanded that the FRP should be increased to Rs. 3,200 a tonne for 2021-22. The farmers are also demanding withdrawal of the Electricity (amendment) Bill. “The Centre should not go ahead with the amendment. If the amendment was effected, farmers’ pumpsets would be metered and the private companies would make them pay more. The move is a ploy to privatise the power sector. This needs to be condemned until the move is dropped,” Mr. Shanthakumar said. A protest is also being staged on Tuesday against the Electricity (amendment) Bill by the electricity staff in all district headquarters and the association has also decided to back the striking employees. Mr. Shanthakumar said the banks should not harass borrowers, particularly farmers, for repayment in view of the unending COVID-19 pandemic situation.  Farmers accuse Centre of conspiring to privatise electricity distribution Farmers said the government has not hiked the FRP since the last three years FRP should be increased to Rs. 3,200 a tonne for 2021-22||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mysuru-farmers-seek-higher-frp-for-sugarcane/article35828684.ece
10 August 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Elephant Day: Zoo to educate visitors||World Elephant Day is observed every year on August 12 to highlight the importance of elephants and also to spread awareness about the critical threats they are facing and to share knowledge on positive management of captive and wild elephants. In this connection, Mysuru zoo is celebrating World Elephant Day on its premises on Wednesday. The zoo is displaying attractive boards with interesting facts about jumbos, in front of the elephant enclosure on its premises between 10.30 a.m. and 5.30 p.m., a release from the zoo said. The public can make use of the opportunity during their visit to the zoo. An online quiz competition has been organised for the students aged between 12 and 18 years at 2.30 p.m. the same day. Those interested can go through the following link for enrolment https://forms.gle/JEDKecEpJuafBEEZ7 before August 12. Following the COVID-19 protocol is compulsory. For any queries contact 9686668099 / 0821-2440752.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/elephant-day-zoo-to-educate-visitors/article35828696.ece
10 August 2021||August 10 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Majesty of Nature||photo||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/majesty-of-nature/article35828695.ece
10 August 2021||August 10 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Action sought against Eshwarappa||The Minister’s statements are not only immoral and uncivilised but also illegal, the complaint said. They violate criminal laws under IPC Sections 153 A and B, 295, 505, 509 and under the Cr.PC, the People’s Representation Act and other laws. The activist has quoted from several Supreme Court and High Court judgments in the complaint. A Supreme Court Bench has directed the Union government to form rules to stop people’s representatives from making provocative statements and hate speech in general, as it held such statements illegal and unacceptable. The Minister’s statements are also against the spirit of the Constitution that guarantees individual freedom, secularism and right to life and liberty. Sadly, this is not the first time that Mr. Eshwarappa is making such statements, the complaint said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/action-sought-against-eshwarappa/article35828478.ece
10 August 2021||Alappuzha,KERALA||Alappuzha registers 771 new cases||The district logged 771 COVID-19 cases on Monday. It recorded seven COVID-19 deaths. The test positivity rate for the day stood at 11.36%. The fresh cases include 750 people who contracted the disease through local transmission, while the source of infection of 16 others remains unidentified. Five health staff also tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. Of the 771 cases, 116 were reported from Alappuzha, 58 from Mannancherry, 56 from Venmony, 33 from Ezhupunna, 26 from Cherthala, 25 each from Kayamkulam and Thazhakara and 21 from Panavally. Meanwhile, 1,066 people who were undergoing treatment for the disease in the district tested negative. Kottayam Kottayam continued to witness a sharp rise in fresh COVID-19 cases with 597 persons testing positive for the disease on Monday. Of the fresh cases, 592 persons including three health workers contracted the virus through local transmission. The Test Positivity Rate (TPR) for the day stood at 12.99%. With 72 cases, Kottayam municipality reported the highest number of cases, followed by Panachikkad panchayat, which recorded 37 cases. As many as 1,264 persons recovered from the disease during the day, bringing down the total active cases to 7,498. Meanwhile, 40,356 persons remain in quarantine for suspected symptoms of the disease. Pathanamthitta In Pathanamthitta, 368 persons tested positive for the disease during the day. Of this, 363 persons contracted the virus through local transmission. The contact source of three cases were yet to be ascertained. The TPR for the day was 9%. With 27 cases, Ezhumattoor reported the highest number of cases, followed by Vadasserikkara, which reported 23 cases. Meanwhile, the decease claimed two more lives. With 514 recoveries on the day, Pathanamthitta has 5,766 active cases.  (With inputs from Kottayam and Pathanamthitta bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/alappuzha-registers-771-new-cases/article35828638.ece
10 August 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Special season’s greetings from the police: Onam flowers for Pookkalam||For Keralites, there is no Onam without flowers and Pookalam (floral carpet). And this Onam, the Mararikulam police in Alappuzha are all set to join farmers and horticulturists in providing flowers for laying Pookkalam, a traditional ritual that begins on Atham day. The Mararikulam police who nurture a garden with 500 marigold plants on the police station premises will donate the flowers to underprivileged children and orphanages in the region. “Our garden is in full bloom. There are children who find it difficult to buy flowers for preparing Pookalam due to financial constraints and other reasons. We will start giving flowers to the children on Atham day (August 12). The flower distribution will continue for 10 days. It is a small Onam gift to children,” says Rajesh S., circle inspector, Mararikulam. The flowers will be delivered to the doorstep by Student Police Cadets free of cost. The Mararikulam police joined hands with a group of farmers to set up the garden during the second wave of the COVID-19 pandemic. The marigolds have been planted in grow bags and they started flowering earlier this month. Along with the farmers, police personnel at the station have actively participated in nurturing the garden by watering plants and applying fertiliser. “The idea of creating a garden on the station premises first came from the police personnel at the station. We joined them and provided the necessary expertise. The initiative has turned out to be a success and we are happy the flowers from the garden will be donated to children for laying Pookalams during Onam,” says Anil Lal K.R., one of the 12 farmers involved in the garden project. Last year, the Mararikulam police distributed ‘Onakodi’ (gifting new clothes during Onam) to those who follow physical distancing. The initiative had seen clothes—sari for women and mundu for men—presented to more than 75 COVID-19 protocol-abiding citizens under the police station limit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/special-seasons-greetings-from-the-police-onam-flowers-for-pookkalam/article35828640.ece
10 August 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Encroachments on PWD land to be removed||All encroachments on Public Works Department (PWD) land including roadside encroachers will be evicted, Minister for Public Works P.A. Mohamed Riyas has said. He was speaking at an online meeting to review the progress of various PWD projects in the district on Monday. Mr. Riyas directed PWD officials to hasten the process of acquiring land for proposed projects in the district. He asked the officials to expedite the implementation of projects that had already received the administrative sanction. The Minister said that steps should be taken to shift the vehicles seized by the police and Excise Department that remain parked by the side of PWD roads. He said meetings attended by MLAs and officials to review PWD projects would be called three times a year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/encroachments-on-pwd-land-to-be-removed/article35828641.ece
10 August 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||‘Makkalkkoppam’ in Wayanad||‘Makkalkoppam’, a parents’ empowerment programme organised by the Kerala Sasthra Sahithya Parishad (KSSP) district committee in association with General Education department, has begun at the Government Higher Secondary School at Mananthavady in the district. The programme envisages bringing the issues of children to the attention of parents during the pandemic and finding amicable solutions, P.R. Madhusoodanan, president of KSSP, Wayanad, said. More than 1,000 parents of children studying in Classes VI to XII attended the programme through video conferencing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/makkalkkoppam-in-wayanad/article35828566.ece
10 August 2021||KANNUR,KERALA||Excise officials charged under SC, ST Act||The police have charged two excise officials under the SC and ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act in a case filed by a Dalit youth, who alleged that he was brutally beaten up by the personnel. Kannur District Police Chief said the investigation has been handed over to the Koothuparamba Assistant Superintendent of Police after the issue was taken up by the public. A. Savin alleged that he was beaten up by an excise team that went to Chavassery to carry out a check based on a tip-off that a gang was trying to sell illegal liquor. The incident took place on August 3 when the excise team stopped Mr. Savin’s autorickshaw and checked his vehicle. But there were no intoxicants in the vehicle. However, Mattannur range officials Basheer and Benhar allegedly assaulted Mr. Savin.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/excise-officials-charged-under-sc-st-act/article35828568.ece
10 August 2021||Kannur,KERALA||Driver of car that hit Ayanki’s associate dies||The driver of the car that caused the death of Rameez, an accomplice of Arjun Ayanki who is an accused in the Karipur gold smuggling case, has died. The deceased has been identified as P.V. Ashwin, 42, a native of Talap in Kannur. Ashwin was admitted to AKG Hospital on Sunday after he vomited blood. He was declared dead on Monday morning. Ashwin was reportedly alcoholic and doctors suspect that overdrinking might have caused internal bleeding in him. A car driven by Ashwin had collided with a motorcycle ridden by Rameez on July 23. He succumbed to injuries caused by the accident. Rameez had been questioned by the police in connection with the gold smuggling case. He died just before appearing at the Kochi Customs office in connection with the investigation. The police had ruled out foul play in the incident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/driver-of-car-that-hit-ayankis-associate-dies/article35828558.ece
10 August 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Draft rules to speed up accident claims welcomed||Even as the draft rules published under a recent notification by the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways (MoRTH) to speed up award of compensation to accident victims or their kin have been largely welcomed, members of the legal fraternity expressed fear that some provisions could affect the quantum of compensation. The draft rules were formulated as part of the impending amendment of select provisions of the Central Motor Vehicles Rules, 1989. Many see this as a precursor to the increasing privatisation of the insurance sector, wherein such firms could benefit from the whole process, at the cost of the insured / accident victim. “Insurance firms, especially those from the private sector, will in all probability try to arrive at a settlement with the claimant for much less compensation that is due. Devoid of legal assistance, most victims could stand to lose out on compensation under heads like disability and subsequent loss of ability to earn, medical expenses, pain, and suffering,” said Sarjine Thomas, a lawyer who deals exclusively with road accident cases. Claim settlements had been even otherwise speeded up over the years, since the backlog of cases at the Motor Accident Claim Tribunal (MACT) are nowadays referred to fast-track courts or settled at adalats convened by the legal services authority concerned. “In addition, 90 days is too short a time for assessing the medical expenses of injured people, since most victims need prolonged or life-long medical care, including surgery for removal of implants,” he said, referring to the new rules. He added that the police must submit a Detailed Accident Report (DAR) to MACT within 90 days. ‘Avoid delays’ Much of the present procedural and other delays can be avoided if the police register an FIR soon after an accident (which the draft notification says must be done within 48 hours), so that victims need not waste time and effort in frequently visiting the police station. The police must also probe the veracity of the FIR, so that it withstands legal scrutiny and helps avert such accidents, Mr. Thomas added. A senior official of a general insurance company said justice could be done to accident victims if delays on the part of the police, lawyers, and many private firms at the time of settling compensation are overcome. “The amended rules will help overcome such delays,” he said. The rules also mention the need to appoint a nodal officer to speed up settlement of claims. The draft amendment further says a site plan, mechanical inspection report, and a verification report must be submitted to the tribunal, while a copy of the DAR must be submitted to victim(s), owner / driver of vehicle(s) involved in the accident, insurance company, and the State Legal Services Authority within 90 days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/draft-rules-to-speed-up-accident-claims-welcomed/article35828585.ece
10 August 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Bellmouths at key junctions to be widened to streamline traffic||Efforts are on to make optimal use of space at Vyttila, bottlenecked parts of Banerjee Road, Pettah, and Thripunithura to streamline traffic, sources in the City Traffic Police (East) said. With the PWD (NH Wing) not heeding to repeated requests to chip away parts of the roundabout and medians beneath the Vyttila flyover which unnecessarily occupy considerable space, the police have readied an action plan to enable smoother movement of vehicles in the free-left turn from the Palarivattom side towards Kaniampuzha Road which leads to the Vyttila Mobility Hub. This is because buses and other vehicles now have to jostle for space to negotiate a right-angled turn to access the road, adding to traffic snarls at the junction. “This problem can be avoided if vacant land abutting the Vyttila Mobility Hub is added to the road, at the bellmouth. In addition, we have requested the PWD to tar-coat the earthen road shoulder at the turning, so that vehicles can turn smoothly, while relocating an autorickshaw stand here and also a few posts will create additional space,” police sources said. Ultimately, the roundabout and traffic islands have to be altered to decongest the junction and to ensure steady movement of vehicles in different directions. The police have also initiated steps to close illegal cuttings on side medians, which often cause accidents at Kannadikkad and several other places on the Vyttila-Kumbalam stretch. The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) has been told to push a U-turn here southward by 150 metres to prevent direct entry by vehicles from side roads. Efforts are under way to carve out space that can be added to the carriageway at SN Junction at Palarivattom and at the chaotic junction in front of St. Martin’s Church where multiple roads converge. Similarly, the police have requested the PWD to resurface the underpass beneath the Edappally overbridge to prevent haphazard U-turns by vehicles coming from the Edappally Bypass Junction, it is learnt. Pettah, Thripunithura The police and Kochi Metro Rail Limited are working in tandem to ready a 24-metre-wide roundabout at Pettah, having a 10.50-metre-wide carriageway to decongest the junction commensurate with the scheduled commissioning of the Pettah-SN Junction metro extension. Even as the police say that traffic along the mini bypass and allied roads in Thripunithura has improved following reforms initiated in July, which included redirecting of vehicles through alternative roads, residents’ associations have demanded that reforms be implemented in a foolproof manner.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bellmouths-at-key-junctions-to-be-widened-to-streamline-traffic/article35828576.ece
10 August 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||MVD officials develop driver drowsiness detection system||A ‘driver drowsiness detection and fatal accident prevention system’ developed by a team of officials of the Motor Vehicles Department (MVD), who are in the final year of part-time B.Tech course at the Cochin University of Science and Technology (Cusat), could help avert fatal road accidents. It is a combination of six commonly available devices, of which the prominent one is a night vision camera that records facial changes. It keeps tab on yawning and frequent closure of eyes by the driver, and they are analysed using software that banks on a micro computer, following which the vehicle slows down and stops, said Arun C.D., Motor Vehicle Inspector (MVI), Ernakulam RTO, who was part of the six-member team who developed it as part of their final year project. “Initially, a red light turns on to alert the driver, and an alarm goes off. The accelerator function stops, hazard warning lamp lights turn on, emergency braking display board on the vehicle turns on [to warn other motorists], and the engine exhaust brake gets activated, if the driver fails to regain alertness, following which the vehicle grinds to a halt,” he added. The team used a Maruti-800 to test the concept. “We are trying to get patent for the technology, and preliminary steps are over to get it published in an international journal,” said Deepu N.K., MVI, Perumbavoor. The six devices cost the team around Rs. 30,000. “The price will come down considerably if vehicle makers install the system at the manufacturing stage. It will especially come in handy for drivers of long-distance buses, lorries, and cars. Accidents like the one involving a Volvo bus at Avinashi near Coimbatore in 2020 [which has been attributed to the lorry driver dozing off], which claimed 19 lives, can be prevented if a system which does real-time monitoring of the driver is installed. The response time is quite fast, and a vehicle whose driver dozes off can be brought to a halt in seconds, as the night vision camera can capture six frames per second. This can be improved and customised for further research,” Mr. Deepu added. The innovative system comes at a time when sleep- or fatigue-induced accidents are passed off as due to negligent driving in police records. Many drivers have confessed that accidents occur as they doze off while behind the wheel. Premium vehicles warn drivers when their systems detect unusual zig-zagging of vehicle or variation in grip over the steering wheel. But they do not bring the vehicle to a halt, MVD sources said. The other team members are MVIs Noufel A. and Vijesh P.V. and Assistant MVIs Vineeth V.V., and Renjith S. Their guide was Jayesh S., Assistant Professor at Cusat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mvd-officials-develop-driver-drowsiness-detection-system/article35828583.ece
10 August 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||IMA to go on strike against assault on doctor||The Kochi chapter of the Indian Medical Association (IMA) is set to launch a protest against the alleged assault of an emergency doctor at a hospital at Pookkattupady in Ernakulam. The association has threatened to suspend all services, including COVID-19 vaccination. It alleged that the duty doctor at the emergency wing of the hospital was assaulted, both verbally and physically, by a man who had gone to the hospital for treatment of his wife and children with COVID-like symptoms. Despite the Edathala police registering a case, the accused continues to roam around freely owing to his influence. It shot down the police claim that the accused had been absconding. Notwithstanding the laws for the protection of medical practitioners since 2012, it is yet to be strongly enforced. In fact, such incidents are on the rise across the State, the association alleged. Political intervention in vaccination and COVID-19 treatment often lead to tension at hospitals. The association accused the Chief Minister and the Health Minister of “maintaining criminal silence” despite repeated pleas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ima-to-go-on-strike-against-alleged-assault-on-doctor/article35828581.ece
10 August 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Tech varsity can decide on exams’ conduct, says HC||The APJ Abdul Kalam Technological University can take appropriate decisions regarding the conduct of examinations in the colleges affiliated to it, after considering all relevant aspects and taking due precautions against COVID-19, the Kerala High Court has said. Justice Anu Sivaraman issued the order while dismissing a petition filed by 29 students of various colleges against the university’s decision to hold examinations in the offline mode. The petitioners contended that the decision was illegal as the University Grants Commission had clearly mandated that assessment shall be made only by internal evaluation and previous semester scores as suggested in its 2020 guidelines. ‘Norms not violated’ The guidelines, the court noted, provided for conducting terminal semester examinations keeping in mind the protocols of physical distancing. It was also made clear that the mode of assessment of intermediate semester/year students was left to the discretion of the university. Hence, the contention that the guidelines were violated by the university in conducting offline examinations cannot be accepted, the court held. The court said the petitioners were only 29  in number, and a large number of students who were taking the examinations were not party to the writ petition. If COVID-infected The court directed that the exams be conducted by following the COVID-19 protocol. The case of students unable to attend the exams due to COVID-related reasons shall be considered appropriately by the university.  The petitioners were only 29  in number, and a large number of students who were taking the exams were not party to the petition Kerala High Court||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tech-varsity-can-decide-on-exams-conduct-says-hc/article35828571.ece
10 August 2021||Kochi,KERALA||A priest’s journey for a peaceful, green world||To call Father Prashanth Palakkappilly a friend of nature is an understatement. Throughout his career as Principal of Sacred Heart College, Thevara, since 2010, he has been known to use a bicycle to travel short distances, trying to inculcate a sense of ecological responsibility among his students and the public. Among people in Thevara, he has been known as the padiri (local expression for a priest) who rides his bicycle. He has also been part of green activities, promoting organic agriculture, gardening and creating concern for nature in young generation. Fr. Palakkappilly, 56, retired from his academic career earlier this year. He is a Catholic priest under the order of Carmelites of Mary Immaculate (CMI) and will now undertake a tour of India on his motorbike. Lesser fuel He said he was not using a car since it consumed too much fuel. “Using a motorbike is better, because it was lighter on the environment,” he said on Monday as he prepared to set out on the Trust-Green-Peace journey from Tuesday. Father Palakkappilly was instrumental in acquiring about four acres of paddy fields in Arayankavu, near Kochi, under the aegis of the Sacred Heart College, as a centre for biodiversity where students could be introduced to the basics of nature. He said he was a “sanyasi”, a dedicated man of God, who would be available for any duty to be performed on the orders of his community of the religious. The solo motorbike ride will be flagged off from Thevara on Tuesday and will reach Kottayam later in the day. He will cover Kashmir and Kolkata, Kutch and Konkan as the journey progresses over a period of two months. Father Palakkappilly is set to interact with students of various colleges on the first day of his journey. He said he would meet with all like-minded people and wanted to spread the message of peace and a sense of concern for the environment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-priests-journey-for-a-peaceful-green-world/article35828611.ece
10 August 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Accused in Nellikuzhi murder case remanded||The two Bihar natives who were arrested and brought here by a Special Investigation Team (SIT) in connection with the murder of a dental student at Nellikuzhi near Kothamangalam were remanded in judicial custody after being produced in a court. The accused are Sonu Kumar, 20, a resident of Parsando village in Munger district, and Maneesh Kumar, 23, of Buxar district in Bihar. They underwent medical examination and their fingerprint impressions were collected. The police will soon seek their custody for detailed interrogation. The 24-year-old student was gunned down using a country-made pistol by her alleged stalker, Rakhil, at her paying guest accommodation near the Indira Gandhi Institute of Dental Sciences at Nellikuzhi, where she was doing her house surgeoncy, on July 29. He then took his own life. The Bihar natives were arrested for allegedly supplying the weapon to Rakhil. While Sonu is accused of supplying the firearm, Maneesh is charged with playing intermediary between Sonu and Rakhil. The members of the SIT who arrested the accused from Bihar have been accorded good service entry by District Police Chief (Ernakulam Rural) K. Karthick. Sonu, who ran a firm dealing in money transfer, was arrested from a village near the Bihar-Jharkhand border by sleuths posing as customers. Maneesh was arrested from Patna. According to preliminary probe, the pistol was reportedly purchased at Rs. 35,000. Rakhil was also allegedly trained in using the firearm by the arrested. A statement by a friend of Rakhil that they had gone to procure the pistol from Bihar had exposed the origin of the firearm. A ballistic examination of the firearm had found it to be a 7.62-mm country-made pistol.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/accused-in-nellikuzhi-murder-case-remanded/article35828587.ece
10 August 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||1,329 test positive||A total of 1,329 people tested positive for SARS-CoV2 in Ernakulam district on Monday. The test positivity rate (TST) is 10.13%. The source of infection in 23 persons remained untraced. Five of the newly infected are health workers. Thrikkakara recorded 70 new cases followed by Vengola 46, Kunnathunad 42, Vengoor 40, Angamaly 34, Kalamassery 31, and Alangad 29. As many as 2,394 patients recovered. The district now has 23,418 active patients. A fresh set of 13,114 samples were sent for testing on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/1329-test-positive/article35828586.ece
10 August 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||One more held in fake currency case||The Crime Branch probing the fake currency case in which fake bills of over Rs. 7.57 lakh were seized from Elanji in Piravom last month has arrested one more person. The arrested man was identified as Renu Kumar, 54, of Mariyathuruth, Kottayam. This was the latest in addition to the seven arrests already made in the case. The police said that the person was part of the racket and was on the run ever since it was busted. Apart from fake currency bills of Rs. 500, police had also seized printing equipment from the building where they had been staying for over eight months in the guise of an event management group.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/one-more-held-in-fake-currency-case/article35828588.ece
10 August 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Nadar quota: appeal filed||The State government has filed an appeal against the decision of a single judge of the High Court staying its decision to include the Christian Nadar community in the Other Backward Classes (OBC) category. The single judge had held that only the President had the right to expand the list. The court also held that the government decision went against the spirit of the Supreme Court verdict in the Maratha reservation case. In its appeal filed by senior government pleader V. Manu, the government contented that the judge erred in appreciating the law laid down by the apex court in the Maratha reservation and connected cases. The judge overlooked the fact that the law declared by the apex court had prospective effect.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/nadar-quota-appeal-filed/article35828593.ece
10 August 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Reception to Sreejesh today||P.R. Sreejesh, goal keeper of the Indian hockey team that won bronze medal at the Tokyo Olympics, will be accorded a government reception led by Sports Minister V. Abdurahiman at the Cochin International Airport Limited around 5 p.m. on Tuesday. The reception will be held in compliance with the COVID-19 protocol. He will be escorted to his home at Kizhakkambalam by a slew of vehicles. The Regional Sports Centre here has announced a cash award of Rs. 5 lakh to Mr. Sreejesh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/reception-to-sreejesh-today/article35828612.ece
10 August 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Pettimudy survivors move HC||The survivors of the Pettimudy landslip have approached the Kerala High Court saying that the land allotted for their rehabilitation was in an uninhabitable and remote location. The holdings were allotted at Kuttiyar, which was 32 km away from Pettimudy, they submitted. When the case came up for hearing, the State submitted that houses were constructed for six persons in Kuttiyar Valley. The Kannan Devan company also submitted that eight houses were constructed for the survivors as instructed by the State government. The court, which directed the State government to file a detailed statement, will consider the case after Onam vacation. The landslip at Pettimudy on August 6, 2020, had claimed 70 lives.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pettimudy-survivors-move-hc/article35828577.ece
10 August 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Alarming fall in Christian population, says KCBC||The Kerala Catholic Bishops' Council, the apex body of the Catholic Church hierarchy in Kerala, has reiterated the Church’s stand that human life should be protected and respected from the moment of its conception. The Bishops’ reiteration of its stand comes in the wake of recent public discourses on families and increase in birth rates being encouraged by the Church. It was not logical to bring about a reduction in the population for the deficiencies of planning and development, the Bishops said in a statement issued here on Monday. The statement comes after four days of deliberations by the council, held online, in which Bishops from across various rites of the Catholic Church participated. The Bishops said it was a cause for worry when the population of Christians was coming down at an alarming level. Christians constituted 24.6% of the Kerala population in the 1950s but it had come down to 17.2% now, the Bishops said in their statement. The birth rate among Christians had come down to 1.8%, they said. Fishers’ concerns The council also appealed to the State government to consider urgently the problems facing people living in coastal areas. Fishers and those engaged in related activities faced serious threats and the government must consider their troubles most urgently. The prelates expressed sorrow at the death of Father Stan Swamy, who died in custody last month. The death of the Jesuit priest was a cause for worry for all those who believed in democracy, they said. They also slammed the incident in which a Christian church was demolished in Delhi and called upon the government to ensure the freedom of worship for all communities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/protect-human-life-from-conception/article35828580.ece
10 August 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Contempt notices issued||The High Court has issued contempt of court notices to the Union Cabinet Secretary and the Secretary of the Department of Personnel and Training of the Union government for not implementing its directives on the appointment of the Kerala Administrative Tribunal chairperson. A Division Bench had ordered on June 1 to decide on the appointment in three weeks. The court on Monday sought compliance with its directives before the next posting of the case on August 24.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/contempt-notices-issued/article35828574.ece
10 August 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||‘Ignoring PG doctors’ demands could hit functioning of MCHs’||Health Minister Veena George is scheduled to hold talks with postgraduate resident doctors on Tuesday to discuss their long-pending demands. The issues being raised by them such as the decentralisation of COVID-19 treatment, if left unresolved, could cripple the functioning of government medical college hospitals (MCHs) in the long run, said sources. The Government Medical College Hospital, Kozhikode, one of the major healthcare institutions in the Malabar region, is a case in point. Some of the doctors there said on Monday that though the number of non-COVID patients was considerable every day, the focus still was on COVID-19 treatment and most of the human resources was still being allocated for the purpose. Shortage of doctors Another issue is the acute shortage of postgraduate medical students, who are called resident doctors. Now, less than 400 PG doctors are in service in place of the normal number of 605. The final year PG doctors are busy with preparations for their final exams. Among the rest, almost 70 of them have been posted for COVID duty. A large majority of the over 200 non-academic junior residents, the house surgeons belonging to the 2015 MBBS batch, recently stopped their service as well. Thirty patients are admitted in each COVID ward. Three house surgeons and three PG doctors were earlier allotted duty there. The shortage has led to their number being cut short. The scarcity of manpower is affecting the treatment of those who have post-COVID syndrome and non-COVID diseases too. Some of the doctors in the General Medicine Department said they were finding it difficult to manage the around 350 patients in their wards. Functionaries of the Kerala Medical Post Graduates Association (KMPGA), an organisation representing postgraduate medical students across various medical colleges in the State, said their academic work too had been hit. The resident doctors have suggested the decentralisation of COVID treatment to other government hospitals and the training of doctors there.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ignoring-pg-doctors-demands-could-hit-functioning-of-mchs/article35828562.ece
10 August 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Good response to IRCTC’s tour package||Despite COVID-19 challenges, the Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation (IRCTC) is getting an overwhelming response to the Onam Special Bharat Darshan Train beginning August 15. The budget class 12-day package covers Goa, Statue of Unity, Jaipur, Delhi, Agra, and Hyderabad. The package is priced at Rs. 12,000 per person. Officials said that around 35-40 bookings were done via online and through the tourist facilitation centre at Thiruvananthapuram, Kozhikode, Coimbatore, and Madurai and the zonal office in Kochi. “Almost 650 out of the 700 seats have already been booked. In another couple of days, we will close the bookings,” an official said. Right from the time the booking started on July 2, the IRCTC has been receiving 35 to 40 bookings daily. The majority of the passengers are from Kerala. The package is intended for the common man to travel in the sleeper class with accommodation in dharamshalas and dormitories on multi-sharing basis. Vegetarian food, mostly South Indian, is offered to the guests, he said. Incidentally, the profile of the bookings showed that the passengers are from middle class and upper middle class, especially senior citizens and retired government officials. Non AC road transfer, tour escort, and security on the train are included in the package. The boarding points are Madurai, Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Kottayam, Ernakulam Town, Thrissur, Shoranur, Kozhikode, Kannur, and Kasaragod while the deboarding points are Renigunta, Katpadi, Jolarpettai, Salem, Erode, Podanur, Palakkad, Ottapalam, Thrissur, Ernakulam, Kottayam, Kollam, Thiruvananthapuram, Tirunelveli, and Madurai. The Bharat Darshan Tourist train proposed during October would cover the famous pilgrim destinations such as Puri, Konark, Kolkata, Gaya,Varanasi, Ayodhya, and Allahabad, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/good-response-to-irctcs-tour-package/article35828556.ece
10 August 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Govt. urged to buy Thusharagiri land||The All Kerala River Protection Committee has urged the State government to purchase the disputed land at Thusharagiri as they fear an ecological disaster if the land is handed over to the original owners following a recent Supreme Court order. The State government had in 2000 taken over 540 acres of land near the Thusharagiri waterfalls in high-range region of Kozhikode district, after environmentalists protested against the uncontrolled tree felling in Jeerakappara near the area. The barren land has now turned into dense forest inhabited by several animals and some endangered species of butterflies. Some landowners had approached the court demanding that the land should be returned to them as they were not compensated for it. The case was recently settled in their favour in the Supreme Court, and 71 acres of land have to be returned to the original owners. Chalippuzha In a recent meeting presided over by the committee’s district president K. Ramadevi, the Kozhikode district unit of the committee said that two important waterfalls in the disputed land, Erattumukku and Mazhavil, were part of the Thusharagiri ecotourism project. Those waterfalls, combined with the Thusharagiri falls, were the source of the Chalippuzha river, which was the lifeline of Kodenchery and nearby panchayats in the north-eastern high-range of Kozhikode district. If the two waterfalls and the dense forest land around them were handed back to the original owners, it would spell doom for the Chalippuzha and the forest, stated the committee. It would also affect the drinking water supply and the agriculture sector of Kodenchery, they said. The committee had urged the State government to file a review petition in the Supreme Court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/govt-urged-to-buy-thusharagiri-land/article35828554.ece
10 August 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Hospitals told to set aside 50% of beds for COVID treatment||Kozhikode District Collector N. Tej Lohit Reddy has directed hospitals to increase the number of beds with ventilator and intensive care unit (ICU) support and set aside 50% of the beds for COVID treatment. He said on Monday that though the number of the infected persons had been going up in the district, the availability of beds had been found to be limited now. This could lead to an adverse situation. All the hospitals, including the Government Medical College, those in the cooperative sector and under the Employees State Insurance Corporation, had been told to abide by the directive. The hospitals should also try to set up oxygen generator plants. Those which already have liquid medical oxygen tanks should increase their capacity. The hospitals should discharge non-emergency non-COVID patients and postpone non-emergency surgeries. Unnecessary admission of patients should be avoided. Help desks should be set up at all hospitals from where relatives could seek information on treatment. Meanwhile, 1,526 fresh COVID-19 cases were reported from the district on Monday, of which 1,503 were due to local transmission of the infection. The source of 18 others was not known. Kozhikode Corporation accounted for 339 cases of locally acquired infections, Ulliyeri 53, and Unnikulam 42. A total of 9,326 samples were tested and the daily test positivity rate was 16.75%. As many as 2,635 people recovered from the infection and the active caseload dropped to 25,239.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hospitals-told-to-set-aside-50-of-beds-for-covid-treatment/article35828567.ece
10 August 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Hit by curbs, traders now pin hopes on Onam sale||‘Hope’ is the keyword for traders across the State these days. Having won a battle of sorts with the State government over the opening of shops recently, the traders under the aegis of the Kerala Vyapari Vyavasayi Ekopana Samithi (KVVES) observed Monday as ‘Victory Day’. But, the traders know that a ‘victory’ is incomplete without a good Onam sale. “The shops that opened last Thursday are not getting the kind of sale that we anticipated. Since supermarkets were open during the lockdown, most people got everything they wanted. There is also a large section of people who have turned to online shopping,” said Raju Apsara, State secretary of the Samithi. He added that the staff at most business outlets were engaged in clearing damaged stock and cleaning the shops, instead of handling customers. The traders had criticised the government about the various regulations set for permitting the opening of shops. “It is impossible to run a business following these regulations. They ask for vaccine certificates or RT-PCR negative certificates for all staff and employers, while the State does not have the machinery to carry out so many vaccinations and COVID-19 tests a day,” said Mr. Apsara. “Most of us are in severe debt and the Onam sale is what we look forward to,” he added. ‘Victory Day’ was observed in more than 3,500 units of the Samithi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hit-by-curbs-traders-now-pin-hopes-on-onam-sale/article35828561.ece
10 August 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Maintain public toilets well, SHRC directs Corpn.||The State Human Rights Commission has directed the district administration and the Kozhikode Municipal Corporation to ensure that the public toilets in the city were fully functional. Responding to a complaint filed by A.C. Francis about the poor condition of toilets for women in the city, Commission member K.Baijunath asked the Police Chief to take action against the miscreants who dirtied public toilets. Mr. Francis had complained that drunks left empty bottles in the toilets after their drinking sessions at night.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/maintain-public-toilets-well-shrc-directs-corpn/article35828565.ece
10 August 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Forest officials to visit land||Forest Minister A.K. Saseendran has directed Forest officials to visit Thusharagiri to study further action on the land that has to be handed over to previous owners based on the recent Supreme Court order. Forest Additional Chief Conservator Rajesh Raveendran has been asked to assess the nature of the land and to ensure protection of environment and facilities for tourists. The opinion of environmentalists would also be considered before taking any decision, the Minister said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/forest-officials-to-visit-land/article35828555.ece
10 August 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Wild animal menace: farmers submit suggestions||The State government’s call for the online submission of various suggestions to prevent the wild animal menace in agricultural land is evoking a very good participation of farmers in Kozhikode district. Apart from individual farmers, rural farmers’ organisations are also actively participating in the process by submitting a slew of practical measures which can address their concerns. Many of those who have forwarded their suggestions propose to have a “Human Sensitive Zone” around the forest borders and ensure protection to the life and property of the farmers around the area. They farmers have also called for properly marking the zone by erecting power fences or digging trenches nearly 500 metres inside the forest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/wild-animal-menace-farmers-submit-suggestions/article35828643.ece
10 August 2021||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||Panakkad scion’s banner of revolt in IUML fizzles out||The controversy and tensions within the Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) kicked up by the allegations levelled against party national general secretary P.K. Kunhalikutty by a scion of the Panakkad Syed Shihab family appears to be dying down. But the issue has yet again exposed the fact that many in the first and second rung leadership of the party are harbouring ill-will towards Mr. Kunhalikutty. When IUML State president Syed Hyderali Shihab Thangal’s son Syed Mueenali Shihab attacked Mr. Kunhalikutty at a press meet in Kozhikode the other day in connection with a money-laundering case against the party organ Chandrika , it rekindled the embers within and outside the party. The issue energised detractors of Mr. Kunhalikutty in the party and helped revive, at least temporarily, their past link with foes such as K.T. Jaleel. Mr. Mueenali’s allegations gave a shot in the arm for IUML’s anti-Kunhalikutty group. However, none in that faction had the guts to speak out against Mr. Kunhalikutty. They hush-hushed and spoke off the record, saying that Mr. Kunhalikutty was behaving as though the party was his private enterprise and that his was the last word in the party. But the fact remains that for the vast majority of IUML leaders and cadres, Mr. Kunhalikutty is an undisputed and ‘complete’ leader. Although it was Mr. Kunhalikutty who steered the party to a dignified level of success in the civic body elections, he was at the receiving end for the setbacks in the Assembly elections.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/panakkad-scions-banner-of-revolt-in-iuml-fizzles-out/article35828594.ece
10 August 2021||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||No personal animosity towards anyone: Mueenali||Muslim Youth League national vice president Syed Mueenali Shihab, whose charges against Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) national general secretary P.K. Kunhalikutty stirred up a hornets’ nest in the party, has said that he will not encourage those fishing in muddy waters. Many IUML detractors led by former Minister K.T. Jaleel had joined hands and launched a broadside against the party, particularly Mr. Kunhalikutty, in the wake of Mr. Mueenali’s charges. In a Facebook post on Monday, Mr. Mueenali said the party was more important for him and that he would work to strengthen the party. “I have no personal animosity towards anyone,” he said. “Everything will be settled soon. I won’t encourage those who are trying to fish in muddy waters. My first priority will be to take care of my father’s health,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/no-personal-animosity-towards-anyone-mueenali/article35828595.ece
10 August 2021||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||Protest against delay in Kavalappara rehabilitation||The people displaced by the Kavalappara disaster of 2019 staged a protest by setting up a symbolic hearth at Pothukal on Monday against the inordinate delay in their rehabilitation. Although the government had said that those displaced would be rehabilitated in six months, about half of them are yet to be rehabilitated. As many as 59 people had been buried alive when a portion of the Muthappankunnu caved in and levelled 44 houses. When 48 bodies were recovered in a three-week-long search, 11 were still missing. As many as 64 houses were rendered unlivable by the landslip. The protest was staged under the banner of the Pothukal Congress committee. Inaugurating the protest, Samskara Sahiti chairman Aryadan Shoukath said that the government should show mercy on those who had lost their relatives and houses in the tragedy. As many as 32 tribal families which lost everything in the disaster are still in a relief camp at Pothukal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/protest-against-delay-in-kavalappara-rehabilitation/article35828557.ece
10 August 2021||Pathanamthitta,KERALA||Probe against panchayat president, others in midnight house attack||The Thiruvalla police have launched a probe into an incident in which a group of suspected CPI(M) activists, including the president of a grama panchayat, unleashed a violent attack on a family in Kuttoor near here. The incident took place around 11.30 p.m. on Sunday when the assailants, reportedly including K.G. Sanju, president of the Kuttoor panchayat, barged into the house of the 71-year-old Remanan and launched an assault using metal rods and sharp-edged weapons. Mr. Remanan, who suffered a hack injury on his right hand, has been admitted to the taluk hospital, Thiruvalla. Prior to the attack, the assailants were also alleged to have hurled explosives at the victim’s house. Besides unleashing violence, the accused also destroyed the compound wall of the house using an excavator machine and uprooted several trees in the property. The assailants also manhandled Remanan’s son and his wife, who attempted to intervene. On an alarm raised by the victims, a police team rushed to the spot, but the accused had fled the scene by then. Preliminary investigations attributed the attack to a dispute between the victim and some of his neighbours over the right of way. Based on a complaint lodged by the victims, the Thiruvalla police have lodged an assault case. A probe was on to trace the accused, officials said. Meanwhile, Mr. Sanju denied his role in the incident. The complainants, however, maintained that the panchayat president was present at the spot.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/probe-against-panchayat-president-others-in-midnight-house-attack/article35828635.ece
10 August 2021||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Vaccination in Pathanamthitta||As part of observing the Tribal Health Week , the authorities will complete 100% vaccination of the Scheduled Tribes in Pathanamthitta in a week, said Divya S. Iyer, District Collector, Pathanamathitta. Addressing a meeting of the District Disaster Management Authority here on Monday, the Collector said the vaccination of senior citizens in the district would be complete by August 15.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/vaccination-in-pathanamthitta/article35828636.ece
10 August 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Govt. likely to reopen schools in phases||Reopening of schools in the State will be considered in a phased manner, subject to approval from the Union government and agencies, including the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), General Education Minister V. Sivankutty told the Assembly on Monday. He said the shortage of digital equipment, especially in tribal areas, will be addressed by the time the shift from digital classes to online classes, where interactions between teachers and students are possible, is made. The shortage of counsellors to take care of mental health issues faced by students due to online education will be addressed. Student Police Cadets as well as the Women and Child Development Department are taking measures to help students cope with such issues, he said. Health problems As per a study conducted by the SCERT among high school students, 36% of students have experienced headache due to long exposure to electronic screens, 28% experienced eye strain, 36% neck pain and 15% vision-related issues. However, Mr. Sivankutty said that most of these cases were likely temporary conditions. Currently, the department is running various programmes such as ‘Our Responsibility to Students’ to ensure the mental health of school students. Digital classes with experts have also been included for this purpose. A tele-counselling programme, Athijeevanam, is being organised. Teachers had been asked to keep in constant touch with students and parents to provide academic as well as mental support. Classes on physical fitness and mental health are being broadcast through the Victers education channel. Awareness classes will be held for parents next month regarding the issues that the students might face while attending classes online. The inclusion of sign language in digital classes for the benefit of aurally challenged students will be considered, said Mr. Sivankutty.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/govt-likely-to-reopen-schools-in-phases/article35828602.ece
10 August 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Trial in Basheer accident death case from Sept. 27||A sessions court will on September 27 commence the trial of IAS official Sriram Venkitaraman among others, in the death of journalist K.M. Basheer in a drunk driving-related road accident early August 3, 2019. Mr. Venkitaraman, and his fellow traveller, Wafa Firoz, had arrived in the court here on Monday to hear the framing of the charges against him. The police case was that Mr. Venkitaraman was alcohol-impaired and driving the car that rammed into Mr. Basheer, who was sitting on his motorbike on the roadside and attending a call on his mobile phone from his newspaper’s office. They have booked the accused on the charge of drunk and negligent driving, culpable homicide not amounting to murder and attempting to destroy evidence. Mr. Venkitaraman has contested the charges against him. Meanwhile, tension prevailed at the District Court Complex in Vanchiyoor after a photojournalist was allegedly roughed up by a group of lawyers on Monday. The incident took place shortly after the case was taken up for hearing. Comes under attack A sizeable media contingent was present at the court complex as both the prime accused, Mr. Venkitaraman, and co-accused Wafa, who was also in the car that the involved in the accident, appeared before the magistrate court. T. Sivajikumar, photographer of Malayalam daily Siraj , came under attack after he clicked photos of the accused duo on his mobile phone as they were leaving the court. Mr. Sivajikumar, who was a colleague of the late Basheer, said a police officer questioned him for taking Ms. Firoz’s photo. Soon, a group of lawyers surrounded him and demanded his identity card. While he showed his accreditation card, they snatched it away and then ordered him to delete the photos he had taken. Despite heeding to their request, the lawyers allegedly attempted to snatch his phone too. Mr. Sivajikumar handed it over to a Sub Inspector who was present nearby. Kerala Union of Working Journalists (KUWJ) district secretary Suresh Vellimangalam, who soon reached the court, was also purportedly abused. The confrontation did not end there. A group of journalists including Mr. Vellimangalam and Mr. Sivajikumar went to the Vanchiyoor police station next compound to lodge a complaint. While their demand to register a case was apparently stonewalled by police officials, the arrival of a group of advocates at the police station premises threatened to escalate into a clash. Calm was soon restored by senior officers who urged both groups to leave the station compounds. The incident revived memories of the clash that had broken out between advocates and journalists at the court premises five years ago. Vanchiyoor station house officer V.V. Dipin said they have received complaints from both the journalists and the advocates. While they were being examined, no case has been registered into the incident thus far.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/trial-in-basheer-death-case-from-sept-27/article35828560.ece
10 August 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||State posts 13,049 cases||The State registered 13,049 new cases of COVID-19 on Monday.  This dip in cases on Monday was because of the substantial reduction in testing over the weekend. The State has been registering close to 20,000 cases daily for the past 10 days. Only 98,640 samples were tested in 24 hours, though on an average, over 1.5 lakh tests are being done in the State daily. The test positivity rate has remained stable at around 13% for the past several days and registered 13.23% on the day. ICU occupancy of COVID-19 patients, which showed a significant spike on Sunday to 2,077, remained unchanged on Monday. The number of those requiring ventilator support went up slightly to 778. 20,004 recover The State’s active case pool has not shown a sharp increase over the past three or four days and now has shown a slight dip with the number of patients at 1,69,512, with 20,004 patients reported to have recovered on the day. The cumulative COVID-19 case fatality is continuing to rise and now stands at 17,852, with the State adding 105 deaths to the official list on Monday. On Monday, the number of patients newly admitted to hospitals was 2,125. Total hospitalisations now stand at 29,342 and this figure has been more or less stable for the past few days, though the graph has been showing a tendency to climb. The cumulative case burden of the State stands at 35,65,574 cases. Malappuram tops Among districts, Malappuram reported the highest number of new cases with 2,052, Thrissur 1,762, Kozhikode 1,526, Palakkad 1,336, Ernakulam 1,329, Kannur 944, Alappuzha 771, Kollam 736, Kottayam 597, Thiruvananthapuram 567, Kasaragod 507, Pathanamthitta 368, Wayanad 291, and Idukki 263.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/state-posts-13049-cases/article35828598.ece
10 August 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Tourism Department plans Malabar Literary Circuit||The Tourism Department is considering the implementation of a Malabar Literary Circuit, connecting locations of literary and cultural significance, Tourism Minister P.A. Mohamed Riyas told the Assembly on Monday. In response to a question from Indian Union Muslim League MLA, Najeeb Kanthapuram, he said that the native places of former Chief Ministers E.M.S. Namboodiripad and C.H. Mohammed Koya, both of whom are known for their contributions as writers too, can be part of the literary circuit. Consultations are on with representatives from other countries for a Spices Route Heritage project, to showcase Kerala’s trade links with various countries in ancient times. Meetings were held with the Ambassadors of various countries during the previous government’s tenure. As part of this, a heritage tourism project, connecting old ports in Alappuzha and Thalassery, is being implemented. Memorial Several MLAs from the Malabar region raised demands for a proper memorial for the Malabar Rebellion of 1921 against the British rule. Mr. Riyas said that this will also be considered. The implementation of Barrier-free Kerala Tourism, a project to make tourism destinations accessible to the differently abled, have been completed in 69 locations, while work is progressing in 15 other locations. The plans for 36 locations were dropped due to lack of availability of land, he said. The implementation of a Pilgrim Tourism Circuit is progressing. Administrative sanction has been accorded for the project implementation at 43 religious centres in eight circuits. The works under the Swadesh Darshan Scheme at Sabarimala, Sivagiri Ashram, Aruvippuram, Kunnumpara and Chempazhanthy are progressing. The Detailed Project Report for a Rs. 30-crore pilgrimage tourism project for St.Thomas International Shrine under the Prasad scheme has been submitted to the Union government. The preparation of DPR for the preservation of Cheraman Juma Masjid is in progress.  Consultations on with other countries for a Spices Route Heritage project, says Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/malabar-likely-to-get-a-literary-circuit/article35828646.ece
10 August 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Vaccine shortage looms over State||The State is facing a dire shortage of COVID-19 vaccines and with vaccine stocks near-zero in five districts, it is likely that vaccination will be disrupted in these districts on Tuesday. Health Minister Veena George convened an emergency meeting of the Health Department to assess the situation of vaccine shortage. According to the Centre’s supply schedule, the next consignment can be expected only on August 11 Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Alappuzha, Kottayam and Wayanad districts have totally used up their vaccine supplies. The State has nine lakh persons above 60 years, who are yet to get the first dose of vaccine. On Monday, 2,49,943 persons were administered the vaccine. Till date, the State has administered the first dose to 44.63% of the population, while 18.3% of the population have received the second dose. 1,061 recover The number of active COVID-19 cases in Thiruvananthapuram district slid to 9,866 when 1,061 people recovered from the illness, even as 567 fresh cases were reported on Monday. Among the new set of cases, 500 have been attributed to local transmission while the source of infection was unknown in the others. Four health workers also have tested positive. The test positivity rate stood at 8.08%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/vaccine-shortage-looms-over-state/article35828786.ece
10 August 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||‘IUML feud signals decline of UDF’||Communist Party of India (Marxist) acting State secretary A. Vijayaraghavan has said that the internecine feud in the Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) foretold the inevitable decline of the United Democratic Front (UDF). A similar crisis is in the making in the Congress. The leadership vacuum in the IUML has spawned conflicting centres of power in the party. The situation is no different in the Congress. Mr. Vijayaraghavan said here on Monday that the dispute in the IUML was essentially about sharing the spoils of corruption. The current spell of infighting was centred on the channelling of illicit money from the substandard construction of the Palarivattom flyover to the IUML’s newspaper, Chandrika . The IUML, which held PWD portfolio in the Oommen Chandy government, had compromised public safety to make money illegally.  Moreover, the IUML was irked that it had found itself out of power for a second term consecutively. IUML national general secretary P.K. Kunhalikutty was facing a severe threat to his leadership in the party. To save face, Mr. Kunhalikutty had raised the bogey of the CPI(M) dabbling in the IUML’s internal affairs. The CPI(M) and the Left Democratic Front government had better things to do. The party and the government were focused on bettering the lot of the people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/iuml-feud-signals-decline-of-udf/article35828600.ece
10 August 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Policeman suspended||A policeman attached to the Sreekaryam police was placed under suspension after issuing a receipt for Rs. 500 in lieu of a fine of Rs. 2,000 that was charged on a youngster who had gone to a temple to offer ‘bali’ on the Karkadaka Vavu day on Sunday. Thiruvananthapuram City Police Commissioner and Inspector General Balram Kumar Upadhyay issued orders on Monday to suspend civil police officer Arun Sasi who had issued the receipt. A department-level inquiry has also been ordered against the Sreekaryam SHO who had led the drive. While the Sreekaryam police had admitted their folly after the incident, they claimed that they had made several attempts to contact the youth on phone.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/policeman-suspended/article35828789.ece
10 August 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Dacoity accused held||The prime accused and two others involved in the Pallipuram dacoity case were arrested by the Mangalapuram police on Monday. History-sheeter Jasimkhan, 28, of Kazhakuttom, Ajmal, 25, of Mangalapuram, and Muhammed Rasi, 23, of Thonnackal, were apprehended by the special investigation team to mark the culmination of a four-month long pursuit. Following the alleged loot of 100 sovereigns of gold from a jeweller in Pallipuram on April 9, the trio purportedly fled to Bengaluru and later to Goa in a car. Jasimkhan has been involved in numerous cases pertaining to theft and attempted murder. As many as 20 people have been arrested in the case thus far.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/dacoity-accused-held/article35828790.ece
10 August 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Govt. abandoned calamity victims: UDF||Members of the United Democratic Front (UDF) Opposition walked out of the Assembly on Monday, stating that the government’s Rebuild Kerala Initiative (RBKI) had failed the victims of the catastrophic floods and landslips that ravaged the State since 2019. Congress legislator T. Siddique moved an adjournment notice to discuss the government’s abject failure to rehabilitate the survivors of the landslips in Wayanad (Puthumala-2019), Idukki (Pettimudy-2021), and Malappuram (Kavalapara-2019). Many deaths remained uncertified due to failure to find the bodies. The survivors of the missing had no scope of getting compensation. Most still lived in relief camps or rented houses. They had lost their small tracts of farmland to the avalanche of mud. Leader of the Opposition V.D. Satheesan said the RBKI had received Rs. 1,779 crore from the World Bank to reconstruct flood and landslip ravaged Kerala. Nearly Rs. 5,000 crore flowed as aid into the Chief Minister’s Distress Relief Fund. But, the fund surplus had not aided the people. The Left Democratic Front (LDF) had allocated Rs. 1,000 crore to rebuild Kerala and rehabilitate the natural disaster hit population in the 2019-20 Budget. “But not a dime was spent. Instead, the LDF dubiously diverted the amount for other purposes,” Mr. Satheesan said.  Revenue Minister K. Rajan said the government had compensated the victims and rehabilitated most. It would rectify anomalies, if any. Speaker M.B. Rajesh denied the UDF’s notice.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/govt-abandoned-calamity-victims-udf/article35828599.ece
10 August 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||12,666 tribals to get title deeds, says Pinarayi||The government will take steps to distribute land possession certificates for 12,666 homeless tribals identified by the Life Mission, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said on Monday. Speaking after the online inauguration of the tribal health week celebrations, he said the government was committed to providing land and housing for tribal families. “As many as 8,764 homeless tribals have already been provided houses and more than 3,000 acres distributed”, he said. Mr. Vijayan announced that the government would set up a virtual employment exchange to provide jobs for tribals equipped in various skills. “As many as 2,646 tribals who have undergone skill training have landed jobs in India and 22 abroad,” he said, adding that efforts were on to ensure that tribal youth get access to higher education. “More mentor teachers will be recruited in tribal areas and students who have dropped out of school will be brought back,” Mr. Pinarayi said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/12666-tribespeople-to-get-title-deeds/article35828579.ece
10 August 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Actor Saranya Sasi no more||Actor Saranya Sasi, 35, who became popular through television serials and later made appearances in a handful of Malayalam films, passed away here on Monday, due to post-COVID-19 health complications. Diagnosed with a rare brain tumour a decade ago, the actor has been in and out of hospitals, undergoing several surgeries.  Condoling her death, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said her courageous fight against cancer gave hope and inspiration for society.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/actor-saranya-sasi-no-more/article35828604.ece
10 August 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Millets unit to come up at Attappady||The Agriculture Department will establish a processing unit for millets at Attappady in Palakkad district by December, Agriculture Minister P. Prasad has said. The Water Resources Department has transferred land and building for setting up the factory, the Minister said on Monday, replying to the debate on demands for grants in the Assembly. An incubation centre will also be established as part of the project at a cost of Rs. 1.71 crore. ''It is expected that the production of ‘puttupodi,’ ragi malt and energy drink can be started this year itself,'' said Mr. Prasad. The government had launched ‘Millet Village’ programme in Attappady for rejuvenating the traditional tribal agriculture in selected hamlets. Smart cards Smart cards will be introduced for farmers as part of the initiative to turn Krishi Bhavans 'smart,' the Minister said. Smart Krishi Bhavan programme will be implemented this year, he added. 100 producers Mr. Prasad said that over 100 farmer producers organisations (FPO) will be launched this year. The Agriculture Department intended to give thrust to value addition for boosting the income of farmers, the Agriculture Minister said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/millet-unit-to-come-up-at-attappady/article35828578.ece
10 August 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Flood-control dams planned||The Water Resources Department will explore the possibility of constructing a flood-control dam in the Chaliyar river, Water Resources Minister Roshy Augustine has said. Replying to the debate on demands for grants in the Assembly, he said the department would also probe the possibility of more such dams. At Chellanam The government had accorded administrative sanction for a Rs. 344-crore project for protecting the coastal-erosion-hit Chellanam. The project was part of Rs. 5,300-crore coastal conservation plans announced by the State government. Similar projects would be launched soon in other coastal erosion hotspots such as Kollengode, Shanghumughom, Alappad, Kaipamangalam, Ponnani, Kappad, Ottamassery, and Valiyaparamba, he said. “Of the 570-km coastline, seawall has been constructed in stretches totalling 370 km. Repairs/reconstruction is required in 165 km,” he said. Silt accumulation The accumulation of silt had significantly reduced the storage capacity of dams, Mr. Augustine noted. Desiltation works would be launched this year in the Aruvikkara, Chulliyar, Walayar, and Meenkara dams. The department was also planning to establish a new bottled water production unit for the Hilly Aqua brand near the Peruvannamuzhi dam in Kozhikode district, he said.  Projects for coastal conservation will be taken up, says Roshy Augustine||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/flood-control-dams-planned/article35828569.ece
10 August 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||One killed in accident||A motorcyclist was killed and eight others injured after a speeding ambulance hit two vehicles along the National Highway 66 near Attingal on Monday evening. The deceased was identified as Jayaprabhu, 38, of Attingal. The ambulance was transporting a patient and three others from Kottiyam to Thiruvananthapuram. After hitting the motorcycle that was ahead, the ambulance driver lost control of the vehicle and failed to prevent a collision with a car that came from the opposite direction.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/one-killed-in-accident/article35828791.ece
10 August 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Minister to open park||Minister for Tourism and Public Works P.A.Mohammed Riyas will inaugurate the renovated Ponnara Sreedhar Park in Thampanoor at a function to be held on Tuesday at 6 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/minister-to-open-park/article35828792.ece
10 August 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Action against those attacking doctors: CM||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said that stringent action would be taken against those who perpetrate violence against health workers. Speaking at a high-level meeting convened to discuss the increasing incidents of violence against Doctors here on Monday, Mr. Vijayan said that safe workplaces for doctors would be a priority It was suggested at the meeting that closed circuit television screens be installed at Casualty wings and OP counters, including in private hospitals. Henceforth, ex-service men should be appointed as security officials in OP counters and casualty wings. In Medical Colleges, officials of the CISF should be appointed as Chief Security officers , Mr. Vijayan directed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/action-against-those-attacking-doctors-cm/article35828787.ece
10 August 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Seaport: Rs. 94-cr. compensation disbursed||A total amount of Rs. 94.14 crore has been disbursed till now as part of compensation to those who have lost their livelihood in the project area of the Vizhinjam International Deepwater Multipurpose Seaport, Minister for Ports Ahammad Devarkovil told the Assembly on Monday. Out of this, Rs. 12.35 crore was disbursed to 262 persons who were involved in collecting mussels in catamarans as well as on the land, and those involved in selling them. A total of 900 fish workers (those involved in Karamadi fishing) were given a compensation of Rs. 52.61 crore. Another 1,221 fish workers who had to take a longer route for fishing during the construction period have been provided Rs. 23.02-crore worth of kerosene. Among resort workers, 211 persons were provided Rs. 6.08 crore and an amount of Rs. 8 lakh for 33 beneficiaries from four self-help groups.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/vizhinjam-project-rs-94-cr-disbursed-as-compensation/article35828642.ece
10 August 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Bank fraud: key accused held||A Crime Branch team on Monday arrested T.R. Sunil Kumar, key accused in the financial fraud at the Karuvannur Service Cooperative Bank. He has been the secretary of the bank for the past 21 years. He went into hiding after the Crime Branch arraigned him as the first accused in the case. Following a tip-off, a team of Crime Branch led by Ernakulam Range IG Gopesh Agarwal and Thrissur Crime Branch Superintendent K. Sudharasan arrested him from a place under the Peramangalam police limit around 5 p.m. The Crime Branch have launched a search for the other accused in the case in the neighbouring States.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bank-fraud-key-accused-held/article35828596.ece
10 August 2021||August 10 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Anger on the street||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/anger-on-the-street/article35828564.ece
10 August 2021||August 10 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Relaxed and happy||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/relaxed-and-happy/article35828645.ece
10 August 2021||August 10 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Lighting up their world||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/lighting-up-their-world/article35828608.ece
10 August 2021||August 10 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Driving home a point||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/driving-home-a-point/article35828767.ece
10 August 2021||August 10 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Back to good old times ?||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/back-to-good-old-times/article35828795.ece
10 August 2021||BENGALURU,ANDHRA PRADESH||Disquiet in Karnataka BJP camp||Though dissatisfaction is brewing among a section of Ministers over the portfolios allocated to them and some legislators over missing out on ministerial berths, they are said to be left with no option but to wait patiently without jumping the gun as the formation of Ministry and allocation of portfolios have been done with the BJP high command’s involvement. “Presently, there are two kinds of dissatisfaction. Several legislators are dissatisfied over not getting ministerial berths. Similarly, some of the party old-timers as well as newcomers are unhappy over not getting portfolios of their choice. A majority of them have desisted from turning their dissatisfaction into dissidence,” said a party senior legislator. They are figuring out a way to enter the Ministry as there are four vacant ministerial berths or methods to convince the party high command about changing portfolios, he observed. Meanwhile, former Minister C.P. Yogeshwar, who is upset over being dropped from the Ministry, has been camping in Delhi. Though he has maintained that his Delhi visit is entirely personal, speculation is that he is lobbying to enter the Ministry. Former Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa’s ardent supporter M.P. Renukacharya, who too is upset over not getting ministerial post, said he would go to Delhi if need be. ‘Citing seniority’ Similarly, former Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi, who is waiting for completion of probe into the alleged CD scandal to re-enter the Ministry, has triggered speculations by meeting former Chief Minister Jagadish Shettar who refused to join the Ministry citing his seniority. This is being seen as an effort by some leaders to forge a new alliance within the party as they belong to different camps. Party insiders feel that all such disgruntled leaders have no choice, but to wait for an opportune time to make the party leadership feel the heat. Meanwhile, MLAs, who came from other parties to help the BJP form the government, appear to have a divided opinion on the issue of dissatisfaction over ministerial portfolios. These leaders, who used to speak in one voice over any issue, are reportedly divided on the ministerial portfolio issue. This was evident with two Ministers from their group – B.C. Patil and Munirathna – taking exception to the trend of expressing dissatisfaction over the portfolios allocated to them. This comes on the heels of Anand Singh from this group publicly expressing dissatisfaction.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/disquiet-in-karnataka-bjp-camp/article35828192.ece
10 August 2021||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Stuntman electrocuted on film set; police book crew||A 35-year-old stuntman was electrocuted during the shooting of a Kannada film in Jogenahalli near Bidadi on Monday. The police alleged that negligence of the film crew led to the mishap and detained the stuntmaster Vinod, charging him and the film crew with death due to negligence. The film crew did not take permission from the authorities concerned for the shooting, they said. The deceased has been identified as Vivek and the film is Love You Rachchu , with Ajay Rao and Rachita Ram as leads. According to the police, the stunt was being shot near a private resort and Vivek, along with the stunt crew, were part of a fight scene. They used a metal rope and cranes to shoot the fight sequences, and when Vivek came in contact with a high-tension wire, he was electrocuted on the spot. The Bidadi police sealed the area for further investigation. The police summoned Vinod and the director of the movie for questioning . Mr. Ajay Rao was said to be present at the shoot, but 200 metres away from the spot where the fight was being shot. He heard the screaming and rushed to see what happened and came to know that Vivek died on the spot. Two others who were part of the shooting sustained injuries in the mishap and were taken to a private hospital for treatment . Many crew in the unit escaped soon after the incident. The police are on the lookout for them. Speaking to presspersons, Mr. Rao said that he was supposed to be part of the fight scene, but at the last minute he refused citing security reasons and COVID-19 guidelines. The scene, as per the script, involved a pool where the lead actor had to fight with the goons. However, the shoot went ahead without Mr. Rao. The police suspect that the crew was busy watching the monitor and filming the fight and no one noticed the crane coming close to the high-tension wire and then touching it, leading to the mishap. “It is very unfortunate that Vivek died and I have no words to convey to his family or face them,” Mr. Rao said. This is the second such incident in recent memory. In November 2016, two stuntmen, Anil and Raghav Uday, drowned after they jumped from a helicopter into a lake during the shooting of Masti Gudi . However, Duniya Vijay, the lead actor, miraculously survived after rescue team members helped him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/stuntman-dies-of-electrocution-on-film-set-police-book-crew/article35828190.ece
10 August 2021||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Only one student fails in Karnataka SSLC exams||As many as 157 students have secured 625/625 marks in the SSLC examination conducted last month. Of 8,71,443 candidates who appeared for the examination, barring one, all others were deemed as pass. The pass percentage was 99.99. The pass percentage for the 2020 examination was 71.8. While the Department of Primary and Secondary Education had declared that all SSLC students would be declared as pass, one private candidate had failed the examination as she had allegedly indulged in impersonation and another girl had written it for her. This year, the pattern of the examination was changed due to the second wave of COVID-19 infections. Students had to attempt multiple choice questions for all six subject exams that were held over a span of two days. Each subject paper was for 40 marks that was later converted to 100 marks, while the first language marks were converted to 125 marks. Announcing the results on Monday, Primary and Secondary Education Minister B.C. Nagesh said that 9% of the students were able to clear the SSLC examinations as grace marks were awarded to them. “Experts had estimated that the numbers would be higher than this and a large percentage of students would pass only because of grace marks, but only a small percentage of students were benefited because of grace marks.” He added that the highest grace marks given for a subject was 28 marks and 13 students had got it. The pattern of the examination helped 157 students clinch 625/625 marks, which is an increase from last year when only six students bagged full marks. While last year, as many as 301 students scored 620 marks and above, this year, 925 students managed to score above 625. Of the students who bagged full marks, 125 were from unaided schools, while 13 and 19 students were from government-aided and government schools respectively.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/only-one-student-fails-in-karnataka-sslc-exams/article35828193.ece
10 August 2021||BUTTAIGUDEM (WEST GODAVARI),ANDHRA PRADESH||Tribals who excelled in various fields felicitated||The International Day of World’s Indigenous Peoples (World Adivasi Day) was celebrated on a grand scale at K.R. Puram Integrated Tribal Development Agency (ITDA) in the district on Monday. Tribal people and leaders of various adivasi organisations welcomed Polavaram MLA Tellam Balaraju, Collector Kartikeya Misra and ITDA Project Officer O. Anand to the venue by performing traditional dances. The MLA and the Collector unfurled the national and adivasi flags and garlanded the portraits of tribal leaders and adivasi freedom fighters. They performed dances along with tribal women. The MLA said the government was taking several development works in the Agency areas for the benefit of tribal people. Later, he visited the Tribal Welfare School and Junior College for Boys, in which he studied.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tribals-who-excelled-in-various-fields-felicitated/article35828247.ece
10 August 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||ANGRAU’s 50th convocation today||The 50th annual convocation of ANGR Agricultural University will be held at Mahati Auditorium in Tirupati on Tuesday. Governor Biswabhusan Harichandan and Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy would virtually grace the occasion. ANGRAU Vice-Chancellor A. Vishnuvardhan Reddy, speaking to mediapersons at S.V. Agricultural College at Tirupati, said the varsity always strived for excellence in academics and scientific research since its inception in 1964. Over the decades, the university had witnessed a great deal of reforms in the academics, be it introduction of new courses from time to time or undertaking advanced research in various fields of agriculture, he said. In view of COVID-19, the convocation would be celebrated at the auditorium with a limited presence of 150 members. The V-C said only the PhD candidates would be allowed to receive their degrees in person.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/angraus-50th-convocation-today/article35828709.ece
10 August 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||DWCRA group told to popularise Disha app||Chittoor MLA J.M.C. Srinivasulu asked the members of the Development of Women and Children in Rural Areas (DWCRA) to be at the forefront in spreading the message on women empowerment and bring more beneficiaries under the ambit of DWCRA. The MLA, along with Chittoor Mayor S. Amuda and Corporator Hussain Ali Sha, initiated the general body meeting of the DWCRA groups of the 36th division of the corporation here on Monday. Addressing the gathering, Mr. Srinivasulu said the women groups should utilise the benefits of Ammavodi, Vidya-Deevena and other welfare schemes meant for the children. “More than 70% of the families in the corporation are being benefited with one or more number of government schemes,” he said. Chittoor Mayor Amuda observed that the women groups should undertake a campaign to popularise Disha app to strengthen the efforts of the police department in fighting crimes against women. The Mayor said that the housing schemes meant for the poor and downtrodden women would be a continuous process and all the eligible persons would be covered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/dwcra-group-told-to-popularise-disha-app-among-women/article35828707.ece
10 August 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Three youth electrocuted||Three youth were electrocuted when a tipper came in contact with live overhead power cables while unloading concrete chips meant for house construction at Kannikapuram village of Palasamudram mandal, 45 km from here, on Monday. According to the police, the tipper driver, Manoj (25), without noticing the overhead power lines lifted the trolley to unload the concrete material close to the construction site, when power passed through the metal body of the vehicle. Seeing the driver in convulsive state, two youth nearby mistook it for an epileptic attack and rushed to his rescue. As and when the duo, identified as Dorababu (21) and Jyothish (19), tried to lift the driver, they too were electrocuted. A pall of gloom descended on the village following the tragedy. The Palasamudram police rushed to the spot, and shifted the bodies to the area hospital for autopsy. A case was registered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tipper-driver-two-youth-electrocuted-in-chittoor/article35828705.ece
10 August 2021||ELURU,ANDHRA PRADESH||SI suspended for dereliction of duty||West Godavari Superintendent of Police (SP) Rahul Dev Sharma on Monday suspended Dharmajigudem SI P. Ramesh on charges of dereliction of duty. The SI reportedly did not respond to the complaints received from petitioners. Top priority would be given to the complainants visiting the police stations and all the officers had been instructed to act on the complaints swiftly, the SP said. Action would be taken against officers, who failed to respond to the complaints and act negligently, Mr. Sharma added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/si-suspended-for-dereliction-of-duty/article35828732.ece
10 August 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘State committed to tribal welfare’||District Collector Vivek Yadav has said that the State government has been doing everything for the welfare of Adivasis and indigenous tribes. Addressing World Adivasi Day celebrations here, Mr. Yadav said that through YSR Jeevana Kranthi, the State government had distributed 2.49 lakh sheep units. Each unit consisted of 15 sheep/goats and the scheme would benefit tribal people. “The State government had done so much for the welfare of tribal people and unlike any other State, the government had distributed 2.28 lakh acres of land under Forest Rights Act,’’ said Mr. Yadav. The Collector later distributed autos to the beneficiaries. MLA, Guntur West, Maddali Giridhar, MLA Guntur East, Md. Mustafa and Mangalagiri MLA Alla Ramakrishna Reddy spoke on the welfare policies of the State government. Yearly allowance “Schemes like Amma Vodi and YSR Cheyutha, YSR Aasara have enabled the families of these communities dream big. A yearly allowance of Rs. 15,000 is directly credited to the accounts of mothers and the state government had tied up with MNCs to give training to the communities,” said Mr. Mustafa.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/state-committed-to-tribal-welfare/article35828814.ece
10 August 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Drones, AI set to revolutionise farm operations||At a time when agriculture is affected by low productivity, adverse monsoon and climate change, the use of drones and Artificial Intelligence (AI) in farm operations signals a revolutionary change. Farmers in Andhra Pradesh can now look forward to tapping these emerging technologies, thanks to the groundbreaking efforts of the scientists of Acharya N.G. Ranga Agricultural University (ANGRAU). Responding to a call from the university’s Vice-Chancellor A. Vishnuvardhana Reddy, the scientists have assembled drones and developed Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) for deploying them for spraying in extents where nine commercial crops – rice, cotton, maize, black gram, red gram, bengal gram, groundnut, sorghum and soyabean – are cultivated. “While developing the drone technology suited to the local conditions, we have two things in mind –improving the net profit of crops and reducing the input cost. We are also staring at an acute shortage of labour. Farm mechanisation is still in a nascent stage. Early interventions such as a tractor have helped farmers so much and changed the way farming is done. Drones are the future of farming,” Dr. Vishnuvardhana Reddy told The Hindu.  The drone technology is being developed under the AP Sensors and Smart Applications Research in Agriculture (APSARA). Model study “A model study by the university has revealed that unmanned spraying of pesticides and plant nutrients has saved 90% of the time, reduced 25-30% of pesticide consumption, and saved 90% of water used for pesticide spaying, besides saving the health and lives of the farmers,” Dr. Vishnuvardhana Reddy said. “Drones can ensure effective, efficient, timely, and uniform spraying, and can easily reach inaccessible field locations,” he said. The advantage drone spraying has over the manned motorised backpacker spraying is that it flies very much within the same altitude and zones where air traffic and other weather parameters do not influence its safety and flight. “The control of drone lies with the pilot and reduces the danger to humans or animals. As long it is flown within the crop micro climatic zone of two metres from the canopy, it will not cause any explosion or damage to drone or human beings” Dr. Vishnuvardhana Reddy said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/drones-ai-set-to-revolutionise-farm-operations/article35828729.ece
10 August 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Extend cooperation, river boards tell A.P., Telangana||The Krishna and Godavari River Management Boards (KRMB, GRMB) have made it clear that the two Member States – Andhra Pradesh and Telangana – are duty bound to extend their unreserved cooperation to the Boards towards the implementation of various clauses of the gazette notification issued notifying their purview in “letter and spirit” and as per the prescribed timelines. As informed to the Boards already, Telangana stayed away from the joint meeting of the two Boards held here on Monday citing its prior commitments in the National Green Tribunal (NGT) and Supreme Court, where the contempt petition filed by it on violation of the Tribunal order by AP in carrying out work on the Rayalaseema Lift Irrigation Scheme (RLIS) and withdrawal petition on the Krishna River water share, respectively. The joint meeting of the river Boards attended by AP was held to discuss and chalk-out the way forward towards implementation of the notification. Chaired by M.P. Singh and J. Chandrashekhar Iyer, Chairpersons of KRMB and GRMB, respectively, Member Secretaries of the two Boards D.M. Raipure and B.P. Pandey, other Members, Secretary (Water Resources) of AP J. Syamala Rao, Engineer-in-Chief C. Narayana Reddy and others attended. Emergency meetings The emergency meetings of the two Boards – KRMB (13th), GRMB (10th) – were held with the agenda aimed at timely implementation of the actionable clauses. The Boards’ officials raised the clauses on the deployment of Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) personnel at all projects, reservoirs, dams, barrages and other structures mentioned in the schedules of the notifications, on financial liability pertaining to court and tribunal cases, on the infrastructure required including staff, records, documents and detailed project reports and on seed money of Rs. 200 crore each to be deposited by the two States to each of the river Boards’ accounts. Further, the clauses on putting in place appropriate organisational structures to perform the functions mandated by the notification by August 15, handing over of all operational projects and structures, transfer of all posts pertaining to the operational projects and structures and on obtaining appraisals and approvals for all unapproved projects by January 15 next were raised by Boards’ officials seeking AP’s views. AP to petition Centre Officials of the AP informed the Boards that the State government would submit information on the organisational structure to implement the notification soon and would approach the Centre (Ministry of Jal Shakti) on removal of some operational projects and structures from the schedules of the notifications. On the one-time seed money, the AP officials stated at the meeting that the State government is examining it and they would also submit a list of projects on which they have no reservations on being managed by the Boards within a month. Chairpersons of the river Boards also stated that the issue of deploying CISF personnel was taken up with the Ministry of Home Affairs by MoJS.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/extend-cooperation-river-boards-tell-ap-telangana/article35828186.ece
10 August 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Super speciality hospitals in Hyd. within two years||The four super speciality government hospitals in and around Hyderabad would be ready in 1.5 to 2 years. While all speciality and super speciality services would be provided at the hospitals, one speciality will be in focus at each of the facilities. The State government has decided to establish the four hospitals in Gachibowli, LB Nagar, Alwal and Sanathnagar, with each being named Telangana Institute of Medical Sciences (TIMS). The decision was taken at a Cabinet meeting chaired by Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao on June 19. The health facilities would come up at TIMS-Gachibowli, at Government General and Chest Hospital in Sanathnagar, at Gadianaram in LB Nagar, and the last one at Alwal. The facility at TIMS-Gachibowli would be expanded. Currently, only COVID services are provided there. As of now, patients from across the State have to travel all the way to Gandhi Hospital or Osmania General Hospital to avail free super speciality services. “Apart from avoiding travel all the way to the two tertiary care hospitals, out of pocket expenditure on patients is expected to come down after completion of the hospitals,” said senior officials. Not the first time In February 2016, Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao directed officials to identify land required for establishing four new 1000 bedded hospitals in the city. Back then, the hospitals were supposed to come up in Uppal-LB Nagar, Malkajgiri-Cantonment, Quthbullapur-Kukatpally, and Serilingampally-Rajendranagar areas. However, the plan did not materialise. “It’s not like nothing happened after the directions were issued. A team did scout for the sites and identified the land parcels. But it was caught up in legal tangles. It is different this time, though. A working group, formed to conceptualise the hospitals, is on the job and has conducted two to three meetings. Roads and Buildings department is involved in the major project,” sources explained. The working group includes KNRUHS Vice-Chancellor B. Karunakar Reddy, ESIC Super Speciality Hospital-Sanathnagar dean M. Srinivas, Director of Medical Education K. Ramesh Reddy, managing director of Telangana State Medical Services and Infrastructure Development Corporation Chandrasekhar Reddy and specialist doctors.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/4-super-speciality-hospitals-in-the-city-within-two-years/article35828523.ece
10 August 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||KRMB told to submit report on RLIS by Aug. 13||The Southern Zone Bench of National Green Tribunal (NGT) in Chennai has directed the Krishna River Management Board (KRMB) to visit the worksite of Rayalaseema Lift Irrigation Scheme (RLIS) and submit a report by August 13 to find if there are any violations of its earlier order on the work at the project site. According to information reaching here, a contempt petition filed by Telangana government alleging that Andhra Pradesh government was carrying out work on RLIS in violation of the Tribunal’s earlier order was before the Bench. The Bench did not allow the river board plea to adjourn the case for three works and told the board to complete the visit and submit a report by Friday. The counsel appearing for the river board submitted to the Tribunal that the Union Government was yet to appoint a committee member in place a Central Water Commission official Devender Rao, a native of Telangana, since AP has objected to his inclusion in the visiting team. The case was adjourned to August 16.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/krmb-told-to-submit-report-on-rlis-by-aug-13/article35828539.ece
10 August 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tribals seek development plan for Polavaram evacuees||Tribal people led by Adivasi Samkshema Parishad on Monday performed a ‘Jala Deeksha’ in the Sabari river on the tri-State border, demanding that the State government announce a special development plan for the tribal people displaced to make way for the Polavaram irrigation project. Marking International Day of World’s Indigenous Peoples, the parishad members took out a motorcycle rally from Chintoor to the Sabari river point, where they staged the ‘Jala Deeksha’. The protesters stood in the neck-deep water in the river where it enters Andhra Pradesh from Chhattisgarh and shouted slogans. Many women and youth also participated in the deeksha. “The special development plan, employment for the displaced people in the Polavaram hydropower project will somehow compensate the loss of livelihood for the evacuees. The State government must initiative measures in this regard,” demanded parishad general secretary Sunnam Venkata Ramana. Parishad co-ordinator Madivi Nehru, Thodam Chandraiah, and other members took part in the protest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tribals-seek-development-plan-for-polavaram-evacuees/article35828755.ece
10 August 2021||Kalpetta,ANDHRA PRADESH||Crime Branch raids tribal leader’s house||The Crime Branch of the Kerala police raided the house of tribal leader C.K. Janu at Panavally in Wayanad district on Monday. The raid was in connection with the charge that BJP State president K. Surendran had paid the Janadhipathya Rashtriya Party leader Rs. 50 lakh to ensure her support to the National Democratic Alliance (NDA). The raid was carried out by a team headed by Manoj Kumar, Dy.SP, Crime Branch, Wayanad. “We seized three mobile phones and bank details from the house,” Crime Branch Dy.SP Manoj Kumar, told The Hindu . The Sulthan Bathery police had registered a case against Mr. Surendran and Ms. Janu a few weeks ago following an order of the First Class Judicial Magistrate here on a complaint filed by Muslim Student Federation (MSF) State president P.K. Navas. Mr. Navas alleged in his complaintthat Mr. Surendran had paid Ms. Janu Rs. 50 lakh to contest as an NDA candidate in the Sulthan Bathery segment in the recent Assembly election. Mr. Surendran and Ms. Janu are the first and second accused in the case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/crime-branch-raids-tribal-leaders-house/article35828198.ece
10 August 2021||Kochi,ANDHRA PRADESH||Chennithala, lawyers file plea in 2015 ruckus case||Congress leader Ramesh Chennithala and the Bharatiya Abhibhashaka Parishad have approached the Chief Judicial Magistrate Court, Thiruvananthapuram, with intervening petitions in the discharge petition filed by Kerala Education Minister V. Sivankutty and five others. Mr. Sivankutty and other five Left Democratic Front leaders had earlier filed the petition to discharge them from a criminal case booked in connection with the unruly events in the Assembly on March 13, 2015. As the case came up, the prosecution and defence lawyers objected to the move. Deputy Director of Prosecution K. Balachandra Menon contended that the move of the Congress leader and others was to cast a shadow on the fairness of investigation and the prosecution. Moreover, a third party did not have the locus standi to file an intervening petition in a discharge petition. No copy of the application for the intervening petition had been made available to the prosecution, he contended. Supriya Devayani, counsel for the Parishad, sought to intervene in the case as the organisation felt that the State government had made its intentions clear to leave the accused off the hook. The government had earlier admitted that it suffered a pecuniary loss of Rs. 2.20 lakh in the incidents . Since public money was lost in the incidents, the general public had the right to intervene in the case, she contended.  The court posted the case for August 31 for hearing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/chennithala-lawyers-file-plea-in-2015-ruckus-case/article35828194.ece
10 August 2021||KOTTAYAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Village of lilies set to welcome visitors again||As the monsoon begins to recede, a pink blanket of water lily flowers is slowly making its way up the backwater landscape of Kottayam. After a gap of two years, the Malarikkal village in Kottayam has kickstarted preparations to welcome tourists who are set to swarm the polder banks here to catch the breathtaking view of sun rising over a sea of flowers. A tourism festival to celebrate the annual flowering season at this backwater village-epicenter of the pink bloom, will be held from the third week of August till October 15. The event is being organised by the Meenachil-Meenanthara- Kodoor river re-linking programme, in association with the Thiruvarppu panchayat, Malarikkal tourism society, and various cooperative banks. According to K. Anil Kumar, convenor of river re-linking programme, the festival will be held in about 1,000 acres of paddy fields in the village’s interior, where the lily bulbs have begun to bloom since the onset of the monsoon. As many as 120 boats will be made available for ferrying the tourists to the flowering locations here. The permitted time of visit is between 6 a.m. and 10 a.m. “Arrangements are in place to vaccinate all the boat rowers while the entry of visitors will be regulated in line with the COVID-19 guidelines. A visitor fee of Rs. 30 per head has been fixed and of this, Rs. 20 will go towards the committees that own these polders,” he said. The entry of vehicles from outside too has been banned while separate parking lots will be arranged for the visitors’ vehicles. The flowering festival at Malarikkal will be followed up with similar events at Ambattukadavu in Puthuppally-Panchikkad panchayats later next month. Last year, the flowering locations in Kottayam were made off-limits to non-locals owing to the COVID-19 restrictions. Rage on social media The flowering season in Malarikkal became a rage on social media in 2019 with visitors making a beeline for a walk through the flowers and capture photos. As per estimates, around 80,000 people visited the village during the period while the 120 boat rowers, who ferried these visitors, together earned around Rs. 12 lakh. Buoyed by the visitor influx, the State government too had announced its plan to organise a pink water lily festival along the lines of the Tulip Festival held in Amsterdam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/village-of-lilies-set-to-welcome-visitors-again/article35828196.ece
10 August 2021||NANDIGAMA (KRISHNA DT.),ANDHRA PRADESH||600 kg of ganja seized||Police confiscated 600 kg of ganja (cannabis), allegedly being smuggled from Paderu Agency area in Visakhapatnam to Delhi. Four persons of Paderu, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, were arrested, and a lorry used for smuggling the contraband was seized, said Superintendent of Police Siddharth Kaushal. On a tip-off, the team led by Nandigama DSP G. Nageswar Reddy intercepted a lorry at Perikelapadu village and found the ganja bags. Four accused, Uttar Singh, Prem Singh, Farhan Khan and Ajay, were arrested.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/600-kg-of-ganja-seized/article35828248.ece
10 August 2021||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Workers launch ‘Save India’ campaign||Taking inspiration from the Quit India Movement launched against the British rulers this day in 1942, workers’ unions, farmer and farm labourer organisations on Monday launched ‘Save India’ campaign. Leading the protest in front of the Collectorate here, All India Trade Union Congress(AITUC) SPSR Nellore district secretary D. Ankaiah demanded scrapping of the anti-worker Labour Codes, “corporate-friendly” farm laws and Electricity Amendment Bill. ‘Make fuel affordable’ The Centre should provide statutory backing to the Minimum Support Price(MSP) regime and ensure a remunerative price for farmers as per the formula evolved by noted agriculture scientist M.S. Swaminathan(total cost of production (C2)+50% for all crops), they said. Pointing out to the plight of people due to unprecedented rise in the prices of all essential commodities, they demanded that the Union government make available petrol, diesel, cooking gas and edible oil at affordable rates. Members of, among other organisations, the Centre for Indian Trade Unions(CITU), All India Kisan Sabha(AIKS) and the All India Agricultural Workers Union(AIAWU) raised slogans to press for filling of all vacancies in government and public sector units and demanded minimum wages and social security to casual, contract, scheme and unorganised workers. They wanted the Centre to increase the budget for Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme to provide job to workers for 200 days at the rate of Rs. 600 per day in rural areas and enact a law for implementation of an employment guarantee scheme for the workers in cities and towns also. Cash transfer They demanded a cash transfer of Rs. 7,500 per month for all non-income tax paying families, 10 kg free food grains per person per month, free vaccine for all against COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/workers-farmers-launch-save-india-campaign/article35828722.ece
10 August 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Education is the key to development, Prakasam Collector tells tribal children||Prakasam District Collector Pravin Kumar on Monday exhorted the tribal children to make best use of the educational opportunities provided by the Union and State governments. Taking part in the celebrations held to mark the ‘International Day of the World Indigenous Peoples’ here, he said education is key to development. A survey had been completed to provide more pieces of land to the indigenous people living in the Nallamalas, under the Scheduled Tribes and Other Traditional Forest Dwellers (Recognition of Forest Rights) Act and funds from Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme(MGNREGS) would be used for developing the land. Noting that a majority of the tribals suffered from poor health conditions, he said the district administration was taking steps to bring down the infant mortality and maternal mortality rates among them. Paying tributes to noted freedom fighter Alluri Sitarama Raju, Ongole Mayor Gangada Sujata recalled the historic struggle launched by “Manyam Veerudu” to assert the rights of forest dwellers during the British Raj. The YSR Congress Party government was committed to improving lives of tribals, Member of Legislative Council Pothula Sunitha said while making a mention of the host of welfare schemes launched by the government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/education-key-to-development-collector-tells-tribal-children/article35828715.ece
10 August 2021||ONGOLE/NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Virus claims four lives in South Coastal A.P.||COVID-19 casualties continued unabated in South Coastal Andhra Pradesh as two persons each in SPSR Nellore district and Prakasam district succumbed to the viral disease in the last 24 hours. With this, the toll went up to 1,989 in the region. So far, 1,020 persons in Prakasam district and another 969 persons in SPSR Nellore district have lost the battle against the infection. As many as 301 persons in the region, including 94 in Prakasam district got infected in the 24 hours ending 9 a.m. on Monday taking the cumulative coronavirus case count to over 2.67 lakh. 269 recoveries Meanwhile, 269 persons who had contracted the COVID-19 infection in the region, including 106 in Prakasam district, recovered from the disease, according to a health bulletin released by the State government. As of Monday, SPSR Nellore district has 2,607 active cases and Prakasam district 1,861 such cases,according to the bulletin.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/virus-claims-four-lives-in-south-coastal-ap/article35828716.ece
10 August 2021||POLAVARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Construction of diaphragm wall at Polavaram begins||The Megha Engineering and Infrastructures Limited (MEIL) has taken up the construction of the lower cofferdam diaphragm wall at the Polavaram irrigation project site on Monday. MEIL vice-president Rangarajan performed the bhumi puja at the project site and launched the works. Mr. Rangarajan said that MEIL was completing the Polavaram works as per schedule, and the upper cofferdam works were about to be completed. The lower cofferdam diaphragm works would be taken up in time, said Mr. Mishra. After completing the upper and lower cofferdams, construction of earth-cum-rock-fill (ECRF) dam would be taken up. Upper cofferdam would be constructed at 45.2 metres height, while the lower dam would be built at 30.50 metres. The diaphragm wall is being constructed for taking up the ECRF works, which would be completed soon, the MEIL officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/construction-of-diaphragm-wall-at-polavaram-begins/article35828749.ece
10 August 2021||RAJAMAHENDRAVARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rallies taken out in East Godavari||Left parties, trade unions, and agricultural workers’ associations on Monday took out a large rally in Rajamahendravaram city on the occasion of Quit India Day, demanding the Centre to withdraw its three farm laws and the National Education Policy. The rally was taken out from Kolagummam to Kotipalli in the city as part of the ‘Save India’ campaign launched by Left parties against the policies instituted by the Centre. Farmers, Left party representatives, students, and women raised slogans against the three farm laws, giving a call to civil society to intensify the Save India campaign. East Godavari CPI district secretary Thatipaka Madhu and CPI(M) District Secretary T. Arun have demanded the Central government to withdraw their policy of privatising the Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP) and settle the Resettlement and Rehabilitation package for the people displaced by the Polavaram irrigation project. Representatives of AITUC, CITU, SFI, and INTUC participated in the rally.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rallies-taken-out-in-east-godavari/article35828774.ece
10 August 2021||RAMPACHODAVARAM (EAST GODAVARI),ANDHRA PRADESH||Hospitals, village secretariats in Rampa Agency to get Internet connectivity||Backward Classes Welfare Minister Ch. Venu Gopala Krishna on Monday laid the foundation stone for the work under the A.P. Fibre Grid project that aims at providing internet connectivity to 48 ward and village secretariats, primary health centres (PHCs) and community health centres (CHCs) in the Rampa Agency of East Godavari district. The stole-laying ceremony for the Rs. 6.5-crore project marked the International Day of World’s Indigenous Peoples. Participating in a rally taken out as part of the celebration in Rampachodavaram, the Minister, accompanied by Rampachodavaram MLA N. Dhana Lakshmi, said that the State government was committed to conservation and protection of the socio-cultural diversity of the tribal communities. Addressing a gathering of tribal people, their community leaders and government officials, Mr. Venu Gopala Krishna said the Agency areas spread over more than 40% of the geographical area of East Godavari district. “The Agency is a home to the cultural diversity of the tribes including Konda Reddy, a Particularly Vulnerable Tribal Group. The State government will strive to protect this cultural heritage,” he said. Drinking water Rampachodavaram ITDA Project Officer C.V. Praveen Adithya said that a drinking water project was in progress and it was targeted to providing safe drinking water to 450 tribal habitations within two years. Pattas distributed As many as 1,846 beneficiaries received pattas for 3653 acres of land distributed under the ST and Other Traditional Forest Dwellers (Recognition of Forest Rights) Act, 2006. In Chintoor Agency, a huge number of tribal people took part in the celebrations. They perform the Kommu Koya dance on the ITDA Chintoor campus. The tribal people led by ITDA Project Officer A.Venkata Ramana took out a rally. The participants, in their traditional attire, showcased their cultural heritage. Artistes from the Tummala-Ramannagudem area performed the Kommu Koya dance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/hospitals-village-secretariats-in-rampa-agency-to-get-internet-connectivity/article35828753.ece
10 August 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Lawyers attack journalists on court premises in Kerala||Tension prevailed at the District Court Complex in Vanchiyoor after a photojournalist was allegedly roughed up by a group of lawyers on Monday. The incident took place shortly after the case pertaining to the controversial drunk driving accident that caused the death of journalist K.M. Basheer was taken up for hearing. A sizeable media contingent was present at the court complex as the two accused, IAS officer Sriram Venkitaraman, and Wafa, who was also in the car that was involved in the accident, appeared before the magistrate court. T. Sivajikumar, photographer of Malayalam daily Siraj , came under attack after he clicked photos of the accused duo on his mobile phone as they were leaving the court. Mr. Sivajikumar, who was a colleague of the late K.M. Basheer, said a police officer questioned him for taking Ms. Wafa’s photo. Soon, a group of lawyers surrounded him and demanded his identity card. While he showed his accreditation card, they snatched it away and then ordered him to delete the photos he had taken. Despite heeding to their request, the lawyers allegedly attempted to snatch his phone too. Mr. Sivajikumar handed it over to a Sub Inspector who was present nearby. Kerala Union of Working Journalists (KUWJ) district secretary Suresh Vellimangalam, who soon reached the court, was also purportedly abused. The confrontation did not end there. A group of journalists including Mr. Vellimangalam and Mr. Sivajikumar went to the Vanchiyoor police station next compound to lodge a complaint. While their demand to register a case was apparently stonewalled by police officials, the arrival of a group of advocates at the police station premises threatened to escalate into a clash. Calm was soon restored by senior officers who urged both groups to leave the station compounds. The incident revived memories of the clash that had broken out between advocates and journalists at the court premises five years ago. Vanchiyoor station house officer V.V. Dipin said they have received complaints from both the journalists and the advocates. While they were being examined, no case has been registered into the incident thus far.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/lawyers-attack-journalists-on-court-premises-in-kerala/article35828200.ece
10 August 2021||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||TTD to celebrate ‘Mana Gudi’ in Telugu States||The Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanms has resolved to celebrate Mana Gudi in both the Telugu States during the month. COVID-19 guidelines As part of the programme aimed at inculcating moral and traditional values among the masses, particularly the youth, and encourage them play an active role in restoring the lost glory of the temples, the TTD has decided to organise Varalakshmi Vratam on August 20, Sravana Pournami (August 22) and Sri Krishna Janmastami on August 30 at all the identified temples at various district headquarters in both the States by adhering to COVID-19 guidelines. While all the dharmic projects under the TTD Hindu Dharma Prachara Parishad (HDPP) shall assist the priests carry out Varalakshmi Vratam at their respective temples, religious discourses would be organised on Sravan Pournami and Go Puja and Utlotsavam on the day of Sri Krishna Janmastami.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ttd-to-celebrate-mana-gudi-in-telugu-states/article35828736.ece
10 August 2021||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||Subba Reddy among the few to get a second term as TTD Chairman||Y.V. Subba Reddy, who has been re-appointed as the Chairman of the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanam (TTD) trust board, is among the few people who got the opportunity to serve the institution for two terms. Though the tenure of the TTD Chairman is two years, Kanumuri Bapiraju had served the institution for five years in two different spells, while T. Subbarami Reddy and D.K. Adi Kesavulu Naidu held the coveted post twice and served for four years each.Mr. Subba Reddy was first nominated to the post on June 21, 2019 soon after the YSRCP clinched power in the State. The government had then nominated 24 members as trustees along with eight other members as Special Invitees. With the completion of the board’s two-year tenure in June this year, the State government took everyone by surprise by constituting a two-member Specified Authority (SA) with the TTD Executive Officer K.S. Jawahar Reddy as Chairman and Additional EO A.V. Dharma Reddy as convener. Speculations are rife that Mr. Subba Reddy may take oath on Wednesday after securing the nod from Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/subba-reddy-among-the-few-to-get-a-second-term-as-ttd-chairman/article35828737.ece
10 August 2021||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||Garuda Seva to be held twice this month||Garuda Seva will be held twice this month at the hill temple of Lord Venkateswara in Tirumala. The monthly event, which is usually observed on every Pournami(which falls on 23 this month), will also be held on August 13, on the eve of the Garuda Panchami. The procession of Garuda Vahanam will be organized between 7 p.m. and 9 p.m. on both the occasions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/garuda-seva-to-be-held-twice-this-month/article35828723.ece
10 August 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Coffee table book on Sri Sri’s Mahaprasthanam released||Tirupati Deputy Mayor B. Abhinay Reddy on Monday released the coffee table book on noted poet Sri Sri’s magnum opus ‘Mahaprasthanam’ here. Noted poet Namini Subramanyam Naidu and Bengaluru-based nonagenarian Peddi Satyanarayana received the first and second copies respectively. Mr. Abhinay Reddy dubbed ‘Mahaprasthanam’ as a guide to the youth in triggering the spark of revolution in aspiring minds. Noted film lyricist Bhuvanachandra descried the work as ‘priceless’ and hailed Sri Sri as having conquered time. “A poet can never be called one if he had not read this work. Sri Sri showed the taste of Telugu poetry to the world. Mahaprasthanam will live as long as Telugu remains,” he said. “It was the revolutionary poet’s dream, revealed in his own words, to see the ‘life size’ Mahaprasthanam published in his own manuscript. This has come true today”, observed Tirupati MLA B. Karunakar Reddy. Though having a wide age gap, he recalled his association with Sri Sri during his student days, when he had an inclination towards revolutionary literature. Visweswara Rao of Sri Sri Printers, Vijayawada, called it a privilege to have published an epic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/coffee-table-book-on-sri-sris-mahaprasthanam-released/article35828725.ece
10 August 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Competitions held on World Adivasi Day||The World Adivasi Day was observed at Sri Venkateswara Veterinary University’s (SVVU) College of Veterinary Sciences here on Monday, where prizes were distributed to students who excelled in essay writing competition on the topic ‘Role of Adivasis in preserving Indian culture’. Director (Student affairs) A. Ravi, associate dean K. Adhilakshmamma and SC/ST Cell convener B. Rambabu Naik gave away the first, second and third prizes to V. Mani, Venkata Ratna and S. Uma Maheswari respectively.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/competitions-held-to-mark-world-adivasi-day/article35828724.ece
10 August 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. steps for women’s safety come in for praise||British Deputy High Commissioner Andrew Fleming on Monday met Andhra Pradesh Mahila Commission Chairperson Vasireddy Padma and enquired about cyber crime and trafficking in women in the State. Ms. Padma said the Mahila Commission was organising several awareness programmes for women on cyber crime, Disha app, domestic violence, harassment at work spot, dowry harassment and on prevention of trafficking. Director R. Suez said that the Mahila Commission had provided treatment for many poor women, particularly pregnant women, during the pandemic. The commission had made available a helpline, responded to the calls and extended medical aid to the needy women, she explained. When Ms. Padma explained about the activities of Mahila Police, village and ward secretariats, Mr. Fleming appreciated the activities of the State government and the commission in providing security for women. Mr. Fleming enquired about the representation of women in the Assembly, Cabinet and the local bodies. Ms. Padma said women occupied the Deputy Chief Minister and Home Minister positions in the State. Women in Assembly “The percentage of women in local bodies is 33, and it’s about 30 in the Assembly. The number of women in the Assembly is likely to go up in the next general elections,” Ms. Padma said. The Commission Director explained about Disha Mahila Police Stations, Disha Integrated Crime Scene Management Vehicles, proposal for special courts and other measures being taken up by the government for women’s protection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govt-steps-for-womens-safety-come-in-for-praise/article35828812.ece
10 August 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Devotees go on a shopping spree for Sravana maasam||Sravana maasam, an auspicious month in the Telugu calendar, began on a festive note on Monday even as fears loom over an impending third wave of COVID-19. Women in the city are gearing up to celebrate ‘Varalakshmi Vratham’, a much-awaited festival that falls on the second Friday of Sravana maasam (August 20 this year). Fruit and flower markets in the city have begun attracting customers in huge numbers. The wholesale flower market near Vijayawada Municipal Corporation (VMC), Kaleswara Rao Market, and Vastralatha have seen a large number of customers shopping for essentials for Sravana maasam. However, most of the festival shoppers seem to have let down their guard against COVID-19 as they were seen without their masks, crowding the shops without regard for social distancing norms. This auspicious month is also famous for the purchase of gold and silver. The sale of gold and silver, however, remained sluggish. People tend to buy gold and silver during auspicious months but not in Aashadam, and on Amavasya, (new moon day). As Sunday happened to be Amavasya, jewellery shops saw few customers, explained shopkeepers. S. Appa Rao, a vendor at the wholesale flower market, said flower prices are likely to go up in the next couple of days as the season picks up. Prices have already crossed Rs. 50 to Rs. 80 for half a kg depending upon the quality and variety, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/devotees-go-on-a-shopping-spree-for-sravana-maasam/article35828731.ece
10 August 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||CM wants Wakf Tribunal in Kurnool, Haj House in Vijayawada-Guntur||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has directed the officials of the Minorities Welfare Department (MWD) to set up a Wakf Tribunal in Kurnool and construct a Haj House around Vijayawada and Guntur. He wanted steps to be taken for protecting the Wakf properties after making a detailed survey. He also suggested to them to consider deployment of home guards for providing security to the properties, and building compound walls around them. He also suggested that a proposal for a sub-plan for minorities be worked out. At a review meeting on the activities of the MWD on Monday, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy ordered that honorariums should be paid promptly to imams, mauzzams and pastors on time, and special focus should be laid on developing skills of the students belonging to the minority communities. He enquired about the status of the Urdu University proposed to be established at Kurnool and told the officials to transfer the maintenance works of Shadi Khanas to the MWD. Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy instructed the MWD officials to discuss with the Finance Department on filling up the vacancies. Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said that the construction of Christian Bhavan, which stopped abruptly during the previous government, should be completed at the earliest. Deputy Chief Minister Amzath Basha, MWD Secretary Gandham Chandrudu, Commissioner K. Sarada Devi, Andhra Pradesh Centre for Financial Systems and Services Chief Executive Officer P. Ravi Subash and Andhra Pradesh State Minorities Finance Corporation Limited Vice-Chairman and MD Aleem Basha were present in the review meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ap-chief-minister-wants-wakf-tribunal-in-kurnool/article35828515.ece
10 August 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||COVID-19 claims 18 more lives in State||The State reported 18 new COVID deaths and 1,413 new infections in the 24 hours ending Monday morning. The death toll increased to 13,549 and the cumulative tally reached 19,83,721. The number of recoveries crossed 19.5 lakh and reached 19,50,623. During the past day, 1,795 patients recovered, and 51,657 persons recovered in the past 23 days. The number of active cases stands at 19,549 while the recovery rate remains at 98.33%. The positivity rate of the 54,455 samples tested in the past day was 2.59% and that of the 2.52 crore samples tested so far was 7.86%. Chittoor reported five new deaths while Krishna reported three and East Godavari, Guntur, Nellore and Prakasam reported two deaths each. Srikakulam and Visakhapatnam reported one death each. Five districts reported no new death in the past day. East Godavari reported 458 new infections. Next to it was Nellore with 207 new infections. It was followed by Chittoor (201), Krishna (113), Guntur (95), Prakasam (94), Kadapa (75), Srikakulam (52), Visakhapatnam (45), West Godavari (32), Anantapur (16), Vizianagaram (16) and Kurnool (9).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/covid-19-claims-18-more-lives-in-state/article35828765.ece
10 August 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Blank GOs on govt. website leave officials puzzled||The blank GOs uploaded to the official website of the State government— https://goir.ap.gov.in/—have left the visitors of the portal puzzled. The officials have uploaded at least 17 blank GOs since the beginning of August. Some of the GOs were related to the transfers and postings, while a few others were related to diversion of forest land in favour of the Ministry of Defence, Government of India. The abstract was not mentioned in the GOs issued by the General Administration Department (GAD). The blank GOs issued include GO MS 71, RT 1268, RT 1270, RT 1274, RT 1276, RT 1277, RT 1278, RT 1282, RT RT 1283, RT 1284, RT 1287, RT 1288, RT 1289, RT 1290, RT 1292, RT 1293, and RT 1294. The Forest Department issued GOs 50 and 49. The transfer order of Special Chief Secretary Sameer Sharma was ‘erased’ from the public domain, leaving a blank page on the portal minutes after it was uploaded on August 2. The government, sources say, is planning to merge the Planning Department with the Finance Department. “It is assumed that the order might have been withdrawn because of the fissures between the Chief Minister’s Office (CMO) and the Planning Department over the handling of certain officials. The GO was issued only for the official record,” say a source, on the condition of anonymity. Similarly, the GOs relating to IAS officers were issued on following days by the GAD. But, the content of the GOs was not made public. The GOs, neither, were classified as confidential for them to be hidden from public viewing. A GO relating to the cash award to ace shuttler and Olympic bronze medal winner P.V. Sindhu was also kept confidential initially. It was made public only after the cheque was presented to her. The trend continued on Wednesday, Thursday, Friday and Monday leaving even some bureaucrats baffled. A senior official recalls that only once, a decade ago, was a transfer order of IAS officers issued as ‘confidential’, but the contents became public in no time. The GOs were routine orders with no harm whatsoever. It was incomprehensible as to why the content was kept hidden, the official says. Content hidden The Forest Department issued GO MS 49 on August 5. The abstract says diversion of land to the Union Ministry of Defence. The GO was not marked as confidential, yet the content was hidden. The senior bureaucrats were clueless as to why the blank GOs were being kept in public domain. “It shows the administration in a poor light,” says an official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/blank-gos-on-govt-website-leave-officials-puzzled/article35828760.ece
10 August 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||HC pulls up four IAS officers for not following its order||Justice B. Devanand of the Andhra Pradesh High Court on Monday expressed dissatisfaction at four IAS officers — Gopal Krishna Dwivedi, M. Girija Shankar, Y. Srilakshmi and G.S.R.K.R. Vijay Kumar — who appeared in person before him, for not complying with an order passed by him earlier against the construction of Rythu Bharosa Kendra (RBKs) and village secretariats on the premises of government schools. During the hearing on a suo motu case , the Judge said such facilities on school premises would disturb the peaceful environment required by students and wondered if they knew the consequences of their inaction in the matter. The matter has been posted for August 31.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/hc-pulls-up-four-ias-officers-for-not-following-its-order/article35828751.ece
10 August 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Need for tribal policy stressed at seminar||Speakers at a two-day national seminar on ‘Tribal policies and programmes in India: Regional Reflections in the context of Globalisation’ stressed on the need for evolving a national tribal policy. They also emphasised on the right to preservation of tribal language, culture and traditions. The tribesmen should be protected against the loss of identity, and allowed to thrive as a dynamic living culture, they said. The seminar, organised by the Ministry of Tribal Affairs and Central for Regional Studies, University of Hyderabad, began on Monday. Addressing the gathering virtually, Deputy Chief Minister and Tribal Welfare Minister Pamula Pushpa Sreevani said that the State government was implementing the Navaratnalu programme to ensure the well-being of all with special focus on Scheduled Tribes (STs). “The government has released Rs. 1,572.3 crore for the 2020-21 financial year and Rs. 1,202.76 crore was released for the 2021-22 financial year to various sections of ST beneficiaries through Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT) mode. These case assistance programmes benefited the ST communities during the COVID 19 situation. The government is committed to taking policy initiatives and follow best practices towards tribal welfare and their development,” she said. Union Joint Secretary (Tribal affairs) Navaljit Kapoor said that the Central government opened 740 Ekalavya schools in the country. The tribal sub-plan funds of both Central and State governments in the country would be about Rs. 2 lakh crore funds per annum. The implementation of the TSP, schemes and programmes for the tribal welfare was analysed recently, and some gaps were found. The governments need to focus their attention on the gaps, formulation of policies and planning, he said. Secretary (Tribal Welfare) Kantilal Dande said that the government was taking many measures for the development of tribals in the State. Over 3.8 lakh acres of land was given to tribals in the State. Land would be developed for agricultural practices by dovetailing with MNREGS. Efforts were being made to understand the gaps and lapses in the implementation of the welfare programmes, he said. University of Hyderabad Vice-Chancellor Prof. B.J. Rao, Institute for Human Development, New Delhi, Viriginius Xaxa, Tribal Welfare Commissioner Ranjith Basha, Director E. Ravindra Babu, Engineer in Chief G. Prasad, Deputy Director D. Laxmi, advocate Palla Trinadha Rao, and Naga Raju Chikkala of Society for Social Audit Accountability and Transparency spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/need-for-tribal-policy-stressed-at-seminar/article35828741.ece
10 August 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. harassing tribal people, alleges Naidu||Telugu Desam Party (TDP) national president N. Chandrababu Naidu, on International Day of the World’s Indigenous People’s on Monday, came down heavily on the State government, alleging that the tribal people were being harassed under the YSR Congress Party (YSRCP) rule in the State. Mr. Naidu tweeted that the YSRCP government was harassing the tribals who were displaced owing to the Polavaram project. “The government is not paying compensation to the evacuees. Instead, they are being forcibly evicted from their habitations,” Mr. Naidu alleged. The TDP president accused the government of encouraging bauxite mining in Visakhapatnam Agency. “The mining is posing a challenge to the future of the tribes living there. There is no end to looting by the mining mafia, despite complaints lodged by the tribal organisations and strict orders from the National Green Tribunal (NGT),” he said. None of the schemes launched by the TDP for the welfare of the tribal people were being implemented by the YSRCP government. “The government should at least take steps to stop illegal mining in the agency areas,” he said. The former Chief Minister extended greetings to the tribal people on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govt-harassing-tribal-people-alleges-naidu/article35828759.ece
10 August 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Length of NHs in Guntur, Prakasam increased to 1,203 km: Gadkari||Union Minister of Road Transport and Highways Nitin Gadkari on Monday told the Rajya Sabha that the length of National Highways (NHs) in Guntur and Prakasam districts was increased to 1,203 km from 629 km at the beginning of 2014. In a replay to a question posed by BJP MP G.V.L. Narasimha Rao, Mr. Gadkari informed the House that the national highways that were constructed, widened or strengthened since 2014 included Anantapur - Guntur (total length 417.10 km with the stretch of 207.06 km passing through Guntur and Prakasam), Nakrekal - Yerpedu (495.98 km and 207.94 km), Vodarevu - Narasaraopeta - Piduguralla (107 km of highway that is entirely in Guntur and Prakasam districts), Macherla - Dachepalli (43 km in Guntur and Prakasam), Kondamodu - Perecherla (52 km in Guntur and Prakasam), Mydukur - Singarayakonda (total length 195 km with a stetch of 110.19 km in Guntur and Prakasam), Kurnool- Dornala (131 km and 33.40 km), Hyderabad - Thokapalli (264.40 km and 62.70 km), Kathipudi- Ongole (391.30 km and 120 km) and Kolkata-Chennai (1622 km and 238.42 km). The six- laning of the Chilakaluripet bypass from 357 km to 371.92 km, and Gollapudi–Chinakakani section of the NH-16 (Vijayawada bypass package from 4 km to 17.881 km, both being executed in the hybrid annuity model (HAM), started recently.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/length-of-nhs-in-guntur-prakasam-increased-to-1203-km-gadkari/article35828734.ece
10 August 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||150 people permitted at gatherings||The State government has issued guidelines imposing restrictions on maximum number of people to be permitted at all gatherings in view of COVID pandemic. The restrictions will be in force till September 30. Principal Secretary, Medical, Health and Family Welfare, Anil Kumar Singhal, in a GO on Monday, said a maximum of 150 participants would be allowed at all gatherings and congregations, including marriages, religious gatherings, etc., Social distancing All participants would have to comply with COVID-appropriate behaviour by compulsorily wearing masks, frequent hand sanitisation and maintaining social distance. Further, in any public place or venue wherever there are fixed seats, the alternate seats should be kept vacant in order to maintain physical distance, he said. At public places or venues without fixed seating, a distance of five feet should be maintained. Any violation of the above gatherings and congregations, would be prosecuted under Sections 51 to 60 of Disaster Management Act, 2005 and Section 188 of IPC as well as other applicable laws. The State government had taken several steps to contain the spread of COVID-19 with focus on test-trace-treat-vaccinate and inculcating COVID appropriate behaviour among the people. The new guidelines were issued after reviewing the issue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/150-people-permitted-at-gatherings/article35828761.ece
10 August 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Seek Venkaiah’s help to protect VSP, CPI tells MP||Communist Party of India (CPI) national secretary K. Narayana has suggested that the YSRCP MP V. Vijaya Sai Reddy should seek the support of the Vice-President and Rajya Sabha Chairman M. Venkaiah Naidu in protecting the Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP). In a letter addressed to the MP on Monday, Mr. Narayana said Mr. Venkaiah Naidu, as a student leader, actively participated in the Vizag steel plant agitation. “Fortunately, he is in a position to command the Centre and its governance. Hence, kindly seek his support in this regard,” he said. Mr. Narayana said that the YSRCP could unite all opposition parties into a single platform in order to resist the sale of VSP to the private sector. The YSRCP could take a delegation of all opposition parties to Prime Minister Narendra Modi in order to bring pressure. Already ‘anti-Modi forces’ were being mobilised. The YSRCP would get support from other States as well, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/seek-venkaiahs-help-to-protect-vsp-cpi-tells-mp/article35828763.ece
10 August 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Nodal officer to aid probe into Mansas ‘irregularities’||The State government has appointed Endowments Commissioner as nodal officer to extend all support and to provide required documents to the Vigilance and Enforcement Department, which is enquiring into alleged irregularities in land matters pertaining to the MANSAS Trust. Principal Secretary (Endowments) G. Vani Mohan, in a Government Order on Monday, said that the Endowments Commissioner would provide the documents and material belonging to Simhachalam temple to the V&E Department.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/nodal-officer-to-assist-probe-into-mansas-irregularities/article35828739.ece
10 August 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rare surgery performed on 15-year-old||A rare heart surgery called Ozaki had been successfully performed on a 15-year-old patient with aortic stenosis and aortic regurgitation at a private hospital in the city. Naga Venkata Arjun of Tenali in Guntur district was operated upon on August 4 by cardiac surgeon Dr. Dilip and his team, at the Children’s Heart Institute of Andhra Hospitals, and was discharged on Monday. Dr. Dilip told the media here that oxygenated blood from the left side of the heart flows from the aortic valve to different organs in the body. “Some children have a small narrow aortic valve since birth with two flaps instead of three, with a possibility of narrowing of the valve. Sometimes the valve gets damaged due to heart infections like rheumatic fever. The valve gets narrowed in adults sometimes due to degeneration,” he said. In the Ozaki procedure there was no need to use an outside valve and it could be done to patients of any age. There was no need to use blood thinners for a long time and patients would have a low risk of infection. It would cost less compared to other surgical procedures, he said. Children’s Services director Dr. P.V. Rama Rao said the procedure was rarely done in India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rare-surgery-performed-on-15-year-old/article35828815.ece
10 August 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police officers, doctors felicitated||Police Commissioner B. Srinivasulu on Monday presented cash awards to 64 police personnel and doctors who rendered yeomen services during COVID-19. Mr. Srinivasulu presented awards to staff and Home Guards, who detected sensational cases and arrested the accused. The Commissioner felicitated Dr. Narender Reddy, Dr. Akash and Dr. Vijay Kumar, who extended free services to police personnel, who were infected by COVID.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/police-officers-doctors-felicitated/article35828249.ece
10 August 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. brings DBT under purview of Finance Dept.||The government has decided to bring the subject pertaining to the Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT) under the purview of the Finance Department. At present, the DBT is under the control of the Information Technology and Communications (ITE &C) Department. Chief Secretary Adityanath Das, in the G.O. 74 issued on Monday, said the subject matter of the DBT was transferred to the Finance Department as the disbursements under the schemes by various line departments are made through the Comprehensive Financial Management System (CFMS) which is under the purview of the Finance Department. The necessary amendment to the Second Schedule of the Andhra Pradesh Government Business Rules, 2018 will be issued separately, the Chief Secretary added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govt-brings-dbt-under-purview-of-finance-dept/article35828762.ece
10 August 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Governor pays tributes to freedom fighters||Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan paid tributes to the freedom fighters, who participated in Quit India Movement. The freedom fighters fought with courage, which brought independence to the country, said Mr. Harichandan. In a programme held at National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) 10th Battalion camp on Monday, Commandant Zahid Khan paid floral tributes to those who participated in Quit India Movement, and sacrificed their lives for the country. Following the call given by Government of India, NDRF is taking up several programmes in connection with the Azadi Ka Amrut Mahotsav, said Mr. Khan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/governor-pays-tributes-to-freedom-fighters/article35828810.ece
10 August 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Revision of electoral rolls for 2022 starts||The Special Summary Revision (SSR) of Photo Electoral Rolls for the year 2022 with January 1, 2022 as the qualifying date began on Monday with pre-revision activities namely the removal of multiple entries, house-to-house verification through Block-Level Officers (BLOs), proper formation of sections and rationalisation of polling stations. The process will end on October 31. The actual revision/publication of integrated draft electoral rolls would be done on November 1, 2021, according to K. Vijayanand, Chief Electoral Officer. Claims and objections can be filed from November 1 to 30 and they will be disposed of by December 20. The final electoral rolls will be published on January 5, 2022, he said. Special campaign days will be organised on November 20 and 21 when the BLO of each polling station will be available along with the agents appointed by political parties to identify corrections etc.. Mr. Vijayanand said all electors/eligible citizens who will attain 18 years of age as on January 1, 2022 can file their applications for enrolment, objections and corrections from November 1 to 30.The applications can also be filed on http://www.nvsp.in or through the voter helpline mobile app.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/revision-of-electoral-rolls-for-2022-starts/article35828820.ece
10 August 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP to organise Dalit Prathighatana today||TDP leader K.S. Jawahar expressed serious concern that the ‘exploitation and persecution of Dalits’ was crossing all limits in the State government. In a statement on Monday, the former Minister accused the State government of targeting the SCs and STs with hatred and vengeance. “Andhra Pradesh stands first in the country with regard to the suppression of the fundamental rights of the Dalits. The SCs and STs are being detained illegally, arrested atrociously and being implicated in false cases just for raising their dissent,” he alleged. As a protest against the oppression of Dalits in the State, the TDP would hold a ‘Dalit Prathighatana’ rally on August 10. The rally will be held from the Babu Jagjivan Ram Statue in Gymkhana grounds to Ambedkar statue near Thummalapalli Kala Kshetra in Vijayawada city. The Dalit organisations and the people’s organisations should take part in the rally, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tdp-to-organise-dalit-prathighatana-today/article35828738.ece
10 August 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||BJP SC Morcha alleges fund diversion||The activists of BJP SC Morcha were detained by the police after they tried to lay siege to the head office of the Andhra Pradesh Scheduled Castes Finance and Development Corporation (SC Corporation) at Tadepalli in Guntur district on Monday, alleging diversion of funds sanctioned by the National Scheduled Castes Finance and Development Corporation (NSFDC). ‘Reneged on promises’ Leading the agitation, BJP SC Morcha State president G. Devanand said the YSR Congress government had not given a single rupee to the Dalits in the last two years and Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy reneged on the promises during his padayatra in the run-up to the 2019 elections. ‘Injusticeto Dalits’ “Even as injustice was meted to the Dalits, the MPs, Ministers and MLAs from the communities kept quiet. Moreover, about 30 welfare schemes have been cancelled by the SC Corporation. The government should implement those schemes again in the interest of Dalits,” Mr. Devanand said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bjp-sc-morcha-alleges-diversion-of-funds/article35828735.ece
10 August 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tribals seek basic amenities||The tribal people of the Agency area of Visakhapatnam district staged a protest demanding roads, electricity and safe drinking water even as the world celebrated International Day of the World’s Indigenous People, at Jeelugulova village of Ravikamatham mandal in the district on Monday. The participants, covered themselves with leaves and cried out aloud “Yennallu maaku ee doli mothalu (how long do we have to carry dolis?)?” In the absence of roads to the interior hamlets, the tribal people are forced to carry pregnant women and sick persons in dolis to the nearest road point, which could be sometimes several kilometres away. With placards in their hands, they asked: “How long do we have to live in the dark at night without electricity”? Our traditions and culture should be protected but mining is being permitted in the forests and this would result in contamination of drinking water sources and ultimately tribal people would be driven out of their habitat, the protesters said. They opposed the proposed inclusion of five panchayats with more than 50% tribal population, located in non-scheduled areas of Visakhapatnam district under the Visakhapatnam Metropolitan Development Authority (VMRDA), and felt that it could pose a threat to their existence. They should be included in the 5th Schedule, so that the tribal people living there could avail of various benefits provided to STs in scheduled areas. “We live on a hill and have to trek 5 km to reach our home in the absence of a road. There is no electricity in our hamlet,” says Appa Rao, a Girijana Sangham member. “More than 75 years after India attained Independence, many of our villages have no roads, no electricity and safe drinking water. Due to non-availability of birth certificates, our children are not being given Aadhaar and there are no anganwadi centre or community health workers in our hamlets,” says AP Girijana Sangham district honorary president K. Govinda Rao. Narsipatnam Primitive Tribal Groups(PTG) Sangham division president D. Appa Rao and leaders Korra Mahesh and Killo Patidora were among those who participated in the protest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tribals-seek-basic-amenities/article35828828.ece
10 August 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP protests razing of resorts at Rushikonda||The demolition of the Andhra Pradesh Tourism Development Corporation (APTDC)’s resorts at Rushikonda reportedly to pave the way for the construction of a 5-star hotel has come in for severe criticism by the Telugu Desam Party (TDP). TDP leaders staged a protest opposite the Haritha Resorts on Monday denouncing the decision of the State government to demolish the resorts, saying that the facilities were churning a revenue of Rs. 30 crore per annum to the tourism corporation. Participating in the protest, former Minister and senior TDP leader Bandaru Satyanarayana Murthy said that it was unfortunate that the resorts that were raking in crores of rupees to the APTDC were being demolished. He described the move as a conspiracy by the YSR Congress Party leaders to ‘mint money’ in the new project. Visakhapatnam East MLA Velagapudi Ramakrishna Babu alleged that after Rajya Sabha Member V. Vijaya Sai Reddy came to the city, everything was being destroyed and demanded that Mr. Reddy should be driven out of the city. He wondered as to what Tourism Minister Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao was doing when the resorts were being demolished. TDP Parliamentary district president Palla Srinivasa Rao alleged that the YSRCP leaders were disturbing peace in the city by going on a ‘demolition spree’. He alleged that Mr. Vijaya Sai Reddy had plans to hand over the new project to his daughter Neha Reddy. The failure to put the demolition proposal in public domain raised suspicions that the government had vested interests, he said. “The demolition is being done as part of re-development plans. There are 57 rooms, a bar and restaurant and conference facilities,” an APTDC official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tdp-protests-razing-of-resorts-at-rushikonda/article35828251.ece
10 August 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||BJP selling nation to corporate groups, alleges CITU leader||A rally was taken out from the Saraswathi Park to the Collectorate, under the aegis of all trade unions, people’s organisations, Vizag Steel Plant and PSUs JAC, with a call to save the nation drawing inspiration from the Quit India movement, here on Monday. The rally concluded in a meeting near the Collectorate. Addressing the participants, CITU State president Ch. Narasinga Rao called upon the gathering to draw inspiration from the Quit India movement to save the nation from the BJP. He recalled that the British rulers had plundered the wealth of India. Our national leaders had given the call for ‘Quit India’ on August 9, 1942, asking the British rulers to leave India. The CITU State president alleged that now in the name of patriotism, the BJP government was selling the nation to corporate groups. The PSUs, which were the foundation of our national economy, were being privatised, he alleged. He said that Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman has no right to pay tributes to Alluri Sitarama Raju in Visakhapatnam. He wondered as to how the Centre was justified in saying that it would develop khadi after destroying the PSUs. About 70% of the population in the country was still dependent on agriculture but the Centre has brought out three black laws to make farmers as bonded labourers, he alleged. Lakhs of workers were removed from service in the name of COVID-19. Those who were working were paid 50% wages resulting in decline in GDP by 24%. At the same time, the income of corporate investors has grown by 50%. He demanded that workers, who lost their jobs, be paid Rs. 7,500 a month. While the price of crude oil has decreased all over the world, the prices of petrol and diesel in India have increased by 100% in the last six months, he said. AITUC State vice president Adinarayana, INTUC State president Ramachandra Rao, JAC chairman M. Jaggu Naidu, vice chairman Padala Ramana spoke. CITU leaders R.K.S.V. Kumar, Venkata Reddy, Subba Rao, Pydiraju, Mani and B. Jagan, AITUC leaders Rehaman and Vamana Murthy, DYFI city secretary USN Raju, AIDWA leaders Santosham, Kumari and Kondamma were among those who attended.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bjp-selling-nation-to-corporate-groups-alleges-citu-leader/article35828830.ece
10 August 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||APICET to be held on Sept. 17, 18||The process of submission of online applications for Andhra Pradesh Integrated Common Entrance Test (APICET-2021) for admission into first year MBA / MCA courses of various universities and its affiliated colleges in Andhra Pradesh, for the academic year 2021-22, is in progress. Candidates can submit their application through online mode only by paying the application registration and processing fee of Rs. 650 for OC, Rs. 600 for BC and Rs. 550 for SC/ST candidates through payment gateway/credit card/debit card or net banking, according to APICET-2021 convener G. Sasibhushana Rao. The tests will be conducted on September 17 and 18. The last date for submission of applications online, without late fee, is August 14.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/apicet-to-be-held-on-sept-17-18/article35828831.ece
10 August 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. doctors want retirement age increased to 65 years||Senior doctors in the government health care sector in the State are of the opinion that the retirement age of all doctors should be increased to 65 years. General secretary of the Andhra Pradesh Government Doctors’ Association Dr. Pidakala Sam Sundar told The Hindu here on Monday that the Union government had issued a G.O. to enhance the retirement age of all doctors serving in the government sector to 65. Some States had already implemented it, but A.P. is still to decide on it, he said. According to him, the retirement age in private medical colleges was 70. The earlier TDP-led government had increased the retirement age of specialist doctors to 63, but maintained the 60 years limit for MBBS doctors. “We want the retirement age to be uniform for all doctors and enhanced to 65 years,” he said. He said in the next two years, a large number of specialist and MBBS doctors were set to retire from government hospitals. If the age limit was not increased and young doctors were not recruited, then the government health sector would be impacted due to shortage of experienced doctors, he said. On the other hand if the service age was increased, the newly recruited doctors would get an opportunity to train under senior hands. The strength of senior doctors had already gone down in a few departments and people were suffering, said Dr. Sam Sundar. Other members of the association said the State government had decided to open 16 new medical colleges with teaching hospitals, so the need to enhance the retirement age was more now. “We urge the Chief Minister to look into the issue and increase the age limit,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govt-doctors-want-retirement-age-increased-to-65-years/article35828742.ece
10 August 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Resorts will be developed: Minister||Tourism Minister Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao has said that a 5-star plus category resorts with world-class facilities will be constructed in place of the existingAP Tourism Development Corporation (APTDC) resorts, as per the redevelopment proposal at Rushikonda. The existing resort has 58 rooms, a conference hall, a bar and a restaurant with a total built-up area of 4,439 sq.m. (47,764 sft.). As many as 34 rooms were constructed during 1984-89 and the new block with 24 rooms, conference hall and restaurant block were constructed during 2002-07. After the redevelopment, which is scheduled for completion in 15 months, the new resorts will have seven blocks with a built up area of 19,968 sq.m. (2,14,856 sft.), Mr. Srinivasa Rao told a media conference here on Monday evening. Referring to the criticism that a new site could have been chosen instead of demolishing the existing resorts, the Minister said that the location, which is right beside the road connecting to the heart of the city on one side and the upcoming International Airport at Bhogapuram on the other, is a key one. The tourism potential of the location would increase exponentially in coming years and the existing resorts would not be able to cater to the spurt in demand, he said. The existing property generates revenue of Rs. 7.2 crore a year but after redevelopment the built up area would be more than 2 lakh Sft and it was estimated to generate Rs. 50 crore a year. The project would be taken up in two stages at a total cost of Rs. 164 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/resorts-will-be-developed-minister/article35828838.ece
10 August 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||No foul play in burial of baby: police||The police after an investigation have confirmed that there was no foul play involved in the alleged attempt to bury a newborn baby, here on Monday. They also said that there was no veracity in the claim that the child was alive, when some people tried to bury it. The police also suspect that the viral video of an alive baby in polythene cover, which is being circulated in social media may not be related to this case and it could be an old video. Assistant Commissioner of Police (East Sub division) Harshitha Chandra said that there was no foul play in the case. She said that the child in the pregnant woman was diagnosed with down syndrome and the couple had decided to medically terminate the pregnancy, which is legal as per the Medical Termination of Pregnancy (MTP) Amendment Act 2021. But it became an issue, after the staff at the burial ground reportedly turned back the people who had gone to bury the child, stating that the child was alive. Speaking to The Hindu, District Child Protection Officer (DCPO) Allu Satyanarayana, said that on August 2, she was admitted to a hospital for the MTP procedure, when her pregnancy was in the fifth month. On August 6, the MTP was performed and the body was handed over to the parents for burial. Thereafter the parents took the child to Chavulamadum cremation and burial ground in Gnanapuram with the required documents from the hospital. But the staff at the burial ground claimed that they found movement in the body. Immediately the parents rushed the baby to the hospital, but the doctors confirmed that the child was dead. On the same day by the evening, the family had completed the final rituals at a burial ground at Karasa, the DCPO said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/no-foul-play-in-burial-of-baby-police/article35828833.ece
10 August 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Use tech for collection of clues, police officials told||Superintendent of Police (Visakhapatnam Rural) B. Krishna Rao has directed the Investigating Officers to utilise technology for the speedy collection of clues in the detection of cases. Presiding over the monthly crime meeting of the district police here on Monday, the SP said that the investigation of cases pertaining to crimes on women, should be completed within 60 days. It should be ensured that more and more women downloaded the Disha app. The accused in ganja cases, who are on the run should be arrested and NBWs issued against them. Mr. Krishna Rao said that the petitions received in ‘Spandana’ should be disposed of in a time-bound manner. ASP (Crimes) B. Lakshminarayana, Chintapalli ASP Tushar, Paderu ASP P. Jagadish and Anakapalle DSP K. Sravani were among those who attended the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/use-tech-for-collection-of-clues-police-officials-told/article35828826.ece
10 August 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||One death takes district COVID toll to 1,060||The district recorded 45 new COVID-19 cases in the last 24 hours ending on Monday morning. This takes the total number of cases to 1,53,768. The death toll has also increased to 1,060 with one more death being reported from the district. 71 recovered Meanwhile, 71 persons were discharged or have recovered, taking the total discharges to 1,51,261. The active cases have further dropped to 1,447.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/one-death-takes-district-covid-toll-to-1060/article35828834.ece
10 August 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two held on charge of assault, robbery||The city police arrested two persons for allegedly committing a robbery and recovered stolen property worth around Rs. 41,500 here on Monday. The arrested were identified as Bangari Raju (20) and Podugu Sai Kumar (20), both are residents of Marripalem area in the city. DCP (Crimes) V. Suresh Babu said that the one Ch. Srinivasu, working as a Manager at Sri Chakra Dairy Products at Madhavadhara, was travelling on his motorbike towards his uncle’s house at Madhavadhara on the night of August 7. When he reached Punjab Hotel Junction, Raju and Sai Kumar asked Sinivasu for a lift. When Srinivasu stopped the vehicle, the duo tried to snatch his bike. When Srinivasu resisted them, the duo beat him up causing bleeding injuries and snatched his mobile phone and gold chain. Based on a complaint from the victim, the Airport police formed a team and nabbed the accused and recovered the stolen property with in a few hours.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/two-held-on-charge-of-assault-robbery/article35828835.ece
10 August 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vaibhav Jewellers launches new collection||Vaibhav Jewellers launched its new branding campaign with its latest collections – Abhinaya and Varna – on Monday. The loyal customers Sudha Prasad, Sandhya, Divya, Padmavathi, Usha, Bharati and Lavanya tried out the new collections. “It’s is the collection of traditional yet contemporary designs for the upcoming wedding season,” CMD of Vaibhav Jewellers Mallika Manoj said in a statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vaibhav-jewellers-launches-new-collection/article35828832.ece
10 August 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Home delivery of diesel launched||Anuradha Auto petrol bunk in Sheelanagar launched home delivery of diesel, here on Monday. The new delivery system was launched by MLC P.V.N Madhav. Owner of the bunk Venkanna Chowdary, said that diesel will be delivered to homes in jerry cans on call by people. BPCL territory manager Sujeet said that this was the first time in the two Telugu-speaking States that such an initiative has been launched.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/home-delivery-of-diesel-launched/article35828840.ece
10 August 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Scholarships awarded to meritorious students||Brahmana Samkshema Samakhya president Kotra Krishnamurthy and honorary president D.V. Srikanth on Monday said that nearly 160 meritorious students were given scholarship to pursue their higher studies. On behalf of the association, State Bank of India (SBI) Assistant General Manager Devagupathampu Rajaramamohana Rao and senior auditor Eswara Rama Somayajulu handed over the scholarship amount to selected students at a function organised at Gayatri Bhavan. Programme chairman Nemani Bhadradri Sitaramam, association members Inaganti Ramesh, B. Suryalakshmi, and B. Bharadwaja Chakravarthy were present at the function. According to them, the association had extended nearly Rs. 12.2 lakh worth of financial assistance to poor Brahmin students who scored over 80% marks in Class X, Intermediate and Degree courses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/scholarships-awarded-to-meritorious-students/article35828775.ece
10 August 2021||VIZIANAGARAM/SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Temples see rush as Sravana masam begins||With the beginning of the auspicious Sravana masam, special prayers were offered at Goddess Lakshmi Devi temples on Monday. Devotees thronged the Astalakshmi Sameta Ishwarya Venkateswara Swamy temple in Ayyannapeta of Vizianagaram district. Panchamrita Abhisekham Kumkumarchana and Survarna Pushparchana were performed at the temple. Temple founder trustees Durga Balaji and D. Umadevi said that Mana Intiki and Mana Vooriki Mahalakshmi programme was started recently to enable more devotees to participate in the devotional activity from their homes, villages and towns. They said that the programme would continue till September 7, the last day of Sravana masam. Chief priests P.V.J. Chankuya and G.S. Harsha offered special prayers to the presiding deity of Goddess Lakshmi at Ramanarayanam temple at Y-Junction in Vizianagaram. Temple trustees Narayanam Nagaratnam and Narayanam Neerajavalli participated in the special prayers. Sri Astalakashmi temple located at Vinayaka Panchayatana Alayam in PN Colony, Srikakuam wore a festive look with special prayers including Kumkumarchana and Abhisekham being performed. The temple trustee Polumahanti Jaganmohana Rao participated in the special puja performed on the temple premises. He said that the blessings of the Goddess were sought for the public who were facing many difficulties due to COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/temples-see-rush-as-sravana-masam-begins/article35828777.ece
10 August 2021||August 10 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Empty pockets, hungry stomachs||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/empty-pockets-hungry-stomachs/article35828727.ece
10 August 2021||August 10 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Respite from heat||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/respite-from-heat/article35828819.ece
10 August 2021||August 10 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Scribe killed for ‘exposing’ illegal activities||When Keshav arrived at the appointed place, the constable and his brother allegedly stabbed him with a screwdriver and fled . “Passersby took him to the hospital at about 11 p.m., but he succumbed,” the SP added. Venkatasubbaiah was suspended last week for his alleged involvement in gutkha and matka activities, which were reportedly exposed by Chennakeshavalu. The Nandyal police registered a case under Sections 302, 34 of IPC based on the complaint by the journalist’s wife. The SP said that since the victim belonged to the Scheduled Caste, relevant Sections of the SC/ST Prevention of Atrocity Act were included, and DSP N. Ramanji Naik was named as investigation officer. The SP visited the crime scene and the hospital before interacting with the family members. Family members of the victim were assured of assistance and protection. Steps were being taken by the district administration to pay compensation. Andhra Pradesh Union of Working Journalists and the APWJ Federation have expressed dismay. Staff Reporter from Vijayawada adds: Meanwhile, DGP D. Gautam Sawang asked the Kurnool SP to immediately arrest the suspended police constable and his associates who were allegedly involved in the crime.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/scribe-killed-for-exposing-illegal-activities/article35828756.ece
10 August 2021||August 10 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Flying high||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/flying-high/article35828837.ece
10 August 2021||August 10 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Risky feat||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/risky-feat/article35828744.ece
10 August 2021||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||Adivasis take out rallies to assert their rights||Adivasis took to the streets in Kothagudem, Aswaraopeta, and various other parts of the district mainly in Bhadrachalam Agency on the occasion of the International Day of the World’s Indigenous Peoples on Monday to assert their rights and press for effective implementation of the laws such as the Panchayats Extension to Scheduled Areas (PESA) Act, governing the Agency areas. In Aswaraopeta, tribal people staged a demonstration in front of the Tahsildar’s office demanding prompt implementation of the Scheduled Tribes and Other Traditional Forest Dwellers (Recognition of Forest Rights) Act, 2006. Rallies were organised under the aegis of various Adivasi organisations in several villages in Dummugudem, Pinapaka, Yellandu and other Agency mandals. In Bhadrachalam, Integrated Tribal Development Agency (ITDA) Project Officer P Gowtham garlanded the statues of legendary tribal leaders Komaram Bheem, Gantam Dora, Alluri Sitarama Raju and Mallu Dora in the temple town. In Khammam district, the Telangana Girijana Sangham organised a meeting in Karepalli mandal headquarters town. Speaking on the occasion, Sangham district general secretary Bukya Veerabhadram alleged that the Central and State governments are trying to snatch away the hard-won rights of tribal people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/adivasis-take-out-rallies-to-assert-their-rights/article35828545.ece
10 August 2021||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||ACB traps agriculture officer||Narlapati Mahesh Chandra Chaterjee, Agriculture Officer, Chandrugonda, was caught red-handed by the Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) officials while allegedly accepting a bribe of Rs. 90,000 from a fertilizer and pesticide shop owner at Rytu Vedika premises in the mandal headquarters town on Monday. According to ACB sources, Mahesh allegedly demanded and received the bribe from the local fertilizer shop owner for allowing him and five other traders to run their businesses without troubling them and inspecting their premises. The ACB sleuths recovered the bribe amount from the possession of Mahesh and registered a case against him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/acb-traps-agriculture-officer/article35828547.ece
10 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Telangana deregulates anti-Black Fungus drug||Days after the Centre informed the States and Union Territories of its decision to discontinue allocation of anti-Mucormycosis drug Liposomal Amphotericin B to them, Telangana government has deregulated allotment of the injection. The State government had through a committee, headed by a senior official, was regulating allotment of the drug used in treatment of the fungal infection or Black Fungus as Mucormycosis is also known. Besides Liposomal Amphotericin B, Posaconazole and Isavuconazole were other drugs whose allotment was regulated by the committee. The move followed a demand for these drugs, especially Liposomal Amphotericin B, amid an increase in number of people contracting Mucormycosis. There were also reports of black marketing of the injection. But with improved availability of the medicine and decline in fresh cases of the fungal infection, the Centre recently conveyed its decision to discontinue allocation and advised the States and Union Territories to procure the drug from the manufacturers and importers. Following this, Telangana Health department in a communication said “the government hereby deregulates the allotment of Liposomal Amphotericin B injection drug through Committee”. Posaconazole, Amphotericin (conventional/emulsion) and Isavuconazole had already been deregulated in June, the department said. With the latest decision, hospitals would be able to source the injection from the distributors instead of doing so by making a requisition to the committee.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/telangana-deregulates-anti-black-fungus-drug/article35828531.ece
10 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Body of second sewerage worker recovered||Body of the sewerage worker Anthaiah has reportedly been recovered on Monday, close to a week after he went missing inside the manhole at Padmavathi Colony near Vanasthalipuram. According to eyewitness accounts, his body was found quite by coincidence, when a jetting machine was being test run at a manhole on the Sahebnagar main road. While officials confirmed the news, there has not been any official communication from the GHMC about the same. The two workers, Shiva and Anthaiah were summoned by the GHMC contractor to Padmavathi Colony where he was carrying out de-silting works on Tuesday night. First, Shiva got into the manhole to fix the rope of the bucket cleaning machine deployed for de-silting works, and when he started gasping for breath, Anthaiah reportedly went in to help him. While both the workers died, body of Anthaiah could not be fished out as he fell deeper into the sewerage pipeline. GHMC officials could not locate the body for several days, despite scouring the sewerage line and also the lake at Pasumamula village where the drainage line emptied. Judged by the location it was found, the body has apparently been carried along with the flow to the sewage trunk-main along the Sahebnagar main road, about a kilometer away from the spot where Anthaiah went missing. While GHMC officials refused to budge from the narrative that the drain was of storm water and not sewage, shape of the manhole cover spoke for itself. Storm water drain catch-pit covers are typically square in shape and trellis-like in structure to allow for faster drainage of rain water. Sewerage manhole covers, on the other hand, are round in shape and solid in structure, like the one covering the manhole into which both the workers got down and got killed. In the city, storm water drains and sewage channels accommodate both rain water and sewage flows, as the lines are all interconnected.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/body-of-second-sewerage-worker-recovered/article35828512.ece
10 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Big screen beckons Suma||Suma’s career is now set for a new turn as she takes up a full-fledged role in a Telugu film. She is currently shooting for the film that has a rural setting. Suma’s wit, spontaneity and fluent Telugu while anchoring, despite her Malayalam roots, remain unmatchable. Apart from being a television personality for over two decades, she is also the most popular host for film industry-related events. New YouTube channel July marked the beginning of Suma , her new YouTube channel (her earlier year-old channel Sumakka was discontinued due to technical reasons), which will be high on entertainment quotient with a personal touch. Launched by actor Vijay Deverakonda, the channel notched up over 1 lakh subscribers in just five days. “He (Vijay) was kind and said, ‘Anything for you’. With his presence, the channel made the right noise. Otherwise, it would have taken some more time to earn so many subscribers,” she says. The pandemic pause made her ‘recreate, rewire and reschedule’. “It was like driving on a new road. We were anxious and unsure about where it will take us, but it has taught us many lessons,” she says and reveals she is savouring every moment of life. ‘ Live in the moment’ is the mantra she swears by. Yet financial stress during the pandemic made her rethink certain things: “People feel Suma does many shows, so she is earning well, but my income also matches my liabilities including my staff’s requirements. I realised I need to have three months of fixed income, especially during a crisis like the pandemic”. Downside of stardom The downside of being the queen of the small screen is having to constantly deal with social media rumours on her marriage and how she earns more than her husband actor Rajeev Kanakala. “Would they ask a man if he earns more than his wife? People always talk about women empowerment without understanding its meaning. There is never a fixed income in the entertainment industry; some months he earns more than me and vice-versa. We have a mutual understanding that we are doing it all for the family,” she explains. Her son Roshan Kanakala has acting dreams, and daughter Snehamanaswini is in her class X. What is she looking forward to? “A big announcement is coming up and I want to be remembered as a person whose name brings a smile on people’s faces,” she signs off.  A big announcement is coming up and I want to be remembered as a person whose name brings a smile on people’s faces||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/big-screen-beckons-suma/article35828518.ece
10 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Power staff put off one-day stir, to hold one-hour demo||The National Coordination Committee of Electricity Employees & Engineers (NCCOEEE) has postponed its one-day nationwide strike/work boycott call to employees and engineers of public sector power utilities after a specific statement made by Union Power Minister R.K. Singh that Electricity (Amendment) Bill 2021 is not yet cleared by the Union Cabinet for placing before Parliament. The body has warned that they would resort to a lightning strike, in case the Bill was introduced in Parliament. Secretary general of the body P. Rathnakar Rao said they would resort to strike on the day of placing the Bill on any day since Parliament session will continue till August 13. Police ‘atrocities’ However, the electricity employees and engineers across Telangana would hold an hour’s protest demonstration in front of the offices of all power utilities on Tuesday to decry the police atrocities on the electricity employees and engineers mobilised for peaceful and democratic form of protest with prior intimation in New Delhi on August 4, 5 and 6.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/power-staff-put-off-one-day-stir-to-hold-one-hour-demo/article35828521.ece
10 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Only by-polls to all seats will get schemes for poor people’||By-elections to all the 119 Assembly constituencies in Telangana and not just to Huzurabad would make the TRS government think about doing justice to dalit and tribal communities and implement Dalit Bandhu and Girijana Bandhu schemes across the State, said Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee (TPCC) president and Malkajigiri MP A. Revanth Reddy. Alleging that Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao remembers dalits only when there are elections or by-elections, Mr. Reddy sought to know from the TRS government as to why it is hesitating to implement Dalit Bandhu across the State. He stated that the Chief Minister himself had admitted that schemes would come only when there are elections and noted that transforming the lives of dalit, tribal and adivasi communities was the plan of the Congress. Speaking at the Dalita Girijana Atma Gaurava Dandora at Indravelli in Adilabad district on Monday, the TPCC chief said in spite of borrowing about Rs. 4 lakh crore during the last 7 years, the TRS government had failed to improve the lives of Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes. The only achievement was leaving a debt of over Rs. 1 lakh on the head of every individual in the State, he noted. Paying tribute to the adivasi and tribal youth who were martyred at Indravelli about three decades ago for raising voice against the government, Mr. Reddy said it was also the land on which Kumram Bheem fought the then dictatorial rule with the slogan of “jal, jameen, jungle.” He alleged that in spite of paying Rs. 50,000 crore to Mission Bhagiratha contractors, 90 villages in Adilabad are not getting drinking water even now. Stating that he would be in public life for the next two decades, Mr. Reddy said he would strive for dethroning Mr. Rao. Congress Legislature Party leaders M. Bhatti Vikramarka, senior leaders of the party T. Jeevan Reddy, D. Anasuya alias Seethakka, D. Sridhar Babu, Ponnala Lakshmaiah, C. Damodar Rajanarsimha, J. Geetha Reddy, G. Vinod, G. Prasad Kumar, Madhu Yaskhi and several others participated in the first of a series of meetings. The second meet would be held in Ibrahimpatnam on August 18.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/only-by-polls-to-all-seats-will-get-schemes-for-poor-people/article35828538.ece
10 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Three-acre land scheme could not become a success: Rajaiah||Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) legislator and former Deputy Chief Minister Dr. T. Rajaiah said that Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao launched Dalit Empowerment Scheme (Telangana Dalit Bandhu) as distribution of 3 acres land each to landless dalit families but it did not become a success as was expected due to non-availability of land. “The new scheme has been conceived as all the schemes implemented so far have failed to render 100% justice to the dalit community which comprises 20% of the Telangana society and nobody should harbour any doubt about either implementation or success of the scheme,” Dr. Rajaiah said addressing press conference here on Monday. He stated that he had presented his experiences on the status of dalits by spending nights in dalit localities and said that he is happy over the launch of Dalit Bandhu scheme. Stating that he was among the top five legislators of TRS in the implementation of various government schemes at constituency-level, he sought to know whether Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) had ever thought of a scheme like Dalit Bandhu for the uplift of the community so far even in the States where the party had mass-base and was in power in the past. Turning to news making rounds in the social media platforms that he is planning to join the YSR Telangana Party launched by Y.S. Sharmila, Mr. Rajaiah said he did not meet either Ms. Sharmila or her husband Anil Kumar. He pointed out that a photo of the past taken during a Christian meet with Mr. Anil Kumar is being made viral on social media platforms by his detractors. He, however, admitted that he has affection for late Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy as it was he who had encouraged him politically by giving him Congress party ticket. He also had good going with Y.S. Jaganmohan Reddy in the past but the equation boiled down choosing between Mr. Jaganmohan Reddy and Telangana and he opted for the latter and quit as an MLA. In TRS, he was given prominence by the Chief Minister from the beginning and was made Deputy CM in 2014 along with medical and health portfolio. He said that he would not leave TRS come what may.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/three-acre-land-scheme-failed-due-to-paucity-of-land-rajaiah/article35828536.ece
10 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Now, book Indane LPG connection with a missed call||Indian Oil Corporation is extending its missed call facility across the country for households desirous of availing new LPG connection. Prospective customers can give a missed call on 8454955555 to avail a new connection, IOC said in a release. IOC said it is the only oil marketing company to offer this facility to its existing and prospective customers. Chairman S.M. Vaidya, who launched the facility, expressed confidence that the missed call facility will play a crucial role in making LPG easily accessible to consumers. The missed call facility for refill booking — existing customers can book by giving a missed call from registered phone number — across the country and new connections in select markets was launched in January. The hassle-free missed call facility will save a lot of time for customers, making it convenient and cost free to register for new connection. This will benefit consumers, especially the elderly and those from rural areas, the company said. DBC at doorstep Mr.Vaidya also inaugurated a facility for customers to avail Double Bottle Connection (DBC) at their doorstep. The company said under this facility, delivery personnel will offer existing Single Bottle Connections (single cylinder) customers the option to convert to a DBC. Interested customer can choose 5 kg cylinder as a backup instead of the regular 14.2kg cylinder.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/now-book-indane-lpg-connection-with-a-missed-call/article35828528.ece
10 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Outpatient visits at Gandhi, OGH nowhere near pre-COVID numbers||A usual day at Gandhi Hospital or Osmania General Hospital, the two major State-run facilities which provide free super speciality services, would see 5,000 to 8,000 patients coming in for out-patient consultations. However, all that changed after the COVID-19 pandemic reached the State. Pre-COVID, the number of in-patients, on the other hand, always exceeded the sanctioned beds at the two health centres. While OGH has only 1,168 sanctioned beds, 1,800-2,000 patients used to be treated there on any given day. In case of Gandhi Hospital, 2,000-2,200 in-patients could be found as against the sanctioned bed capacity of around 1,100. These figures are testimony to the high demand for speciality and super-speciality services. Since these are government hospitals, admission is not denied to the patients and they are accommodated anyhow, even being laid on floor beds. The numbers plummeted as the pandemic broke out. However, senior doctors say the number of people seeking medical services at the two hospitals will rise again. “If the four super speciality hospitals come up in and around Hyderabad, load of patients will come down on the two hospitals. Doctors will be able to allot more time to the patients admitted there,” a senior doctor said.  If the four super-speciality hospitals come up in and around Hyderabad, the load of patients will come down on these two facilities. Senior doctor||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/hope-for-easing-of-patient-load-at-ogh-gandhi-hospital/article35828527.ece
10 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||SCR freight up by 50%||South Central Railway’s special focus on enhancing freight loading is continuing to yield positive results in spite of the challenges posed by COVID-19 pandemic in this current financial year with 9.528 million tonnes (MTs) transported in July, more than 50% compared to last year’s loading of 6.341 MTs during the same time. Major commodity – coal – has seen a revival in loading and has gained momentum with 4.139 MTs loaded last month, a 66% increase; and cement loading is another major contributor to the total freight, picking up by 53% with 2.811 MTs being loaded. Similarly, special focus being given to support the agricultural sector for transportation through railways has resulted in foodgrains and fertilizers loading registering 0.794 MTs and 0.735 MTs, respectively, informed senior officials. The entire freight loading has been on an upswing in the first four months, April-July, when the cumulative loading has touched 38.164 MTs, 54% more compared to the same period in the last financial year. During the period, the loading consisted of 18.455 MTs of coal, 10.63 MTs of cement, 2.56 MTs of foodgrains, and 2.038 MTs of fertilizers. General Manager Gajanan Mallya said senior officials are on the standby to deal with any issues being faced by freight customers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/scr-freight-up-by-50/article35828502.ece
10 August 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Saket of Talwar Cars held for fraud||Saket Talwar (41) of Talwar Cars Private Limited was arrested by the Hyderabad Central Crime Station police in Goa for allegedly cheating Canara Bank, Sultan Bazar Branch.According to the Joint Commissioner of Police (Detective Department) Avinash Mohanty, the accused toomk Rs. 95 lakh bank loan on the guise of delivering a new Volvo car and diverted the amounts and cheated the bank without delivery of the car.Talwar has cheated several banks/Financial institutions by furnishing fake, fabricated invoices, insurance certificates, creating fake temporary registrations and chassis numbers, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/saket-of-talwar-cars-held-for-fraud/article35828513.ece
10 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Venkatapathi Raju to be the voice-over for app||One of city’s most popular faces in the cricketing world and former India left-arm spinner, S.L. Venkatapathi Raju will be the voice for the Telugu version of the World Cricket Championship, which recently touched a new high of 160 million download mark. English bowler, columnist and BBC cricket commentator Isa Guha will also be joining Matthew Hayden for the game’s English commentary roster. The game also offers Hindi and Tamil commentary by Aakash Chopra and Abhinav Mukund respectively. With this, the game plans to further its footprints in the regional space. The homegrown title is played in over 150 countries including UK, Australia, USA, UAE, Sri Lanka, Pakistan and Bangladesh. “In the digital age, simulation titles like World Cricket Championship is a fresh way to look at the sport of cricket,” Raju said. “It was amazing to work alongside the team and I am glad that I’ll be reaching out to the massive Telugu speaking audience, whenever they want, right on their phones,” the former India cricketer said. WCC 3, the latest edition which has been infused with simulation of actual cricket, updated gameplay features like new controls, animations, real-time motions of athletes and professional cricketers, women’s cricket, a comprehensive career mode with over 400 tournaments, international leagues and much more. The game recently also added a standalone esports lobby. To tap into the growing trend, Next Wave Multimedia, the studio behind WCC aims to build up its portfolio, and reach multiple sectors of audiences through one customized game. “We see a great response from the regional markets. The Tamil and Telugu markets are evolving and have been witnessing user retention and growth in players YOY. We want to continue to move to other prominent gaming markets soon,” Next Wave Multimedia CEO and co-founder P.R. Rajendran said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/venkatapathi-raju-to-be-the-voice-over-for-cricketing-app/article35828504.ece
10 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Gas maker setting up Rs. 250 cr plant in Kurnool||Ellenbarrie Industrial Gases is setting up a manufacturing facility in Kurnool with an investment of Rs. 250 crore that will double the industrial and medical gas firm’s capacity and help cater to the growing demand from Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and Karnataka. A greenfield project, it will make aragon, nitrogen and oxygen, said Varun Agarwal, Executive Director. The plant capacity will be 600 tonnes a day or as much as the firm has across facilities in West Bengal, Visakhapatnam and Hyderabad at present. While demand for medical oxygen has come down after the surge during second wave of the COVID-19 pandemic, that for industrial gases is on the rise. Pharmaceutical industry in particular is driving the demand by setting up new units. Also, many hospitals who were meeting their requirement from the unorganised sector, primarily distributors, are keen on tying up with large firms to ensure reliability in supplies, Mr.Agarwal said, in an interaction following Ellenbarrie announcement on the Kurnool plant as well as on the firm’s promoters re-acquiring 51% stake from a Japanese firm. Work on Kurnool plant has commenced and the facility is expected to go on stream in the second half of 2022.. It will cater to growing clientele in Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and Karnataka, the company said in a release. Ellenbarrie said it was expanding the manufacturing portfolio by adding a high-purity Hydrogen plant in Uluberia, West Bengal. 100% Indian firm The firm said the promoters have re-acquired 51% stake from Japanese industrial gases conglomerate Air Water, for an undisclosed sum, thus making “Ellenbarrie the largest 100% Indian-owned industrial and medical gas company, in a space dominated by multinational companies.” The Agarwala family in 2013 had sold 51% stake to Air Water. Ellenbarrie said it has also retired all its borrowings and remains a debt-free company.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/industrial-medical-gas-maker-setting-up-rs-250-cr-plant-in-kurnool/article35828506.ece
10 August 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Family members of organ donors felicitated||Cyberabad Commissioner of Police V.C. Sajjanar on Monday felicitated family members of organ donors and 14 good Samaritans who have saved accident victims. He also felicitated six doctors who served road accident victims free of cost, five SCSC traffic \volunteers, 32 police personal, six members of RTAM cell for shifting road accident victims. Addressing the gathering, Mr. Sajjanar appreciated the good samaritans and said that they are role models for everyone in society. Traffic police officers have coordinated timely with the hospitals and saved road accident victims. “Over 2,000 traffic volunteers are working under the Cyberabad Police Commissionerate, in this 500 traffic volunteers working actively and relentlessly are software professionals.” Hit-and-run cases In Cyberabad RTAM Cell (Road Traffic Accidents Monitoring Cell) will monitor and analyses all hit-and-run cases, he said, adding that with it more than 200 cases of the hit-and-run cases were detected. In the year November 2018 Cyberabad Police started the Marojanma initiative with the coordination of the Jeevandan Programme. Many of the Police families came forward to donate the organs of their deceased family members. As many as 83 persons have donated organs and 308 lives were saved in the State under the Jeevandan scheme of Telangana so far in the year 2021. Traffic DCP Vijay Kumar SM said seven families who lost their family members came forward and donated organs and brought happiness in others lives. Awareness song “Every day many accidents are being witnessed in Cyberabad. Without any doubt, good Samaritans helped the road accident victims. Among the 15 good Samaritans, 12 members of these good Samaritans were felicitated today,” he said. Later, they launched a traffic awareness song.  Seven families who lost their family members came forward and donated organs and brought happiness in others lives S.M. Vijay KumarTraffic DCP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/family-members-of-organ-donors-feted/article35828508.ece
10 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Rs. 500 crore released for Dalit Bandhu||The State government released Rs. 500 crore for the implementation of pilot project of Telangana Dalit Bandhu in Huzurabad constituency as the date for the launch of the project, August 16, is fast approaching. Telangana Scheduled Castes Cooperative Development Corporation vice-chairman and managing director P. Karunakar transferred the amount into the account of Karimnagar District Collector, who is also the chairman of the District Scheduled Caste Service Cooperative Development Society. The development follows orders issued by Scheduled Castes Development Department Secretary Rahul Bojja on Monday. Mr. Rahul Bojja said orders were issued for implementing Dalit Bandhu programme on a pilot basis in Huzurabad constituency and this was also approved by the State Cabinet. Accordingly, the Telangana State Scheduled Caste Cooperative Development Corporation had been directed to release the amount from the available funds. The funds would be utilised for implementation of Dalit Bandhu on a pilot basis in saturation mode. The basic operational guidelines for the implementation of the scheme, billed as the biggest direct benefit transfer scheme issued by the government, would apply for the pilot project.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/rs-500-crore-released-for-dalit-bandhu/article35828543.ece
10 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||HC judge P. Keshava Rao dead||Justice P. Keshava Rao of Telangana High Court passed away on Monday. He was undergoing treatment for brain tumor-related ailment for past few months. The sitting judge of the HC breathed his last at 3.47 a.m., doctors attending on him at a private hospital here said. Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana conveyed his heartfelt condolences to Keshava Rao’s family members. Work was suspended in the High Court and all subordinate courts of the State following the judge’s demise. Describing him as a “diligent and compassionate judge’, the CJI said Rao immensely contributed for promotion of justice with his nearly three decades of association with legal profession in different capacities. HC Chief Justice Hima Kohli paid tributes to the departed soul at his residence in Habsiguda and called on bereaved members of the judge’s family. Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhara Rao mourned the judge’s death. He recalled Rao’s services to the poor as a judge. Born on March 29, 1961 to Potlapalli Prakasha Rao and Jayaprada, Rao completed his graduation and LLB programme from Kakatiya University. He got enrolled as lawyer in 1986 and practised in Warangal courts as lawyer. Eventually in 1991, he shifted to Hyderabad and joined senior counsel M.V. Ramana Reddy’s office. From 1996 onwards, he started practising independently and took up case relating in civil, criminal, constitutional and election matters. After working as government pleader attached to Additional Advocate General’s office for three years from 1998, he was appointed as special counsel for CBI in 2010 and served for six years. In 2016, CBI again engaged his services for specially entrusted high-profile cases. Final rites of the judge were conducted with full official honours at Jubilee Hills Mahaprasthanam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/hc-judge-p-keshava-rao-dead/article35828541.ece
10 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Photography contest on August 19||The Telangana Chamber of Events Industry (TCEI) and Telangana Event Facilitators Association (TEFA) will conduct a photography contest in connection with the World Photography Day on August 19. Tourism and Culture Secretary K. S. Sreenivasa Raju released the TCEI-TEFA World Photography Day poster. Mr. Raju said TCEI and TEFA taking the initiative to host the World Photography Day and encouraging budding talent by way of hosting a contest is highly commendable. No event or occasion is complete without the photographer clicking pictures, he added. TCEI is calling for entries from interested photography professionals for the contest, on the theme ‘Emotions’. Interested contestants can access details on https://forms.gle/zWgwnsLciCdwXTvUA or calling 9849003482/ 9010393628/ 9989523143.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/photography-contest-on-august-19/article35828507.ece
10 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||3kg tumor removed from woman||Doctors at Renova Hospitals, Langar Houz, have removed a 3-kg tumour that had grown inside the uterus of a 62-year-old woman from Guntur, Andhra Pradesh, on August 2. It is yet to be determined whether it is cancerous. The patient was discharged. The woman had undergone successful treatment for Cervix Cancer at about 15 years ago. She was leading normal life without any traces of cancer. Recently she developed unbearable pain in her abdomen, backache and body pains and off late the patient developed huge abdominal mass, said the press note.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/3-kg-tumour-removed-from-womans-uterus/article35828505.ece
10 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Good days will return only with Congress rule’||Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee (TPCC) president A. Revanth Reddy said good days in the lives of downtrodden, poor and middle class people would return only if Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao are dethroned, and the Congress party is brought back to power. Speaking at the Quit India Day commemoration meeting held at Gandhi Bhavan here on Monday, he said the Congress liberated the country from foreign rule, had given freedom to people and made India indomitable force, while Mr. Modi is mortgaging the country to Ambanis and Adanis.  He alleged that both Mr. Modi and Mr. Rao are following anti-people policies. The farming community is being hit hard with the new farm laws brought by the Centre and the pro-capitalist policies are rendering huge loss to the dalit and tribal communities. Stating that Sonia Gandhi had given statehood to Telangana moved by the suicides of youth for the cause knowing well the party would suffer serious loss in Andhra Pradesh, he said the objectives for which statehood was given are not being fulfilled. He observed that Mr. Modi is holding about 135 crore population to ransom, while Mr. Rao is doing the same in case of 4 crore people with their anti-people policies. He appealed to the people of the State to spare at least one member from every family for the next 20 months for fighting for social justice and “quit Telangana” movement to oust the Chief Minister and make people free from his clutches.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/good-days-will-return-only-with-congress-rule/article35828520.ece
10 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||CM to hoist national flag||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao will hoist the national flag at Golconda fort on the Independence Day on August 15. Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar directed the officials concerned to make elaborate arrangements for the flag hoisting ceremony. The Police Department has been asked to make proper bandobust and fine tune traffic movement to ensure that there is no inconvenience to people. The Roads and Buildings Department has been instructed to provide necessary infrastructure at the venue. The Health Department had been directed to ensure masks and sanitisers in sufficient numbers in view of the COVID-19 pandemic. The Cultural Department on its part is to mobilise cultural troupes in good numbers so as to depict the rich cultural heritage of Telangana during the celebrations. The Chief Secretary gave these instructions at a meeting with senior officials on Monday to review the arrangements being made for the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cm-to-hoist-national-flag/article35828542.ece
10 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Low COVID tests for second consecutive day||The number of COVID-19 tests in Telangana remained low for the second consecutive day. With just 80,658 samples being examined, 453 coronavirus infections came to the fore. The previous day, a total of 79,231 tests were performed, leading to the detection of 449 cases. Usually, 1 lakh to 1.1 lakh samples are examined daily, of which nearly 600 turn up positive. The new infections included 68 from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation region, 43 from Karimnagar, 36 from Warangal Urban, and 33 from Khammam. No case was detected in Kumaram Bheem Asifabad, Narayanpet, or Vikarabad districts. Three more COVID patients died. With this, the death toll has climbed to 3,828. Of the total cases, 8,242 were active.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/low-covid-tests-for-second-consecutive-day/article35828525.ece
10 August 2021||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||Bharosa centre for women opens||Energy Minister G. Jagadish Reddy along with Director General of Police M. Mahender Reddy inaugurated Bharosa centre, the State women police wing’s one-stop centre for women and children, at Prakasham Bazaar, and a Traffic Training Institute at the district police office, here on Monday. ‘Bharosa’, or assurance, as the name suggests, helps children and women victims of various abuses by way of intervention with multifarious support services, under one roof. According to the Minister, Telangana’s Bharosa centre is a one-of-a-kind initiative in the country. One of the brains behind Bharosa, Addl. DGP (Women Safety) Swati Lakra said the Nalgonda facility is the fifth one in the State, after centres in Hyderabad, Warangal and Sangareddy. She said four more centres would come up in Khammam, Suryapet and Medchal districts shortly. Ms. Lakra, explaining that the centre offers confidential support to victims through police, medical and legal experts, in addition to relief and rehabilitation, also added that Bharosa centres will soon host POCSO (Protection of Children from Sexual Offences) court services through video conferencing. Superintendent of Police A.V. Ranganath, the host officer, said about 40% of the annual crimes in the district involved women victims. He said ‘SHE team police’ has been a crucial force in producing good results and believed the specialised Bharosa centre would act as an effective platform.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bharosa-centre-for-women-opens/article35828781.ece
10 August 2021||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||Revenge killing in two brothers’ death?||Two brothers were found dead within a span of 24 hours in Akkalaipally village on Sunday. It was alleged that the two brothers had a long-standing dispute over their ancestral property. Avula Ramaswamy, 57, who had gone to his fields e on Sunday morning, was found dead in a pool of blood. His family members alleged that Ramaswamy’s brother Kashayya, 62, his wife and two sons, were suspects, as they were missing since the time of incident. Meanwhile, at around 11 p.m., Kashayya was found dead with severe head injuries in the same village. Police suspect the two murders may be inked to the land disputes between the brothers and their families. An investigation is under way. Police said both Ramaswamy and Kashayya inherited equal share of their ancestral property and there were disputes over their property .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/revenge-killing-in-two-brothers-death/article35828782.ece
10 August 2021||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||Rs. 30,000 cr. for Dalit Bandhu in next budget: Harish Rao||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has ordered for the allocation of Rs. 30,000 for Dalit Bandhu in the next budget for successful implementation of the budget, Finance Minister T. Harish Rao has said. Participating in several programmes held at Cheriyal on Monday, Mr Harish Rao said that Dalit Bandhi will be another revolutionary scheme in the country like Rythu Bandhu, which is being implemented by several states. “All the welfare schemes are being implemented beyond party lines. The Chief Minister has been implementing all promised welfare schemes without fail. In a similar manner, Dalit Bandhu will be implemented which will help the community to stand on their own,” said Mr. Harish Rao, adding that financial assistance will be extended for construction to those who have their own house site. The Minister laid the foundation for construction of BR Ambedkar Community Building at an estimated cost of Rs. 50 lakh. He said that another Rs. 75 lakh will be sanctioned for the construction of the building and all facilities will be put in place. Participating in a review meeting, he directed officials to complete the integrated office complex before December. Zilla Parishad chairperson V. Roja Sharma and MLA M. Yadagiri Reddy were among those present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/rs-30000-cr-for-dalit-bandhu-in-next-budget-harish-rao/article35828785.ece
10 August 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||Odisha govt. to build 89 stadiums||The Odisha government stepped up efforts to strengthen the sports infrastructure in the State by deciding to build 89 indoor stadiums, which can be used as hospitals during health emergencies and shelters during natural disasters. A Cabinet meeting, chaired by Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik, approved the proposal at an estimated cost of Rs. 693.35 crore. The indoor stadiums would be constructed at places where modern sports infrastructure is not available. All these stadiums, to be christened as Biju Patnaik Indoor Stadium, will come up within next 18 months.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/odisha-govt-to-build-89-stadiums/article35828417.ece
10 August 2021||Chandigarh,||Punjab on high alert after bomb found in tiffin box||The Punjab police said on Monday that the State was on high alert after a tiffin box bomb, packed with over 2 kg of RDX, was recovered from a village in Amritsar which they suspect was dropped by a drone flying in from Pakistan. Director General of Police Dinkar Gupta said the bomb could be set off through a remote device or a timed mechanism. “The tiffin box bomb can be described as an Improvised Explosive Device. The IED was created in a double-chambered tiffin box with attractive pictures on it. Last evening, the recovery was made near Dalake village under Lopoke Police Station in Amritsar,” Mr. Gupta told media persons. “Our assessment is that this bomb has been delivered through a drone across the border,” he added. According to police, some hand grenades and cartridges were also found from the bag containing the tiffin bomb days ahead of Independence Day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/punjab-on-high-alert-after-bomb-found-in-tiffin-box/article35828412.ece
10 August 2021||Ghaziabad,||Government being run by big corporates, says Rakesh Tikait||The demands made by farmers against the agriculture reform laws are not being heeded by the Narendra Modi government as it is being run by big corporates, Bharatiya Kisan Union national spokesperson Rakesh Tikait said on Monday. He was addressing farmers at a panchayat in Modinagar, ahead of the scheduled mahapanchayat in Muzaffarnagar on September 5. He alleged that the government did not want to bring in a law on the minimum support price because it wanted to safeguard the interests of its corporate friends. “They want to do business of hunger. If you want to save your land, you have to give the BJP the same treatment that farmers of Bengal administered it in the recent Assembly election,” he added. He said farmers should be wary of the divisive politics of the BJP. “In Uttar Pradesh, they pit Hindus against Muslims, in Gujarat they put Patels against non-Patels, in Haryana, they make it Jats versus non-Jats and in Maharashtra, Marathas are propped up against non-Marathas. It is time to see through their tactics of dividing us to rule,” he said. Invoking names of BJP leaders like L.K. Advani and Murali Manohar Joshi, Mr. Tikait said it seemed those who talked of Swadeshi had been asked to keep their mouths shut. “This is the party that talks of cows and cow dung. They promised to implement the M.S. Swaminathan report in their manifesto. It seems even the manifesto has been reduced to jumle baaz i,” he said. Gujarat model Mr. Tikait claimed the government was trying to bring in the Gujarat and Brazil model of land acquisition and said in future farmers would be reduced to labour working for big corporates on the farms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/government-being-run-by-big-corporates-says-rakesh-tikait/article35828414.ece
10 August 2021||Ghaziabad,||Government being run by big corporates, says Rakesh Tikait||The demands made by farmers against the agriculture reform laws are not being heeded by the Narendra Modi government as it is being run by big corporates, Bharatiya Kisan Union national spokesperson Rakesh Tikait said on Monday. He was addressing farmers at a panchayat in Modinagar, ahead of the scheduled mahapanchayat in Muzaffarnagar on September 5. He alleged that the government did not want to bring in a law on the minimum support price because it wanted to safeguard the interests of its corporate friends. “They want to do business of hunger. If you want to save your land, you have to give the BJP the same treatment that farmers of Bengal administered it in the recent Assembly election,” he added. He said farmers should be wary of the divisive politics of the BJP. “In Uttar Pradesh, they pit Hindus against Muslims, in Gujarat they put Patels against non-Patels, in Haryana, they make it Jats versus non-Jats and in Maharashtra, Marathas are propped up against non-Marathas. It is time to see through their tactics of dividing us to rule,” he said. Invoking names of BJP leaders like L.K. Advani and Murali Manohar Joshi, Mr. Tikait said it seemed those who talked of Swadeshi had been asked to keep their mouths shut. “This is the party that talks of cows and cow dung. They promised to implement the M.S. Swaminathan report in their manifesto. It seems even the manifesto has been reduced to jumle baaz i,” he said. Gujarat model Mr. Tikait claimed the government was trying to bring in the Gujarat and Brazil model of land acquisition and said in future farmers would be reduced to labour working for big corporates on the farms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/government-being-run-by-big-corporates-says-rakesh-tikait/article35828702.ece
10 August 2021||Guwahati,||Assam govt. eases COVID curbs||The Assam government on Monday relaxed curfew timings in view of improvement in the COVID-19 situation. Curfew will be enforced between 6 p.m. and 5 a.m. across the State, an order issued by Chief Secretary Jishnu Barua, in his capacity as the chairperson of the Assam State Disaster Management Authority, said. The order will come into force from 5 a.m. on August 10 in both urban and rural areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/assam-govt-eases-covid-curbs/article35828413.ece
10 August 2021||LUCKNOW,||Prefer Akhilesh as Chief Minister over Adityanath, says Rajbhar||Amid speculation over his next move following his meeting with a senior BJP leader, OBC leader from Purvanchal Om Prakash Rajbhar has said he prefers Akhilesh Yadav as the next Chief Minister of Uttar Pradesh and not Yogi Adityanath. With this fresh statement, Mr. Rajbhar, president of the Suheldev Bharatiya Samaj Party (SBSP), has indicated he prefers an alliance with the Samajwadi Party (SP) even though the door was also open for the BSP and the Congress. “Yogi is a sadhu baba . He should stay in a temple. He is not a neta (leader or politician). Akhilesh Yadav is a neta ,” Mr. Rajbhar told reporters in Varanasi. While praising the work done in U.P. by Mr. Yadav during his government from 2012 to 2017, Mr. Rajbhar said, “Akhilesh should become the CM.” Mr. Rajbhar also said that his goal was to defeat the BJP in 2022 and ruled out any alliance with it. However, recently he met State BJP president Swatantra Dev Singh in Lucknow and the two OBC leaders discussed politics. Though even then Mr. Rajbhar dismissed prospects of an alliance with the BJP in 2022, he laced it with a condition that if the BJP fulfilled five demands laid down by him he would think about a tie-up. One of his main demands was that the BJP nominate a Chief Minister from the OBC community, which indirectly meant he did not accept Mr. Adityanath as Chief Minister as he was born into the dominant Thakur caste. Former BJP ally A former ally of the BJP, Mr. Rajbhar turned rebel before the 2019 Lok Sabha election and was subsequently sacked as a Cabinet Minister in the State government following the results in which the BJP overcame a joint SP-BSP fight. Since then, Mr. Rajbhar formed the Bhagidari Sankalp Morcha, a group of small parties each with a base in some OBC caste.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/prefer-akhilesh-as-chief-minister-over-adityanath-says-rajbhar/article35828416.ece
10 August 2021||Navi Mumbai,||Thousands turn up for protest march over naming of airport||Thousands of people from Raigad, Thane, Mumbai and Palghar districts took out a ‘mashal morcha’ (torch march) on Monday, demanding that the proposed Navi Mumbai airport be named after late Peasants and Workers’ Party leader D.B. Patil. The protest started at Uran’s Jasai village where Patil, who had fought for farmers and project-affected people, hailed from. “The march was taken out in a peaceful manner. We request the State government again to consider locals’ demand and name the airport after our late leader Patil,” Dashrath Patil, president of Navi Mumbai Airport All Party Action Committee, said. Mr. Patil said the agitation on August 9, the August Kranti Din, aimed to send a message to the government that the protest would intensify in the coming days. “We had given the government a deadline of August 15. If it does not heed our demand, on August 16, we will stop work of the airport and stage a protest,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/thousands-turn-up-for-protest-march-over-naming-of-airport/article35828630.ece
10 August 2021||Pune,||AIKS holds Statewide agitation demanding higher milk prices||Reiterating their demand for an increase in per litre price of milk for dairy farmers, the Left-affiliated All India Kisan Sabha (AIKS) on Monday staged protests across 16 districts in Maharashtra. It also urged the State government to give security to smaller dairy farmers by fixing a fair and remunerative price (FRP) for milk along the lines of sugarcane prices. The AIKS has attributed the price fall to the monopoly of large dairy cooperatives and private dairy owners. It alleged that milk farmers were given low prices by private and cooperative milk unions who cut costs by claiming a low demand for milk during the pandemic-induced lockdown. Milk producers in Ahmednagar, Pune, Nashik, Satara, Solapur, Aurangabad, Sangli, Kolhapur, Osmanabad, Jalna, Buldhana and Latur staged demonstrations at milk collection centres. “Because of the connivance between private dairy owners, common dairy farmers are suffering heavy losses. We demand that farmers be given a minimum purchase price of Rs. 35 per litre for cow milk and Rs. 60 per litre for buffalo milk,” Ajit Nawale of the AIKS said. He said that an FRP (the minimum price at which sugar cane is to be purchased by sugar mills from farmers) be fixed for milk so as to provide basic security to dairy farmers up against the might of bigger cooperatives. “If this is not done, then dairy farmers will ensure that the milk supply is paralysed. We will stage a massive agitation in the near future,” Mr. Nawale warned. Citing the pandemic-induced lockdown as a pretext, the AIKS said that private and cooperative milk unions had slashed the purchase price of milk by Rs. 10 to Rs. 15 per litre, while keeping the selling rate unchanged for consumers. To protest this, the outfit had staged a Maharashtra-wide agitation in June this year. At the time, Dairy Development Minister Sunil Kedar had chaired a joint meeting of representatives of farmers' associations and milk companies and had assured dairy farmers of higher milk prices. “Even after nearly two months, the rates have not been increased despite the Minister’s assurances. We have sent scores of mails to the Chief Minister, the Deputy Chief Minister and the Dairy Development Minister to no avail,” Mr. Nawale said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/aiks-holds-statewide-agitation-demanding-higher-milk-prices/article35828632.ece
10 August 2021||Thane,||Jail inmate booked for assault||An inmate of Aadharwadi jail in Kalyan in Thane district was booked for allegedly assaulting staff, an official said on Monday. Ravindra Bhosle (19) had moved out of his cell on Friday and was not going back despite repeated warnings from jail staff. He has been charged for assault on public servant performing duty.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/jail-inmate-booked-for-assault/article35828629.ece
10 August 2021||Kabul,||Taliban press on, capture two more cities||The Taliban on Monday took control of another provincial capital in Afghanistan, an official said. The city's fall was the latest in a weeks-long, relentless Taliban offensive as American and NATO forces finalise their pull-out from the war-torn country. The militants have ramped up their push across much of Afghanistan, turning their guns on provincial capitals after taking large swaths of land in the mostly rural countryside. At the same time, they have been waging an assassination campaign targeting senior government officials in the capital, Kabul. The sweep comes despite condemnations by the international community and warnings from the UN that a military victory and takeover by the Taliban would not be recognised. The Taliban have also not heeded appeals to return to the negotiating table and continue long-stalled peace talks with the Afghan government. According to Mohammad Noor Rahmani, the council chief of northern Sar-e Pul province, the Taliban overran the provincial capital after over a week of resistance by the Afghan security forces, after which the city of Sar-e Pul collapsed. The government forces have now completely withdrawn from the province, he said. Without a fight Several pro-government local militia commanders also surrendered to the Taliban without a fight, allowing the insurgents to gain control of the entire province, Mr. Rahmani added. The city of Sar-e Pul joins three other provincial capitals now fully under Taliban control: Zaranj, the capital of western Nimroz province, the city of Shibirghan, the capital of northern Zawzjan province, and Taleqan, the capital of another northern province with the same name. The Taliban are also fighting on for control of of Kunduz city, the capital of northern Kunduz province. On Sunday, they planted their flag in the city's main square, where it was seen flying atop a traffic police booth, a video obtained by the Associated Press showed. Kunduz’s capture would be a significant gain for the Taliban and a test of their ability to take and retain territory in their campaign against the Western-backed government. It is one of the country’s larger cities with a population of more than 340,000, and was a key area defended against Taliban takeovers by Western troops over the years. After billions of dollars spent in aiding, training and shoring up Afghan forces, many are at odds how to explain the surprising Taliban blitz that has threatened — and by now taken — several of the country’s 34 provincial capitals. Mr. Rahmani, the council chief in Sar-e Pul, said the provincial capital had been under siege by the militants for weeks, with no reinforcements being sent to the overstretched Afghan forces.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/taliban-press-on-capture-another-city/article35827983.ece
10 August 2021||Paris,||‘Climate report must be death knell for fossil fuels’||A bombshell climate science report “must sound a death knell” for coal, oil and gas, United Nations Secretary-General Antonio Guterres said on Monday, warning that fossil fuels were destroying the planet. The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change concluded that the 1.5 degrees Celsius temperature goal of the Paris Agreement would likely be breached around 2030 — a decade earlier than it itself projected just three years ago. “This report must sound a death knell for coal and fossil fuels, before they destroy our planet,” Mr. Guterres said in a statement. World leaders, green groups and influencers reacted on Monday to the “terrifying” UN climate science report with a mix of horror and hopefulness as the scale of the emergency dawned on many. “This moment requires world leaders, the private sector and individuals to act together with urgency and do everything it takes to protect our planet,” U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken said in a statement. “We cannot delay ambitious climate action any longer,” he added. U.S. Presidential envoy on climate John Kerry said the IPCC report showed “the climate crisis is not only here, it is growing increasingly severe”. ‘It’s not too late’ Frans Timmermans, the European Union’s deputy climate chief said the report showed “it’s not too late to stem the tide and prevent runaway climate change”. Britain’s Boris Johnson, whose government is hosting a crucial climate summit in November, said the assessment “makes for sobering reading”. “I hope today’s IPCC report will be a wake-up call for the world to take action now, before we meet in Glasgow in November for the critical COP26 summit,” he said. Former Maldives President Mohamed Nasheed said the 3,500-page assessment confirmed that climate vulnerable nations were “on the edge of extinction”. French President Emmanuel Macron called for a deal at the Glasgow conference. “The time for outrage is behind us... In November, in Glasgow, let’s seal a deal that matches the urgency,” he wrote on Twitter. Climate wunderkind Greta Thunberg said the report was a “solid (but cautious) summary” of the state of the planet. “It doesn’t tell us what to do,” she said on Twitter. “It is up to us to be brave and take decisions based on the scientific evidence provided in these reports. We can still avoid the worst consequences, but not if we continue like today, and not without treating the crisis like a crisis.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/climate-report-must-be-death-knell-for-fossil-fuels/article35828134.ece
10 August 2021||Paris,||Catholic priest murdered in France by suspected arsonist||A Rwandan refugee suspected of causing a major fire that ravaged the cathedral in the French city of Nantes last year murdered a Catholic priest in western France on Monday, the Interior Minister and a source close to the investigation said. “All my support for the Catholics of our country after the dramatic murder of a priest in the Vendee region,” Interior Minister Gerald Darmanin wrote on Twitter. A source close to the investigation, who asked not to be named, said a man had earlier gone to police in the town of Mortagne-sur-Sevre and declared he had killed a priest. The man was already under judicial control over the fire at Nantes cathedral in July 2020, the source added. The source added that the priest, aged 60, had been welcoming the man into his church for several months. Behind Cathedral fire The man, named as Emmanuel A. has confessed to being behind the fire at the Gothic Nantes cathedral that horrified France on July 18, 2020. He had initially been placed under arrest before being freed under judicial control. Far-right leader Marine Le Pen, who accuses the government of being weak on immigration, sought to seize on the incident, saying that in France “you can be an illegal migrant, set fire to a cathedral, not be expelled and then reoffend by murdering a priest”. Mr. Darmanin immediately accused her of “making a polemic without knowing the facts”, saying the man could not be expelled from France so long as he was under judicial control. Immigration is set to be a major issue when Ms. Le Pen challenges centrist President Emmanuel Macron for the presidency next year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/catholic-priest-murdered-in-france-by-suspected-arsonist/article35828127.ece
10 August 2021||Canberra,||Australia signals democracies’ trade swing from China to India||Australian special envoy and former Prime Minister Tony Abbott said a free trade agreement between his nation and India would signal the “democratic world’s tilt away from China.” Mr. Abbott visited New Delhi last week as Australia’s special trade envoy for India as the Australian government gives priority to sealing a bilateral trade deal. In an opinion piece likely to anger Beijing that that was published in The Australian newspaper on Monday, Mr. Abbott said the “answer to almost every question about China is India.” “With the world’s other emerging superpower becoming more belligerent almost by the day, it’s in everyone’s interests that India take its rightful place among the nations as quickly as possible,” Mr. Abbott wrote. “Because trade deals are about politics as much as economics, a swift deal between India and Australia would be an important sign of the democratic world’s tilt away from China, as well as boosting the long-term prosperity of both our countries,” Mr. Abbott added. Mr. Abbott was Prime Minister when China and Australia finalised a bilateral free trade deal which took effect in 2015. He also hosted a state visit by Chinese President Xi Jinping a year earlier. Relations have since soured over issues, including Australia banning Chinese telecom giant Huawei from major communications infrastructure projects, outlawing covert foreign interference in Australian politics and calling for an independent investigation into the origins of the COVID-19 pandemic. Mr. Abbott accused Beijing of “capricious boycotts” of Australian exports including coal, barley, wine and seafood that demonstrated Chinese use of trade as a “strategic weapon.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/australia-signals-democracies-trade-swing-from-china-to-india/article35827985.ece
10 August 2021||Kiev,||Opposition was plotting coup: Lukashenko||Belarus’s authoritarian leader on Monday charged that the Opposition was plotting a coup in the run-up to last year’s presidential election that triggered a months-long wave of mass protests demanding his resignation. President Alexander Lukashenko held his annual press conference on the one-year anniversary of the vote that handed him a sixth term in office but was denounced by the Opposition and the West as rigged. In his opening remarks, Mr. Lukashenko defended the election and accused the opposition of preparing a coup. “We back then carried out preparation for the election and the election itself in the conditions of total transparency and democratization of political life,” Mr. Lukashenko said. “The difference was only that some were preparing for fair election, and others called for bashing the authorities — for a coup.” Belarus was shaken by months of protests triggered by Mr. Lukashenko’s re-election, the largest of which drew up to 2,00,000 people. Belarusian authorities responded to the protests with a relentless crackdown that saw more than 35,000 people arrested and thousands beaten by police. Leading opposition figures have been jailed or forced to leave the country. Mr. Lukashenko, who has ruled Belarus with an iron fist for 27 years, has denounced his opponents as foreign stooges and accused the U.S. and its allies of plotting to overthrow his government. The authorities have ramped up their crackdown on dissent in recent months, targeting independent journalists and democracy activists with raids and arrests and sometimes going to extremes such as diverting a plane to the capital of Minsk and arresting a dissident aboard. The pressure on dissents has elicited international outrage, and the U.S. and EU have slapped Belarus with sanctions that target top government officials and key sectors of the country’s economy. In response to the sanctions, Mr. Lukashenko has said his country will not try to stem a flow of illegal migrants to the EU. Lithuania in recent months has faced a surge of mostly Iraqi migrants it has blamed on Mr. Lukashenko’s government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/opposition-was-plotting-coup-lukashenko/article35828126.ece
10 August 2021||Bamako,||Suspected jihadists kill 51 civilians in Mali||Suspected jihadists massacred 51 civilians in northern Mali and killed 12 troops in an ambush in neighbouring Burkina Faso, the authorities said on Monday, highlighting the security crisis gripping the two fragile states. “Terrorists” on Sunday invaded the villages of Karou, Ouatagouna and Daoutegeft near Mali’s border with Niger, a military officer said, using a term officials use to designate jihadists. “(They) massacred everyone,” the source said, speaking on condition of anonymity. A document by the local prefecture said 51 people had been killed in the attacks, homes had been looted and cattle stolen. The assailants arrived on motorbike, taking the villagers by surprise, a local official said. An official at a fourth village said his locality had also come under attack.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/suspected-jihadists-kill-51-civilians-in-mali/article35828130.ece
10 August 2021||Islamabad,||‘Pakistan to host regional conference on Afghanistan’||Pakistan is likely to host a regional conference on Afghanistan as part of a diplomatic push to prevent a civil war in the war-torn neighbouring country, according to a media report on Monday. “We are planning to host Foreign Ministers of the key regional countries on the Afghan situation,” the Express Tribune quoted a senior Pakistani official as saying. Foreign Ministers of the neighbours of Afghanistan, including Russia, China, Iran and other stakeholders like Turkey would attend the conference, according to sources.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/pakistan-to-host-regional-conference-on-afghanistan/article35828128.ece
10 August 2021||Albany,||Ex-Cuomo aide details groping allegations||A former aide who filed a criminal complaint against New York State Governor Andrew Cuomo last week alleging that he had groped her appeared in a television interview on Monday, speaking out publicly for the first time. Brittany Commisso reported Cuomo to the Albany County sheriff’s office last week, days after an investigation by the Attorney General's office found she was among 11 women whom the Governor had allegedly sexually harassed. She told CBS News: “The governor needs to be held accountable... What he did to me was a crime. He broke the law.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/ex-cuomo-aide-details-groping-allegations/article35828221.ece
10 August 2021||New York,||Top Cuomo aide resigns, say reports||A top aide to New York Governor Andrew Cuomo resigned on Sunday, U.S. media reported, as the net closed further around a once-influential politician now facing the possibility of criminal charges over claims he sexually harassed 11 former and current state employees. Melissa DeRosa had served as secretary to the embattled Governor since 2017 and had long been described by New York media as one of his closest confidants. But in her resignation note Sunday she said the last two years had “been emotionally and mentally trying”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/top-cuomo-aide-resigns-say-reports/article35828133.ece
10 August 2021||BEIJING,||Virus Outbreak-The Latest||More than 30 Chinese officials have been fired or received punishments over accusations they failed to respond properly to the latest surge of COVID-19. Among those fired were a Vice Mayor, heads of city districts and health commissions, and staff in hospital management, airport and tourism departments.AP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/virus-outbreak-the-latest/article35828132.ece
10 August 2021||August 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Saudi Arabia, Iran and the possibilities of détente||Individuals and human collectives have memories and time spans. The two do not converge but at times overlap. The latter are infrequent yet meaningful. Prudence, if not wisdom, lies in using them. One such occasion betides the Gulf region at this juncture. The Persian Gulf is a nearly 990 kilometre-long body of water that separates Iran from the Arabian Peninsula. Seven member States of the United Nations lay claim to washing their hands or feet in its waters. At its narrowest point, in the Strait of Hormuz, it is only 54 km wide and the main shipping channels that pass through it are 30km-35 km wide and 8km-12 km wide. They are critical to the transportation of crude oil and LNG to global markets. For over a century till the early 1970s, the Persian Gulf was a British lake. The imperial withdrawal propelled the United States to step in as the guarantor of the sub-region with its Twin-Pillars (Iran-Saudi Arabia) policy. An abortive effort was also made by Oman through the Muscat Conference in November 1976; it floundered on the obstinacy of Baathist Iraq. Bilateral efforts were also made by King Faisal of Saudi Arabia and the Shah of Iran; King Faisal initiated his Islamic solidarity policy in 1964 and visited Iran in December 1965; in 1966 Saudi Defence Minister Sultan bin Abdulaziz described the Iranian-Saudi friendship as a perfect example of Islamic brotherhood and neighbourly relations; the two States were also active members of the Five Power ‘Safari Club’ for intelligence sharing. Impact of unrest The Iranian Revolution of 1978-79 disturbed the strategic balance in the region and put an end to efforts to develop a regional consensus on security issues. Over the next decade, and particularly during the period of the Iraq-Iran war, the effort of the Gulf monarchies and of their western supporters was to destabilise and wish away the revolutionary regime. The formation of the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) in 1981 was part of the effort to reassure the Gulf sheikhdoms. The end of the war and the cooling of tensions allowed saner perceptions to emerge. These were spelt out among others by the Saudi Arabian Foreign Minister in the Manama Dialogue in December 2004. In 1996, Iranian President Mohammad Khatami told the Saudi Defence Minister that a defence pact would be mutually beneficial. Crown Prince Abdullah attended the Islamic Summit conference in Tehran in December 9-11, 1997. This was seen in Tehran as ‘a good beginning for removing misunderstandings’. Subsequent developments in the region relating to Syria and the Hezbollah on the one side and the Saudi intervention in the Yemen on the other conflict pushed back, even reversed, the developing perceptions in Riyadh. Yemen in particular has been critical to Saudi perceptions of national security. The clash of viewpoints dates back to the 1930s when King Abdulaziz ibn Saud was expanding the boundaries of the Kingdom of Najd to incorporate the western and southern parts of the Arabian Peninsula. Conflict developed over the southern region of Najran and resulted in a Saudi military victory and the Treaty of 1934. This maintained peace till the Egyptian Revolution and Gamal Abdel Nasser’s ‘intoxicating blend of nationalism and radicalism’ that set the region alight. It led to the Yemeni coup of 1962, the Egyptian military intervention in Yemen and the souring of Saudi-Egyptian relations that lasted till the Arab-Israeli war of 1967. This suited the interests of the United States; military assistance programmes and the stationing of U.S. troops during the Kuwait war of 1990 followed. The Trump era and the jettisoning of the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action witnessed a qualitative strengthening of ties between them. The key issues The last few years have witnessed geopolitical tensions in the Gulf littoral. Most States have been affected adversely by the historically low oil prices and by COVID-19. The GCC has become inoperative with the focus on the boycott of Qatar that is now being reversed. There are new tensions between the United Arab Emirates (UAE) and Saudi Arabia. Riyadh’s access to the Oval Office in Washington is now not what it was in the Donald Trump era. The Abraham Accords between Israel, the UAE and Bahrain have qualitatively influenced the Arab-Israeli calculus in the Persian Gulf States and in the wider Arab world. More recently, the U.S.’s decision to withdraw forces from Afghanistan and reduce commitments in Iraq has been the subject of discussions on policy options among knowledgeable observers in Washington. One expert has observed that “on balance, the American ground-force base in Kuwait, the Fifth Fleet naval base in Bahrain, [the] Al Udeid Air Base in Qatar, Al Dhafra Air Base in the UAE and the access arrangements in Oman provide the U.S. with a politically and financially sustainable military presence” in the region. Another view is that “the post-COVID-19 environment is going to be unfriendly to Saudi Arabia perhaps more than to any other leading power in the Gulf”. The Saudi failure to subdue the Houthis and to close the Yemen conflict on their terms has become a source of concern. The U.S.’s inability to subdue Iran on its terms has also become evident. Others have drawn attention to the Saudi Crown Prince’s remark in April that his country wants good relations with Iran and to the Iranian reaction of welcoming it. It is evident that policy options are being explored. Security is the concern The impact of these recent developments on Saudi Arabia-Iran relations needs to be assessed in this context. The effort to impart a sectarian orientation to the divide does not seem to hold. Their primary concern is security in the Gulf littoral and the security of the waterway for the transportation of their hydrocarbon exports. In January 1987, the then U.S. Secretary of State said the Gulf has become ‘critical to the economic health of the West.’ A good part of the rest of the world can with justice be added to it. For this to be given practical shape, its essential ingredients would need to be: freedom of access to, and outlet from, Gulf waters through the Strait of Hormuz; freedom of commercial shipping in international waters in the Persian Gulf; prevention of conflict that may impinge on the freedom of trade and shipping; freedom to all States of the Gulf littoral to exploit their hydrocarbons and other natural resources and export them; ensure conditions of peace and stability in the individual littoral States, and ensure that regional or extra-regional conditions do not impinge on any of these considerations. Could the achievement of such an arrangement, or a part of it, be the beginning of a much desired and reassuring development? Overtime, it may address itself to bring forth answers to questions such as security for whom, by whom, against whom. The recent pronouncements from Riyadh and Tehran do tend to suggest an inclination to be supportive of some of these suggestions. This is to be welcomed since from an Indian viewpoint the requirement is and will continue to be stability in the littoral States, freedom of navigation and safety of sea lanes. Hamid Ansari is the former Vice President of India, 2007-2017||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/saudi-arabia-iran-and-the-possibilities-of-dtente/article35827970.ece
10 August 2021||August 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Misinformation through a feminist lens||The online world amplifies the social norms of the physical world. Women face aggressive and offensive trolling on the Internet, designed to undermine and discredit them professionally and shame them into silence. A perfect example is the ‘Sulli Deals’ app recently created on GitHub that auctioned Muslim women. The active participation of vocal women, especially from minority communities, is resisted by those who do not wish the social order to be disrupted. This isn’t to say that men are not targeted online, but the attacks faced by both sexes are vastly different. Misinformation/disinformation also targets men and women differently and unsurprisingly so, especially in India where gender disparity among Internet users is high. Gendering misinformation Take, for instance, the type of misinformation used against Congress leaders Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi who come from the same socio-economic and political background. Mr. Gandhi is referred to as ‘Pappu’ by his critics. The usual misinformation targeting him questions his intellect. But the same cannot be said for his mother. Whether it’s Hollywood actresses sporting bikinis misidentified as Ms. Gandhi or a morphed photo that shows her sitting on a man’s lap, she is portrayed to be an ‘indecent’ woman to undercut her politics. Ms. Gandhi’s position of power does not shield her from vulgar misinformation. A report by Amnesty International last year said that 95 female politicians out of 724 received nearly one million hateful mentions on Twitter between March and May, one in five of which was sexist or misogynistic. But misinformation like other forms of abuse has inter-sectional challenges. While actor Swara Bhaskar receives some of the most sexist troll attacks, activist Safoora Zargar is targeted for being a woman as well as a Muslim. After her arrest for participating in protests against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, pornographic videos were shared in Ms. Zargar’s name on social media. Organised disinformation and sexism intersect with Islamophobia, castetism, religious bigotry and other forms of discrimination to threaten vocal women from minority communities. The harassment is so rampant that more often than not, women are asked to either ignore the abusers or block such handles. As always, women are expected to take precautionary measures instead of men being asked to behave. We also seldom question Twitter on its failure to stop the spread of pornographic content. The women of Shaheen Bagh were targeted in a similar fashion. Surely a social media giant has the ability to detect and purge nudity, especially when shared with hateful captions? Gendering misinformation should be a part of the feminist discourse. The world has drastically changed after the advent of the Internet and the digital space has the power to impact democracies. But women do not get an equal opportunity to make themselves heard because they are shut down with sexism or, worse, the threat of sexual violence. Former Jawaharlal Nehru University Students’ Union leader Shehla Rashid was forced to delete her Facebook account after receiving rape threats for speaking in favour of interfaith marriage. Journalist Rana Ayyub has also complained several times of rape threats making their way into her Twitter messages. A report that I wrote in 2018 revealed how thousands of men on a closed Facebook group, ‘Sharing is Caring’, sold Instagram and Facebook pages featuring young women. Many of these metamorphosed into political pages after gaining a substantial following. I was targeted with sexist attacks after the workings of the group were made public. Its members shared my pictures while commenting ‘sharing is caring’, a sexist pun on the group’s name. But while on the one hand women are targeted with sexist attacks, on the other, their sexuality is used to further misinformation. Some men hide behind female pseudonyms to get attention. Last year, the Chhattisgarh Police arrested a 31-year-old man for running multiple fake Facebook accounts posing as a woman and “posting provocative comments that could hurt social harmony”. Men are at the centre of the disinformation ecosystem in India — an ecosystem created by them and for them. While women also share false news, the number of men disseminating misinformation is higher for the simple reason that they are greater in number on the Internet (almost double the female population). Men manufacture false news and also fall for such news. They are proof that ‘women gossip more’ is a gender stereotype. Even if we look at this phenomenon from a greater perspective, there are more men in politics and they rely on disinformation to keep propaganda alive. A recent report by UNESCO on online harassment faced by women journalists says that political actors instigate and fuel online violence campaigns against women journalists. India is privy to such abuse — women journalists and activists are targeted not only by troll armies but also by office-bearers of political parties. One of the most recent incidents that exposes gendered disinformation in India is the Rhea Chakraborty saga. Actor Sushant Singh Rajput was hailed as a self-made man without faults but Ms. Chakraborty was trashed on television and on social media — both spaces dominated by men — as a ‘gold-digging seductress’. The whole episode was a reminder of deep-rooted internalised misogyny in the country. Women also participated in propagating Ms. Chakraborty as the ‘culprit’ and rejoiced when she was arrested. Why did they not show solidarity? Because patriarchal norms, while subordinating women, also give them the power to oppress women more vulnerable than them. A symbiotic relationship Misinformation and sexism have a symbiotic relationship. Misinformation piggybacks on sexism to discredit vocal women and sexism uses misinformation to reinforce patriarchal norms. While organised misinformation and trolling affect women on a personal level, the issue that is often ignored is the effect they have on democracy. A healthy democracy is participatory and promotes gender inclusiveness. Sexism and misinformation intimidate women from taking vocal stands and are antithetical to a progressive society. Historically, feminist movements have led to democratisation. Women empowerment cannot be separated from a modern society. Savitribai Phule could reform modern education in the 1800s because her husband Jotirao Phule, a ‘Shudra’ himself, equipped her with knowledge restricted for the Brahmin community. Jotirao was also fortunate to receive education in the first place because of the foresight of his widowed aunt. Menaka Guruswamy and Arundhati Katju, the only openly gay women lawyers in India, reformed the LGBTQ movement in the country by winning the landmark case in 2018 that decriminalised gay sex. These women went against the social norms of their time to make India more democratically sound. There is no extent to the reforms that women are capable of bringing and progress can happen faster with solidarity. But women who don’t conform to social norms are almost never supported and the intersection of sexism and misinformation justifies their abuse. While social media gives a platform for women to raise issues, repeated abuse takes away that freedom. Social media, the place that bolstered the #MeToo movement, is the same place used to shut women down. Pooja Chaudhuri is Senior Editor at Alt News||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/misinformation-through-a-feminist-lens/article35827981.ece
10 August 2021||August 10 2021 00:00 IST,||The shaky foundation of the labour law reforms||The National Democratic Alliance government enacted the Code on Wages (https://bit.ly/3fMraIj) in August 2019 and the other three Codes, viz., the Industrial Relations Code, the Occupational Safety, Health and Working Conditions Code and Code on Social Security (CSS) in September 2020. Later, it had framed the draft rules albeit incompletely under all the codes — incompletely because the rules have not covered some aspects of the Codes, e.g. rules regarding recognition of central trade unions have not been framed so far. A rushed exercise Controversies surround the processes of the enactment of codes and the framing of rules. The Government has held only symbolic and partial consultation with the central trade unions. The three codes were passed in Parliament even as the Opposition parties, otherwise insignificant, boycotted the proceedings. The tearing hurry in which the Government carried out the reforms even during the COVID-19 period gave tremendous hope to employers and potential investors. It announced its intentions of implementing the Codes from April 1, 2021 even as State governments were completely unprepared with the rules. Further, the major political parties reallocated their energies to regional elections rather than the implementation of codes. Symbolically, labour law reforms have been affected and the government can boast of it. Since the Government has not shown serious intent to implement the codes, the NDA government effected reforms to boast that it has executed the long-pending reforms; simply put, it is more symbolic rather than a meaningful act. Court directives The central government has deferred the possible date of implementation to October 1, 2021, again tentatively. In the meanwhile, the Supreme Court of India has exerted pressure on both the central and the State governments to implement a ‘one nation, one ration card’ (ONOR) scheme and register all the unorganised workers under the National Database for Unorganized Workers (NDUW), which was to have been done by July 31, 2021. Government agencies are rushing to comply with both the directives. In ONOR, Aadhaar seeding and the universal availability of an electronic point of sale (EPOS) system are necessary. And for the NDUW, it has to register each of the approximately 400 million workers, a conservative figure. Perhaps, the Supreme Court passed such an extraordinary perhaps impracticable order following the hesitancy in early 2020 to provide relief to suffering migrant workers following the national lockdown. The governments did not honour the Supreme Court’s orders relating to the registration of construction workers for many years. So, it has a bad track record. One is not sure when governments would comply fully and well with the Supreme Court’s orders. Unorganised workers including migrant workers will continue to be deprived of their promised and extended entitlements. Government’s line vs reality The Government said the codes would extend universal minimum wages and social security, enable enhanced industrial safety and the provision of social security to gig workers, among other things. The Industrial Relations Code provides for recognition of trade union(s) by employers, a labour right that eluded workers for seven decades. On the other hand, employers celebrated the extension of tremendous flexibility to them, even those unasked, such as relief from framing standing orders for most firms. But do they enjoy these benefits? On August 3, 2021, I browsed the Simpliance website (a law portal) to assess the record of State governments regarding rules under the codes. It was a revelation to find that major States such as Tamil Nadu, Kerala, West Bengal, Maharashtra, Haryana and Delhi have not issued the draft rules under any codes. Karnataka, Gujarat and Jharkhand have framed Rules for the Code on Wages and the Industrial Relations Code. Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand and Punjab have framed rules for all the codes. Even though the Code on Wages was enacted in August 2019, it was only in March 2021 that the central government notified the constitution of an advisory committee. On June 3, 2021 it also announced an expert committee with a tenure of three years to advise it on minimum wages. Then, on July 12, 2021, it announced that the wage index’s base year would be shifted from 1965 to 2019 to use the revised wage index to determine minimum wages. The Government seems to be clueless regarding the implementation of minimum wages. Poor safety record The incidence of major industrial accidents has remained undiminished even during the COVID-19 period. For instance, IndustriAll reported that between May to June, 32 major industrial accidents occurred in India, killing 75 workers (https://bit.ly/3ApxvRV). The media reported four accidents in Vizag during 2020. Safe in India’s annual reports, CRUSHED, for 2019 and 2020, provide a disturbing picture of industrial accidents in the automobile industry in the Gurgaon region (https://bit.ly/3CxPfwv). Industrial safety continues to be a grave concern even after the enactment of the Occupational Safety, Health and Working Conditions Code. According to several research reports, COVID-19 intensified informality, led to the withdrawal of workers from the labour market, reduced earnings, increased unemployment and widened inequality. The non-statutory floor level minimum wage remains a meagre Rs. 178 still even as Wholesale Price Index-inflation rates have galloped to 12% in June 2021. The Government’s relief measures to workers, especially unorganised and migrant workers and even to the so-called organised sector workers, are too meagre to make any difference. It did not implement the widely endorsed measure of direct benefit transfer at least for low-income families. In perspective Thus, we see two aspects concerning labour market governance in India. One, the Government has failed to provide legal visibility to millions of unorganised and migrant workers, even after decades, and despite direction by the highest court in the land. Two, despite the gazetting of four Codes, age-old laws are in force. Thus, they reflect poorly not only on the governance abilities of the governments but also on the countervailing power of the Opposition parties. Were the labour law reforms rushed with little or no debate and consultation whatsoever, only to remain in the gazette books? Employers and workers cannot enjoy the so-called benefits extended by the codes. Given the facts mentioned above, the legislative impasse continues; one does not know how long it would be. However, India would score impressively on the ease of doing business exercise by any agency including the World Bank by the mere execution of labour reforms without them being implemented: what else then is needed! K.R. Shyam Sundar is Professor, HRM Area, XLRI – Xavier School of Management, Jamshedpur, Jharkhand. The views expressed are personal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-shaky-foundation-of-the-labour-law-reforms/article35827973.ece
10 August 2021||August 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Unsteady in the CM’s chair||The space of discussion on electoral politics was disproportionately occupied by West Bengal before the Assembly elections and continues to be the case after Mamata Banerjee took oath as Chief Minister. While the Trinamool Congress won with a massive mandate, Ms. Banerjee lost to Suvendu Adhikari in Nandigram. Going by the provisions of the Constitution and in a normal situation, it should have been possible for the Election Commission of India (ECI) to hold by-elections to the seven vacant Assembly seats in West Bengal by now. But there is also a provision by which by-elections can be deferred for six months. If by-elections are held on time, Ms. Banerjee may find it quite easy to get elected from one of the seven seats, but if that does not happen, she will have to resign from the post of Chief Minister. This will cause her major embarrassment even if the State does not face a political crisis.  What the law says Section 151A of the Representation of the People Act, 1951, mandates the ECI to fill the casual vacancies in the Houses of Parliament and State Legislatures through bye-elections within six months from the date of occurrence of the vacancy, provided that the remainder of the term of a member in relation to a vacancy is one year or more. While the ECI cannot cancel a national or State election, it can cancel an election to a seat in case of a death or an offence as this generally does not impact Assembly formation in the Centre or the State. Under Section 153 of the Act, read with Article 324 of the Constitution, the ECI can extend the time for completing any election, but such extension should not go beyond the six months. Article 172(1) states that in case of a state of Emergency, an election can be postponed for one year at a time in addition to a period of six months after the Emergency is lifted. It is important to note that Emergency here refers to a threat to the security and sovereignty of the nation, not a pandemic. The Kolkata municipal elections, which were to be held before the Assembly elections, have also not been held yet. Given the strictures passed by the Madras High Court on the ECI at the time of the West Bengal Assembly election, the ECI would like to play it safe. If by-elections are not held within six months of the stipulated time, Ms. Banerjee will have to resign from her post. This is because Article 164(4) the Constitution states that “a Minister who for any period of six consecutive months is not a member of the Legislature of the State shall at the expiration of that period cease to be a Minister”. The Supreme Court reaffirmed this in a 2001 ruling in the case pertaining to the re-appointment of Tej Prakash Singh notifying that if a non-MLA has served as minister for six months without getting elected to the Assembly, he cannot be reappointed as minister during the same term of the House. The son of the assassinated Punjab Chief Minister Beant Singh became a minister without being elected to the Assembly for six months and then resigned and again became a minister in 1995-96. The case brought the spotlight back on Jayalalithaa as she had managed to pull off another term as the Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu despite having been disqualified to contest elections. Ms. Banerjee, thus, has three more months to get elected as an MLA to continue in the Chief Minister’s chair. No Upper House in West Bengal If Ms. Banerjee is forced to resign, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) will likely take the moral high ground by remarking that the Trinamool appointed a leader who didn’t win the election as Chief Minister when the BJP itself has faced similar situations. In 2017, the BJP appointed Manohar Parrikar as the Chief Minister of Goa, who was then the Union Defence Minister, when Laxmikant Parsekar lost his Assembly seat. In 2014, the BJP’s Chief Minister front-runner, Arjun Munda, lost the election while his party won in the State. The party appointed Raghubar Das as the Chief Minister of Jharkhand. When Yogi Adityanath became the Chief Minister of Uttar Pradesh in 2017, he was not a member of the U.P. Assembly. He was elected an MLC within six months of taking oath as Chief Minister. Both his deputies, Dinesh Sharma and Keshav Prasad Maurya, entered the political foray through the Upper House along with him within six months. Uddhav Thackeray opted for the same route in 2019 in Maharashtra. But this route is not available to Ms. Banerjee as West Bengal has no Upper House. Though the Trinamool has passed a resolution for the Upper House to be reinstated in West Bengal, this seems unlikely to fructify because it also requires the approval of both Houses of Parliament. Both Rajasthan and Assam also passed resolutions in their Assemblies, in 2012 and 2010, respectively, for the same, but these resolutions are pending in the Rajya Sabha. West Bengal faces uncertainty and possibly a political crisis. Sanjay Kumar is Professor at the Centre for the Study of Developing Societies (CSDS) and Aastha is a Researcher with Lokniti, a research programme of CSDS. Views are personal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/unsteady-in-the-cms-chair/article35827977.ece
10 August 2021||August 10 2021 00:00 IST,||A circular economy for plastic||The Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) has long been at the forefront of addressing issues challenging the well-being of society. Of the many sustainability challenges that impact societies, climate change and plastic waste have a special significance. A 2019 report by the Center for International Environmental Law suggests that by 2050, greenhouse gas emissions from plastic could reach over 56 gigatonnes, 10-13% of the remaining carbon budget. However, viewed from the angle of livelihoods, post-consumer segregation, collection and disposal of plastics make up about half of the income of 1.5- 4 million waste-pickers in India. A 2021 report commissioned by Google, Closing the Plastics Circularity Gap, suggests that unless large-scale global interventions are made, “we should expect to mismanage more than 7.7 billion metric tonnes of plastic waste globally over the next 20 years... [which is] equivalent to 16-times the weight of the human population...” Among the many applications of plastic, plastic packaging is the largest. The solution For India, the solution must be multi-pronged, systemic, and large scale, to create a visible impact. The Plastics Pacts model offers such a solution and is active in a number of countries including the U.K., South Africa, and Australia. It is now being brought to India by CII and WWF India. The Plastics Pacts are business-led initiatives and transform the plastics packaging value chain for all formats and products. The Pacts bring together everyone from across the plastics value chain to implement practical solutions. All Pacts unite behind four targets: to eliminate unnecessary and problematic plastic packaging through redesign and innovation; to ensure all plastic packaging is reusable or recyclable; to increase the reuse, collection, and recycling of plastic packaging; and to increase recycled content in plastic packaging. The India Plastics Pact, the first in Asia, will be launched in September at the CII Annual Sustainability Summit. It can be expected to boost demand for recycled content, investments in recycling infrastructure, jobs in the waste sector, and beyond. The first Plastics Pact was launched in the U.K. in 2018, by WRAP, a global NGO based in the U.K., in partnership with the Ellen MacArthur Foundation. The U.K. Pact helped channel over £120 million worth of investments in recycling infrastructure resulting in 300,000 tonnes of new recycling capacity. The Pact will support the Extended Producer Responsibility framework of the government and improve solid waste management as envisioned in the Swachh Bharat Abhiyan. Integral to the Pact’s framework is the involvement of the informal waste sector crucial to post-consumer segregation, collection and processing of plastic waste. The India Plastics Pact is supported by WRAP, which supports many Pacts globally. This association will ensure access to expertise and knowledge from different Pacts worldwide. The India Plastics Pact The India Plastics Pact focuses on solutions and innovation. Members’ accountability is ensured through ambitious targets and annual data reporting. The Pact will develop a road map for guidance, form action groups composed of members, and initiate innovation projects. While the India Plastics Pact will be active in India, it will link globally with other Plastics Pacts. Many Indian businesses and organisations have expressed an interest in signing up to the Pact. Deeper and long-lasting benefits will be felt across the supply chains of these businesses, most of which comprise MSMEs. The Pact will encourage development and maturing of the entire plastics production and management ecosystem. Apart from benefits to society and economy, delivering the targets will drive circularity of plastics and help tackle pollution. They will lead to significant reduction in greenhouse gas emissions. Jamshyd N. Godrej is past President, CII||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-circular-economy-for-plastic/article35827978.ece
10 August 2021||August 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Road ahead from Gogra||After the talks on July 31, India and China have taken one more step towards restoring peace and normalcy on the LAC by disengaging at Gogra. It is, however, only one step, and the road ahead towards returning to the status quo of April 2020, before the tensions of last summer upended years of a carefully managed even if uneasy peace along the LAC, remains uncertain. It has taken 12 rounds of military-level talks to see both sides disengage and put in place buffer zones in the Galwan Valley, the site of the June 2020 clash that marked the worst violence since 1967, Pangong Lake, and now Patrolling Point 17 in Gogra. The disengagement process at PP17 took place on August 4 and 5, with a return to permanent bases. The next round of talks will discuss PP15 in Hot Springs. Demchok, where China has transgressed in relatively smaller numbers than the deployments seen in Pangong Lake, also remains unresolved. Beijing has appeared unwilling to discuss the strategically significant Depsang plains, where the Chinese side has been blocking Indian patrols. The buffer zone model, where both sides temporarily cease patrolling in disputed areas, has appeared to work so far in keeping the peace. It is, however, only a temporary measure, and one that India should not accept as permanent as it would prevent India from enforcing its territorial claims and favour the PLA, which can deploy faster in larger numbers owing to more favourable terrain and better logistics. The next step will be full de-escalation, and a withdrawal of some of the new forward deployments that have come up close to the LAC. India has signalled that it is prepared for the long haul; its message: relations cannot return to normal without a full restoration of normalcy on the borders. While the strategic motivations of China’s border deployments last year are not clear, the tactical objectives are not difficult to ascertain. Since the 2017 Doklam crisis, China has consistently stepped up building new permanent airbases and air defence units closer to the LAC, with at least 13 new positions coming up since then, according to an analysis of satellite images from Stratfor. India has been moving to rapidly upgrade its own infrastructure to close the gap. The result is an entirely changed security dynamic along the LAC. There is a need to come up urgently with new protocols and confidence-building measures, as both sides gradually resume patrolling in the buffer zones. The multiple transgressions by China and the violence of last year have set back years of efforts to carefully manage the borders and thrown into doubt whether the four agreements regulating the behaviour of both sides still remain valid. While the recent moves towards restoring the peace are certainly welcome, finding a more long-lasting solution to ensure peace along the LAC will present a taller challenge.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/road-ahead-from-gogra/article35827965.ece
10 August 2021||August 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Code red||The IPCC has issued arguably its strongest warning yet on impending catastrophe from unmitigated global warming caused by human activity, lending scientific credence to the argument that rising wildfires, heatwaves, extreme rainfall and floods witnessed in recent times are all strongly influenced by a changing climate. In a stark report on the physical science basis of climate change contributed for a broader Assessment Report of the UN, the IPCC’s Working Group I has called for deep cuts to carbon dioxide emissions and other greenhouse gases and a move to net zero emissions, as the world would otherwise exceed 1.5°C and 2°C of warming during the 21st century with permanent consequences. Climate change is described by many as a far greater threat to humanity than COVID-19, because of its irreversible impacts. The latest report is bound to strengthen the criticism that leaders in many countries have stonewalled and avoided moving away from coal and other fossil fuels, while even those who promised to act, failed to influence the multilateral system. The new report attributes catastrophic events to sustained global warming, particularly the frequency and intensity of hot extremes, marine heatwaves, heavy precipitation, agricultural and ecological droughts, proportion of intense tropical cyclones, reductions in Arctic Sea ice, snow cover and permafrost. A phenomenon such as heavy rainfall over land, for instance, could be 10.5% wetter in a world warmer by 1.5°C, and occur 1.5 times more often, compared to the 1850-1900 period. More than five years after the Paris Agreement was concluded, there is no consensus on raising ambition to reduce emissions, making access to low carbon technologies easier, and adequately funding mitigation and adaptation. COVID-19 had the unexpected effect of marginally and temporarily depressing emissions. The IPCC’s analysis presents scenarios of large-scale collapse of climate systems that future leaders would find virtually impossible to manage. Heatwaves and heavy rainfall events experienced with increasing frequency and intensity are just two of these, while disruptions to the global water cycle pose a more unpredictable threat. Also, if emissions continue to rise, oceans and land, two important sinks and the latter a key part of India’s climate action plan, would be greatly weakened in their ability to absorb atmospheric carbon dioxide. The new report sets the stage for the CoP26 conference in November. The only one course to adopt there is for developed countries with legacy emissions to effect deep cuts, transfer technology without strings to emerging economies and heavily fund mitigation and adaptation. Developing nations should then have no hesitation in committing themselves to steeper emissions cuts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/code-red/article35827966.ece
10 August 2021||August 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Indo-Soviet Defence Treaty signed||India and the Soviet Union to-day [New Delhi, August 9] signed a 20-year treaty of peace, friendship and co-operation which offers credible assurances to India of Soviet assistance in the event of an attack by China or Pakistan. The historic treaty provides that if either country is attacked — or threatened with an attack — the two contracting parties will immediately enter into mutual consultations to take “appropriate effective measures” to remove such threat and ensure their peace and security. The treaty does not specifically mention China or Pakistan but the wording of the mutual assistance provisions and the context in which it has been signed make it abundantly clear that it is directed against them. And it has been made equally clear to the United States that this virtual Indo-Soviet alliance is the direct consequence of its overtures to China and support to Pakistan. India and the Soviet Union have an understanding under this treaty to abstain from providing any assistance to any third country that engages in armed conflict with either of them. They will not also enter into or participate in any military alliance directed against each other.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/indo-soviet-defence-treaty-signed/article35827974.ece
10 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||Economic activity nears level seen pre-pandemic: Nomura||India’s economic activity reached its highest level, in the first week of August, since the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic last year, as per a business resumption index. The Nomura India Business Resumption Index (NIBRI) rose to a record high of 99.4 for the week ended August 8, from 94.0 in the previous week, near the pre-pandemic level of 100, and surpassing the pre-second wave peak of 99.3 in February 2021. The Nomura index is compiled using mobility data from Google and Apple, power demand and the labour force participation rate, with February 2020 as the base. While the latest index estimate suggests a swifter-than-expected recovery from the second wave continues, Nomura said the prospect of a surge in mobility triggering a third wave is the key risk to be monitored. “After briefly plateauing, mobility picked up sharply, with Google workplace, retail & recreation and Apple driving index rising… Power demand also rose 5.3% week on week, after contracting for three consecutive weeks, while the labour participation rate rose to 41.5% from 39.8% previously, pushing up the unemployment rate to 8.1%,” the firm noted. ‘Varied impact’ While COVID-19 cases remain flat at about 40,000 per day, Nomura economists Sonal Varma and Aurodeep Nandi noted that there are State-wide divergences on the sero-prevalence rate, infection cases, vaccinations and the lockdown situation. “Some States are doubling down on restrictions (like Karnataka and Tamil Nadu), while others like Maharashtra are easing further,” they pointed out.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/economic-activity-nears-level-seen-pre-pandemic-nomura/article35827956.ece
10 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||Won’t intervene in CCI probe against Amazon, Flipkart: SC||The Supreme Court on Monday refused to intervene in an anti-trust investigation ordered by the Competition Commission of India against online giants, Flipkart and Amazon. A three-judge Bench led by Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana said the court expected big companies like the two e-commerce players to voluntarily agree to such a preliminary enquiry. “You have to submit... enquiry should be permitted,” Chief Justice Ramana orally addressed Flipkart and Amazon, represented by senior advocates A.M. Singhvi and Gopal Subramanium, respectively, during the virtual court hearing. The firms had appealed to the Supreme Court after the Karnataka High Court confirmed the Competition Commission of India (CCI) decision of January last year to open a probe into the companies for allegedly entering into anti-competitive agreements in violation of the Competition Act of 2002. The companies had denied any mischief and wanted the probe quashed. “We see no reason to interfere with the orders passed by the High Court of Karnataka dismissing the writ appeals of the petitioners (Flipkart, Amazon). Special leave petitions are dismissed,” the order recorded. The court referred to Mr. Singhvi’s submission that the time to reply to the notice issued by the Office of the Director General, CCI, was going to expire on August 9. Mr. Singhvi had sought more time. “Time to reply to the notice is extended by a further period of four weeks from today. It is made clear that no further extension of time would be granted for the purpose,” the court noted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/wont-intervene-in-cci-probe-against-amazon-flipkart-sc/article35827953.ece
10 August 2021||HYDERABAD,||LIC turns out to be a drag on life insurers’ July show||First year premium of life insurers stood at Rs. 20,434.72 crore in July, or 11% lower compared with the year-earlier period. Market leader Life Insurance Corporation of India (LIC) weighed heavily on the overall performance with a 20.7% decline in first-year premium to Rs. 12,030.93 crore, the new business statement of the 24 life insurers released by insurance regulator IRDAI showed. Private insurers together managed a 7.53% increase in first-year premium to Rs. 8,403.79 crore despite four of them reporting a decline in the new business. For the four months ended July, a period marked by the second wave of the pandemic and lockdown restrictions, life insurers’ first-year-premium was 1.16% higher at Rs. 73,159.98 crore. However, they are yet to report a year-on-year increase consecutively for two months this fiscal. In April, the first year premium mobilised was 44.76% higher at Rs. 9,738.79 crore while for May it declined 5.55% to Rs. 12,976.99 crore, only to register a 3.95% increase to Rs. 30,009.48 crore in June.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/lic-turns-out-to-be-a-drag-on-life-insurers-july-show/article35827946.ece
10 August 2021||Bangalore/New Delhi,||Amazon, Catamaran will end venture next year||Amazon and N.R. Narayana Murthy-led Catamaran on Monday said they would not continue their joint venture (JV), Prione Business Services, beyond May 2022. The venture is up for renewal on May 19 next year. The announcement came just hours after a Supreme Court decision that allowed the Competition Commission of India to continue its probe against Amazon and rival Flipkart in a case that alleged preference for select sellers, offering of ‘deep discounts’ and ‘anti-competitive’ agreements. Cloudtail, among the biggest sellers on Amazon India, is a wholly owned subsidiary of Prione. Cloudtail’s revenue grew from Rs. 1,145 crore in FY15 to more than Rs. 8,900 crore in FY19, the company’s website showed. The two firms did not give a reason for the decision to end the JV, which was formed in 2014. ‘Violating the law’ Praveen Khandelwal, secretary general, Confederation of All India Traders, alleged the move by the two firms was a “cover up” and that Amazon was ‘violating the law and FDI policy’ via Cloudtail. “Certain questions are bound to arise for which Cloudtail has to give answers [during CCI’s investigation]... Both Amazon and Cloudtail are two faces of a single coin,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/amazon-catamaran-will-end-venture-next-year/article35827957.ece
10 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||July auto retail sales see strong growth: FADA||Domestic automobile retail sales made a strong comeback in July, recording positive growth across vehicle categories, Federation of Automobile Dealers Associations (FADA) said. However, it cautioned that semiconductor shortage and the possibility of a third wave of the pandemic continue to remain a threat to the recovery of the sector. Retail sales saw a year-on-year growth of 34% to over 15.56 lakh units last month. FADA noted that even when compared with July 2019, a regular pre-COVID month, “recovery is visible as the deficit reduced to low double digits of -13.22%.” In July, passenger vehicle sales rose by almost 63% to more than 2.61 lakh units, while two-wheelers and commercial vehicle sales grew 28% to more than 11.32 lakh units and 166% to 52,130 units. Tractor sales rose 7% to 82,388 units. “July saw robust recovery in retail sales across all categories. The low base effect also continues to play its part,” said Vinkesh Gulati, president, FADA.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/july-auto-retail-sales-see-strong-growth-fada/article35827959.ece
10 August 2021||New delhi,||SAT gives split verdict in PNB HF deal||The Securities Appellate Tribunal on Monday delivered a split verdict on the tussle between PNB Housing Finance and markets regulator SEBI over the lender’s proposed Rs. 4,000-crore deal with Carlyle Group. SEBI had contested the deal over valuation issues. The tribunal also said its interim order passed in June, wherein PNB Housing Finance was restrained from disclosing the results of shareholders’ vote on the deal, would continue. The two-member bench of Justice Tarun Agarwala and Justice M.T. Joshi delivered a split verdict on the matter. This means that the fate of deal remains uncertain for now.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/sat-gives-split-verdict-in-pnb-hf-deal/article35828220.ece
10 August 2021||mumbai,||Tata Group eyeing chip manufacture||Tata Group is looking to make a foray into semiconductor manufacturing, chairman N. Chandrasekaran said on Monday. Pegging the market opportunity of high-tech manufacturing of electronics at $1 trillion, he said the Tata Group has already set up a business to seize the opportunity. His remarks come days after the $100-billion group announced entry into 5G equipment manufacturing and a string of acquisitions to create the Tata Digital business. Semiconductor manufacturing, involving building chipsets among other things, requires high investments and India does not have any such facility yet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/tata-group-eyeing-chip-manufacture/article35827944.ece
10 August 2021||new delhi,||‘July equity MF inflows surge to Rs. 22,583 cr.’||The strong inflows in new fund offers helped equity mutual funds (MFs) to log a staggering net investment of Rs. 22,583 crore in July, making it the fifth consecutive monthly infusion, amid a stock market rally. The net inflow stood at of Rs. 5,988 crore in June, as per data from the Association of Mutual Funds in India (AMFI). “RBI’s accommodative stance, healthier earnings growth, vaccination-driven containment of the pandemic and liquidity is driving equity markets to historic highs,” said N. S. Venkatesh, CEO, AMFI. “Taking cue, retail investors too are participating in the equity rally,” he added.  (With inputs from Lalatendu Mishra in Mumbai)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/july-equity-mf-inflows-surge-to-rs-22583-cr/article35827948.ece
10 August 2021||CHENNAI,||MRF net leaps to Rs. 161 crore as sales climb||Tyre major MRF Ltd. reported that standalone net profit surged almost 10-fold in the first quarter to Rs. 161 crore on higher sales. Revenue from operations rose almost 70% to Rs. 4,128 crore and other income more than doubled to Rs. 92 crore. Profit before tax surged almost eightfold to Rs. 217 crore, MRF said in a regulatory filing. On May 27, MRF fully redeemed the listed secured redeemable non-convertible debentures aggregating to Rs. 180 crore. On a consolidated basis, net profit rose to Rs. 166 crore from Rs. 13 crore, while revenue from operations jumped to Rs. 4,184 crore (Rs. 2,461 crore).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/mrf-net-leaps-to-rs-161-crore-as-sales-climb/article35827949.ece
10 August 2021||CHENNAI,||Sundaram Finance Q1 net rises 16%||Sundaram Finance Ltd. (SFL) reported standalone net profit rose 16% for the first quarter to Rs. 192 crore. Total revenue from operations grew marginally to Rs. 950 crore. Disbursements more than doubled to Rs. 2,060 crore. Deposit base stood at Rs. 4,078 crore, representing a net accretion of Rs. 57 crore, Sundaram Finance said in a statement. Gross NPAs rose to 4.59% from 2.78% and Net NPAs to 3.38% from 1.79%. “While uncertainties around third wave remain, the pace of vaccination and our own readiness in adjusting to a post-COVID-19 world gives us optimism and confidence about the journey ahead,” said MD Rajiv C. Lochan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/sundaram-finance-q1-net-rises-16/article35827950.ece
10 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Centre saved 10% in cost via GeM purchase’||The Government e-Marketplace (GeM) has resulted in a 10% savings in public procurement cost in five years, but has still tapped only 5% of India’s total government purchases of about Rs. 20 lakh crore a year, Commerce Secretary B.V.R. Subrahmanyam said. “Procurement, traditionally, was riddled with allegations of corruption, and governments have been infamous for very slow procurement processes,” he said. “The GeM has given us more bang for the buck, with a savings of Rs. 10,000 crore in the cumulative procurements of Rs. 1 lakh crore facilitated through the portal in five years.”  56% of order value processed via the portal has been delivered by MSMEsP.K. SinghCEO GeM||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/centre-saved-10-in-cost-via-gem-purchase/article35827954.ece
10 August 2021||HYDERABAD,||For Business Pages||Edible oil firm Gemini Edibles & Fats India has filed with SEBI a draft red herring prospectus to raise Rs. 2,500 crore through an initial public offering (IPO). The issue is a complete offer for sale by the selling shareholders and the company will not receive any funds from the net proceeds of its IPO. The company is the owner of the Freedom brand cooking oil.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/for-business-pages/article35827947.ece
10 August 2021||CHENNAI,||Tamilnadu Petroproducts Ltd (TPL), standalone net profit||Tamilnadu Petroproducts Ltd.’s standalone net profit for Q1 of FY22 has grown by almost five times to Rs. 55 crore. Revenue from operations more than doubled to Rs. 464 crore, the company said. TPL said TN Principal Secretary N. Muruganandam has been appointed as its non-executive chairman, and Pankaj Kumar Bansal and R. Bhuvaneswari as non-executive directors.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/tamilnadu-petroproducts-ltd-tpl-standalone-net-profit/article35827951.ece
10 August 2021||Bengaluru,||upGrad raises $185 mn; enters unicorn club||upGrad, a higher edtech firm, became the latest unicorn in the India market when it received a total of $185 million from Temasek and International Finance Corporation at a market valuation of $1.2 billion. “We will announce more updates on M&As and unlocking value as they unfold,'' said Ronnie Screwvala, chairperson and co-founder, upGrad, in a statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/upgrad-raises-185-mn-enters-unicorn-club/article35827960.ece
10 August 2021||New Delhi,||MG Motor launches 7-seater Gloster at Rs. 37.28 lakh||MG Motor India on Monday unveiled the 7-seater version of SUV Gloster Savvy at an ex-showroom price of Rs. 37.28 lakh. The vehicle is powered by a 2.0 Twin Turbo Diesel Engine generating 200 PS power and 480 Nm of peak torque. It comes with multiple driving modes enabled with Advanced Driver Assistance System, among other features.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/mg-motor-launches-7-seater-gloster-at-rs-3728-lakh/article35827964.ece
10 August 2021||Chennai,||Team MRF Tyres wins Rally Arezzo||Team MRF Tyres put up a dominant display in the fourth round of the Italian Rally Championship — first and third-place finish in the Rally Citta di Arezzo — on August 7 and 8. Leading the charge Paolo Andreucci and Rudy Briani led the charge for Team MRF Tyres in their Skoda Fabia Rally2 Evo. Andreucci took three stage wins on Saturday taking a 13.2-second lead into the following day. On Sunday, they held on to the lead throughout. Simone Campedelli and Gianfrancesco Rappa made it a double podium for Team MRF Tyres by taking the third position in their Orange1 Racing VW Polo R5. Campedelli and Rappa were involved in a tight battle for third place after day one on Saturday, going into the overnight service in the fourth spot. However, on Sunday, they ran a faultless rally to secure another podium for Team MRF Tyres, their third of the Italian gravel season. The other Team MRF Tyres team of Tamara Molinaro and Giancarlo Capolongo, in their Citroën C3 Rally2, won in the Female and under-25 category.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/team-mrf-tyres-wins-rally-arezzo/article35828271.ece
10 August 2021||August 10 2021 00:00 IST,||India breaks new ground, rekindles hope||With an almighty heave, Neeraj Chopra made history. His 87.58m throw in the men’s javelin event gave independent India her first Olympic medal in track and field. Chopra’s gold also ensured India’s highest-ever medal tally at the Games (seven total), one better than the previous best achieved at London 2012. No Olympic sport captures the imagination of the nation quite like hockey. Nationalistic fervour reigned when the men’s team defeated Germany to win bronze — India’s first hockey medal since V. Baskaran’s men clinched gold in Moscow 1980. The women nearly made it a perfect outing, before suffering heartbreak at the hands of Great Britain in the third-place playoff match. Mirabai Chanu provided the ideal start to the campaign, winning a weightlifting silver on the opening day. It was sweet redemption for the Manipuri athlete, who finished a bitterly disappointing 11th at Rio 2016. Boxer Lovlina Borgohain may have entered Tokyo in the shadow of her illustrious compatriot Mary Kom, but her bronze finish thrust her into the spotlight. The 23-year-old from Assam already has her sights set on gold at Paris 2024. P.V. Sindhu cemented her place among India’s greatest ever athletes by winning her second Olympic medal. Her bronze at Tokyo made her only the second Indian, after wrestler Sushil Kumar, to medal twice in individual events. The badminton boom in India is set to continue. Ravi Kumar Dahiya’s epic comeback win against Nurislam Sanayev in the men’s 57kg wrestling semifinal was one for the ages. Trailing 2-9 with just 90 seconds left, Dahiya closed the gap to 5-9 before pinning his Kazakh opponent to seal a dramatic win. Dahiya, who lost the final to two-time world champion Zavur Uguev, became the second Indian wrestler to win an Olympic silver after Sushil. If Dahiya needed to dig deep, Bajrang Punia’s 8-0 victory over Daulet Niyazbekov in the men’s 65kg wrestling bronze medal playoff was a one-sided masterclass. India’s proud record in the sport, kindled by K.D. Jadhav’s bronze in Helsinki 1952, remained intact. Aditi Ashok came close to pulling off the impossible, finishing just outside the medal bracket in the women’s golf tournament. A consistent Aditi started the final round in second spot, but a few missed putts and outstanding final flourishes from her rivals robbed her of the chance to gain India’s first ever Olympic medal in the sport. Much was expected from the strong shooting contingent, led by Manu Bhaker and Saurabh Chaudhary. The group, however, returned empty-handed. These are worrying times for the National Rifle Association of India (NRAI), which had faced criticism when the shooters similarly drew a blank at Rio 2016.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/india-breaks-new-ground-rekindles-hope/article35828213.ece
10 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||Sift Kaur tops 50m rifle prone||Sift Kaur Samra of Punjab topped the 50m rifle prone event, open for both men and women, in the National shooting selection trials at the Dr. Karni Singh Range, Tughlakabad, on Monday. The second spot was also taken by a woman, Ashi Chouksey of Madhya Pradesh, while Sanskar Havelia of Uttar Pradesh shot 618.1 to take the third place, and the first among men. In the 25m standard pistol event open for men and women, Harsh Gupta topped with a score of 575. The 17-year-old Rhythm Sangwan was fifth and the first among women in the field, with 561, the same score shot by Anish Bhanwala who was placed fourth thanks to more number of inner-10s. Since both are not Olympic events, they do not feature the final.  The results:   25m standard pistol: Open: 1. Harsh Gupta 575; 2. Vijayveer Sidhu 566; 3. Rajkanwar Singh Sandhu 564.   50m rifle prone: Open: 1. Sift Kaur Samra 622.6; 2. Ashi Chouksey 618.7; 3. Sanskar Havelia 618.1 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sift-kaur-tops-50m-rifle-prone/article35828273.ece
10 August 2021||HYDERABAD,||Young Rajitha dares to dream big||K. Rajitha has had a remarkable journey so far. The 18-year-old athlete, groomed by SAI athletics coach N. Ramesh and sponsored by Gopi Chand-Mytrah Foundation, will be running the 4x400m relay at the Nairobi World junior athletics meet to be held from August 17. Rajitha lost her father, a daily-wage labourer in Ramachandrapuram of Kunavaram mandal (East Godavari), when she was very young. Even today she helps her mother, who makes a living gathering and selling firewood, whenever she is in her village. Rajitha, picked by a selection panel headed by P.T. Usha, has reset her goals now. “I wasn’t expecting to be selected. I was just keen to give my best,” Rajitha told The Hindu from Patiala. “Some of her major results are 400m silver at the South Zone meet and the Khelo India Games. For someone who is so short (just over 5 feet), she has a remarkable burst of speed and like many of those who come from such a background, she is a spirited athlete willing to go the extra length in training,” says coach Ramesh. The talented athlete’s journey started in 2018 when she joined the Tenvic Sports Academy in Nellore with Vamsi Sai Kiran as the first coach and then trained under Krishna Mohan before moving to SAAP Centre of Excellence in Guntur to be trained by Mike Russell. During the lockdown Ramesh, at the behest of Krishna Mohan, decided to take her under his wing among other athletes sponsored by the Gopi-Mytrah Foundation. Assistance Rajitha is also beholden to her Mathematics teacher Nagender who provides her with a monthly assistance of Rs. 10,000. “Only recently, Gopi (Chand) presented Rs. 25,000 to each of the 10 girl athletes being groomed by us,” Ramesh said. Meanwhile, Rajitha, inspired by Neeraj Chopra’s gold at the Tokyo Olympics, is looking far ahead. “When I heard the National Anthem played when Neeraj was presented the gold, I was excited and left wondering whether I can ever reach that level,” she said. Her role model, however, is Hima Das, for the simple reason that she too “has come up the hard way”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/rajitha-dares-to-dream-big/article35828383.ece
10 August 2021||Chennai,||Sharath may make junior national selection panel||Sridharan Sharath could be in the next all-India junior selection panel and might well head the committee.  The Hindu has learnt from informed sources that the TNCA has backed S. Sharath for the job. The chances are Sharath could come in place of former India off-spinner Aashish Kapoor who had replaced Venkatesh Prasad in 2018. The 48-year-old Sharath had an illustrious First Class career, making 8700 runs in 139 matches at 51.17. Mainstay The left-handed Sharath was the mainstay in the Tamil Nadu middle-order and his consistent performances earned him a place in the India-A team. Subsequently, he served as both a junior and a senior team selector for Tamil Nadu, apart from being a BCCI match referee.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sharath-may-make-junior-national-selection-panel/article35828315.ece
10 August 2021||BENGALURU,||Krishnaji — a versatile player and good leader||Tributes poured in for former India and Karnataka football great Krishnaji Rao, who breathed his last here on Sunday, aged 81. “We had a long association,” recollected teammate and fellow icon Amjad Khan, who played with Krishnaji for close to 12 years. “He was the most versatile player of our generation (1950 to 1975). He could move from midfield to centre-back and right-back without dropping his levels. That was his greatness.” Krishnaji represented the country at the 1966 Asian Games, but will be best remembered in Karnataka for leading the erstwhile Mysore State to back-to-back Santosh Trophy titles in 1967-68 and 1968-69. Karnataka has not won the competition since then. The Mysore State team thus got the chance to represent India at the Asian Club Championship in Thailand in 1969, where it finished fourth, losing to Maccabi Tel Aviv in the semifinals.  M.S. Krishnamurthy, another former teammate, attested to his leadership qualities. “He used to be very encouraging on the field. He was a good leader, but never shouted at his team mates. He was a very tough player himself and would make life difficult for opponents.” A stalwart for CIL FC, Krishnaji also had a distinguished career as a coach and mentor. “He was a leader. I still try to follow him in my coaching career,” said Shanmugam Venkatesh, currently the head coach of AIFF development team Indian Arrows. “His discipline and ability to handle the team were exemplary. Everything I am today, the credit goes to Krishnaji sir. He was the coach of ITI and gave me a chance to play (in 95-96). I had not played anything then. But be had confidence in me and that was the turning point in my career,” added Venkatesh, who went on to captain the Indian national team.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/krishnaji-a-versatile-player-and-good-leader/article35828261.ece
10 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||Don’t fear anyone, says Neeraj||Olympic gold medallist javelin thrower Neeraj Chopra conveyed an important message to all athletes as he recalled his sterling performance in Tokyo. “Give your 100% and don’t fear anyone,” said Neeraj at the felicitation function organised by the Union Sports Ministry here on Monday. The function, scheduled to be held at the Major Dhyan Chand National Stadium, had to be shifted to a hotel owing to wet weather conditions. The golden boy Neeraj said he knew that his second attempt in the final was a “special throw” and that’s why he celebrated immediately after it. The 87.58m effort eventually won him the gold. “I felt the effort in my shoulder and elbow next morning,” he said cheerfully. When Union Sports Minister Anurag Thakur asked Neeraj about the hardships faced by young athletes, he said that the shortcomings faced by the athletes made them more determined to achieve their goal and become an inspiration. Former Sports Minister Kiren Rijiju made an emotional speech, praising the women’s hockey players for making the whole country cry with them. “You played great, you won hearts,” he said. Rijiju was equally proud about India winning seven medals in six disciplines, emphasising that there was no event bigger than the Olympics for the whole world. He was happy that Neeraj had dedicated his medal to Milkha Singh. India’s men’s hockey goalkeeper P.R. Sreejesh diverted the praise showered on him to the women’s hockey goalkeeper Savita Punia. Wrestling silver medallist Ravi Dahiya said he was inspired by the deeds of Sushil Kumar and Yogeshwar Dutt, and wanted to perform like them. Hockey captain Manpreet Singh acknowledged the overwhelming support of the Sports Authority of India (SAI) and the government, stressing that the entire team was like an extended family. “We will get back together soon, as we have the Asian Games and Commonwealth Games next year. We will focus on them,” Manpreet said. Lovlina Borgohain, who won bronze, said she was “feeling very good after coming home.” The boxer assured that her focus would stay on winning the gold in the Paris Games in 2024. Weighlifting silver medallist Mirabai Chanu and badminton star P.V. Sindhu had earlier arrived to a rousing reception. Many firsts Thakur said that the Tokyo Olympics witnessed many firsts for India and assured that the government would work with the federations to help the Indians shine more in the next two editions in 2024 and 2028. Nisith Pramanik, Union Minister of State for sport, was also present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/dont-fear-anyone-says-neeraj/article35828202.ece
10 August 2021||August 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Is Neeraj’s gold India’s greatest triumph across sports?||Anju Bobby George believes Neeraj Chopra’s Olympic gold is the country’s greatest triumph across sports. “This is the best triumph across all sports because athletics is the centrepiece event. We can compare athletics medals with something like World Cup football medals, otherwise there is no comparison between an athletics medal and any other medal,” said the 2003 World championships long jump bronze medallist in a chat with The Hindu on Sunday. “We are competing with multiple opponents, from more than 200 countries. It’s a common sport, anybody can compete in this. So, the competition will be that much higher.” Great hockey record India has had a magnificent record in hockey at the Olympics, winning eight golds including a hat-trick of triumphs in 1928, 1932 and 1936 a phase when Dhyan Chand mesmerised the world. Then there had been a semifinal entry in football at the 1956 Melbourne Olympics, during which Neville D’Souza scored a hat-trick, and in 1960 tennis great Ramanathan Krishnan made it to the last-four stage in the Wimbledon men’s singles. Then there’s the 1983 cricket World Cup triumph which changed the face of the sport in the country. P.V. Sindhu’s 2019 World Championship badminton gold, chess legend Viswanathan Anand’s and boxer Mary Kom’s multiple World titles and shooter Abhinav Bindra’s 2008 Olympic gold are the country’s first in individual sport. And there are Pankaj Advani’s multiple titles in cue sport and many more. Does Neeraj’s gold in javelin throw fly high above all these? “Just check the number of countries taking part and the amount of competition we have to do. Athletics is a global sport, football is a global sport. To win an athletics medal is the toughest. “I’m not saying that their triumph is any way less, but competition-wise, toughness-wise and acceptance-wise, Neeraj’s gold is the biggest,” says Anju. V. Baskaran, who led India to the hockey gold at the 1980 Moscow Olympics, disagrees. “We cannot compare this and that, I will not do that. As a gold medallist, I can’t say that this is higher than that. That would be unfair to the others,” said Baskaran, who was also a leading Madras University sprinter decades ago. Learning process “But Neeraj won it with authority in his first Olympics and ended a 120-year wait for an athletics medal. (Abhinav) Bindra went through two Olympics before winning gold in his third. “This win by Neeraj is a learning process for those who have come close to a medal and lost, how an athlete should train and compete. “This is a new generation, our athletes showed a brave, confident new face. Like golfer Aditi Ashok, who was ranked 200 in the world but narrowly missed a medal and finished fourth, like the hockey teams who fought so well and the men’s 4x400m relay team that broke the Asian record. The only events where our confidence level looked low were archery and shooting.” Meanwhile cricketer Harbhajan Singh feels that Neeraj’s gold should be celebrated in a massive way. “Cricket is a sport played by 12 to 15 countries while the competition is much more at the Olympics. This victory should be celebrated 50 times more than how we celebrated our cricket World Cup triumph,” said Harbhajan in an interaction with Aaj Tak .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/is-neerajs-gold-indias-greatest-triumph-across-sports/article35828205.ece
10 August 2021||Kolkata,||Deepika blames it on medal pressure at Olympics||Ace Indian acrcher Deepika Kumari on Monday confessed that she needs to stop buckling under the pressure of performance at the Olympic Games and approach the biggest sporting stage from a different perspective to deliver desired results in future. In the form of her life after winning five World Cup medals this year, the 27-year-old carried the hopes of 1.3 billion Indians to get the sport their first Olympic archery medal in Tokyo.  But it turned out to be anti-climactic as she fizzled out without putting up a fight in both her individual and mixed pair quarterfinal encounters to cap yet another horror Olympic campaign. “Woh paanch ring ka pressure, haavi ho ja raha hai — pressure of the five Olympic rings is becoming a bit too much,” confessed Deepika in an exclusive interview after returning to Kolkata. Deepika said she has understood that instead of running after the medals, they need to work on ‘enjoying the moment’ at the Olympics, something they lack. “Everyone keeps saying we don’t have a medal, we don’t have a medal. We think of it a thousand times there, and it dominates our psyche. It’s a mental blockade and goes on affecting our techniques. Need to introspect “It’s high time that I introspect into my game and see it in a different perspective now. There are certain things we are lacking too much. Basically we need to change the perspective of our games. We’ve to see all games equally, be it World Cup, World Championships or the Olympics.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/deepika-blames-it-on-medal-pressure-at-olympics/article35828363.ece
10 August 2021||Dhaka,||Shakib shines as Bangladesh wins 4-1||Shakib Al Hasan took four wickets as Bangladesh skittled out Australia for their lowest ever T20I total of 62 to seal the series 4-1 on Monday. Chasing 123 for victory, Australia crashed out in 13.4 overs with Shakib returning figures of 4/9 with his left-arm spin in the 60-run rout in the fifth match of the series in Dhaka. Australia’s previous lowest was 79 all out against England in 2005. Twin strikes Pace bowler Mohammed Saifuddin combined with Shakib to rattle Australia with twin strikes in one over to send back Alex carey and Moises Henriques. Shakib wiped off the tail with the wickets of Nathan Ellis and Adam Zampa with nine of the 11 batsmen getting scores in single digits. Earlier Mohammad Naim made 23 in Bangladesh's 122 for eight after electing to bat. Dan Christian and Nathan Ellis took two wickets each. Bangladesh had secured their first series win over Australia after winning the opening three matches.  The scores: Bangladesh 122/8 in 20 overs (Nathan Ellis 2/16, Dan Christian 2/17) bt Australia 62 in 13.4 overs (Nasun 2/8, Saifuddin 3/12, Shakib 4/9).   Toss: Bangladesh; MoM & MoS: Shakib.   Bangladesh won by 60 runs.   Australia was bundled out for its lowest ever T20I total of 62||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/shakib-shines-as-bangladesh-wins-4-1/article35828256.ece
10 August 2021||August 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Gavaskar’s charitable foundation launches new website||Champs Foundation, an organisation started by Indian cricket legend Sunil Gavaskar in 1999 to assist former sportspersons who represented India in international competitions, has launched a new and improved website champsindia.org.  Former sportspersons who are struggling to make ends meet can submit an online application for monetary assistance at champsindia.org/beneficiaries.  Well-wishers of Indian sport can also donate to the foundation. All donations are exempt under Section 80G of the Income Tax Act of 1961. The Champs foundation has so far assisted 19 former Indian sportspersons, the latest being a hockey Olympian legend. Commenting on the launch of the foundation’s new website, Gavaskar said, “So far, the Foundation could act only if it got to know through the media about a former India sportsperson who was struggling. “We didn’t have a regularly operated website but now that we have one, hopefully, it can reach out to those who are under the radar and vice-versa. “There is a desire to reach out and help ease in a little way the retired lives of our internationals.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/gavaskars-charitable-foundation-launches-new-website/article35828258.ece
10 August 2021||Chennai,||TNPL: pace bowlers have called the shots||The ball has seamed around and the ‘carry’ to the ‘keeper has been excellent. The ongoing TNPL T20 competition has seen the pitches at the M.A. Chidambaram Stadium regain old glory. As the competition reached its business end — Ruby Trichy Warriors will take on Chepauk Super Gillies in Qualifier-1 on Tuesday night — the pitches will be under sharp focus. So far, the tracks have exceeded expectations. And the stars of the competition have been the groundsmen, the unsung heroes. By having seven pitches ready and maintaining them so professionally, chief curator K. Ramesh and his team have done a wonderful job. Given the sheer number of matches in an eight-team competition — all the 28 matches of the league phase were played on a single ground — it’s astonishing that the surfaces have not deteriorated into slow, low, turners which they could so easily have. In fact, they have retained their juice. In terms of quality also, this edition has been the best. And the pitches have played a huge role. Pacemen have found seam movement and bounce which immediately makes the contest engaging. Relishing the bounce And if there is consistent bounce, it helps batsmen play their strokes. And spinners too relish bounce in the track. The pacemen have been getting the ball to zip around. Among the fresh faces, left-arm seamer V. Gowtham has potential. R. Silambarasan, a slinger, can be sharp. Saravana Kumar and M. Poiyamozhi have been consistent, Trilok Nag has pace and bounce, so does Gurjapneet Singh. Abhishek Tanwar, Sonu Yadav, R. Rohith, and J. Kousik are big hitters who can bowl useful seam. Among the older pacemen, Aswin Crist, recovering from back issues, bowled with pace, bounce and control. And left-am paceman R. Suthesh and right-armer Sunil Sam gave glimpses of their ability. Pace has been the ace in this TNPL.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/tnpl-pace-bowlers-have-called-the-shots/article35828320.ece
10 August 2021||Bengaluru,||Paartalu left out of AFC Cup playoff squad||Bengaluru FC, on Monday, left midfielder Erik Paartalu out of its 29-man squad for the AFC Cup playoff against Maldivian side Club Eagles, on August 15. A fortnight ago, the Australian had suggested that his employer had been denying him a chance to train and a statement issued by Professional Footballers Australia — the body representing the interests of Australian football players — had backed up that claim and called for his "reinstatement". The AFC Cup playoff match was originally scheduled for May but was postponed after reports emerged of a breach of COVID-19 protocols by BFC squad members in Male. A photo in a Channel News Maldives report had shown Paartalu and two other BFC members outdoors, after which club owner Parth Jindal promised the “strictest action” against the offenders. BFC’s foreign contingent for the tie against Club Eagles will thus comprise only defenders Alan Costa and Yrondu Musavu-King, and Brazilian striker Cleiton Silva. The new six new Indian signings in Harmanpreet Singh, Jayesh Rane, Bidyashagar Singh, Sarthak Golui, Danish Farooq and Rohit Kumar have all been included. Sivasakthi Narayanan, who finished as the top scorer in the BDFA Super Division League, has found a place.  The squad: Goalkeepers: Gurpreet Singh Sandhu, Lalthuammawia Ralte, Lara Sharma, Sharon Padattil. Defenders: Pratik Chaudhari, Wungngayam Muirang, Ajith Kumar, Ashique Kuruniyan, Parag Shrivas, Yrondu Musavu-King, Biswa Darjee, Alan Costa, Sarthak Golui. idfielders: Suresh Wangjam, Namgyal Bhutia, Jayesh Rane, Danish Farooq, Rohit Kumar, Muhammad Inayath, Ajay Chhetri; Forwards: Sunil Chhetri, Udanta Singh, Cleiton Silva, Leon Augustine, Naorem Roshan Singh, Bidyashagar Singh, Sivasakthi Narayanan, Akashdeep Singh, Harmanpreet Singh .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/paartalu-left-out-of-afc-cup-playoff-squad/article35828255.ece
10 August 2021||New Delhi,||Indian football team's camp to return to Kolkata after 15 years||The national football team's camp will be held in Kolkata after 15 years when initial 23 probables assemble at the 'City of Joy' on August 15 to prepare for next month's international friendlies. Training from Aug. 16 The training sessions will start from August 16, the AIFF said in a statement. This will be the first time Blue Tigers' camp will be held in Kolkata after 2006, when they assembled for the FIFA World Cup Qualifier against Saudi Arabia. Bio-secure bubble The camp will be conducted under a secured bio-bubble adhering to the laid-down health parameters in wake of the current COVID-19 pandemic situation. The contingent will also be undergoing regular testing.  The probables:   Goalkeepers: Dheeraj Singh Moirangthem, Vishal Kaith.   Defenders: Ashish Rai, Seriton Fernandes, Adil Khan, Chinglensana Singh, Narender, Rahul Bheke, Akash Mishra, Mandar Rao Dessai.   Midfielders: Lalengmawia, Glan Martins, Jeakson Singh, Anirudh Thapa, Brandon Fernandes, Sahal Abdul Samad, Halicharan Narzary, Bipin Singh, Yasir Mohammed.   Forwards: Rahul KP, Farukh Choudhary, Ishan Pandita, Rahim Ali .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/indian-football-teams-camp-in-kolkata/article35828257.ece
10 August 2021||Hyderabad:,||Ashwa Yashobali claims Mandate Plate||Mrs. Anita Chauhan’s Ashwa Yashobali, ridden by Gaurav Singh, claimed the Mandate Plate, the feature event of Monday’s (Aug. 9) races. M. Srinivas Reddy trains the winner.  1. ABBOTS ROYAL PLATE (Div. I) (1,100m) Maiden, 3-y-o only (Cat. II): RIVER SONG (Akshay Kumar) 1, Burano (Ashad Asbar) 2, Furious Fun (Kiran Naidu) 3 and Spectacular Cruise (A.A. Vikrant) 4. Not run: Cosmico. 2, 4-1/2 and Nk. 1m, 7.31s. Rs. 12 (w), 10, 13 and 19 (p). SHP: 23, THP: 61, FP: 29, Q: 31, Tanala: 235. Favourite: River Song. Owners: Mr. Zavaray S. Poonawalla, Mrs. Behroze Z. Poonawalla, Mr. Yohan Z. Poonawalla, Mrs. Michelle Y. Poonawalla & Ms. Delna Z. Poonawalla rep. Poonawalla Racing & Brdg & Mr. M. Ramakrishna Reddy. Trainer: L D’ Silva.  2. ASCOT PLATE (1,400m) Maiden (Terms), 3-y-o only (Cat. II): LIMONCELLO (P.S. Chouhan) 1, Georgia Peach (Akshay Kumar) 2, Able Love (T.S. Jodha) 3 and Paladino (Kiran Naidu) 4. Starwalt. 2-1.4, 4-1/4 and 3/4. 1m, 26.86s. Rs. 15 (w), 11, 11 and 14 (p). SHP: 18, THP: 40, FP: 26, Q: 17, Tanala: 74. Favourite: Limoncello. Owners: Mr. K.N. Dhunjibhoy, Mr. Z.K. Dhunjibhoy rep. Five Stars Shipping Co Pvt Ltd, Mr. Rama Seshu Eyunni & Mr. P. Prabhakar Reddy. Trainer: Laxman Singh.  3. ABBOTS ROYAL PLATE (Div. II) (1,100m) (Terms) Maiden, 3-y-o only (Cat. II): SHOW ME YOUR WALK (Akshay Kumar) 1, Thanks (P.S. Chouhan) 2, Star Cruise (Ajeeth Kumar) 3 and Over Joy (Ashad Asbar) 4. 3/4, 2 and 1. 1m, 8.25s. Rs. 15 (w), 11, 12 and 29 (p). SHP: 30, THP: 68, FP: 31, Q: 17, Tanala: 243. Favourite: Show Me Your Walk. Owners: Mr. Peddy Reddy Prabhakar Reddy & Mr. P. Prabhakar Reddy. Trainer: R.H. Sequeira.  4. TUDOR JET PLATE (1,800m) rated 20 to 45(Cat. III): FRANCIS BACON (Nakaht Singh) 1, King Roger (Akshay Kumar) 2, Call Of The Blue (Gaurav Singh) 3 and Miss Marvellous (N.B. Kuldeep) 4. 5-3/4, 2-3/4 and 2. 1m, 52.82s. Rs. 33 (w), 16, 11 and 20 (p). SHP: 32, THP: 111, FP: 97, Q: 51, Tanala: 1,536. Favourite: Lightning Power. Owner: Mr. Aditya P. Thackersey & Mr. M. Satyanarayana. Trainer: L V R Deshmukh. 5. ROYAL WINDSOR PLATE (1,200m) rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III): DAYS OF RECKONING (Deepak Singh) 1, Ashwa Raudee (Ashad Asbar) 2 and Lifetime (Surya Prakash) 3 and Blink Of An Eye (N.B. Kuldeep) 4. 1/2, 1 and 1. 1m, 13.82s. Rs. 126 (w), 17, 10 and 47 (p). SHP: 40, THP: 115, FP: 365, Q: 119, Tanala: 4,695. Favourite: Ashwa Raudee. Owners: Mr. Shailendra Singh, Mr. N. V. Rohini Kumar & Mr. K. Shashabindu Das. Trainer: D. Netto.  6. GUINDY PLATE (Div. I) (1,400m) 4-y-o & upward, rated upto 25 (Cat. III): DUE DILLIGENCE (Surya Prakash) 1, Hip Hop (C.P. Bopanna) 2, Sun Dancer (N.B. Kuldeep) 3 and Hopscotch (B.R. Kumar) 4. Not run: N R I City. 7-3/4, Hd and 3-3/4. 1m, 27.66s. Rs. 65 (w), 16, 14 and 23 (p). SHP: 49, THP: 61, FP: 315, Q: 148, Tanala: 2,700. Favourite: La Lady. Owner: Mr. C.S. Kaushik. Trainer: L V R Deshmukh.  7. MANDATE PLATE (1,400m) 5-y-o & upward, rated 40 to 65 (Cat. II): ASHWA YASHOBALI (Gaurav Singh) 1, Private Empire (Akshay Kumar) 2, Balius (B.R. Kumar) 3 and Incredulous (Md. Ismail) 4. Not run: Super Angel. Nk, 3/4 and 2. 1m, 26.71s. Rs. 31 (w), 13, 11 and 22 (p). SHP: 45, THP: 55, FP: 90, Q: 55, Tanala: 631. Favourite: Private Empire. Owner: Mrs. Anita Chauhan. Trainer: M. Srinivas Reddy.  8. GUINDY PLATE (Div. II) (1,400m) 4-y-o & upward, rated upto 25 (Cat. III): EXPONENT (Nakhat Singh) 1, Sacred Lamp (Gaurav Singh) 2, Sputnic (Md. Ismail) 3 and N R I Gift (T.S. Jodha) 4. 1, 1-1/2 and Hd. 1m, 28.49s. Rs. 107 (w), 29, 15 and 39 (p). SHP: 39, THP: 89, FP: 989, Q: 374, Tanala: 7,090. Favourite: Sheldon. Owners: Mr. M.A.M. Ramaswamy Chettiar of Chettinad Charitable Trust. Trainer: K. Satheesh. Jackpot: 70%: Rs. 54,586 (7 tkts.) and 30%: 2,444 (67 tkts.). Treble: (i) 33 (976 tkts.), (ii) 1,058 (24 tkts.), (iii) 2,857 (32 tkts.). Mini Jackpot: (I) 1,963 (17 tkts.), (ii) 67,469 (1 tkt).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ashwa-yashobali-claims-mandate-plate/article35828272.ece
10 August 2021||HYDERABAD,||Alloysius felicitated||Alloysius Edwards was one of the hockey Olympians and former internationals who was felicitated by the Punjab & Sind Bank as part of the celebrations of the Indian men’s hockey bronze-winning performance in the Tokyo Olympics. The event (in Jalandhar on Monday) was attended by many former India players who were on the rolls of Punjab and Sind Bank. “It was a great gesture and gave us a huge opportunity to meet some of the old-timers and share our thoughts on our Olympics experiences and also share the joy of seeing the Indian team clinch the medal in Tokyo after a gap of 41 years,” said Alloysius, who was the goalkeeper of the Indian team in two Olympics. S. Krishnan, MD & CEO, Punjab & Sind Bank, was the chief guest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/alloysius-felicitated/article35828498.ece
10 August 2021||Paris,||Nadal slips out of top three||Rafael Nadal slipped out of the top three in the new ATP rankings released on Monday while Jannik Sinner, who won the Washington tournament at the weekend, jumped nine places to 15. The 20-time Grand Slam winner Nadal lost to Lloyd Harris in the round of 16 in Washington to find himself dropping one place to number four with Greek Stefanos Tsitsipas replacing him at three. Italian teenager Sinner, who beat the American Mackenzie McDonald in three sets in Washington, climbs from 24th into the higher realms of the game’s elite. Sinner, who only turns 20 on August 16, is the youngest player to win an ATP 500 tournament since the category was created in 2009. By reaching the final, McDonald also enjoyed a dramatic leap from 107th to 64th. Novak Djokovic remains comfortably at No. 1. The Serb has now spent a record 333 weeks in top spot.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/nadal-slips-out-of-top-three/article35828674.ece
10 August 2021||Tampa (USA),||Mandeep wins second pro bout||Indian boxer Mandeep Jangra won his second professional bout, clinching a technical knockout against American Devon Lira here on Sunday. The 27-year-old, silver medallist at the 2013 Asian Championships and the 2014 Commonwealth Games, turned professional in March this year. The Indian won on technical knockout in the second round of the lightweight contest. He had beaten Argentina’s Luciano Ramos in his debut bout in a four-round unanimous decision on May 8.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/mandeep-wins-second-pro-bout/article35828253.ece
10 August 2021||Chennai:,||Former champion surfers advance||On the opening day of The Covelong Classic 2021 National Surf and SUP championships, past winners Ramesh Budihal and D. Manikandan moved onto the third round in the men’s open category on Monday. In the Groms under-16 category, D. Srikant, Naveen Kumar and Kishore Kumar were some of the groms moving into the quarterfinals with Srikanth taking the highest scoring wave of the day. Three categories Surfers from across the country have registered for the event that has three categories for surfing - Groms and under-16, men’s Open and the women’s Open. The Men’s SUP (Stand Up Paddle) 6km race is scheduled for Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/former-champion-surfers-advance/article35828274.ece
10 August 2021||August 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Tokyo heroes arrive||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/tokyo-heroes-arrive/article35828219.ece
10 August 2021||August 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Bharath stars for Thiruthan||A. Bharath's three-wicket haul helped Thiruthani CC prevail over Wheels India RC by 11 runs in the semifinals of the TDCA second division league match held recently.  The scores: II div.: Semifinal-2: Thiruthani CC 118/9 in 30 overs (S. Vignesh 29, K. Manoj Lal 26, D. Alexander David Raj 4/34) bt Wheels Ind RC 108 in 24.1 overs (A. Barath 3/32).   III div.: SRIHER RC 108 in 25.2 overs (Aravind Kumar 30, Pasupathy Chandran 4/40, E. Vijayakrishnan 3/17) bt Sri Vaishnavi CC 100 in 25.2 overs (Aditya Balaji 4/11, J Jones Daniel 3/40) .      J. Elanchezian's four-wicket haul and B. Aswin's half-century helped GE (T&D) beat Asian Sports by nine wickets in the KDCA second division league match held recently.  The scores:   II div.: Asian Sports 91/9 in 30 overs (J. Elanchezian 4/13, D. Selva Kumar 3/28) lost to GE (T&D) 92/1 in 14.3 overs (B. Aswin 54 n.o.).   GE (T&D) RC 87 in 24.2 overs (Saravana Guru 4/28) lost to Springs Field CC 88/2 in 22.2 overs (V. Pravin 33, Sameer Lakshminarayana Murthy 27).    Half-centuries from S.R. Sandeep and P. Murugesh helped SKMT CC beat Sathya CC by 52 runs in the CDCA first division league match played on Monday.  The scores:   SKMT CC 193/9 in 30 overs (S.R. Sandeep 61, P. Murugesh 53 n.o., Muthu Jaddu 4/43) bt Sathya CC 141 in 28.4 overs.    Madras Seva Sadan will conduct an under-14 and under-19 cricket tournament from August 13. For details, contact: 99400 71170||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bharath-stars-for-thiruthan/article35828317.ece
10 August 2021||August 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Epics interpret Vedas||The Vedas are timeless, with no specific author. The Vedas are profound, and cannot be easily understood. The help of a learned preceptor is needed to help one comprehend the full implication of any Vedic passage. There is a famous sloka, which says itihasa puranabhyam vedam samupabrmhayet . That means that one must study the Itihasas and Puranas, in addition to the Vedas. The reason is to enable a correct interpretation of the Vedas, said M.A. Venkatakrishnan in a discourse. Of the two, Itihasas are given more importance, which is why they are mentioned first. Actually, there is a Paninian sutra, which says when two words are being enunciated, the one with fewer letters must come first. In the case of Itihasa and Purana, the word ‘Purana’ has fewer letters. And yet Itihasa is used first. It may seem as if the Paninian rule is being flouted here, but it is not so. Panini maharishi also said that when two things are being spoken of, that which is superior must come first. So, when viewed in terms of this rule, it is only proper that Itihasa should precede Purana in a sloka. But why are Itihasas superior to Puranas? Itihasa simply means that what happened was being reported. It is an account of something that took place at the very time when it took place. Itihasa means “This is what happened.” So, the chance of interpolations or additions are not there in the case of Itihasas. We have two Itihasas in Sanskrit — Ramayana and Mahabharata. Purana is the narration of something that happened long ago, and so the chance of some inaccuracies in presentation is possible. Puraa means “long back.” Purana means an account of long past events, which, however, seem to the listener or reader as if they are something relevant in the present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/epics-interpret-vedas/article35828168.ece
10 August 2021||August 10 2021 08:03 IST,||Sudoku — August 10, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-august-10-2021/article35828869.ece
10 August 2021||August 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Ranjith steps into the ring||The storyline of the underdog boxer making it big has been told so many times, one should have been bored. But Pa Ranjith’s Sarpatta Parambarai manages to hook the audience mostly because the director invests a lot in the secondary characters rather than make them mere two-dimensional props for the protagonists. Whether Dancing Rose (Shabeer Kallarakkal) or Daddy (John Vijay), they stand out with vivid personalities that make us want to see more of them. If this is the film’s first triumph, the second is Pasupathy as boxing coach Rangan. He delivers a nuanced and quiet performance that stands head and shoulders not just above the others but above the film itself. In fact, if the film had shown the kind of restraint Pasupathy brought in, it would have gained immensely. And one doesn’t mean restraint in the ebullience or loudness of its various characters or in the noisy and very public lives they live, but in its over-long, indulgent and populist screenplay, which takes away a certain sting the film could have otherwise delivered. Which brings me to Ranjith’s third triumph — his fearless and unabashed politics. There are so many voices that insist, more so today, that politics must be kept out of cinema or art or writing, yet Ranjith has never shied away from hoisting his banners and beliefs out there for the world to see. And he does so in this film, too. Set in the 70s, in Chennai’s Black Town quarter, a tough-as-nails area populated by port workers and labourers, the film establishes that it is the period of the Emergency. The DMK is in power in Tamil Nadu, like now. And the Chief Minister is M Karunanidhi, whose son Stalin is Chief Minister now. Rangan vadiyar is a DMK party member, and very early on, his boxer emerges into the ring wearing a robe with the rising sun emblazoned on it. Even as the main boxing action and clan rivalries play out, the background chatter — from bystanders, fans, newspaper mastheads — emits a steady stream of political news. Delhi, the film states, is becoming autocratic and Tamil Nadu is pushing back. In fact, history shows that Karunanidhi held out for seven whole months, refusing to implement Emergency laws and rulings. Finally, on January 31, 1976, his government was dismissed, President’s Rule imposed, and his party functionaries jailed. But for those seven months, Tamil Nadu was a sanctuary where many opposition politicians from the North fleeing the police took refuge. Writings, speeches, and pamphlets were printed in the state for distribution elsewhere as strict censorship had resulted in most newspapers not daring to print anything critical of the government. In the film, Rangan makes a speech where he praises his leader for holding out against the repressive Centre and ends by demanding the Prime Minister’s resignation. Given the hashtags reigning on social media now, it is impossible to miss the parallels being drawn. It is interesting, however, to see Ranjith shift focus from Dalit to Dravidian politics in this film. It is not that he abandons the Dalit movement — the references to slavery and oppression, Kabilan being asked to fight for “our people”, the ghetto-like milieu invoked are patent — but he seems almost to step back from the close-up and take a longer shot that includes the Dalit struggle and the Dravidian. But alas, while Ranjith’s intentions are impeccable, he falters in execution. Till the end, the two parallels — the larger story of Tamil politics and the more intimate story of the boxer — don’t really meet. They play on different tracks, imparting a strangely detached and impassive air to what could have been a fiery historical backdrop seeping into every pore and sinew of the players. The radio commentaries, the rickshaw driver’s asides, the newspaper headlines all become, therefore, merely ornamental, a historically correct setting, rather than provide the motivation for or drive the actions of the characters. And except for Rangan’s sojourn in jail, the characters remain seemingly untouched by the larger politics. To set the film in such a fraught era and to not then make it intensely about that era seems a bit of a bummer, but if Ranjith’s intention was to simply make a straight boxing film, then Sarpatta indeed ticks all the boxes. Where the writer tries to make sense of society with seven hundred words and a bit of snark||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/ranjith-steps-into-the-ring/article35828618.ece
10 August 2021||August 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Taneira’s sari solutions||When the pandemic struck in early 2020, hundreds of orders from Taneira, Tata Group’s handcrafted ethnic-wear brand, were pending with weavers. A worried lot, the craftspeople wondered if orders would be cancelled and whether they would be paid. Anindita Sardar, Head - Design and Curation at Taneira, and her team assured them that the schedule remained unchanged. The brand works with a wide network of weavers across the country. “We went ahead with our festive and special collection orders, and even orders that we had placed for general procurement for our stores” explains Sardar. The revival story Taneira came up with an affordable entry-level line, Essentials by Taneira, to make them accessible to more people. The designers worked with weaver clusters in Banaras, Kanchipuram, etc, on these saris. In addition, Heritage, a revival range that featured age-old techniques and crafts such as the adai , jaala and petni techniques, was also launched last year. They are now working with the few remaining weavers of the Udupi coarse cotton sari as part of the series. The focus was also on blockprints such as the Farad, from Bagru, Rajasthan, which had lost favour. The ‘Ayyampet’ saris of Tamil Nadu that feature ikat mushru and the Bopari (a double-sidedajrakhprinted pallu ) are other additions to this series. Updating skills During the pandemic, weavers were trained by the quality assurance team on ensuring humidity did not affect the saris, working with AZO-free dyes that bleed less, and focussing on packaging. “This is an ongoing training and is an effort to upskill them,” says Sardar.  Rs. 999 onwards on taneira.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/taneiras-sari-solutions/article35828616.ece
10 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||Schools to have quarantine rooms, staggered timings||The Delhi government on Monday issued a set of guidelines and a standard operating procedure (SOP) for the reopening of schools for students of Classes X-XII. Students can now visit the schools for admission-related work, counselling, guidance and practical activities related to Board examinations. Safety measures include staggered timings to ensure there is no crowding at the entry and exit gates of the campus. Also, there needs to be a minimum gap of one hour between the exit of students in morning school and the next batch coming in the evening, at schools that run on double shifts. A quarantine room will have to be created in each school for emergencies. The schools will have to ensure that written consent is obtained from parents of all students who are willing to visit the school, and heads of schools will have to make a specific schedule as per the capacity of the classroom/labs following COVID-appropriate behaviour. An order from the Directorate of Education said, “All required measures/precautions like social distancing, wearing of face mask, etc. need to be observed by everyone at all times.” The government has mandated that all employees and students will have to go through thermal scanning before entering school premises, and anyone having cold/cough/fever or flu-like symptoms shall not be allowed to attend school. Students will be told not to share stationery and books. It added that online classes/digital distance learning shall continue and those students who wish to continue their studies through online classes shall be allowed to do so. Health checkups and referral services situated on school premises, or conducted from there, can also resume, the order stated. The heads of schools have been asked to ensure that all teachers and employees are vaccinated on priority. Schools have been directed to upload daily status of vaccinated staff on a link. No fresh admissions There will be no fresh admission this session in Classes VI, VII and XI in Rajkiya Pratibha Vikas Vidyalayas, which are in the process of being upgraded to Schools of Specialised Excellence, according to the DoE.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/schools-to-have-quarantine-rooms-staggered-timings/article35828400.ece
10 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Bharat Jodo’ event organiser seeks action against sloganeers||Supreme Court lawyer and former Delhi BJP spokesperson Ashwini Upadhyay, who organised the ‘Bharat Jodo Movement’ rally where inflammatory anti-Muslim slogans were allegedly raised on Sunday, said that the videos appearing on social media “fail our movement”. Strongly disassociating himself from the crowd which raised slogans, he said, “If the videos are genuine, then they are made to fail our movement. In our event, we did not call any person who talks about dividing the country,” he said. Sharing his opinion on the content of the videos, he asserted, “I have filed more than 100 public interest litigation and none of them are against or for any particular community. The movement is about united India and not dividing India”. In videos shared by Mr. Upadhyay himself on social media, he is surrounded by a crowd chanting “ Jai Shri Ram ” and “ Bharat Mata Ki Jai ”. In another video he shared of the event, Mr. Upadhyay, wearing a saffron turban and scarf along with a rudraksha band on his hand, is joined by actor Gajendra Chauhan and people clad in saffron clothes. The advocate, however, said he came for the event around 11 a.m. and left around noon as he realised the crowd was growing. “It started raining heavily which also became a reason to leave,” he said, adding that those who chanted anti-Muslim slogans “probably did it later in the afternoon”. Mr. Upadhyay has filed a complaint with Delhi Police demanding action against those who associated him with the raising of anti-Muslim slogans. “There are people who are sharing these videos in my name on social media. I don’t know these people, I haven’t met them and I hadn’t called them. To gain publicity, some people tend to share inflammatory videos,” he said, adding that the legitimacy of this video along with the time it was shot should be investigated. “Strict action should be taken against those in the video if it’s real and if it’s not, then action should be taken against those who are sharing the video,” he said. “On August 8, 1942, the Quit India Movement was launched... therefore, on August 8 this year, we started the Bharat Jodo Movement [Unite India Movement],” he said, adding that his fight was against “colonial-era laws”. “This event was not political, social, or religious… it was to demand new laws instead of those laid down by the British,” he said.  Fear psychosis Demanding action against the hate sloganeering, Jamiat Ulama-i-Hind’s general secretary Maulana Hakimuddin Qasmi met senior police officers and submitted a complaint stating that “highly objectionable and threatening speech and slogans” were raised at the event. “It has created a fear psychosis among the Muslim community and peace-loving people across all communities”. In the letter addressed to Delhi Police Commissioner Rakesh Asthana, the organisation’s president Mahmood Madani wrote: “I would like to recall your statement when you joined as Commissioner of Delhi Police, you affirmed that communal harmony and fairness will be your top priority”. They also hoped that strict action will be taken against those calling for “massacring Muslims”. “I am apprehensive about the situation in Delhi. Law and order is being put at risk by extremist groups once again and situation like the 2020 riots may occur if such people are not apprehended in time,” the letter stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/bharat-jodo-event-organiser-seeks-action-against-sloganeers/article35828407.ece
10 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||DU skips trials for sports, ECA quota admissions this year too||Delhi University (DU) on Monday conducted a virtual open day session on sports and ECA (extra-curricular activities) admissions for undergraduate admissions. This year, due to the COVID-19 pandemic, admissions under these categories will be based on certificates and no trials will be held. Past four years The university had earlier announced that aspirants will be permitted to upload certificates from the past four years instead of preceding three years only. They said that this modification was brought about this year to ensure that students who were unable to participate in events last year, are also able to upload their three best certificates. “Keeping in view the pandemic and in order to give students a wider chance, we have permitted them to upload certificates dated between May 1, 2017 and April 30 this year. The best three certificates can be uploaded by the students,” said an official at the session. Admissions are completely centralised and will be conducted online, officials added. 14 categories There are around 27 sports listed and 14 categories under the ECA quota in the university, officials said. “Some of the categories under the ECA quota also have sub-categories. We are giving several choices to students who want to apply for the various courses under this category. When students apply for a course under the ECA category, they should ensure that the course is available in the college they are applying to,” said Deepti Omcherry Bhalla, Dean Music Faculty in Delhi University. Anju Srivastava, principal of Hindu College said, “For us also, it is difficult to not be able to see you perform and then realistically do the admissions is a real challenge. For each seat that there is in a college, there are thousands of applications. To be able to wade through and give a collective assessment and keep things fair and transparent, a whole set of rules and guidelines have been put forth to you.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/du-skips-trials-for-sports-eca-quota-admissions-this-year-too/article35828402.ece
10 August 2021||New Delhi,||I-Day celebrations in city start with a run||The Delhi government kicked off the 75th Independence Day celebrations on Monday. The event started with a run which was flagged off by Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia. Around 200 employees of the Delhi Secretariat participated in the run, the government said. “We are all entering the 75th year of Independence and to celebrate the occasion, we are all gathered for ‘Delhi Celebrates Freedom@75’. The run organised today signifies that even though India has turned 75, our hearts and spirits are still young and full of energy. I can see how the faces of our officers and colleagues present here are lit up with joy and enthusiasm. The Delhi government is stepping up with the ‘Delhi Celebrates Freedom@75’ celebrations. The city will be filled with the spirit of patriotism and colours of freedom,” Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia said in a statement. Deshbhakti budget On March 9, Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia had presented the “Deshbhakti Budget” to celebrate the 75th year of Independence. Allocation of funds Under the budget, Rs. 10 crore each was allocated to conduct programmes to honour Bhagat Singh and Babasaheb Bhim Rao Ambedkar. Also, Rs. 45 crore was set aside to install national flags, similar to the tall one at Connaught Place, at 500 locations across the city. On March 12, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal had kick-started the government’s 75 week-long celebrations, as announced in the budget, with an event which was held at Connaught Place.  The run organised on Monday signifies that even though India has turned 75, our hearts and spirits are still young and full of energy Manish Sisodia  Deputy Chief Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/i-day-celebrations-in-city-start-with-a-run/article35828404.ece
10 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||Protests over ‘suspension’ of Rahul’s Twitter account||The National Students’ Union of India (NSUI) and the Indian Youth Congress (IYC) on Monday organised protests in the Capital against the “temporary suspension” of Congress leader Rahul Gandhi’s Twitter account. The microblogging site had flagged a tweet of the leader in which he shared a photo of his meeting with the family of a nine-year-old Dalit girl who was allegedly raped and murdered. IYC national president Srinivas B.V. alleged that the Narendra Modi government was conspiring to suppress the voice demanding sympathy and justice for the victim. The NSUI said that they organised the protest so that Mr. Gandhi could continue to “unveil the truth” in front of the world. The IYC protested outside an office of the microblogging site in Qutub. The protesters were detained. The NSUI tried to march from its headquarters on Raisina Road to Shastri Bhawan and were also detained.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/protests-over-suspension-of-rahuls-twitter-account/article35828401.ece
10 August 2021||New Delhi,||HC seeks govt. reply on petition challenging home delivery of liquor||The Delhi High Court on Monday asked the city government to reply to a plea by BJP MP Parvesh Sahib Singh Verma challenging the provision in the new excise policy of 2021, which allows home delivery of liquor. A Bench of Chief Justice D.N. Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh listed the petition for further hearing on September 20. Senior Advocate Abhishek Manu Singhvi, representing the Delhi government, submitted that “Rs. 10,000 crore has been earned by Delhi, pursuant to the new excise policy amid the ongoing pandemic”. Mr. Verma, in his petition, has challenged Rule 66(6) of the Delhi Excise (Amendment) Rules of, 2021, which he stated suffered from various constitutional illegalities and is not sustainable under law. “The new policy undermines the ban on the consumption of liquor in public places by making it possible to deliver alcohol to public places... The Rules enable the possibility of delivery of alcohol to hospitals and schools. It lacks any consideration to the safety of those delivering the liquor,” the petition stated. The plea further said that home delivery of liquor was against Article 47 of the Constitution, which makes it the duty of the State to improve public health.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/hc-seeks-govt-reply-on-petition-challenging-home-delivery-of-liquor/article35828393.ece
10 August 2021||New Delhi,||‘Delhi govt. not prepared for third COVID-19 wave’||The Delhi government is not prepared for a possible third wave of COVID-19 since the city’s health infrastructure has not been improved by the AAP since it came to power, the BJP alleged on Monday. Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta said while Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal may make tall claims of making Delhi world-class, the fact remained that only 628 new beds had been added in government hospitals since the past year. Referring to an RTI reply, Mr. Gupta alleged that when the Aam Aadmi Party came to power in Delhi, there were about 9,000 beds in city hospitals. By March 30, 2021, this number had gone up to only 10,993. “The AAP, in its 2015 manifesto, had said the number of beds will be raised from 10,000 to 40,000. In all these years, forget 30,000 more, the Kejriwal government could not even add 700 new beds,” Mr. Gupta said. ‘False propaganda’ “The government is running on the basis of falsehood and propaganda. It had promised that as per international norms, there would be five beds available per 1,000 citizens,” the senior BJP leader said. Mr. Gupta added the city was in for a grave crisis if the Delhi government continued with the same “laxity and negligence” shown by the Kejriwal-led government during the first and second wave of the epidemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/delhi-govt-not-prepared-for-third-covid-19-wave/article35828396.ece
10 August 2021||New Delhi,||Active COVID-19 cases in the Capital fall below 500||The city reported only 39 fresh COVID-19 cases over 24 hours, taking the total to 14,36,800, as per a bulletin released by the Delhi government on Monday. There was one death reported and the total number of deaths stood at 25,067. A total of 46,447 tests were done in a day and the test positivity rate (TPR) was 0.08%. Of the total cases, 14,11,235 people have recovered and there are only 498 active cases. In early May, there were as many as 99,361 active cases. No vaccine shortage Meanwhile, the Delhi government on Monday said the COVID-19 vaccine stock in the city would last for seven days. There were 4,30,350 doses of Covishield and 3,55,820 doses of Covaxin, as per another bulletin. Only 11,099 vaccinations were administered on Sunday, as government-run vaccination centres are closed on Sundays.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/active-covid-19-cases-in-the-capital-fall-below-500/article35828397.ece
10 August 2021||New Delhi,||AAP alleges graft in U.P. water schemes||The Aam Aadmi Party on Monday alleged corruption to the tune of thousands of crores in the water distribution schemes in Uttar Pradesh and demanded a court-monitored probe into it. “The government is engaged in the work of corruption in such a big ambitious plan. I want to tell the Chief Minister of Uttar Pradesh, Yogi Adityanath, and his Minister that, if you do not get this corruption probed by the CBI and the entire matter is not investigated by the SIT under the supervision of the High Court, then I will complain about the same, similar to the complaint in the case of Lord Shri Ram’s temple donation,” AAP Rajya Sabha MP Sanjay Singh said. He added that he had earlier complained to the Lokayukta about alleged corruption in ventilators and had gone to court about it and he is ready to go to court on the current issue too.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/aap-alleges-graft-in-up-water-schemes/article35828409.ece
10 August 2021||New Delhi,||Notice for cancellation of plots allotted 30 years ago must be taken back: BJP||Leader of the Opposition in the Delhi Assembly Ramvir Singh Bidhuri on Monday demanded that the notice for cancellation of plots allotted 30 years ago after land consolidation should be immediately taken back. It warned the Delhi government that the BJP would fight it tooth and nail against it. Mr. Bidhuri said these plot allotments were done in accordance with all norms and rules and the AAP government had no right to send cancellation notices. He was speaking during a Kisan Panchayat held at Kanjhawala village. He said when Sahib Singh Verma was the Chief Minister, land consolidation was done and farmers were given land for their residential purposes. However, he alleged, the Revenue Department led by the SDM had served notices on the people warning that it would proceed with plot cancellation. “How can this be done. After 30 years of the exercise of land consolidation, notices are being served to cancel the plots. This is totally unjustified, and these notices should be taken back with immediate effect,” Mr. Bidhuri said. The Panchayat also discussed the issue of assimilation ofprivate land in Gram Sabha land and it was stated that according to the orders of the Lieutenant-Governor, such land will be considered private only. The Panchayat was also of the view that the Gram Sabha land should only be used for purpose and welfare of villager people on which Mr. Bidhuri said such land should only be used for construction of schools, colleges, hospitals, and other development-related activities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/notice-for-cancellation-of-plots-allotted-30-years-ago-must-be-taken-back-bjp/article35828411.ece
10 August 2021||New Delhi,||Nangal case: BJP demands AAP govt. give Rs. 1 crore to kin||The Delhi BJP on Monday protested outside Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal’s residence demanding that the city government pay Rs. 1 crore compensation to the family of the nine-year-old girl who was allegedly raped and murdered in Nangal village. State unit vice-president Rajiv Babbar said the Delhi government must also give a job and a house to the family. “Instead of caring for Delhiites, the Kejriwal government’s focus seems to be more on AAP’s campaign and expansion in other States at Delhi tax payers’ money,” Mr. Babbar alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/nangal-case-bjp-demands-aap-govt-give-rs-1-crore-to-kin/article35828394.ece
10 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||Man, 2 others held for killing live-in partner||A 22-year-old man has been arrested along with two of his friends for allegedly killing his live-in-partner in South Delhi’s Maidangarhi on Sunday, the police said. DCP (South) Atul Thakur said that the accused has been identified as Anuj, resident of Fatehpur Beri, and his friends Ramzan (32) and Naushad (21). Ramzan himself called the police to inform about the incident. The police said that a PCR call was received on Sunday evening regarding a woman’s body lying in the jungle behind Rajpur Khurd village. The police found the woman to have been strangulated. “Initially, the caller Ramzan stated that he is an alcohol addict and came to jungle to drink. When he was drinking, he noticed that two unknown persons allegedly took the woman to the jungle and murdered her. The caller was in great fear and ran away to his house and after that he made the PCR call,” Mr. Thakur said, adding that there were discrepancies in his version. The police said that closer examination of CCTV footage showed the caller also going towards the spot. During sustained interrogation, he stated that he knew the victim and she was his friend Anuj’s live-in-partner who he had married in a temple also. During inquiry, it was revealed that Anuj liked a woman, however, due to lockdown, she had left the city. Anuj then met the victim and started living with her. Another woman, he had earlier met and liked, came back a few months ago and the two got in a relationship. Anuj then decided to kill his live-in-partner and roped in his two friends.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/man-2-others-held-for-killing-live-in-partner/article35828405.ece
10 August 2021||New Delhi,||Go out only if needed, court tells Unnao rape survivor||A Delhi court on Monday directed the Unnao rape survivor, who has been provided security by the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF), to step out only when necessary until the case is over and inform her personal security officers before going out.  Security officers District and Sessions Judge Dharmesh Sharma issued the directions on an application filed by the rape survivor in which she alleged harassment by the personal security officers. She also told the court that they were curtailing her movements and not allowing her to enjoy her liberties. Taking note of her submissions, the judge said, “Inform them [security officers] before going out. They are deputed for your security. You must plan in a way that you don’t have to venture out every day. Go out only when necessary. You must take precautions until the case is over.” The court also noted that the survivor and her personal security officers have agreed to amicably resolve the issue. The judge added, “For now, the prosecutrix is impressed upon to ensure that whenever she or family members wish to go outside Delhi in connection with any pending case, they would communicate it to CRPF Assistant Commandant so that proper security arrangements and escorts could be made.” The woman was kidnapped and raped by expelled BJP MLA Kuldeep Singh Sengar in 2017 when she was a minor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/go-out-only-if-needed-court-tells-unnao-rape-survivor/article35828408.ece
