11 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||LS clears Bill restoring States’ rights to specify OBC groups||The Lok Sabha on Tuesday passed the 127th Constitution Amendment Bill, 2021, with unanimous support from the House and not a single vote against, with Social Justice and Empowerment Minister Virendra Kumar stating that there was a need for careful examination of the demand made by several Lok Sabha MPs to remove the 50% cap on reservation currently in place. Replying to the debate on the Bill, the first such debate in an orderly manner in a session marked by three weeks of disruptions and adjournments, Dr. Kumar said the issue required a careful going over of legal and constitutional issues. Indra Sawhney case “In the Indra Sawhney case the court has observed that the limit can be increased beyond the 50% but only in certain special circumstances. The government is aware of the wishes of the members,” he said. The Minister said the current Constitution Amendment Bill was historic legislation as 671 castes in the country would benefit from it and restore the States’ rights to make their own list of Other Backward Classes (OBCs) and should be considered as the 105th Constitution Amendment Bill after being renumbered. The Bill seeks to restore the power of State governments to identify OBCs that are socially and educationally backward after a Supreme Court order in May 2021 empowered only the Centre to do so. The amendment was thought necessary because the SC, in its order on Maratha reservation, upheld the 102nd Constitutional Amendment Act that inserted Articles 338B and 342 A (with two clauses) after Article 342, which said the President of India, in consultation with the Governors, would specify socially and educationally backward classes, taking away the powers of State governments to do so. Lead speaker for the Opposition, Congress leader Adhir Ranjan Chowdhary accused the government of turning a deaf ear to suggestions of the Opposition during the debate on the 102nd Constitutional Amendment in 2018. Supporting the Bill, Mr. Chowdhary said, “You (BJP) tweaked the Constitution by bringing the 102nd Constitutional Amendment Bill, 2018, which gave people the opportunity to go the courts and finally the Supreme Court removed the States’ power.” “We support the Bill but our demand is to remove 50% ceiling in reservation. You should listen to the States, make it legal for States to cross the 50% ceiling,” he said. He received support on this from DMK’s T.R. Baalu and Samajwadi Party leader Akhilesh Yadav who also demanded the lifting of a 50% ceiling. ‘Cong. buried reports’ Intervening in the debate, Minister for Labour Bhupendra Yadav said the Congress had buried old reports including the Kaka Kallelkar and Mandal Commission report on backward classes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ls-clears-bill-restoring-states-rights-to-specify-obc-groups/article35847844.ece
11 August 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||New curriculum draft by Jan. next||The draft of the new curriculum framework will be prepared before January next, Minister for General Education V. Sivankutty has said. Responding to the discussion on demand for grants for education, the Minister said the curriculum would be revised in tune with modern scientific and social consciousness. On the basis of the curriculum framework, a committee would be set up and new textbooks prepared. Topics such as dowry, Constitution, secularism, sports, agriculture, labour, gender equality and awareness, climate change, waste management, water and energy conservation, and local economy would be included in the new curriculum. The last revision was held in 2013, the Minister said. New admissions More than 2.51 lakh new students had taken admission to State schools this academic year. As many as 27,953 students had taken admission to Class I alone this year. As per the Sampoorna school management system, there was an increase of 1.32 lakh students from that last year. The fall in the number of students in the unaided sector by 2,02,676 led to an increase in State school student strength. This was owing to the first Left Democratic Front (LDF) government’s efforts and the trust reposed by the public in them, he said. Plus One The Minister said applications for Plus One admissions could be submitted from August 16. A model examination would be held for the current Plus One students ahead of their annual examinations, Mr. Sivankutty said. Five new projects Five new projects were being implemented in connection with digital education, he said. The G Suite for Education platform for facilitating online education this year was being piloted in 412 schools at present. It would be introduced for all students in phases. The Kerala Infrastructure and Technology for Education (KITE) would arrange a free-and-open-source-based platform this year itself for digital education.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/new-curriculum-draft-by-jan-next/article35848172.ece
11 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||Parties get 48 hours to publish candidates’ criminal records||The Supreme Court on Tuesday warned Parliament that the nation is losing patience with the advent of criminals in politics even as it imposed fines on major political parties, including the BJP and the Congress, for covering up from voters the criminal past of the candidates they fielded in the Bihar Assembly poll last year. The court had directed political parties to publish the criminal history, if any, of their election candidates on the homepage of their websites under the caption ‘Candidates with criminal antecedents’ within 48 hours of their selection. ‘Nation losing patience’ “The nation continues to wait, and is losing patience. Cleansing the polluted stream of politics is obviously not one of the immediate pressing concerns of the legislative branch of the government,” a Bench of Justices Rohinton F. Nariman and B.R. Gavai told the lawmakers. Justice Nariman, who authored the 71-page judgment based on a plea by advocate Brajesh Singh, said the Supreme Court’s repeated appeals to legislators to amend the law to weed out the criminals amidst them had fallen on deaf ears. The court said it did not take political parties much time to flout its February 2020 judgment, which directed them to prominently publish the criminal antecedents of their candidates in newspapers and on social media accounts, including Twitter and Facebook. Eight months from the February judgment, in the run-up to the Bihar Assembly election in October-November last year, these parties had already subverted the verdict by either publishing inadequate information about their candidates’ criminal antecedents or by cleverly printing them in obscure newspapers. The court imposed a penalty of Rs. 1 lakh each on the BJP, Congress, JD(U), RJD, Lok Janshakti Party and the Communist Party of India for subverting the February 2020 judgment. It imposed fines of Rs. 5 lakh each on the Communist Party of India (Marxist) and the Nationalist Congress Party for completely ignoring the judgment. In a series of directions to make the right of information of a voter “more effective and meaningful”, the court further ordered the Election Commission of India to launch a dedicated mobile app for voters to get details of the criminal history of the candidates at the touch of a button. The Commission should also form a separate cell to monitor political parties on their compliance with the court’s judgment. The court said any violation on the part of a political party, if brought to its attention by the EC, would be viewed “very seriously” .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/parties-get-48-hours-to-publish-candidates-criminal-records/article35847842.ece
11 August 2021||MANGALURU,||Panel launches integrated sand monitoring system||To effectively monitor sand extraction and transportation, the Dakshina Kannada District Sand Monitoring Committee headed by Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra has launched an integrated monitoring system called Maralu Pariveekshaka. This web-based system, which is developed and implemented by the State-run Karnataka State Electronics Development Corporation, helps in real-time remote monitoring from the Smart City control room. Dr. Rajendra told The Hindu that the new system has been put in place to prevent illegal transportation of sand. “There have been complaints about lorries transporting sand to Kerala while permit is issued for supply to Sullia. There have also been complaints about lorries switching off GPS system midway while transporting sand,” he said. The Sand Bazaar app used to book sand, Dr. Rajendra said, has been integrated in the new Maralu Pariveekshaka system. A person booking sand can track the movement of the vehicle from the time of loading to the point it is unloaded. Officials too can keep a close tab on sand operations. This system gets feed from CCTV cameras installed at vintage points in different parts of the district. “In case of transgressions by permit holders, we can quickly take punitive action,” he said. All permitted sand blocks are geo-fenced using GPS coordinates and this is made available on the monitoring system. It has information about sand extraction permit holders, their validity, approved sand quantity and other related information. While monitoring extraction of sand in all blocks by looking at number of trips the lorries have made, the system automatically generates alerts if vehicles with no valid permit have come to the sand block and also when sand is transported across the State. Arvind Bhat from I-Search, a Mangaluru-based ITeS company that developed the system, said that GPS equipment of vehicles and boats used for sand extraction has been integrated with the system. Sand extraction and transportation permits will be issued only if the GPS devices are active.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/panel-launches-integrated-sand-monitoring-system/article35848281.ece
11 August 2021||New Delhi,||YSRCP, BJD join demand for scrutiny of insurance Bill||In a change of stance, the YSRCP and the Biju Janata Dal, both of whom have maintained a distance from the Opposition, are now supporting the demand to send the controversial General Insurance Business (Nationalisation) Amendment Bill, 2021, to a select parliamentary committee. The Bill, one of the last pieces of legislation on the government’s agenda for the monsoon session of Parliament, will come up for discussion on Wednesday. It seeks to enhance private participation in public sector insurance companies. After multiple adjournments, the government called for a meeting of leaders from all Opposition parties at 3 p.m. At the meeting, YSR Congress MP Vijay Sai Reddy forcefully argued in favour of sending the Bill to a select committee. As per sources, he pointed out that the legislation was vastly different from what Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman had indicated in her budget speech. He quoted from Ms. Sitharaman’s speech where she said “....we propose to take up the privatisation of two public sector banks and one general insurance company in the year 2021-22”. Mr. Reddy, it is learnt, argued that the current Bill aims at privatisation of all four general insurance companies, instead of what was proposed by the Minister. He also argued that the Bill proposes selling of stakes upto 51% to a private player giving majority control to a private firm. This is not what the FM had proposed, he said. The Biju Janata Dal, which was represented by the Floor Leader Prasanna Acharya, too agreed that the Bill needs further parliamentary scrutiny. Mr Acharya, sources said, that considering the impasse, there should be no problem in accepting the Opposition’s proposal. “We said in very clear terms that the House can function only if the Insurance Bill is sent to a select committee. But they [government] did not agree to it. They are adamant that this Bill has to pass in the House. The meeting ended in disagreement,” an opposition leader said. Majority of the opposition leaders had come dressed in black on Tuesday too in anticipation of a debate on the General Insurance Bill. However, AIADMK, which is a NDA ally, stood with the government. The meeting was attended by Leader of House in Rajya Sabha Piyush Goyal, Deputy Chairman Harivansh and Minister of State for Parliamentary Affairs V. Muraleedharan. From the Opposition, the Congress was represented by deputy leader Anand Sharma and chief whip Jairam Ramesh, TMC chief whip Sukendu Sekhar Ray, DMK’s Tiruchi Siva, CPI (M)’s Elamaram Kareem, YSR Congress’s Vijay Sai Reddy and BJD’s Prasanna Acharya. According to sources, the 127th Constitution Amendment Bill 2021 will be tabled in Rajya Sabha on Wednesday morning. The Bill aims to bypass a May 2021 Supreme Court ruling that said only the Centre could notify socially and educationally backward classes — and not the States. The Opposition, as in Lok Sabha, will peacefully participate in this discussion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ysrcp-bjd-join-demand-for-scrutiny-of-insurance-bill/article35847848.ece
11 August 2021||HUBBALLI,||Plans afoot to develop Dharwad as a big industrial cluster||Deputy Commissioner of Dharwad Nitesh Patil has said that plans are afoot to develop Dharwad as a big industrial cluster and open up opportunities for youths of the region. Inaugurating a Mini Job Fair organised by the District Skill Development and Livelihood Department at CEDOK in Belur near Dharwad on Tuesday, Mr. Patil said that that several industries have shown keen interest in setting up their units in the region. Particularly Belur, Mummigatti and Kotur have emerged as the most preferred destination for industrialists. And, large industrial units are being set up in around 1,050 acres of land, he said. Referring to the ambitious new industrial policy which focussed on developing the Bengaluru Mumbai Industrial Corridor (BMIC), he said that as BMIC passed through Dharwad and the district, there was ample scope for investments by bigger players. To facilitate investments from bigger players, 5,200 acres of land is being acquired, he said. Referring to the 300 job offers being made available to candidates in various industries, he urged job aspirants to perform well using the opportunities made available to them. Skill Development Officer Chandrappa, Assistant Statistical Officer A.M. Shettar, campaign manager Ravi Munavalli, Karnatak Chamber of Commerce and Industry president Mahendra Ladhad and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/plans-afoot-to-develop-dharwad-as-a-big-industrial-cluster/article35848096.ece
11 August 2021||IDUKKI,||Good tourist inflow to Idukki centres||A good number of tourists visited tourism centres in Idukki with the centres being thrown open for visitors on Monday. The main tourism centres included those under the District Tourism Promotion Council (DTPC) and the ecotourism projects operated by the Forest Department. Eravikulam National Park (ENP) assistant wildlife warden Job J. Neriamparampil said the park received 301 visitors on Monday 364 on Tuesday. He said the flow of visitors to the park at Munnar was expected to pick up in the coming days. Workers’ crisis Those working under various tourism projects of the Forest Department were in a crisis after the centres were shut during the lockdown period. “Most of the tourists were from the State and Tamil Nadu. A few from northern India were also there. We hope that more tourists will arrive in the coming days,” he said. An official with the Periyar Tiger Reserve said 88 tourists visited Thekkady and 86 of them enjoyed the boating facility there on Monday. He said the tourists were given entry adhering to the pandemic protocol. From Wednesday, online booking would be in place to reduce rush before the ticket counter. He said 50% of the tickets for all tourism programmes in the PTR would be issued online. DTPC secretary Girish P.S. said the tourism centres under it witnessed normal tourist arrival on Monday. Apple season With the apple season on at Kanthalloor and Marayur, fruit farmers also expect more visitors to the farms. Last year, there were no tourists to farms at Vattavada, Kanthalloor, and Marayur. Visitors are allowed inside the farms and the farmers get better income from the sale of apple, orange, strawberry and other fruits.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/good-tourist-inflow-to-idukki-centres/article35848168.ece
11 August 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||50% of vaccintion slots will be available online||People can register online on CoWIN portal and book vaccination session, for which 50% of slots will be available online and the rest will be set aside for spot registration. According to an order issued on Tuesday, when registering online, people should ensure that they are registering in the local body where they reside and in the same ward. Beneficiaries for the 50% spot registration slots should be selected on the order of priority.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/50-of-vaccintion-slots-will-be-available-online/article35848186.ece
11 August 2021||MANGALURU,||Nine COVID-19 deaths in Udupi, Dakshina Kannada||Dakshina Kannada reported eight COVID-19 deaths and 378 new cases on Tuesday. With 359 patients discharged, the number of active cases stood at 3,332. The test positivity rate was put at 4.28%. A fine of Rs. 1,01,42,017 has so far been collected in 83,563 cases of norms violation. Udupi district reported one death and 91 new cases. With 137 patients discharged, the number of active cases increased to 1,242. There are seven cases of mucormycosis.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/nine-covid-19-deaths-in-udupi-dakshina-kannada/article35848279.ece
11 August 2021||MYSURU,||More than 600 booked for smoking in public||More than 600 people were booked for smoking in public, mostly at roadside tea stalls, in Mysuru during a month-long drive against cigarette and other tobacco products. TheMysuru District Tobacco Control Cell, which carried out the drive with the assistance of the local police, booked 606 people for smoking in public and collected penalties amounting to Rs. 67,020. A fine amount of Rs. 200 was collected from each violator under Section 4 of the Cigarettes and Other Tobacco Products (Prohibition of Advertisement and Regulation of Trade and Commerce, Production, Supply and Distribution) Act, 2003, also known as COTPA, which prohibits smoking in public. Though the Act provides for a smoking area or smoking zone on premises having a seating capacity of more than 30 persons, Shivakumar, consultant of Mysuru District Tobacco Control Cell, told The Hindu that no roadside tea stall they inspected had a seating capacity of more than 30 and no separate smoking zone was found. Tea shops are also public places and, hence, smoking at a roadside tea stall was found to be violative of Section 4 of COTPA, he said. Sale to minors As many as 354 cases were booked against the sale of cigarette to persons below the age of 18. Under Section 6A of COTPA, no person can sell cigarettes and any other tobacco products to people aged under 18. A total of Rs. 38,500 was collected for selling cigarettes and other tobacco products to minors. Thirteen shops or points of sale were booked for selling cigarettes and other tobacco products within a radius of 100 metres of an educational institution. A penalty amounting to Rs. 2,600 was collected, he said. A total of 973 cases were booked under different sections of COTPA and Rs. 1,05,220 was collected during the drive, which began on July 13 and concluded on August 6, he said. “By conducting such drives, our aim is to make Mysuru a high-compliance district as far as COTPA is concerned,” Mr. Shivakumar said. The cell distributed for free 354 signages, which should be mandatorily displayed on the premises of shops selling cigarettes or other tobacco products. The signage seek to warn the public against smoking in public places and selling cigarettes to minors. Though the focus was against smoking in public, the personnel involved in the drive also ensured that advertisement boards of tobacco products, particularly cigarettes, displayed in the shops were removed. Section 5 of COTPA prohibits advertisement of tobacco products. Mr. Shivakumar said they came across the sale of several illegal cigarettes. One box of illegal cigarettes was seized from a shop in Lakshmipuram police station limits. The shop owner was forced to burn the illegal cigarettes and was let off with a warning that he would be booked if he repeated the offence. The Mysuru District Tobacco Control Cell would, next week, begin an enforcement drive in the taluks of Mysuru district, he added.  Drive outcome Month-long drive to enforce COTPA, 2003, was carried out in Mysuru Section 4 of COTPA, 2003, prohibits smoking in public — 606 booked in city, penalty of Rs. 67,020 collected Section 6A prohibits sale of cigarettes and other tobacco products to persons below 18 years of age – 354 cases booked, penalty of Rs. 38,500 collected Section 6 prohibits sale of cigarettes and other tobacco products within a radius of 100 metres of educational institution – 13 shops booked, penalty of Rs. 2,600 collected||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/more-than-600-booked-for-smoking-in-public/article35848320.ece
11 August 2021||GUNTUR,||State committed to welfare of weavers: CM||Chief Minister Y.S Jagan Mohan Reddy on Tuesday disbursed Rs. 192.08 crore into the accounts of 80,032 handloom weavers under YSR Nethanna Nestham with a click of the mouse. “I have seen the hardships of the handloom weaver families during my padayatra. I have promised that a scheme to provide annual sustenance allowance will be launched soon after coming to power and I am happy to provide a financial assistance of Rs. 24,000 directly to the bank accounts of weavers for the third consecutive year. Under the scheme, every beneficiary will receive a total aid of Rs. 1.2 lakh for a period of five years, which will benefit the weavers to overcome their financial problems,” said Mr. Jagan. The Chief Minister said the State government had spent Rs. 576 crore on weaver families in the last 26 months under the Nethanna Nestham scheme. The financial assistance was being provided in a most transparent way. “I am also happy to say that the amount will not be adjusted against old dues of the beneficiary to the bank, as the government had spoken with banks in this regard, Mr. Jagan said. He said those who were eligible and left out from the scheme could still apply at the village and ward secretariats within a month to avail themselves of the financial aid. He said the State government had also cleared the dues of the previous government to the tune of Rs. 103 crore to APCO and other cooperative societies. In the times of COVID pandemic, the State government had purchased cloth from APCO for making masks, and placed orders for school uniforms for students, taking the total amount spent during the 26 months of governance to about Rs. 1,600 crore. He said that the government had also introduced e-platforms for selling handloom products through APCO on e-marketing websites.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-committed-to-welfare-of-weavers-cm/article35847834.ece
11 August 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||Police foil TDP leaders’ ‘Pratighatana’ rally||The police on Tuesday, foiled the Telugu Desam Party (TDP) leaders’ ‘Pratighatana rally’, proposed by the party’s SC Cell in the city. Alleging that injustice was being done to Scheduled Castes in the State, the leaders planned the ‘Pratighatana Rally’ from Gymkhana Grounds to Tummalapalli Kalakshetram, via, Lenin Centre and Eluru Road. The organisers applied for police permission, which was rejected on the grounds of COVID-19 protocol.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/police-foil-tdp-leaders-pratighatana-rally/article35847840.ece
11 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||14 States set to reopen schools for Classes X-XII||At least 14 States and Union Territories have reopened or plan to reopen schools partially this month, given the continued low numbers of COVID-19 infection and the high rate of vaccination among teachers. However, almost all States only plan to bring back older students despite the Indian Council of Medical Research’s recommendation to start with primary school students. At a Health Ministry press conference on Tuesday, NITI Aayog member V.K. Paul said almost 50% of teachers across the country had been vaccinated, but emphasised that more effort was needed. Although teachers were not among front-line workers, who received the first priority in vaccination, some States had issued circulars directing them to get their shots even as schools begin to reopen. Last week, a parliamentary panel noted that school closures had hurt the social fabric of families, led to an increase in child marriages and in children being pressed into work at home. The expected learning losses are likely to impact the cognitive capabilities of students, it said, warning that children’s nutrition and mental health had also been affected. Over 15 lakh schools across the country shut their doors in March 2020, and only a few reopened briefly before the second wave of the pandemic. More than 25 crore school children have been dependent on online or distance education since then, with many from poor or remote communities effectively losing more than a year of schooling. In response to a query from Congress MP Shashi Tharoor in the Lok Sabha, Education Minister Dharmendra Pradhan listed eight States that have opened or planned to reopen schools by mid-August. Haryana leads the way The first to resume face-to-face classes was Haryana, which reopened for Classes IX to XII from July 16, followed by Nagaland, which allowed Classes XI and XII from July 26. Punjab, Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh, Puducherry and Lakshadweep all began classes in the first week of August, although only the two Union Territories reopened school for all classes, with the other three sticking to high schoolers only. Andhra Pradesh plans to begin on August 16. Apart from these eight States mentioned by Mr. Pradhan, Karnataka intends to resume offline classes from August 23 for Classes IX and X and the pre-university courses, equivalent to Classes XI and XII. Tamil Nadu will also reopen school for Classes IX-XII from September 1. Uttar Pradesh plans to restart classes from August 16 for intermediate students, while Odisha is carrying out a phased reopening through July to September. Maharashtra plans to reopen schools on August 17, with offline classes beginning for students from Class V onwards in rural areas and from Class VII onwards in urban areas, although these plans are restricted to areas with a consistently low rate of infection. In the national capital, students of Classes X to XII will be allowed to go to their schools for admission-related work and practical activities for their board exam from this week onwards, as the Delhi government continues to deliberate on a reopening date.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/14-states-set-to-reopen-schools-for-classes-x-xii/article35847846.ece
11 August 2021||Belagavi,||Fisherman drowns while saving boy||A fisherman died while saving the life of a boy who was drowning in the Krishna river in Manjari village near Chikkodi on Tuesday. Mohammad Sharif Khandaje (30) jumped into the river when he saw Omkar Mayannanavar (12) drowning in the river. Khandaje caught hold of the boy and pushed him towards the riverbank. However, Khandaje himself could not swim to safety due to heavy current. Local police and NDRF teams have launched a search for the body downstream. Chikkodi Police, who visited the spot, spoke to Omkar Mayannanavar, the survivor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/fisherman-drowns-while-saving-boy/article35848094.ece
11 August 2021||HYDERABAD,||One killed, two injured in cylinder explosion||An LPG cylinder explosion in Dhoolpet left one person dead and two injured. According to Mangalhat police, the victims are from the same family. While 24-year-old Manav Singh died, his parents identified as Neeraj Singh (48) and mother Suchritha Singh (43) were injured. Suchritha sustained burns on her hands and Neeraj is believed to be in serious condition with more than 70% burn injuries. The injured were rushed to Apollo DRDL in Kanchanbagh. Girl killed An 8-year-old girl Keerthi was killed after a wooden almirah in a school room where she was playing with her younger sibling tipped over and fell on her on Monday. According to Medipally police, the victim’s mother Srilatha, who works as an aayah in a private school in Boduppal, took the siblings along with her to the place of work. “Keerthi was playing with her 5-year-old sister Rohitha in the room when the wooden almirah fell on her. She was rushed to a hospital where she died while undergoing treatment,” police said. Man kills mother A 65-year-old woman Papamma was allegedly murdered on Tuesday by her own son Dharmapuram Kistaiah (40) at Kummera village in Chevella mandal on Monday. As Papamma threatened to disinherit Kistaiah of property which included land and a house, he smashed his mother’s head with a boulder.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/one-killed-two-injured-in-cylinder-explosion/article35848145.ece
11 August 2021||GUWAHATI,||‘NE border disputes have killed 157 since 1979’||Data-mining by a Delhi-based rights group has revealed 157 people have been killed in border disputes across the Northeast since 1979. The conflicts till the Assam- Mizoram flare-up on July 26 have also injured 361 people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ne-border-disputes-have-killed-157-since-1979/article35848227.ece
11 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||14 States set to reopen schools for classes X-XII||At least 14 States and UTs have reopened or plan to reopen schools partially this month. NITI Aayog member V.K. Paul said almost 50% of teachers across the country have been vaccinated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/14-states-set-to-reopen-schools-for-classes-x-xii/article35848229.ece
11 August 2021||HUBBALLI,||‘Lack of awareness main reason for atrocities’||Chairman of the Karnataka State Commission for Child Rights Protection Anthony Sebastian has said that parents, guardians, officials and society in general should take up the responsibility of ensuring that no children are deprived of their legitimate facilities and rights.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/lack-of-awareness-main-reason-for-atrocities/article35848098.ece
11 August 2021||BELAGAVI,||Marathas seek berth for their community MLA||Members of different Maratha organisations came together in Belagavi on Tuesday to demand a berth for an MLA from the Maratha community, in the Basavaraj Bommai Cabinet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/marathas-seek-berth-for-their-community-mla/article35848093.ece
11 August 2021||MANGALURU,||Maggi Pustaka to aid basic teaching at home||In an effort to draw children away from gadgets and enable parents to train their wards in basic language and mathematical concepts, the office of Karkala Block Education Officer has brought out a pictorial booklet, Maneye Modala Paatashale Maggi Pustaka.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/maggi-pustaka-to-aid-basic-teaching-at-home/article35848278.ece
11 August 2021||Mangaluru,||Konkan Railway seeks more coaches now||Konkan Railway Corporation Ltd. (KRCL) that had sought cancellation of the Bengaluru-Karwar-Bengaluru overnight express based on calculation of reduced occupancy during COVID-19 second wave has now sought five extra coaches for the same train saying that occupancy is more than 100%. On April 19, KRCL wrote to the Railway Ministry seeking cancellation of several trains on its network.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/konkan-railway-seeks-more-coaches-now/article35848283.ece
11 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||14 States set to reopen schools for Classes X-XII||At least 14 States and Union Territories have reopened or plan to reopen schools partially this month, given the continued low numbers of COVID-19 infection and the high rate of vaccination among teachers. At a press conference on Tuesday, NITI Aayog member V.K. Paul said almost 50% of teachers across the country have been vaccinated, but emphasised that more effort is needed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/14-states-set-to-reopen-schools-for-classes-x-xii/article35847999.ece
11 August 2021||Mumbai,||Loca trains: guidelines for getting pass issued||The BMC on Tuesday issued guidelines to help people get monthly pass to travel by local trains from August 15. The offline verification for issuing pass will start on Wednesday at all railway stations. Those who have completed 14 days since their second dose should carry a hard copy of final vaccination certificate and a photo ID.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/loca-trains-guidelines-for-getting-pass-issued/article35848301.ece
11 August 2021||Mumbai,||Eight archaeological sites now part of land records||Eight protected archaeological sites at Ter in Maharashtra’s Osmanabad district have become part of the State’s revenue land records in a bid to preserve and conserve them. The move comes after yet another historical Mankavati kunda (pool) was encroached upon by a local politician.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/eight-archaeological-sites-now-part-of-land-records/article35848302.ece
11 August 2021||Pune,||Maharashtra’s active cases drop to 66,000||Maharashtra reported 7,720 recoveries on Tuesday as against 5,609 new COVID-19 cases which saw the State’s active case tally dip further to 66,123. The death toll however, rose sharply with 137 fatalities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/maharashtras-active-cases-drop-to-66000/article35848304.ece
11 August 2021||Bengaluru,||Kannada books instead of shawls in govt. events||The State government has banned presentation of garlands, bouquets, shawls, and fruits in official programmes. It said that organisers can, instead, present Kannada books to guests. The order was issued on Tuesday. All department heads and government undertakings have been asked to comply with it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/kannada-books-instead-of-shawls-in-govt-events/article35848322.ece
11 August 2021||Chennai,||Interim relief for actor Mammooty in land row||The Madras High Court has restrained the Commissioner of Land Administration from taking coercive action against actors P.I. Mohammed Kutty alias Mammooty, his son Dulquer Salmaan Mohammed Kutty and other family members with respect to 40 acres of land owned by them in Chengalpattu district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/interim-relief-for-actor-mammooty-in-land-row/article35847916.ece
11 August 2021||LUCKNOW,||Modi launches Ujjwala 2.0 scheme||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday launched the second phase of the Ujjwala gas connection scheme for the poor, and said that it would provide the biggest relief to lakhs of migrant worker families in the country. Under Ujjwala 2.0 (Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala Yojana), migrant workers would no longer have to struggle to get address proof documents to get the gas connections, Mr. Modi said. Only self-declaration Now migrant workers would only be required to submit a self-declaration of their residential address to get the gas connection, he added. “The government has full faith in your honesty,” Mr. Modi said, speaking virtually at the launch of the scheme under which LPG (liquefied petroleum gas) connections were handed over to beneficiaries at Mahoba in Bundelkhand. Mr. Modi launched the first phase of the scheme in 2016 from Ballia, also in Uttar Pradesh, ahead of the previous Assembly election. Uttar Pradesh is scheduled to go to the polls in early 2022. Mr. Modi lamented that the country had to wait several decades to provide certain basic facilities to its citizens and that the brunt of this was faced by women, especially from poor families. Only when women came out of homes and kitchens could they contribute to nation building, he stated. “When a society keeps struggling for basic facilities, then how can it fulfil its bigger dreams,” the Prime Minister asked. Under his government, 11,000 new LPG distribution centres had come up in the country, Mr. Modi said, adding that the figure had doubled in Uttar Pradesh from fewer than 2,000 to 4,000. Mr. Modi interacted with women beneficiaries of the Ujjwala scheme from Uttarakhand, Punjab, Madhya Pradesh, Goa and Uttar Pradesh. While Bundi Devi of Dehradun told him that the gas connection had allowed her to take care of her aged father, Kiran Devi of Gorakhpur said now she saved time and her life was made easier.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/modi-launches-ujjwala-20-scheme/article35847627.ece
11 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||Have faith in us, SC tells Pegasus petitioners||Chief Justice of India (CJI) N.V. Ramana on Tuesday said petitioners in the Pegasus snooping case should place their faith in the Supreme Court and not engage in “parallel proceedings and debates” on social media platforms and other outlets while their case is sub judice . The Chief Justice, heading a three-judge Bench, said if they had anything to say, they should put it down in affidavits and file them in the court, where it would be debated. “There should be some discipline... If they want to say something on Twitter or Facebook, it is up to them... But we expect them, having come here [to the Supreme Court], to put their faith in the court.” The CJI stressed that questions from the Bench during court hearings should not be misconstrued. “We ask questions to all of you... They may sometimes cause inconvenience to you... You may not like it, but that is the process of the court.... Counsel should be responsible. If they want anything, they should bring it to the court,” he addressed lawyers, including senior advocate Kapil Sibal, who has been leading the petitioner side. Mr. Sibal, who represents senior journalists N. Ram and Sashi Kumar, agreed with the Chief Justice. He said his client, Mr. Ram, was “trolled” on social media after the last hearing. Trolls had latched onto an oral reference from the Bench. The court had, in the previous hearing, mentioned whether Mr. Ram’s petition had “wrongly” ascribed to a California court a statement that Pegasus targeted Indian journalists. But a careful reading of Mr. Ram’s petition had found no such allusions regarding the California court. In fact, Mr. Ram’s petition merely mentioned that the U.S. court was dealing with a suit filed by WhatsApp against NSO Group “for targeting the mobile phones of around 1,400 users with malware”. “It was blown out of proportion... The man was trolled,” Mr. Sibal said. The CJI said he had made it clear that he himself was not sure whether he had read it in Mr. Ram’s petition or in some other plea. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, for the government, sought more time to go through the multiple petitions. He asked for a short adjournment, probably till Friday. However, the CJI said he had a personal inconvenience on Friday and was not sitting. The Bench listed the case for Monday.  If they [petitioners] have anything to say, they should put it down in affidavits and file them in the court, where it will be debated N.V. Ramana Chief Justice of India||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/have-faith-in-us-sc-tells-pegasus-petitioners/article35847631.ece
11 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||No oxygen-shortage deaths reported: govt.||The Health Ministry said on Tuesday that 44 districts in India are reporting more than 10% weekly COVID-19 test positivity with an overall declining trend observed across the country since the week ending May 10. “Weekly positivity has been less than 2% for the second consecutive week,” Joint Secretary of the Health Ministry Lav Agarwal said at a press conference. Mr. Agarwal stated that 51.51% of the total cases last week were reported from Kerala. Dr. Sujeet Kumar Singh, Director, National Centre for Disease Control gave details of the report presented by the Central government team that visited Kerala to monitor and assist in controlling the rising number of COVID cases. Dr. Singh said, “The current value of Rt of Kerala is 1.12 and strict public health measures such as local area lockdowns and stress on COVID-appropriate behaviour is needed to interrupt transmission.” Mr. Agarwal noted that no State had so far said specifically that there were deaths because of oxygen shortage, adding that only one State mentioned suspected death due to shortage. “States were asked if there have been oxygen-related deaths. When the question was raised in Parliament, States were specifically asked this question,” Mr. Agarwal said at a press conference. He said that according to reports the Health Ministry had received till now, only one State had referred to a suspected case. Other States have not said if there have been any deaths related to oxygen shortage, he noted. He, however, did not give details about the State that had reported the “suspected oxygen-related death”. The Health Ministry had told Parliament during the current session that “no deaths due to lack of oxygen have been specifically reported by States and Union Territories”. More vaccines The Ministry at the press conference also said that it was in talks to bring in foreign vaccines that have been already approved for emergency use by the Central government. Replying to a question, NITI Aayog member (Health) V.K. Paul said, “Talks are on but these things take time. There are various modalities and conditions for bringing in these vaccines. We are working at widening the vaccine basket for the general public.” He also said that National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for COVID-19 has discussed the issue of booster doses and research on this is being closely watched. The World Health Organization has also called for a moratorium on booster doses, said Dr. Paul. The global health agency’s move is to ensure better supply to countries which are unable to offer even the first jabs to their people due to shortage of vaccine. Dr. Paul again cautioned that India should not lower its guard against coronavirus just yet with the Reproduction number (Rt) — how many people an infected person infects, on average — continuing to show a worrying and increasing trend in Himachal Pradesh, Punjab, Uttar Pradesh and Andhra Pradesh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/over-10-weekly-positivity-in-44-districts/article35847775.ece
11 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||NaMo App opens voter survey||The next set of Assembly polls in 2022, in Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Punjab, Manipur and Goa, coming as it does just above the halfway point of the tenure of the Modi government, has prompted Prime Minister Narendra Modi to issue a survey aimed at voters in these States, through his personal app, the NaMo App. The survey starts with details of the State and the constituency of the person taking the survey and is a mix of multiple choice questions and those requiring a more open-ended answer to gauge the mood of the public on the performance of the governments, both at the Centre and in the States going to the polls, including whether Opposition unity is likely to have an impact. The last time such a survey was conducted under the aegis of the NaMo App was in 2016 after demonetisation and in 2019 just before the Lok Sabha election. The survey asks questions about what issues impact the respondent’s choice in voting, the most important factor being the government’s handling of COVID-19, abolition of Article 370 or construction of a Ram temple in Ayodhya, along with questions on the popularity of local MPs. It also asks for names of three most popular BJP leaders in that State and three leaders regardless of party affiliation that the survey subject can recall. Civic services Rankings are asked for the Central government’s handling of health care, COVID-19, the progress of vaccination in their States, Swachch Bharat, employment, electricity reforms, farmer welfare and corruption and price rise. Interestingly, the survey asks the respondent what would be the criteria for electing an MLA — caste, religion or development issues. Information is solicited on whether the respondent would be willing to volunteer for the BJP, has donated money to the party in the past or bought NaMo merchandise. The results of the survey, sources said, would provide an opportunity for Mr. Modi to take the temperature as far as his government’s own performance is concerned and the BJP’s popularity and the recall value of its leaders. The NaMo App has had around one crore downloads so far.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/namo-app-opens-voter-survey/article35847625.ece
11 August 2021||August 11 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Govt. stalling debate on Pegasus to push Bills’||As the monsoon session of Parliament winds to a close with key bills passed in both Houses without any debate as the Opposition continued to protest and demand a discussion on the Pegasus row, Leader of the Opposition in the Rajya SabhaMallikarjun Khargeaccused the Modi government of ‘deliberately’ passing bills in the din. The monsoon session of Parliament is headed for a washout and the Opposition could not seek answers from the government over important issues like COVID-19, inflation, farmers agitation and so on.  Our intention is to run the House and discuss all the issues — Pegasus, farmers issue, inflation and the COVID. In our all party meeting also, the agenda was to give priority to these issues. When we give the notice under Rule 267, they could have simply fixed the time. Our first preference is Pegasus because it is about survival of democracy, our fundamental rights. If I lose my freedom of expressions, my privacy, then what remains? If that freedom is there, only then I can talk about farmers or other issues affecting the country. They [the government] are taking and threatening the Opposition leaders, spying on people in the Army, even judges were not spared. Do you think common people can relate to this or are they more bothered about the rise in prices of essentials and fuels, the pandemic, job losses and so on. Those issues are important. That’s why in our first meeting all four issues were taken as priority. But the government isn’t ready to discuss Pegasus. When so many countries around the world are inquiring into it, what is the hitch for this government? We want either the Prime Minister or Home Minister to sit in the discussion and reply to our queries. But to dilute this issue, they asked Information Technology Minister to reply. On the farmers’ issues, we are very much concerned. Rahul Gandhi ji called a meeting of all political parties meeting, went to meet farmers at Kisan Sansad [Farmers’ Parliament], went on a tractor highlight the issue. We are not alone as all decision are jointly taken by all parties. The credit goes to all the political parties who have stood united and taken decisions through consensus. I think this is the first time 15 parties came together on all the issues. We are fighting for common cause. The BJP tried to break the Opposition parties but failed. In your informal discussions with the government, what did they tell you about Pegasus? Are they completely against having a discussion? As soon as you say Pegasus, they say, “ no, no, that is a different issue”. Now for 16-17 days, the House is in session but not one day has the Home Minister or the Prime Minister stepped in or discussed with all the Opposition parties. But the government business is going on as usual without participation from the Opposition. By not allowing a discussion on Pegasus, they know that the Opposition will automatically continue their protests and they can pass bills in the din. That is their intention. They want to show to the people that they are ready for discussion on important issues but the Opposition is blocking. Do you think this Opposition unity will continue up to 2024 Lok Sabha polls because problems arise when you ask who is the face of the Opposition? See, there are two things as far as Parliament is concerned and as we all are united. Rahul Gandhi ji told frankly in one of the coordination meetings that we should forget what we are doing in each State. I can’t predict now about 2024 but the high command will decide issues like alliances. How do you look at your colleague Kapil Sibal hosting a dinner yesterday that saw an impressive line of Opposition leaders and apparently, there were discussions on Congress’ internal problems including leadership of the Gandhis. I wasn’t there at the dinner; so how can I say what they discussed?  We are fighting for common cause. The BJP tried to break the Opposition parties but failed||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/govt-stalling-debate-on-pegasus-to-push-bills/article35847638.ece
11 August 2021||New Delhi,||Opposition protests from table top in Rajya Sabha||The Rajya Sabha witnessed extraordinary scenes on Tuesday, with Opposition members, majority of them dressed in black or sporting black bands, clambered onto the table in front of the Chair, protesting against the government for trying to push through a diluted debate on the farmers’ issue instead of going in for a repeal of the three controversial farm laws. This is the second time the government tried to bring a discussion on the farmers’ issue to bypass a debate on the Pegasus cyberattack. On August 4, it made a similar attempt. The trouble began from the moment the House convened for the day at 11 a.m. Chairman M. Venkaiah Naidu, ignored the notices demanding a debate on Pegasus which, he said, had already been taken up. He then announced that the House would debate “the agricultural problems and solutions”. The Opposition disagreed with him and began their protest. The first adjournment came within six minutes. Things came to a head when the House reconvened at 2 p.m. and Vice-Chairman Bhubaneshwar Kalita, who was in the Chair, tried to initiate a debate on “the agricultural problems and solutions”. Congress leader Jairam Ramesh, who has been listed as one of the movers of the discussion, said the calling attention he had proposed was entirely different. It was on repeal of the farm laws and the farmers’ agitation. “This is completely unilateral and not acceptable to me,” he said. A little later, Aam Aadmi Party’s Sanjay Singh clambered on top of the “reporters’ table” that is right in front of the Secretary-General and the Chair. The TV cameras did not show any of this, panning the camera on the Treasury benches. Mr. Kalita adjourned the House for 15 minutes, even as other members followed Mr. Singh on top of the table. During the 15 minutes, there was complete chaos. As per a video shared by many members on the social media, the Congress’s Pratap Singh Bajwa climbed onto the table and threw a file at the empty seat of the Chairman. By the time the House again met, the “reporters’ table” was cleared of officials and was populated with Opposition members. The House was again adjourned. ( With inputs from Damini Nath )||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/opposition-protests-from-table-top-in-rajya-sabha/article35847640.ece
11 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||Census activities put off due to pandemic||Owing to the outbreak of COVID-19 pandemic, Census 2021 and other Census-related field activities have been postponed until further orders, the Union Home Ministry said in the Lok Sabha on Tuesday. “In the Census, data is collected on demographic and various socio-economic parameters like education, SC/ST, religion, language, marriage, fertility, disability, occupation and migration of the individuals. The forthcoming Census is to be the first digital Census and there is a provision for self-enumeration,” Minister of State for Home Affairs Nityanand Rai said in a written reply to Congress leader Shashi Tharoor’s question. A mobile application for data collection and a Census portal for managing and monitoring various Census-related activities have been developed. The questionnaire for the first phase of Census was notified in the Gazette. “The individual data collected in Census under the Census Act, 1948, are not made public as per the provisions contained in the Act. The individual data are not used for the preparation of any other database, including the National Register of Citizens. Only the aggregated Census data at various administrative levels are released,” it said. Faster processing Special emphasis was given to scientifically designing the Census questions for faster processing and early release of data, said the Minister. In response to another query from MP S. Jothimani, the Minister said the Census Schedule was designed in consultation with various stakeholders, including State governments. The intent of the government for conducting Census 2021 was notified in the Gazette of India on March 28, 2019, but the Census activities were postponed due to the COVID-19 outbreak. “In the Census, the castes and tribes which are specifically notified as Scheduled Castes (SCs) and Scheduled Tribes (STs) as per the Constitution (Scheduled Castes) Order 1950 and the Constitution (Scheduled Tribes) Order, 1950, as amended from time to time, are enumerated,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/census-activities-put-off-due-to-pandemic/article35847780.ece
11 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||India to evacuate its personnel||India will temporarily relocate its personnel from the consulate in Mazar-e-Sharif in Afghanistan, an official said on Tuesday. The decision came on a day when the government gave an urgent call for evacuation of all Indian nationals from the Afghan city on a special flight. In a separate statement, the Embassy of India in Kabul has urged all Indian citizens in Afghanistan to make “immediate” travel arrangements before commercial flights are discontinued because of intensifying conflict. Tuesday’s declarations came against the backdrop of Taliban forces rushing to the periphery of Mazar-e-Sharif after their latest conquest of Kunduz city near the border with Tajikistan. “A special flight is leaving from Mazar-e-Sharif to New Delhi. Any Indian nationals in and around Mazar-e-Sharif are requested to leave for India in the special flight scheduled to depart late today evening. Indian citizens desiring to leave by the special flight should immediately convey their full name, passport number, date of expiry by WhatsApp at the following numbers: 0785891303 and 0785891301,” said the Twitter handle of the consulate. It is understood that a military aircraft will be used to bring back both Indian officials as well as citizens from the besieged Afghan city. Temporary shutdown The temporary shut down of the Indian mission comes a month after India evacuated personnel from the consulate in Kandahar, effectively ending all consular work there. “We are evacuating all India-based personnel from Mazar-e-Sharif. The consulate will remain there under the care of the local staff,” said an official. The Embassy of India in Kabul has called upon Indian nationals to take “immediate necessary steps” to ensure physical safety. A public notice has urged Indians to make “immediate travel arrangements" before flights between India and Afghanistan are discontinued because of escalating violence between Taliban and Afghan military. “Indian companies operating in Afghanistan are strongly advised to immediately withdraw their Indian employees out of project sites in Afghanistan before air travel services get discontinued,” said the Indian Embassy which also urged Indian media personnel reporting from the ground to follow security protocol because of rapid changes in security situation on the ground. The development came two days after the fall of the city of Kunduz to Taliban.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-to-evacuate-its-personnel/article35847616.ece
11 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||Modi seeks list of absentee BJP MPs||Prime Minister Narendra Modi has taken BJP MPs to task for the absence of some of them in the Rajya Sabha on Monday when the Tribunals Reforms (Rationalisation and Conditions of Service) Ordinance, 2021, was being passed. Mr. Modi also asked Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi to make a list of those absent, sources said. The censure came on Tuesday at the BJP’s last parliamentary party meeting during the monsoon session of Parliament. The Opposition had moved a statutory resolution asking that the Bill be sent to a select committee first. While the resolution was defeated and the Bill passed by voice vote, there was thin attendance of the treasury benches, with “at least 20 MPs missing”, according to government sources. According to those present at the meeting, Mr. Modi said he had been left with no other way than this criticism after the absence was brought to his attention as he had raised this issue earlier as well. He asked the MPs to spread awareness about the government’s initiatives to eradicate malnutrition, create awareness about the Ayushman Bharat scheme and to promote sports in their constituencies. The meeting saw a presentation by Minister for External Affairs S. Jaishankar on the United Nations Security Council, where Mr. Modi became the first Indian PM to preside over a meeting of the Council on Monday. Sports Minister Anurag Thakur made a presentation on India’s performance in the Tokyo Olympics. Mr. Modi led the MPs in according a standing ovation to the sportspersons who participated in the Olympics.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/modi-seeks-list-of-absentee-bjp-mps/article35847633.ece
11 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||Home Ministry flags illegal migration||There are reports of some Rohingya migrants indulging in illegal activities, according to a written reply from the Ministry of Home Affairs in the Lok Sabha on Tuesday. The response came on the queries of members Ranjanben Dhananjay Bhatt and Sanjay Ramchandra Patil about the current situation of Rohingya living illegally in various parts of the country. The Ministry said the Centre had issued instructions to the State governments and Union Territory administrations, advising them to sensitise the law enforcement and intelligence agencies to take appropriate steps for prompt identification of illegal migrants. Close tracking They needed to be restricted to specified locations as per law, their biographic and biometric particulars captured and any fake Indian documents issued to them cancelled, the Ministry said. Legal proceedings, including initiation of deportation process, should be launched. “Consolidated instructions to tackle the issue of overstay and illegal migration of foreign nationals have also been issued on March 30, 2021,” said the written reply. “India is not a signatory to the 1951 UN Convention relating to the Status of Refugees and the 1967 Protocol thereon. All foreign nationals (including refuge seekers) are governed by the provisions contained in the Foreigners Act, 1946; the Registration of Foreigners Act, 1939; the Passport (Entry into India) Act, 1920 and the Citizenship Act, 1955, and rules and orders made thereunder,” it said. The foreign nationals who enter the country without valid travel documents are treated as illegal migrants. “Since illegal migrants enter into the country without valid travel documents in clandestine and surreptitious manner, accurate data regarding number of such migrants living in the country is not Centrally available,” said the Ministry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/home-ministry-flags-illegal-migration/article35847781.ece
11 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||No decision yet on nationwide NRC||The government has not taken any decision on preparing a National Register of Indian Citizens (NRC) for the whole country, Union Minister Nityanand Rai said in Parliament on Tuesday. He, however, said the government had decided to update the National Population Register (NPR) under the Citizenship Act, 1955, along with the first phase of Census 2021. “Till now, the government has not taken any decision to prepare the National Register of Indian Citizens at the national level,” Mr. Rai said in a written reply to a question in the Lok Sabha. So far, the NRC has been updated only in Assam. When the final list of the NRC was published in 2019, a total of 19.06 lakh of the 3.3 crore applicants were excluded, triggering a huge political row. Claims process Replying to another question, the Minister said any person not satisfied with the outcome of the decisions of the claims and objections during the process of preparing the NRC in Assam may prefer an appeal before the designated Foreigners Tribunals within 120 days from the date of such order. Since those excluded from the NRC in Assam were yet to exhaust all possible legal remedies available to them, the question of their nationality verification did not arise at this stage, he said. Referring to the NPR, Mr. Rai said the government had decided to update it along with the first phase of Census 2021. The demographic and other particulars of each family and individual were to be updated or collected during the exercise of updating the NPR. “No document is to be collected during this exercise. However, due to the outbreak of COVID-19, updating of NPR and other related field activities have been postponed,” Mr. Rai said. The NPR is a register of the usual residents of the country. It is being prepared at the local (village and sub-town), sub-district, district, State and national levels under the provisions of the Citizenship Act, 1955 and the Citizenship (Registration of Citizens and Issue of National Identity Cards) Rules, 2003.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/no-decision-yet-on-nationwide-nrc/article35847643.ece
11 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Neeraj Chopra was identified young’||Neeraj Chopra was identified many years ago for his exceptional talent by then national coach for javelin Subedar Kashinath and then recruited into the Army in 2016, said an officer from the Mission Olympics Wing and Army Sports Institute (ASI), Pune. The Army is also set to start training sportswomen in national sports at ASI within this year. “Subedar Kashinath was the national coach for javelin from 2013 to 2018 and a medal winner himself. He informed the ASI that there is a boy who is throwing the javelin over 80m. He was then approached and recruited into the Army,” the officer said. Apart from gold medallist Neeraj Chopra, 16 of the sportspersons from the Indian contingent at the Tokyo Olympics were from the ASI. On Tuesday, Subedar Chopra met Chief of Defence Staff Gen. Bipin Rawat and Army Chief Gen. Manoj Naravane. Training hard He was recruited in the 4 Rajputana Rifles as a direct entry Naib Subedar on May 15, 2016 after which he was selected for training at the Mission Olympics Wing and the ASI. On training sportswomen, the officer said women are now being recruited as soldiers into Military Police and they have already identified seven for boxing. “Within the year, we should have the first sportswomen in the Army.” There is a sports quota under which candidates with potential are identified and recruited into the Army. They are then provided the support and training to excel in the sports of their choice. “About 15-20% of medals in the last three Asian Games and three Commonwealth Games are from the ASI which today is one of the best sports establishments in the country,” another officer said. The Mission Olympics Wing (MOW) of the Army identifies and trains sportsmen in 11 disciplines at five Mission Olympics Nodes to excel in various national and international competitions. It was set up by Gen. Padmanabhan when he was the Army Chief to contribute to the national efforts of furthering sporting culture. It has five nodes for various disciplines. Keeping track The ASI has supported Subedar Chopra in terms of performance monitoring and equipment support among others. “The Army has supported him all along in terms of coordination,” the officer said. There are many stakeholders including the Sports Authority of India and federations behind his success, the officer said. “The silent one is the Army.” For going to Olympics, one has to go through national camps held by the federations. The Army supports sportspersons in reaching that level so that they can compete at the national and international level, the officer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/neeraj-chopra-was-identified-young/article35847619.ece
11 August 2021||August 11 2021 00:00 IST,||14 States to reopen schools for Classes X-XII||To a query from Congress MP Shashi Tharoor in the Lok Sabha, Education Minister Dharmendra Pradhan listed eight States that have opened or planned to reopen schools by mid-August. The first to resume face-to-face classes was Haryana, which reopened for Classes IX to XII from July 16, followed by Nagaland, which allowed Classes XI and XII from July 26. Punjab, Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh, Puducherry and Lakshadweep all began classes in the first week of August, although only the two Union Territories reopened school for all classes, with the other three sticking to high schoolers only. Andhra Pradesh plans to begin on August 16. Apart from these eight mentioned by Mr. Pradhan, Karnataka intends to resume offline classes from August 23 for Classes IX and X and the pre-university courses, equivalent to Classes XI and XII. Tamil Nadu will also reopen schools for Classes IX-XII from September 1. Uttar Pradesh plans to restart classes from August 16 for intermediate students, while Odisha is carrying out a phased reopening through July to September. Maharashtra plans to reopen schools on August 17, with offline classes for students from Class V onwards in rural areas and from Class VIII onwards in urban areas, although the plans are restricted to areas with a consistently low rate of infection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/14-states-to-reopen-schools-for-classes-x-xii/article35847628.ece
11 August 2021||August 11 2021 00:00 IST,||YSRCP, BJD demand insurance Bill scrutiny||He quoted from Ms. Sitharaman’s speech where she said “....we propose to take up the privatisation of two public sector banks and one general insurance company in the year 2021-22”. Mr. Reddy, it is learnt, argued that the current Bill aims at privatisation of all four general insurance companies, instead of what was proposed by the Minister. He also argued that the Bill proposes selling of stakes upto 51% to a private player giving majority control to a private firm. This is not what the FM had proposed, he said. The BJD, which was represented by the Floor Leader Prasanna Acharya, too agreed that the Bill needs further parliamentary scrutiny. Mr Acharya, sources said, that considering the impasse, there should be no problem in accepting the Opposition’s proposal. “We said in very clear terms that the House can function only if the Insurance Bill is sent to a select committee,” an opposition leader said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ysrcp-bjd-demand-insurance-bill-scrutiny/article35847629.ece
11 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||NDA allies in Lok Sabha demand caste census||The passage of the Constitution 127th Amendment Bill, 2021, saw demands for a caste-based census ring out in the Lok Sabha on Tuesday from NDA allies Janata Dal (U) and Apna Dal, apart from regional parties, with BJP MP Sanghamitra Maurya creating a flutter by lauding the Modi government for having pushed the measure through. This at a time when the government clarified last month in Parliament that the government had, as a matter of policy, decided not to enumerate caste-wise population in the Census other than Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes. ‘Last count in 1931’ Ms. Maurya, who was fielded as the first speaker on behalf of the ruling party as the Bill was moved for consideration, attacked the previous Congress governments for not ordering a caste-based census. “The last caste-based census was in 1931,” she said. A correct enumeration would help target welfare programmes better, she said. NDA allies — Janata Dal (U) president Rajiv Ranjan Singh Lallan and Apna Dal leader and Union Minister Anupriya Patel — however, were clear in their demands for a caste-based census. Ms. Patel said such an enumeration was necessary to ensure representation proportional to the population for backward classes. Mr. Lallan said his party’s demand from the government was that “in the 2022 census, you should get the caste census conducted.” Samajwadi Party leader Akhilesh Yadav, Telugu Desam Party MP Ram Mohan Naidu too demanded a caste census, while Dayanidhi Maran of the DMK demanded that data from the Socio-Economic Caste Census conducted in 2011 be released soon and said the government was refusing to do so.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nda-allies-in-lok-sabha-demand-caste-based-census/article35847636.ece
11 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘29% of students exposed to second-hand smoke’||More than 29% of students in India were exposed to second-hand smoke, said the Global Youth Tobacco Survey (GYTS-4), India, 2019, which was released by Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya on Tuesday. The National Fact Sheet said there has been a 42% decline in tobacco use among 13-15-year-old schoolchildren in the past decade. It added that use of any form of tobacco was higher among boys and tobacco use among schoolchildren was highest in Arunachal Pradesh and Mizoram and lowest in Himachal Pradesh and Karnataka. The report also found that 38% of cigarettes, 47% of bidi smokers and 52% of smokeless tobacco users initiated the use before their 10th birthday. The median age of initiation to cigarette and bidi-smoking, and smokeless tobacco use was 11.5 years, 10.5 years and 9.9 years, respectively. Role of teachers Releasing the report, the Health Minister emphasised the role of teachers as most crucial in creating awareness among children and their parents of the harm due to tobacco use and for shaping the attitude of children in this regard. He said, “The more and the sooner, we create awareness among children about harms due to tobacco use, the better will be the outcomes in terms of reduction in prevalence of tobacco use among children and consequently among adults.” Harmful effects of tobacco use should be incorporated in school curricula at various levels starting right from the primary school level, he added. The fourth round of Global Youth Tobacco Survey (GYTS-4) was conducted in 2019 by the International Institute for Population Sciences (IIPS) under the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MoHFW). The survey was designed to produce national estimates of tobacco use among school going children aged 13-15 years at the State level and Union Territory (UT) by sex, location of school (rural-urban), and management of school (public-private). The first three rounds of GYTS were conducted in 2003, 2006 and 2009. A total of 97,302 students from 987 schools (public-544; private-443) participated in the survey. Of which, 80,772 students aged 13-15 years were considered for reporting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/29-of-students-exposed-to-second-hand-smoke/article35847831.ece
11 August 2021||August 11 2021 00:00 IST,||Parties get 48 hours to publish candidates’ data||Eight months from the February judgment, in the run-up to the Bihar Assembly election in October-November last year, these parties had already subverted the verdict by either publishing inadequate information about their candidates’ criminal antecedents or by cleverly printing them in obscure newspapers. The court imposed a penalty of Rs. 1 lakh each on the BJP, Congress, JD(U), RJD, Lok Janshakti Party and the Communist Party of India for subverting the February 2020 judgment. It imposed fines of Rs. 5 lakh each on the Communist Party of India (Marxist) and the Nationalist Congress Party for completely ignoring the February judgment. In a series of directions to make the right of information of a voter “more effective and meaningful”, the court further ordered the Election Commission of India to launch a dedicated mobile app for voters to get details of the criminal history of the candidates at the touch of a button. The Commission should also form a separate cell to monitor political parties on their compliance with the court’s judgment. The court said any violation on the part of a political party would be viewed “very seriously” .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/parties-get-48-hours-to-publish-candidates-data/article35847620.ece
11 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||HC nod must to close cases against lawmakers||Questioning the Centre’s commitment towards the speedy trial and prosecution of criminal politicians, the Supreme Court on Tuesday directed that a criminal case against an MP or MLA can be withdrawn only after getting the consent of the State High Court concerned. “We deem it appropriate to direct that no prosecution against a sitting or former MP/MLA shall be withdrawn without the leave of the High Court… Various State governments have resorted to withdrawal of numerous criminal cases pending against MP/MLA by utilising the power vested under Section 321 CrPC. The power under Section 321 CrPC is a responsibility which is to be utilised in public interest, and cannot be used for extraneous and political considerations. This power is required to be utilised with utmost good faith to serve the larger public interest,” a three-judge Bench led by Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana directed. The court mulled the formation of a Special Bench to monitor the progress of investigation and trial of criminal cases involving politicians. The court agreed to several suggestions given by amicus curiae Vijay Hansaria and advocate Sneha Kalita in a report, including a freeze on the transfer of judicial officers trying criminal cases involving lawmakers. “To ensure expeditious disposal of pending cases, it is necessary for this court to direct the officers presiding over Special Courts or CBI Courts involving prosecution of MPs or MLAs to continue in their present posts until further orders. This direction, barring transfer of Judicial Officers, will be subject to their superannuation or death,” the court directed. The court accepted Mr. Hansaria and Ms. Kalita’s recommendation to adopt video conferencing facilities to examine witnesses and for the release of funds to establish and improve virtual court facilities. It voiced doubts about the government’s resolve to bring criminal politicians to justice. The Bench pointed to how central government agencies like the Enforcement Directorate have filed a sketchy affidavits about their cases against sitting and former MPs and MLAs. Status report “You delay even in filing status reports… This report filed by the ED just mentions some random names and random cases… There are no details about the States or which is the oldest case...” Chief Justice Ramana addressed Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for the government. “We are committed. There is no reluctance on our part, maybe just a lack of coordination… The government is committed to ensure speedy investigation and prosecution of elected representatives involved in criminal cases,” Mr. Mehta assured the court. The Bench gave the Centre a last opportunity to submit detailed reports on the cases registered by CBI, ED and other central agencies against MPs and MLAs. These cases range from corruption to money laundering. The court listed the case for arguments on August 25.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hc-nod-must-to-close-cases-against-lawmakers/article35847622.ece
11 August 2021||August 11 2021 00:00 IST,||Nod for Bill on States’ rights to list OBC groups||The Minister said the current Constitution Amendment Bill was historic legislation as 671 castes in the country would benefit from it and restore the States’ rights to make their own list of Other Backward Classes (OBCs) and should be considered as the 105th Constitution Amendment Bill after being renumbered. The Bill seeks to restore the power of State governments to identify OBCs that are socially and educationally backward after a Supreme Court order in May 2021 empowered only the Centre to do so. The amendment was thought necessary because the SC, in its order on Maratha reservations, upheld the 102nd Constitutional Amendment Act that inserted Articles 338B and 342 A (with two clauses) after Article 342, which said the President of India, in consultation with the Governors, would specify socially and educationally backward classes, taking away the powers of State governments to do so.  Lead speaker for the Opposition, Congress leader Adhir Ranjan Chowdhary accused the government of turning a deaf ear to suggestions of the Opposition during the debate on the 102nd Constitutional Amendment in 2018. Supporting the Bill, Mr. Chowdhary said, “You (BJP) tweaked the Constitution by bringing the 102nd Constitutional Amendment Bill, 2018, which gave people the opportunity to go the courts and finally the Supreme Court removed the States’ power.” “We support the Bill but our demand is to remove 50% ceiling in reservation. You should listen to the States, make it legal for States to cross the 50% ceiling,” he said. He received support on this from DMK’s T.R. Baalu and Samajwadi Party leader Akhilesh Yadav who also demanded the lifting of a 50% ceiling. Intervening in the debate, Minister for Labour Bhupendra Yadav said the Congress had buried old reports including the Kaka Kallelkar and Mandal Commission report on backward classes. He responded to Mr. Chowdhary’s charge of the government having created the need for this bill through its own actions. “When the 102nd Amendment was brought in 2018, the government’s intent was that both at the Central and the State level, OBC lists will be maintained. The same arguments were made in the Supreme Court, and its judgement on taking the States’ power away was not by consensus,” he said. He quoted the observations of two of the judges to bolster his argument. “It is our job to develop the legislative process,” Mr Yadav said, and asserted the Centre’s commitment to social justice. Maratha quota Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Supriya Sule, whose party, a constituent of the Maha Vikas Aghadi government in Maharashtra is pushing for Maratha reservation in connection with which the Supreme Court delivered its verdict on the Centre being the only enumerator of OBCs, necessitating this Bill, said the credit should be given to the Maharashtra government which requested the Centre to move the Bill to address the issue. She too put her heft behind the removal of the 50% cap on reservations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nod-for-bill-on-states-rights-to-list-obc-groups/article35847623.ece
11 August 2021||New Delhi,||Twitter has ‘prima facie’ followed rules, says Centre||The Central government on Tuesday informed the Delhi High Court that Twitter had “prima facie” complied with the new Information Technology Rules, 2021, by appointing permanently a Chief Compliance Officer (COO), a Resident Grievance Officer (RGO) and a Nodal Contact Person (NCP). Following this, the court directed the Centre to submit an affidavit highlighting the new development within two weeks. It posted the case for October 5. During the brief hearing, senior advocate Sajan Poovayya, representing Twitter, submitted that the microblogging site had made the appointments in compliance with the new IT Rules. Twitter had come under fire from the court for delaying the appointment of officials in India on a permanent basis. The court had also expressed reservations over Twitter changing the status of the appointment of CCO from “interim” to “contingent” in its affidavit. It had remarked that the rules mandated the appointment of a senior employee as CCO, but Twitter, according to its affidavit, had appointed a ‘contingent worker’ through a third party contractor. The court’s remarks came while hearing a plea by advocate Amit Acharya seeking a direction to Twitter to appoint a permanent official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/twitter-has-prima-facie-complied-with-rules-govt/article35847784.ece
11 August 2021||Srinagar,||Restore full statehood to J&K: Rahul||Senior Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday demanded restoration of full statehood to Jammu and Kashmir and a free and fair electoral process. He said he could “relate with the pain suffered by its people”. Mr. Gandhi was speaking at the party’s newly constructed headquarters in Srinagar during a two-day visit to Kashmir. “When our government was in place, we managed to hold panchayat elections, introduce schemes like Udhaan for youth, invited industrialists here and took many youth outside J&K to integrate them. The same process of integration is under attack now. J&K is no more a State now. I know your pain and I am with you,” he said. “What can be achieved by showing love, dignity and compassion in J&K cannot be achieved by hatred, violence and division.” The strength of the Kashmir people was brotherhood and respect towards each other. “In fact, Kashmiriyat has contributed while laying the foundation for India. I advocate a relationship of dignity and love with the people of J&K,” he observed. There was an onslaught on democratic institutions of India, including the judiciary, Parliament and the press. The concept of India, the democratic structure and the Constitution were under attack. “I am not allowed to speak in Parliament on the issues of Pegasus, Rafale, J&K and corruption. There is a direct onslaught in Kashmir and indirect in the rest of the country,” he alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/restore-full-statehood-to-jk-rahul/article35847630.ece
11 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||Punjab CM meets Sonia in Delhi||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh met Congress president Sonia Gandhi here on Tuesday, amid talk of a possible Cabinet reshuffle in the State. This is Mr. Singh’s first meeting with Ms. Gandhi after the appointment of Navjot Singh Sidhu as the Punjab Congress president, which the Chief Minister had initially opposed. Cabinet reshuffle Sources said Mr. Singh was likely to discuss the names of potential candidates for the Cabinet reshuffle, and the political situation in Punjab, which goes to the polls early next year. They said Mr. Singh was likely to take up Mr. Sidhu’s continuous attacks on the Punjab government with Ms. Gandhi. The Chief Minister was also expected to discuss the progress made on 18 issues raised by an AICC panel headed by senior Congress leader Mallikarjun Kharge and present the action-taken report. The 18 issues include taking action against the drug mafia and transport mafia and those involved in the desecration of the Guru Granth Sahib.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/punjab-cm-meets-sonia-in-delhi/article35847634.ece
11 August 2021||New Delhi,||‘RSS a staunch supporter of reservation’||Asserting that the RSS is a “staunch supporter” of reservation, the organisation’s general secretary Dattatreya Hosabale on Tuesday said it is a tool for affirmative action and should continue as long as a particular section of society experiences “inequality”. Underlining that the history of India would be “incomplete and untrue” without the history of Dalits, Mr. Hosabale said they have been at the forefront of social change. He was speaking at an event organised by the India Foundation for the launch of the book Makers Of Modern Dalit History . On reservation, the RSS chief categorically said he and his organisation “are staunch supporters of reservation”. “Social harmony and social justice are not political strategies for us. Both of these are articles of faith,” the RSS leader said as the BJP gears up for Assembly polls in U.P.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rss-a-staunch-supporter-of-reservation/article35847820.ece
11 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||Lok Sabha sees query on J&K real estate||Only two persons from outside Jammu and Kashmir have bought two properties in the Union Territory after the dilution of Article 370 in August 2019. Minister of State for Home Affairs Nityanand Rai, in a written reply, said, “As per the information provided by the government of Jammu and Kashmir, two persons from outside J&K have purchased two properties in the Union Territory since August 2019.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/lok-sabha-sees-query-on-jk-real-estate/article35847778.ece
11 August 2021||Srinagar,||Three civilians injured in Srinagar||At least three civilians were injured in a grenade attack by militants in Srinagar on Tuesday afternoon. Officials said a grenade was thrown at the security forces in the busy Hari Singh High Street, which was bustling with shoppers. Earlier in the day, one CRPF jawan was injured in a militant attack in south Kashmir’s Shopian. An official said militants fired upon a CRPF patrol at Kral Check area of Zainapora hamlet in the morning. Constable Ajay Kumar of 178 Battalion, was injured.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/three-civilians-injured-in-srinagar/article35847617.ece
11 August 2021||Ghaziabad,||Priest attacked in Ghaziabad’s Dasna Devi temple||An assailant attacked a priest sleeping on the premises of the Dasna Devi temple in Ghaziabad, Uttar Pradesh, early on Tuesday, the police said. Swami Nareshanand, the victim was admitted to a private hospital, where doctors described his condition to be stable. He is said to be a disciple of Swami Yati Narsinghanand Saraswati, the controversial chief priest of the temple who has been making provocative statements against Muslims and Hindu women. The temple spokesperson claimed that the real target of the assailant was the chief priest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/priest-attacked-in-ghaziabads-dasna-devi-temple/article35847772.ece
11 August 2021||Bhubaneswar,||22 districts in Odisha record deficit rainfall||Odisha has received insufficient monsoon rainfall, affecting the kharif crop season. The State recorded an average rainfall of 488.6 mm, which is 29% less than the normal rainfall received between June 1 and August 10. Odisha’s average rainfall during this time is estimated at 668.1 mm. A State or a region is declared to have received deficit rainfall when the deficiency stands at 19% or above. Going by the criteria, 22 of 30 districts in Odisha have fallen in the category. None of the districts has received surplus rainfall this year. The worst affected districts are Jajpur and Bhadrak, both of which received less than half the normal rainfall expected during the season.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/22-districts-in-odisha-record-deficit-rainfall/article35847773.ece
11 August 2021||New Delhi,||Experts for extending midday meal scheme up to Class XII||Extending the midday meal scheme up to Class XII, starting an urban employment guarantee scheme and coming up with a public distribution system (PDS) not exclusively linked to Aadhaar were among the suggestions given by experts at a meeting to discuss the Right to Food, organised by the National Human Rights Commission on Tuesday. The meeting, which was organised to discuss the status of various policies to ensure Right to Food and nutrition, was chaired by NHRC member Rajiv Jain, said a statement issued by the commission.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/experts-for-extending-midday-meal-scheme-up-to-class-xii/article35847777.ece
11 August 2021||Srinagar,||57 J&K youth joined militancy in PoK after travelling on valid passports: DGP Singh||The J&K police on Tuesday hinted at tougher scrutiny for those who intend to study in Pakistan-occupied Kashmir (PoK), as Director General of Police (DGP) Dilbagh Singh claimed 57 youth had joined militancy after travelling on valid visa documents. He said the visa procedure and security clearance would be made stricter in the wake of youth travelling on the pretext of studies and ending up as militants.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/57-jk-youth-joined-militancy-in-pok-after-travelling-on-valid-passports-dgp-singh/article35847782.ece
11 August 2021||JAMMU,||Copter crash into Jammu dam: ‘search for 2 pilots in final phase’||A special team of the Navy, equipped with high-end gadgets, is in the final phase of a search to locate the pilot and co-pilot of an helicopter that crashed into the Ranjit Sagar Dam in Jammu on August 3, the Army said on Tuesday. “The Army is coordinating the efforts of the Indian Navy deep divers team consisting of two Officers, four JCOs and 24 other ranks,” a spokesman stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/copter-crash-into-jammu-dam-search-for-2-pilots-in-final-phase/article35847833.ece
11 August 2021||Aruppukottai,TAMIL NADU||Protest against renaming Khel Ratna award||Members of Youth Congress unit of Virudhunagar district staged a demonstration here on Tuesday condemning the Union Government for changing the name of Rajiv Gandhi Khel Ratna award. Virudhunagar East district youth Congress president, M.K.M. Meenakshi Sundaram, who led the protest, said that the highest sports award of the country has been given in the memory of the former Prime Minister, Rajiv Gandhi since 1992. The award carried a prize money of Rs. 25 lakh. However, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, has changed the name to Major Dhyan Chand Khel Ratna Award. The protesters raised slogans against the Centre and condemned it for attempting to do politics with the sports award due to political jealousy. Tamil Nadu Congress committee member, Selvam, party Aruppukottai Town president, Lakshmanan, district SC wing president, Jothimani, were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/protest-against-renaming-khel-ratna-award/article35848069.ece
11 August 2021||Aruppukottai,TAMIL NADU||Dog goes on biting-spree||At least 25 persons were injured when a stray dog went on biting spree in the town on Tuesday. Children, men and women suffered bleeding injuries. As people started to chase it, it escaped from one street to another and kept biting all those who came on its way. Among them was a private doctor. All the injured got anti-rabies injection at the Aruppukottai Government Hospital. Police said the dog was beaten to death by a group of people near Old Bus stand.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dog-goes-on-biting-spree/article35848270.ece
11 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||As Metro phase II starts rolling, safety measures take priority||After years of planning and chalking out detailed designs, the Metro’s phase II project is now gaining ground as construction on the elevated stretch between Poonamallee and Porur has begun with piling work under way. As the huge project begins, safety assumes maximum importance since a majority of the work is done by the collective efforts of hundreds of workers, who have come from across the country, in heavy traffic in many congested areas. A few weeks ago, a pile rig fell and damaged a few barricades in one of the sites but no one was injured. According to officials of Chennai Metro Rail Limited (CMRL), they immediately pulled up the contractor and asked to temporarily stop work till the issue was resolved and adequate manpower was available. Officials said they would ensure no accidents occur this time. “This time we do not want a single worker or commuter injured nor do we want any accidents. We are carefully monitoring the work done by the contractor and are reviewing it constantly. There will be no compromise on safety anywhere in the phase II project,” an official said. The quality of pile work done between Poonamallee and Porur is being checked constantly. “In one of the places, we were not happy with it and asked them to redo it immediately,” he added. Experts from IIT-Madras say if regular safety checks and elaborate safety inspections to meticulous designs are carried out carefully, it can be ensured that there are no accidents in such massive projects. “Half the job is done if the designs are accurate. Then, there should be sufficient manpower at each site with a safety officer present round the clock; besides this, there should also be elaborate safety inspections periodically. Every issue should be flagged and addressed immediately. In the elevated stretch, some of the problems that could occur, like crashing of a crane and falling of a scaffolding or girder, can be certainly avoided if the key personnel on the site check how the load is carried and how the connections are done during the process. It should be overseen carefully,” a professor from the institute said. Every job with regard to building quality structures which last for decades needs a minimum amount of time and hence, unattainable targets should not be given, another professor pointed out. “If there is a delay, it should be resolved immediately instead of pressuring the contractor to finish at the last minute, which will lead to a half-baked construction,” he added. And most importantly, all workers on site should be given good facilities to stay, given adequate rest and be provided with toilet facilities on site, instead of making them walk long distances, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/as-metro-phase-ii-starts-rolling-safety-measures-take-priority/article35847940.ece
11 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Chennai-Bengaluru expressway: public hearing held in Vellore||The public hearing for owners of lands being acquired for the proposed Chennai-Bengaluru expressway passing through the villages of Mahimandalam, Melpadi and Veppalai was held in Vellore on Tuesday. The public hearing was conducted in the presence of District Collector C. Kumaravel Pandian, Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board District Environmental Engineer (Vellore) G.Ravichandran, District Revenue Officer Ramamoorthy, and C. Ajay Srinivasan, SDRO, LA- NH, Vellore. The 11.67-km stretch running through the district would have one interchange, three major bridges and two vehicular underpasses. Around 5.42 hectares of the Mahimandalam is being taken for the four-lane-wide project, explained sources in the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI). The State government gave concurrence in 2010 for the project that runs for a distance of 92 km in Tamil Nadu. It runs some 10 km away from major towns and will pass via Vallimalai near Vellore, Banavaram near Ranipet and Govindavadi near Kancheepuram. Of the Rs. 5,964-crore project cost in Tamil Nadu, Rs. 2,301 crore would go towards land acquisition costs. Those at the public hearing urged the NHAI to provide higher compensation for their lands. Around 80% of lands required for the greenfield project have been taken possession of. The public hearing for the 42-km stretch running via 28 villages in Ranipet district has been slated for Wednesday. "So far there has been no objections for the project from land owners," sources.said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/chennai-bengaluru-expressway-public-hearing-held-in-vellore/article35848489.ece
11 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Interim relief for actor Mammooty, family in 40-acre land row||The Madras High Court has restrained the Commissioner of Land Administration (CLA) from taking coercive action against actors P.I. Mohammed Kutty alias Mammooty, his son Dulquer Salmaan Mohammed Kutty and their other family members with respect to 40 acres of land owned by them at Karuguzhipallam village in Chengalpattu district near here. Justice C.V. Karthikeyan granted the interim protection after the family filed a joint writ petition challenging an order passed by the CLA on March 16 this year instructing Chengalpattu District Revenue Officer (DRO) to treat the entire piece of land as Kazhuveli Poromboke (wetland) and declare it as a reserve forest under Section 26 of the Tamil Nadu Forest Act of 1882. The judge, however, made it clear that it would be open to the CLA to proceed with initiation of criminal or departmental proceedings against the government officials who were reportedly involved in certain irregularities in the matter. He directed government counsel Yogesh Kannadasan to ensure that a counter affidavit to the writ petition was filed by August 26.  “Let the facts come out during the said proceedings. However, let no coercive action be initiated against the petitioners till further orders are passed by this court,” the judge ordered. In his affidavit, Mr. Mammootty, 67, told the court that the title of the land owned by his family could be traced to an assignment of mortgage deed dated June 14, 1927. It was part of a much larger tract of 247 acres of agricultural land that had been mortgaged. It had been subjected to several transactions including sale by an official assignee of the High Court to G. Sirur in 1929. When Sirur failed to pay the revenue department its dues, the property was auctioned on June 1, 1933 after due publication in Madras Chengalpattu district gazette. C. Kunnappa Naicker purchased the property in the auction. After obtaining patta, he had sold 121 acres to Muthukrishna Naidu in 1936 and the latter, in turn, sold 40 acres to one Kapali Pillai. After the death of Pillai in 1941, his legal heirs had sold the property by way of 13 different sale deeds to the petitioner’s family members in 1997, Mr. Mammooty said. After the sale, the legal heirs had cancelled the sale deeds unilaterally and a civil dispute with regard to it was still pending before the Principal Sub-Court in Chengalpattu since 2007. In the meantime, on September 26, 1997, the then CLA cancelled the patta granted by the Assistant Settlement Officer, Tiruvannamalai, on May 13, 1996 to the legal heirs of Pillai. Since the cancellation was done without notice to the petitioner and his family, he filed a writ petition in 1997 and the High Court remanded the matter to the CLA on November 17, 1997. After a detailed inquiry, during which the petitioner claimed that the property had been wrongly classified as Kazhuveli Poromboke, the CLA on March 21, 2007 classified the property as private land. However, suddenly in March this year, there was a suo motu revision of the 2007 order and the land was ordered to be re-classified as Kazhuveli Poromboke forcing the two actors and their family members to move the High Court once again.  Let the facts come out during the said proceedings. However, let no coercive action be initiated against the petitioners till further orders are passed by this court||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/interim-relief-for-actor-mammooty-family-in-land-row/article35847951.ece
11 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Expand food basket under PDS: Sowmya Swaminathan||To ensure that sufficient nutrition is available to people in lower socio-economic groups it is necessary to expand the food basket under the public distribution system, Chief Scientist of World Health Organisation Sowmya Swaminathan said on Tuesday. “The current basket is taking care of food insecurity by providing only cereals. Nutritional security has a big gap in the current system. We need to fill it with millets, pulses, fruits, vegetables and animal proteins. We have to think about policy intervention, which can make these food baskets affordable to people. They can access which is currently sub-optimal.” At a session on Tuesday on “Needed: Policy Change for India and South Asia to Improve Nutritional Status of Children and Women” chaired by her, participants from India and Bangladesh, and officials from Food and Agriculture Organisation, shared their experiences. The seminar was held on the final day of the three-day international consultation titled, “Ensuring Food and Nutrition Security in the Context of Climate Change and the COVID-19 Pandemic” organised by M.S. Swaminathan Research Foundation. The participants included Gagandeep Kang, microbiology professor of Christian Medical College, Vellore; Renu Swarup, secretary, Biotechnology department; Vinod Paul, member of Niti Aayog; Kaosar Afsana, professor, BRAC University Bangladesh, Zitouni Ould-Dada, deputy director, Food and Agriculture Organisation, and Arjan De Wagt, chief of nutrition, UNICEF. Dr. Swarup explained the work done by the DBT and gave a comprehensive overview of the Poshan Abhiyan. Science-driven approach was important to improve maternal health to prevent low weight births, she said, emphasising on maternal education related to child health and new approaches to feeding. Dr. Kang recalled her research work from the 1960s and later in the early 21st Century with children to urge a scientific approach to feeding. Dr. Paul, a paediatrician by training, called for intensive breastfeeding, kangaroo mother care and guidance to change behaviours of families towards providing optimum nutrition to children. “We are still behind in providing diverse nutritious complementary food to babies. We need to improve quantity and quality of food to babies and the timing of providing these foods through behavioural change campaign,” Dr. Paul said The experts emphasised the need for communication tools to bring behavioural change among families and individuals and communities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/expand-food-basket-under-pds-sowmya-swaminathan/article35848091.ece
11 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Airport security stepped up ahead of I-Day||Security has been enhanced in the domestic and international terminals at the airport in Meenambakkam to prevent the occurrence of any untoward incident during the Independence Day celebrations. Enhanced random checks, including with canine squads, are being conducted at entry points. Sources said these arrangements had been put in place following the instruction of Central agencies. As per standard operating procedures, all agencies concerned have put personnel on high alert. Access control, vehicle checking at entry points and patrolling of the Air Operations Routine Order have also been intensified. Entry of visitors has been banned with effect from August 1. Passengers have been barred from carrying pickles, jam and halwa, in addition to other banned items. The Bureau of Civil Aviation Security has prescribed measures which need to be followed by all stakeholders, including servicing CCTV cameras at all airports and strict monitoring through other modes. There will be enhanced screening of passengers, including 100% pat-down searches, at pre-embarkation security check points, police sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/airport-security-stepped-up-ahead-of-i-day/article35847931.ece
11 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Stick to deadlines, finish phase II project soon, say commuters||While commuters are looking forward to travelling from the northern edge of the city to the south on the Metro in the near future, they want the project to be completed on time. It took nearly nine years to finish the 45 km phase I project. Murthy Nandakumar, a software professional who resides in Avadi, said in phase I, it took him 3-4 hours to travel to his workplace in Old Mahabalipuram Road (OMR) and return because of the traffic congestion. “This was particularly bad in the Vadapalani stretch. But after the construction ended, I have been travelling regularly and it is convenient. They should be transparent about deadlines in the new project and keep the public updated about its status, either through social media or the website. After all, we, the commuters, only suffer,” he said. Commuters also want Chennai Metro Rail Limited (CMRL) to put in place last-mile connectivity options immediately after train services start, unlike in the case of the existing lines. Good footpaths leading to stations, connectivity to all other public transport systems and a single common smartcard that could be used everywhere are some of the other facilities the commuters are expecting. A majority also want CMRL to focus on the OMR line that connects Madhavaram to Shollinganallur and SIPCOT through two different routes. K. Karthik, a professional residing in Shollinganallur said when they start work along OMR, traffic diversions should be planned in such a way that there is minimum difficulty to motorists. Arun Nair, another resident, said CMRL should also quickly finish the construction of the Airport to Kilambakkam line so that people living in and around Tambaram benefit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stick-to-deadlines-finish-phase-ii-project-soon-say-commuters/article35847937.ece
11 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Expand food basket under PDS, says expert||To ensure that sufficient nutrition is available to people in lower socio-economic groups, it is necessary to expand the food basket under public distribution system, said Sowmya Swaminathan, chief scientist of the World Health Organisation. At a session on Tuesday on ‘Needed policy change for India and South Asia to improve nutritional status of children and women’ chaired by her, participants from India and Bangladesh, besides officials from the Food and Agriculture Organisation, shared their experiences. The seminar was held on the final day of the three-day international consultation titled, “Ensuring food and nutrition security in the context of climate change and the COVID-19 pandemic,” organised by M.S.Swaminathan Research Foundation. The participants included Gagandeep Kang, microbiology professor of Christian Medical College, Vellore; Renu Swarup, Secretary, Biotechnology Department; Vinod Paul, member of NITI Aayog; Kaosar Afsana, professor, BRAC University, Bangladesh; Zitouni Ould-Dada, deputy director, Food and Agriculture Organization, and Arjan De Wagt, chief of nutrition, Unicef. Dr. Swarup explained the work done by the DBT and gave a comprehensive overview of the Poshan Abhiyan. Science-driven approach is important to improve maternal health to prevent low weight births, she said, emphasising the maternal education related to child health and new approaches to feeding. Dr. Kang recalled her research work to urge scientific approach to feeding. Optimum nutrition Dr. Paul, a paediatrician by training, called for intensive breastfeeding, kangaroo mother care and guidance to change behaviours of families towards providing optimum nutrition to children. “We are still behind in providing diverse nutritious complementary food to babies. We need to improve quantity and quality of food to babies and the timing of providing these foods through a behavioural change campaign,” he also said. The experts emphasised the need for communication tools to bring behavioural change among families and individuals and communities. Dr. Sowmya proposed an expansion of the food basket of the public distribution system for those belonging to socio-economically weaker sections. “The current basket is taking care of food insecurity by providing only cereals. Nutritional security has a big gap in the current system. We need to fill it with millets, pulses, fruits, vegetables and animal proteins. We have to think about policy intervention, which can make these food baskets affordable to people. They can access which is currently sub-optimal,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/expand-food-basket-under-pds-says-who-scientist/article35847949.ece
11 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CBI arrests nine suspects in fixed deposit scam||The Central Bureau of Investigation has arrested nine suspects in a fixed deposit scam in which funds to the tune of Rs. 45.4 crore, which were invested in a nationalised bank, were withdrawn fraudulently. The agency had registered the bank fraud case in July 2020 on the basis of a complaint lodged by Indian Bank against its Koyambedu branch manager, a private person and unknown others accusing them of committing a fraud, forgery, and impersonation with the intention of cheating the bank to the tune of Rs. 100 crore. Duplicate receipts Investigation revealed that the bank suffered a loss of Rs. 45.4 crore by way of premature closure of the fixed deposits by the suspects who produced original receipts while issuing duplicate ones to the Chennai Port Trust authorities. The money was transferred to 28 different accounts and later withdrawn by the respective account holders and handed over to the suspects. Fake account The CBI said that as part of the criminal conspiracy, the accused persons canvassed Indian Bank and Chennai Port Trust for opening of term deposits in the Koyambedu branch. Between March and May 2020, 45 term deposits were opened. One of the suspects impersonated himself as Deputy Director (finance) of Chennai Port Trust and opened a fake current account in the name of CPT in the bank. Instead of delivering the original fixed deposit receipt to Chennai Port Trust, he submitted duplicate/forged bonds to the organisation. Premature closure Since the original receipts were in his possession, the suspect presented the same before the bank authorities and requested premature closure of the deposits within a few days of investment. After crediting the money into the fake current account, he subsequently transferred the funds to 28 different accounts. While Chennai Port Trust was continuously investing in term deposits, the accused were going in for premature closure. Soon after detecting the fraud, the port authorities alerted the bank to freeze the term deposits to the tune of Rs. 100 crore. However, the suspects had by then swindled Rs. 45.4 crore. The CBI had earlier conducted searches on the premises of the suspects at 22 locations, including in Chennai, Tirunelveli, Thoothukudi and Nagercoil, which led to the recovery of several incriminating documents and material evidence. Of the nine arrested, eight were produced before the Special Judge for CBI cases, Chennai, and remanded in judicial custody. One accused person was taken to Tirunelveli for remand there. CBI sources said the suspects invested the money in buying properties and also indulged in money lending. The branch manager of the bank has not been arrested so far.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cbi-arrests-nine-suspects-in-fixed-deposit-scam/article35847950.ece
11 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Arappor Iyakkam calls for deeper probe into charges||Arappor Iyakkam, a Chennai-based organisation, has called for a deeper probe into the alleged corruption charges against former Minister S.P. Velumani and his associates. This follows the Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption launching searches at the former AIADMK Minister’s premises in various places on Tuesday. The organisation had filed a public interest litigation petition at the Madras High Court, seeking the registration of an FIR against the Minister, senior officials of the Chennai and Coimbatore corporations and contractors for corruption in various contracts between 2014 and 2017. The organisation had flagged many such issues during the past regime. ‘Misuse of power’ The organisation’s convener, Jayaram Venkatesan, said, “We had highlighted irregularities and misuse of power in the tender process and awarding of contracts to the Chennai and Coimbatore corporations to the tune of Rs. 500 crore.” The organisation also filed an additional affidavit of the Comptroller and Auditor General of India (CAG) report, which was tabled in the Assembly in June. It had concurred with the findings of the organisation in different tenders of the Chennai Corporation. Arappor Iyakkam had earlier lodged a complaint with the DVAC in 2018 about the awarding of tenders to relatives of close aides of the former Minister, in violation of the Tender Transparency Act. Mr. Venkatesan said the organisation had submitted evidence related to a sample of nearly 47 tenders that were awarded to the former Minister’s brother S.P. Anbarasan’s Senthil and Co. and R. Rajan in the Coimbatore Corporation. They uploaded bids from the same IP address within a gap of 20 minutes to one hour in most tenders. Moreover, it was found that Senthil and Co. and R. Rajan were registered with the same mobile number in the contractors’ list 2017, which was released by the Coimbatore Corporation. Other tenders Similarly, KCP Engineers and Vardhan Infrastructure were awarded tenders related to various road and stormwater drain works, violating tender rules in both Chennai and Coimbatore corporations. Some close aides of the former AIADMK Minister are directors and shareholders in these companies, Mr. Venkatesan said. Arappor Iyakkam now wants the investigation to be expanded to more tenders that they did not have access to. The organisation also wants the government to conduct field and quality checks of the works that were carried out.  Arappor Iyakkam had earlier lodged a complaint with the DVAC in 2018 about the awarding of tenders to relatives of close aides of the former Minister, in violation of the Tender Transparency Act||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/arappor-iyakkam-calls-for-deeper-probe-into-charges/article35847917.ece
11 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||New V-C for Anna varsity||R. Velraj, who has served as Director of the Institute for Energy Studies and Director of the Anna University-FRG Institute for CAD/CAM and is currently a professor at the Institute for Energy Studies, has been appointed the Vice-Chancellor of Anna University. According to a release from Raj Bhavan, Prof. Velraj will serve for three years from the time he assumes office. The Governor-Chancellor handed over the appointment order to Prof. Velraj on Wednesday. Prof. Velraj has a teaching experience of 33 years, and has published 193 research papers in indexed journals with H-Index 52 and over 10,000 citations. He has also presented 29 papers at international academic/research events, and organised four international academic/research events, the release added. An author of three books, he has presented 31 research papers at national conferences. He has executed 15 research projects worth Rs. 17.85 crore. He has guided 33 Ph.D. scholars and two M.S. students. He has two patents and six MoU to his credit. He is familiar with the university administration, having 14 years of administrative experience as Director, Deputy Director and head of the division. His appointment has been received well by his colleagues. They expect research to receive a fillip. As he is from the university system, the faculty believe he will have a good understanding of it. “There is no whiff of corruption against him,” said a colleague. It may be remembered that political parties had opposed the appointment of the former Vice-Chancellor, M.K. Surappa.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/new-v-c-for-anna-varsity/article35847922.ece
11 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Fresh cases drop to 1,893||After 11 days, fresh cases of COVID-19 dropped below 1,900 in Tamil Nadu, as 1,893 people tested positive for the infection on Tuesday. While cases continued to fluctuate in a number of districts, Chennai’s daily tally increased to 209 from 182 on the previous day. Cases began fluctuating from the last week of July. During the last two weeks, the highest daily tally was recorded on August 5 (1,997). Fresh cases dropped to 1,893 on Tuesday, compared to 1,929 on Monday. In Coimbatore, cases fell marginally from 235 to 224, while Erode registered a small dip from 178 to 169. Chengalpattu recorded 105 cases. There were 97 cases in Thanjavur, 92 in Salem, 79 in Tiruvallur and 71 in Tiruppur. With this, the State’s case tally rose to 25,79,130. Active cases stood at 20,363, with Chennai’s active caseload crossing 2,000. Another 1,930 people were discharged after treatment, taking the total recoveries so far to 25,24,400. The State recorded 27 deaths, taking the toll to 34,367. There were no deaths in 24 districts. While Coimbatore and Tiruppur recorded five deaths each, there were three deaths in Salem. Chennai recorded two fatalities. In 24 hours, 1,50,868 samples were tested in the State. Thus far, 3,90,02,757 samples have been tested. SBC Scans, Dindigul, a private laboratory, was approved for COVID-19 testing. With this, there are 215 private testing facilities in the State. A total of 1,53,334 people, including 94,407 aged 18 to 44 and 44,198 aged 45 to 60, were inoculated on Tuesday. This took the coverage in government vaccination centres to 2,35,98,456.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fresh-cases-drop-to-1893/article35847929.ece
11 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Child with COVID-19, Guillain-Barre Syndrome treated||Doctors of the Institute of Child Health (ICH) and Hospital for Children treated a two-and-a-half-year old child, who was wheeled in with paralysis of lower limbs after testing positive for COVID-19. The girl was diagnosed with Guillain-Barre Syndrome (GBS), which is not commonly seen during early COVID-19 in children. The child, a resident of Namakkal, had fever for a day followed by inability to use both lower limbs the next day. Her parents took her to a private hospital in Coimbatore, where both the mother and child tested positive for COVID-19, according to S. Srinivasan, State nodal officer, Neonatal Intensive Care Unit and Paediatric Intensive Care Unit. The parents returned to Namakkal, from where a doctor referred the child to the ICH. “The child came to ICH on the third day of fever with paralysis of both lower limbs. She was admitted in the COVID-19 ward,” he said. A team of doctors led by Luke Ravi and Dr. Srinivasan diagnosed the child with GBS, an immune-mediated disorder, which could be treated with immunoglobulin or through plasmapheresis, he said. “We took up the case with ICH Director Ezhilarasi and decided to give three doses of immunoglobulin to the child. After therapy, movement of the legs improved. The child started to walk with support by the fourth day after injection,” he said. Dr. Srinivasan said COVID-19 in children presenting as GBS was not a common phenomenon, and that too, in the first week of the illness. “We know that GBS is triggered by acute viral infection. Now, we have seen a child affected early in COVID-19. We have seen cases of multi-system inflammatory syndrome in the second or third week of COVID-19 in children,” he said. He added that early treatment helped in her recovery. Any delay could have led to disease progression. The girl was discharged after 10 days on Tuesday, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/child-with-covid-19-guillain-barre-syndrome-treated/article35847942.ece
11 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘DMK’s claim on OBC reservation will not benefit T.N. students’||The Centre on Tuesday claimed that increasing the percentage of reservation for Other Backward Classes (OBCs) from 27% to 50% in all India quota medical seats, as being demanded by the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK), would not benefit students from Tamil Nadu in a big way and that a majority of those seats would end up being garnered by OBCs from other States. Appearing before Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice P.D. Audikesavalu, Additional Solicitor General K.M. Nataraj contended that on July 20, 2020, a Bench led by the then Chief Justice A.P. Sahi had only ordered that OBCs would be entitled to reservation in all India quota and the Bench did not rule that the State reservation policy of 50% should be applied while filling such quota. The ASG pointed out that all India quota was basically a creation of the Supreme Court and that it was filled up without any reservation until the Supreme Court in 2006 ordered reservation for the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes. Subsequently, the SC/STs were provided 15% and 7.5% respectively as per the central reservation policy. Pointing out that Tamil Nadu follows the 69% reservation policy of providing 50% to OBCs, 18% to SCs and 1% to STs, Mr. Natraj said the State government never objected to the quantum of reservation when it came to SCs and STs and was now wanting the State specific reservation policy to be followed when it came to implementing reservation for OBCs. “Even assuming their argument is accepted, Tamil Nadu students won’t get those seats. They are arguing to the detriment of their own students and the State as well,” the ASG said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmks-claim-on-obc-reservation-will-not-benefit-tn-students/article35847947.ece
11 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK condemns searches||The AIADMK on Tuesday condemned the searches carried out by the Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption (DVAC) on the premises of former Local Administration Minister S.P. Velumani and his associates in different parts of the State. In a statement, O. Panneerselvam, coordinator, and Edappadi K. Palaniswami, co-coordinator of the party, said the operations had raised suspicions about whether the DMK government, instead of paying full attention to people’s welfare measures, was interested in pursuing “vindictive action” against members of the AIADMK. “The Kazhagam [AIADMK] is always prepared to face complaints, legally and politically, against its former Ministers. But it would not be fair to level corruption charges, without basis, before ascertaining the truth,” the two leaders said, adding that the party would face all the challenges and continue to serve the people of Tamil Nadu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aiadmk-condemns-searches/article35847919.ece
11 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Illegal ivory trade kingpin from Tenkasi held in Kotagiri||A kingpin of illegal ivory trade was arrested at Kothagiri in the Nilgiris in a joint operation by Wildlife Crime Control Bureau (WCCB) and the Forest Department. Based on intelligence gathered by the Bureau’s Southern Region (Chennai and Kochi), its sleuths and Forest Department officials from the Kanniykaumari Forest Division had conducted a series of raids, in which they seized several ivory products and arrested three persons. Fled Tenkasi The house of suspected kingpin in the trade, Nagarajan of Tenkasi, was also raided. But he had fled the place. By tracking his call records, it was learnt that he had fled to the Nilgiris. Shekhar Kumar Niraj, Principal Chief Conservator of Forests and Chief Wildlife Warden, Tamil Nadu, in consultation with Tilotama Varma, Additional Director, WCCB, and Kirubasankar, Regional Deputy Director, Southern Region, immediately formed an investigating team. The team led by Guru Swamy Dabbala, District Forest Officer, the Nilgiris, conducted a nearly five-hour search and arrested arrested Nagarajan at Kotagiri. The team also effected a huge seizure of raw tusks, carved ivory products, bangles, other artefacts, and elephant bones. On intensive interrogation, several facts related to illegal trade of ivory products had come to light, revealing a network of illegal elephant ivory trade across Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Kolkata, Mr. Niraj said. The accused, approximately 70 years old, seemed to have been involved in the illegal trade for several years. A large number of antiques were found at his residence in Kotagiri. The accused stated that he had a passion for elephant ivory and that he felt blessed when he used elephant ivory products, such as bangles and necklaces. On completion of the interrogation and investigation, he would be produced before the First Class Judicial Magistrate under the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972. The WCCB is also working on the links to Kolkata and different parts of India. The Forest Department team in the Nilgiris is investigating a number of documents, including bank transaction papers, digital data, and several files seized from the house of Nagarajan. On instructions from Mr. Niraj, an application has also been moved before the Sessions Court in Kanniyakumari for permission to further interrogate the other offenders who were arrested.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/illegal-ivory-trade-kingpin-arrested-in-kotagiri/article35847963.ece
11 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Three of family held under POCSO Act||The all-women police, Madipakkam, arrested a 62-year-old man, his 42-year-old son and 17-year-old grandson for allegedly raping a seven-year-old girl. The police said the man took the victim, his granddaughter, to his house on August 2, with permission of her mother. When she visited her daughter on Sunday at her father’s house, the girl told her that she had been raped by the three men. The woman took the child to a government hospital and later complained to the police. A case was booked under 376AB (punishment for rape on woman under 12 years of age) of the Indian Penal Code and under the provisions of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act. While two accused were arrested and remanded, the juvenile was sent to a court for further procedure, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-of-family-held-under-pocso-act/article35847932.ece
11 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Sanitary napkin vending machines donated||The Rotary International District 3232 recently handed over 10 sanitary napkins vending machines to Greater Chennai Corporation Commissioner Gagandeep Singh Bedi to enable better access to menstrual health products. The initiative was funded by Rotary Club of Madras Temple City and Shankara Buildpro.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sanitary-napkin-vending-machines-donated/article35847946.ece
11 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Man undergoes third renal transplant||A 41-year-old man, with chronic kidney disease and severe hypertension, recently underwent a renal transplant at the Madras Medical Mission. The man’s body now houses five kidneys, including his own damaged kidneys. Hospital authorities said the transplant was a mammoth task as his body cavity already had four kidneys. The patient approached vascular and transplant surgeon S. Saravanan as his first and second kidney transplant had failed due to uncontrolled hypertension. He was also diagnosed with coronary artery disease for which he underwent a triple bypass surgery three months earlier at the hospital. Dr. Saravanan performed the surgery on July 10. In a transplant, the donor kidney is placed next to the native kidney and the renal artery is attached to the external celiac artery (a branch of the aorta, the biggest artery arising from the heart). The renal vein is attached to the external celiac vein and the ureter to the bladder. The blood vessels are usually present behind the intestine in retroperitoneum. The old kidneys could not be removed as the patient could then profusely bleed and require blood transfusion, leading to production of antibodies that could cause rejection of the new kidney. “There were four challenges in performing the surgery — lack of space for the new kidney in the retroperitoneum; lack of width in the native blood vessels to connect the renal artery and vein; the scarred bladder due to earlier surgeries; and the patient’s tendency to develop a lot of antibodies from the earlier surgeries, for which plasmapheresis (filtering of blood) has to be performed before the new kidney is placed,” Dr. Saravanan explained. The surgeon decided to let go of the branches of the aorta and connected the renal artery at the bifurcation of the aorta and the renal vein to the inferior vena cava (the largest vein going to the heart). Unconventional method Unlike in the conventional approach, the kidney was placed high in the abdominal cavity next to the intestine. “The transperitoneal approach is rarely performed even globally. It is what saved the day for my patient. This is such an uncommon surgery that I am yet to see a paper published in India on this,” the doctor said. The patient has gone through his first set of post-operative check up and is recovering well, a hospital release added.  The transperitoneal approach is rarely performed even globally. This is such an uncommon surgery that I am yet to see a paper published in India on this S. Saravanan Transplant surgeon||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-successfully-undergoes-third-renal-transplant/article35847943.ece
11 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Assembly session till September 21||The Budget session of the Assembly, set to commence on August 13, will go on till September 21. A meeting of the Assembly’s Business Advisory Committee, chaired by Speaker M. Appavu on the campus of Fort St. George on Tuesday, finalised the agenda for the upcoming session. As per the agenda for the session, the State government will present the revised Budget for 2021-22 to the House on August 13. The following day, a budget for the agriculture sector will be presented to the House. After making obituary references and condolence resolutions adopted over the passing of former members and public personalities, the debate on the revised Budget and agriculture Budget will commence in the House on August 16. Replies to the debate will be made on August 19. The debate on the demand for grants for government departments will commence on August 23. Bills expected to be tabled in the House will be taken up for consideration, and are likely to be passed on the last day of the session on September 21.  The State government will present the revised Budget for 2021-22 to the House on August 13||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/assembly-session-till-september-21/article35847923.ece
11 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||BJP to hold yet another yatra in T.N.||The Tamil Nadu BJP unit will undertake yet another yatra in the State for three days next week as it attempts to increase its party base in the State. The party will undertake ‘Makkal Aasi Yatra’ (People’s Support Yatra) in Coimbatore, Namakkal and Udhagamandalam on August 16, 17 and 18. Union Minister of State and former party State president L. Murugan, who spearheaded ‘Vetrivel Yatra’ ahead of the Assembly election, will be undertaking this yatra as well. The aim is to increase its cadre base and supporters, especially in the western districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bjp-to-hold-another-yatra/article35847952.ece
11 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Three women held for theft||The police arrested three women from Kovilpatti, who were allegedly involved in a series of thefts targeting senior citizens on buses, bus stops and crowded places in Thiruvottriyur, Moolakadai and Choolai. Police identified the accused as Shanthi, 35, Chinnathai, 30, and Gowri, 41.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-women-held-for-theft/article35847933.ece
11 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Schools, colleges run by temples will get upgrades’||Minister for Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments P.K. Sekarbabu on Tuesday said the department will take steps to improve facilities in 44 schools and five colleges and one industrial training institute run by various temples in the State. “The Chief Minister is very particular that the facilities be upgraded. These include smart classrooms, labs, playgrounds, libraries, drinking water facilities and toilets,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/schools-colleges-run-by-temples-will-get-upgrades/article35847945.ece
11 August 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||BJP to hold yet another ‘yatra’ in T.N.||The Tamil Nadu BJP will undertake yet another ‘yatra’ in the State for three days next week, as it attempts to increase its party base in the State. The party will undertake the Makkal Aasi Yatra (People's Support Yatra) in Coimbatore, Namakkal and Udhagamandalam on August 16, 17 and 18. Union Minister of State and former State BJP president L. Murugan, who spearheaded the Vetrivel Yatra ahead of the Assembly elections, will be undertaking this yatra as well. With the party making inroads during the Assembly polls with four MLAs elected to the Assembly, it aims to increase its cadre base and supporters, especially in the Western districts. Despite its alliance with the AIADMK in which it is a junior partner, the BJP aims to win at least 150 seats in the next Assembly elections, a target set by its new president of the TN unit, K. Annamalai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bjp-to-hold-yet-another-yatra-in-tn/article35847970.ece
11 August 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||BJP to hold yet another ‘yatra’||The Tamil Nadu BJP will undertake yet another 'yatra' in the State for three days next week, as it attempts to increase its party base in the State. The party will undertake the 'Makkal Aasi Yatra' (People's Support Yatra) in Coimbatore, Namakkal and Udhagamandalam on August 16, 17 and 18. Union Minister of State and former TN BJP president L. Murugan who spearheaded the 'Vetrivel Yatra' ahead of the Assembly elections, will be undertaking this yatra as well. With the party making inroads during the Assembly polls with four MLAs elected to the Assembly, it aims to increase its cadre base and supporters, especially in the Western districts. Despite its alliance with the AIADMK in which it is a junior partner, the BJP aims to win at least 150 seats in the next Assembly elections, a target set by the new president of the TN unit, K. Annamalai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bjp-to-hold-yet-another-yatra/article35848037.ece
11 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||37 cases of mucormycosis treated||Gleneagles Global Health City has treated 37 cases of post-COVID mucormycosis during the second wave of the pandemic. According to a press release, the hospital set up a 27-member multi-disciplinary mucormycosis task force to manage patients from Chennai, other parts of Tamil Nadu and the neighbouring States. Doctors said mucormycosis was also observed in patients from the age of 30 years who were asymptomatic and in home isolation without any co-morbidities. They stressed on the need for awareness among patients on the warning symptoms in the nose, sinuses, eyes and tooth/palate as it would prompt early presentation to specialists, facilitating early diagnosis. Early diagnosis and prompt surgery with medical management were the key factors in the successful management of this life- threatening aggressive disease, the release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/37-cases-of-mucormycosis-treated-in-city-hospital/article35847934.ece
11 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||White Paper more like an insolvency petition: Kamal||Makkal Needhi Maiam founder Kamal Haasan on Tuesday said the White Paper published by the State Finance Minister was more like an insolvency petition. In a social media post, Mr. Haasan lamented how exploitation continued even when the coffers were empty. “This White Paper shows that even when the coffers are empty, the exploitation continues unabated. We can say this is more of an insolvency petition than a White Paper,” he said. Mr. Haasan recently opposed any attempts to set up the Upper House in Tamil Nadu considering the State’s precarious financial situation and asked the government to focus on realising the promises that it had made to the people in the manifesto.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/white-paper-more-like-an-insolvency-petition-kamal/article35847944.ece
11 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Better facilities in schools, colleges run by temples soon||Minister for Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments (HR and CE) P. K. Sekarbabu on Tuesday said the department would take steps to improve facilities in 44 schools, five colleges and one ITI run by various temples in the State. “Chief Minister M.K. Stalin is very particular that the facilities be upgraded on a par with those in other schools. They include smart classrooms, math and science labs, playgrounds, libraries, safe drinking water and toilets,” Mr. Sekarbabu said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/better-facilities-in-schools-colleges-run-by-temples-soon/article35848276.ece
11 August 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Educational institutions run by temples to get better facilities soon||Minister for Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments (HR and CE) P. K. Sekarbabu on Tuesday said that the department will take steps to improve facilities in 44 schools and five colleges and one ITI run by various temples in the State. “Chief Minister M. K. Stalin is very particular that the facilities be upgraded on a par with those in other schools. These include smart classrooms, Math and Science labs, play grounds and equipment, libraries, safe drinking water and toilets,” Mr. Sekarbabu said. “We have drawn up a list of demands of these institutions and would take steps very shortly to upgrade them,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/educational-institutions-run-by-temples-to-get-better-facilities-soon/article35847969.ece
11 August 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||DVAC swoops down on properties of Velumani||As many as 42 properties in Coimbatore district, associated with former Municipal Administration Minister S.P. Velumani, came under the Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption (DVAC)’s scanner on Tuesday as part of the State-wide searches. According to the police, the searches commenced around 7 a.m. Following the news of the raids, hundreds of AIADMK cadre gathered outside the closed gates of Mr. Velumani’s residence in Sugunapuram, Kuniamuthur, and women cadre staged a dharna, raising slogans condemning Chief Minister M.K. Stalin and the DMK government. Associates’ properties Of the 42 properties, 24 are within the limits of the Coimbatore City police, according to sources. These include Mr. Velumani’s Kuniamuthur residence, his brother S.P. Anbarasan’s residence in Kovaipudur, properties associated with accused K. Chandraprakash and R. Chandrasekar, such as premises of KCP Engineers Private Limited in Peelamedu and Meena Estate and Hotel Vaidurya on Geetha Hall Road. Besides, the residence of Jesu Robert Raja, a contractor registered with the Coimbatore Corporation, along with the properties of a few officials were also searched on Tuesday, said sources. In the limits of the Coimbatore district police, DVAC sleuths swooped down on 11 properties in Vadavalli, Thondamuthur, Madukkarai and Anamalai, sources said. These included raids on the residence of Shanmugaraja, a relative of Mr. Velumani, in Madukkarai.  Around 11.30 a.m., an accused, Mr. Chandraprakash, complained of cardiac illness during the raids, following which he was hospitalised at a private hospital on Avinashi Road. He was admitted to the critical care unit, and his condition is stable. Following the arrival of eight AIADMK MLAs and hundreds of party cadre outside Mr. Velumani’s residence in Kuniamuthur to condemn the raids, the Coimbatore City police deployed nearly 650 police personnel in and around the area to prevent untoward incidents. City Police Commissioner Deepak M. Damor, along with two Deputy Commissioners of Police — T. Jayachandran (Law and Order) and E.S. Uma (Crime) — camped outside the residence, along with other police officers, to monitor the situation, police sources said. Around 6 p.m., DVAC sleuths left Mr. Velumani’s residence in Kuniamuthur, after completing the searches, which lasted for over 11 hours.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dvac-swoops-down-on-properties-linked-to-velumani/article35847927.ece
11 August 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Minister promises wider road between Coimbatore and Karur||Following reports of frequent accidents on the Coimbatore-Karur road, the State government has taken up with the Union government to have a wider road connecting Coimbatore and Karur. A greenfield road project between the two districts will be taken up by 2024, said E.V. Velu, Minister for Public Works, Highways, and Minor Ports, here on Tuesday. According to a press release, the Minister held a review meeting here with officials of Highways and Public Works departments from Coimbatore, Tiruppur, Erode, Karur and the Nilgiris districts. He later told presspersons that one of the demands from the public and the elected representatives was the need for a four-land road between Coimbatore and Karur. A demand was placed before the Union government and a greenfield project will be taken up by 2024 through either the National Highways or the National Highways Authority of India. The other demands for this region included a subway at Tiruppur, a rail over bridge for free movement of the train to the Nilgiris, use of modern technology to find a solution to landslides in the Nilgiris, and widening of the ghat roads in Erode district. Since widening of ghat road will require no objection certificate from the Forest Department, discussions will be held with the Forest Minister. Several road over bridge projects across railway lines are pending and it will be taken up with the Union Railways Minister, he said. The Public Works Department is implementing 51 works worth Rs. 362 crore in Coimbatore district, Rs. 496 crore worth 68 projects in Tiruppur district, 45 works worth Rs. 182 crore in Erode district, 20 works for Rs. 504 crore in the Nilgiris district, Rs. 41 crore worth 46 works in Karur district, he said. The Minister urged the officials to ensure quality while taking up construction works. He also asked the officials to identify stretches that have more than five accident-prone areas and take necessary measures to make these stretches safe. The District Revenue Officials were told to expedite land acquisition works to complete infrastructure works quickly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/minister-promises-wider-road-between-coimbatore-and-karur/article35847974.ece
11 August 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Traditional music, dance add fervour to Indigenous People Day celebration||Rythmic beats of parai , thavil , dhalam along with modulating notes of kogal gave a start to the celebration of International Day of Indigenous People on the banks of Pilloor reservoir at Baralikadu near Karamadai on Monday. Residents stepped to the tunes of these traditional musical instruments which are made by themselves from raw materials available in the forest. “It takes three days to make a kogal (an instrument similar to flute). A mouthpiece made of a type of bamboo is the main part of Kogal which alone is sourced from forests in nearby Kerala,” said K. Bharathi from Baralikadu Irula settlement. Mr. Bharathi is one of the youths from the 21 tribal settlements around Pilloor reservoir coming under Karamadai forest range who are constantly trying to improve their skills in using the traditional instrument. “These traditional instruments and dance are part of all our celebrations. They are also essential when someone dies in a settlement. These beats and songs are part of our lives,” said Kadukkan from Thonda settlement. The songs on such occasions tell the tales of their strong bond with nature, the wonders of the forests, their co-existence with wild animals and the fury of rain, etc. “Tribals are regarded as the guardians of forests. At the same time, they are also guardians of their strong tradition and culture. They coexist with everything in the wild. International Day of Indigenous People is a day to acknowledge them, to celebrate their lives and to thank their contributions to conservation”, said Karamadai forest range officer E.N. Manoharan. The eco-tourism centre of the Forest Department at Baralikadu is run with the participation of the tribals from the 21 settlements in the area. Conceived by the then District Forest Officer I. Anwardeen, the eco tourism centre has generated around Rs. 4.25 crore so far. Coracle ride through the reservoir, jungle trail and sumptuous traditional lunch are main attractions at Baralikadu. Of the total revenue generated, 75 % of money has been given back to the tribals as coracle ride charge, lunch and wages to eco watchers. Works such as community development activities are done using the remaining 25 % of the revenue with the approval of the Eco Development Committee. Volunteers from the Nilgiris Adivasi Welfare Association coordinated the celebrations at Baralikadu. Helpline launched As part of celebrating the International Day of Indigenous People, Minister for Adi Dravidar Welfare N. Kayalvizhi Selvaraj launched a helpline, 1800 4251 576, for the welfare of Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe people.  Udhagamandalam Staff Reporter adds;  In Udhagamandalam, the celebration was held at the Semmanarai village near Kotagiri. The village, home to more than 100 members of the Irula and Kurumba adivasi communities in the Nilgiris, performed traditional dances, told stories rooted in their culture and also sang songs in their own traditional language for which no written script exists. Speaking to The Hindu, N. Thirumoorthy, an adivasi activist, working in the region to preserve the language and identity of adivasi tribes in the Nilgiris, said that during the first and second waves of the COVID-19 pandemic, children from the communities were losing out on education and were also being subject to lot of issues at home. “We began the tribal learning and teaching centre, where children from the communities were taught their own history in their unique language,” said Mr. Thirumoorthy. The members of the communities brought their own instruments and played music while children from the communities performed at the village. More than 30 children as well as adults took part in the celebrations. Mr. Thirumoorthy said that community schooling was helping children from vulnerable adivasi communities gain access to education. Odiyen Lakshmanan, who has been working on reviving tribal languages across parts of Tamil Nadu, was a special guest at the event. Mr. Lakshmanan opened a recently built community library at the village as part of the celebrations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/traditional-music-dance-add-fervour-to-indigenous-people-day-celebration/article35847966.ece
11 August 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Five deaths, 224 new cases in Coimbatore||Coimbatore district reported five new COVID-19 deaths and 224 fresh cases on Tuesday, which was slightly lower than the caseload of Monday (235 cases). The new cases took the overall tally to 2,31,633. The five deaths reported by the Health Department took the district’s toll to 2,199. Coimbatore district had 2,234 active cases and reported 217 recoveries on Tuesday. Tiruppur district reported 71 new cases on Tuesday, taking the overall tally to 88,676. The five new deaths reported on Tuesday took the district’s toll to 874. A total of 848 persons were active cases and 79 persons were reported to have recovered from COVID-19 in the district on Tuesday. In the Nilgiris, 49 persons tested positive for COVID-19 on Tuesday. With the latest infections, the total number of confirmed cases in the district stood at 31,005. A total of 501 persons are under treatment. Erode district on Tuesday reported 169 new cases and one death. Salem district reported 92 cases and three deaths, while Namakkal district reported 45 cases and one death.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/five-deaths-224-new-cases-in-coimbatore/article35847981.ece
11 August 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||After five years, RTI activists get answers to queries on contracts||The searches conducted by the Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption on the premises of former Minister S.P. Velumani and his associates have brought into focus the functioning of the Coimbatore Corporation between 2016 and 2021 — a period when there was no elected Council and the Corporation Commissioner was vested with its powers as a special officer. The Corporation stopped posting online the resolutions passed by the Council from July 2017. The resolutions remained under wraps till July 2021. Activists and anti-corruption crusaders filed petitions under the RTI Act and moved the State Information Commission and even the Tamil Nadu Local Bodies Ombudsman. But the orders issued to the Corporation to make the resolutions public did not make a difference, as the civic body kept citing one excuse after another. As RTI petitions kept piling up, the Coimbatore Corporation Contractors' Association moved the court against disclosing the details of the works they had taken up for the Corporation. Citing an interim order, the Corporation officials kept denying information to RTI petitioners, sources said. Only after the change of government in the State and the change of guard in the Corporation did the civic body start uploading the Council’s resolutions online, activist S.P. Thiyagarajan said. The details he obtained a few days ago showed that 12 companies received Rs. 697 crore from the Corporation. Based on the Corporation's replies to his RTI queries, Mr. Thiyagarajan said the civic body paid Rs. 32.71 crore to P. Senthil & Co., Rs. 140.32 crore to KCP Engineers (P) Ltd., Rs. 152.23 crore to Vardhan Infrastructure, Rs. 80 crore to Constronics Infra Ltd., Rs. 64.63 crore to Hosur Builders, Rs. 39.60 crore to S.P. Builders, Rs. 51.75 crore to Madras Infra, Rs. 43.69 crore to Vishnu Infrastructure, Rs. 38.73 crore to contractor J. Robert Raja, Rs. 20.25 crore to R. Rajan, Rs. 32.83 crore to E.K. Infrastructure and Rs. 15 lakh to Harsha Infrastructure (P) Ltd. The payments, totalling Rs. 697 crore, which the Corporation made between 2016 and 2021, showed that many companies linked to the former Minister’s associates bagged a majority of the contracts, he alleged. But these were tenders floated with funds under the Corporation's capital expenditure account. In addition, there were works the Corporation had taken up under the then Jawaharlal Nehru National Urban Mission, the Smart Cities Mission, the water and drainage fund and a few other accounting heads. Put together, the companies executed works worth around Rs. 2,000 crore for the Corporation, he claimed. Sources said it was during this period that the Corporation's finances weakened. From having over Rs. 200 crore in bank deposits, the civic body went bankrupt by the end of 2020. The period also saw the Corporation carry out several development works in wards that came under the Thondamuthur and Coimbatore South Assembly constituencies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/after-five-years-rti-activists-get-answers-to-queries-on-contracts/article35847924.ece
11 August 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore Corpn. to act against rent defaulters||Coimbatore Corporation would soon initiate action against those who had defaulted on rent, said sources. The Corporation was in the process of preparing a list of defaulters, number of shops without occupants, shops that it needed to re-auction and with a few other details. Once the list was ready, the Corporation would start the action, the sources explained. RTI petition The move comes at a time when a Corporation reply to an RTI petition revealed that the rent pending in Central Zone alone was Rs. 23.86 crore. The Corporation had rented out 1,467 shops and of those shopkeepers in 1,198 shops had dues, said the RTI petitioner M. Loganathan. Total dues Shops in the Corporation’s shopping complex on Avinashi Road owed the maximum – Rs. 5.01 crore, followed by shops in the Nanjappa Road Shopping Complex – Rs. 2.16 crore and Flower Market – Rs. 2.15 crore. Considering the fact that the Corporation had more complexes to rent in the Central and West zones, the total dues could cross Rs. 50 crore, Mr. Loganathan said and sought action from the civic body. The sources said the Corporation, to recover the dues, was planning to also cancel the allotment to those with dues and blacklist them from participating from future auction. This action was all the more necessary because the civic body was trying to improve its finances, the sources added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-corpn-to-act-against-rent-defaulters/article35847977.ece
11 August 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||‘Raids will further strengthen AIADMK in Coimbatore district’||Theraids by the Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption(DVAC) will only further strengthen the AIADMK in Coimbatore district, said Pollachi MLA and former Deputy Speaker of Legislative Assembly, Pollachi V. Jayaraman, on Tuesday. He and seven other AIADMK MLAs from the district camped outside the residence of Mr. Velumani in Kuniamuthur here a few hours after the raids commenced. Speaking to mediapersons, Mr. Jayaraman alleged that this was a “politically vindictive act” by the State government to dampen the spirits of the AIADMK cadre ahead of the local body elections. The DMK will suffer further setbacks in the district due to these raids, he claimed. On the White Paper releasedby the State government on the State’s finances on Monday, Mr. Jayaraman claimed that there was “nothing in it” and demanded that the DMK government fulfil all of its poll promises first. Apart from Mr. Jayaraman, AIADMK MLAs P.R.G. Arunkumar (Kavundampalayam), Amman K. Arjunan (Coimbatore North), S. Damodaran (Kinathukadavu), A.K. Selvaraj (Mettupalayam), V.P. Kandasamy (Sulur), T.K. Amulkandasami (Valparai) and K.R. Jayaram (Singanallur) along with former MLAs Ettimadai A. Shanmugam and B. Kasthuri Vasu were present. Meanwhile, the Coimbatore City Police said that the number of police personnel deployed at Kuniamuthur outside Mr. Velumani's residence was increased from 50 to over 200 by Tuesday noon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/raids-will-further-strengthen-aiadmk-in-coimbatore-district/article35847960.ece
11 August 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Pricol first quarter revenue up||Pricol Limited reported Rs. 292.75 crore revenue from operations for the first quarter of 2021-2022, as against Rs. 103.97 crore in the first quarter of last financial year. A press release from the company said the total income for April - June 2021 stood at Rs. 306.52 crore compared to Rs. 117.36 crore for the corresponding period last year. The Profit after Tax for quarter one of 2021-2022 was Rs. 2.41 crore. According to Vikram Mohan, Managing Director of Pricol, it is challenging times in the automotive industry because of the lockdowns due to the pandemic compounded by acute shortage of electronic components globally. This is taking its toll on the company’s performance. However, with prudent cost control and continual new business wins, Pricol is confident of delivering above market growth rates and maintaining the bottom lines in spite of the challenges. “We remain bullish about the mid to long term prospects for our company due to the new business wins especially in the Electric Vehicle (EV) area and growth in market share of the company,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pricol-first-quarter-revenue-up/article35847973.ece
11 August 2021||CUDDALORE,TAMIL NADU||Cuddalore logs one death, 73 new cases||Cuddalore district reported one more COVID-19 death and 73 new cases on Tuesday, taking the district’s tally to 61,144. A 55-year-old woman died of the disease, taking the toll to 821. The district saw 59,575 recoveries and 687 were active cases. In Villupuram district, 30 persons tested positive, taking the total number of positive cases in the district to 44,166. Kallakurichi district recorded 43 positive cases, taking the overall tally to 29,490.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cuddalore-logs-one-death-73-new-cases/article35848399.ece
11 August 2021||Dharmapuri,TAMIL NADU||MP wants solar panels installed on median of NH in Dharmapuri||DNV Senthikumar.S, MP, has written to Union Minister of Road Transport and Highways Nitin Gadkari to install solar panels on the median of the National Highways traversing through Dharmapuri. According to MP, the solar panels would promote green, clean energy and the electricity generated by the solar panel can be sold commercially. The toll plaza can manage and maintain the solar panels, the MP has said. He has asked to emulate the example of a busy South Korean Highway, where the solar panels were installed. Dr. Senthilkumar has sought permission to install solar panels along the 60 km stretch of the national highway running through Dharmapuri constituency and offered to fund the project through the MPLADS.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mp-wants-solar-panels-installed-on-median-of-nh-in-dharmapuri/article35848072.ece
11 August 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Corpn. removes roadside textile shops in Erode||Roadside textile shops outside E.K.M. Abdul Gani textile market at Panneerselvam was removed by the corporation here on Tuesday. With COVID-19 cases continuing to be on the rise, District Collector H. Krishnanunni on August 7 announced regulations to control the spread, including closure of shops in crowded areas on weekends. Eswaran Kovil Street, TVS Street, Gandhiji Road, Brindha Street, Old Central Theater Road, Manikoondu, RKV Road were crowded with people during most of the time due to the presence of textile shops, textile showrooms, grocery shops and other commercial establishments. The weekly textile market that begins from Monday night and closes by Tuesday night were not conducted in the past four months. Currently, textile shops in the Gani market are allowed to function only during the day time. After the restrictions came into force from August 9, the corporation had asked textile traders to ensure that their shops are not crowded. Also, textile shops were not allowed to function on roadsides where people gather in large numbers. On Tuesday, despite warnings, many shopkeepers were found running their shops on roadsides at Panneerselvam and corporation officials with the help of police personnel removed them. Public address system was used to alert and warn the shopkeepers to ensure that they followed all the norms. Shops were warned of imposition of fine and also sealing if they failed to follow the norms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corpn-removes-roadside-textile-shops-in-erode/article35848076.ece
11 August 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||SSA begins survey to identify out-of-school children||Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan (SSA) has begun a door-to-door survey to identify out-of-school children in the age group of 6 to 19 and admit them in schools located in their area. The Right of Children to Free and Compulsory Education Act, 2009, makes education mandatory for children aged six to 14 and to ensure that no children are left out of schools. Over 4,000 staff comprising teachers, special educators, block resource teacher educators, psychotherapists, caregivers are involved in the survey that will be undertaken till August 31. Also, to provide Inclusive Education for the Disabled, differently-abled children would be identified in all the 14 blocks in the district. SSA officials said that survey will be undertaken in bus stands, eateries, flower stalls, Bazaar Street, vegetable shops and other public places to ensure more children are covered. Also, survey will be done at construction units, brick kiln units, rice mills, quarries, industries and farm lands. Migrant families reside in large numbers at Perundurai and other parts of the district. Hence, their children will also be covered, they added. The survey is done in coordination with staff at National Child Labour Project, Labour Welfare Department, District Child Protection Unit and the police department. After identifying children, they will be admitted to their nearest government school and also at the Non-Residential Special Training Centre where bridge courses will be provided for a specified period after which they will be admitted to regular schools.  Special Correspondent from Krishnagiri adds:  The census to identify school drop-out children and children with disabilities began in Krishnagiri district also Collector V. Jayachandra Bhanu Reddy has urged the public to provide information on the out-of-school children, drop-outs, and differently-abled children unable to attend schools to the census enumerators during their door-to-door survey. According to Dr. Reddy the children identified in the census enumeration will be enrolled in special class rooms to enable them to continue with their education.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ssa-begins-survey-to-identify-out-of-school-children/article35848080.ece
11 August 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Erode district reports 169 cases, one death||Erode district on Tuesday reported 169 new cases taking the tally to 95,399. While 188 persons were discharged, 1,725 persons continue to be under treatment. One person died, rising the toll to 640. Salem district reported 92 cases and three deaths, while Namakkal district reported 45 cases and one death. As per bulletin, all cases were indigenous.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/erode-district-reports-169-cases-one-death/article35848074.ece
11 August 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Erode dist. gets oxygen generating plants||Two Pressure Swing Adsorption (PSA) medical oxygen generation plants, each at Rs. 1 crore, will be installed at the District Headquarters Hospital and Government Erode Medical College and Hospital (GEMCH) at Perundurai, and is expected to be operational in two weeks. The plants were sought by Perundurai MLA S. Jayakumar to the then Minister for Health and Family Welfare. Union Minister for Health and Family Welfare and Chemicals and Fertilizers Mansukh Mandaviya in a recent letter to Mr. Jayakumar said that two plants were sanctioned for the district. GEMCH Dean R. Mani told The Hindu that the 1,000-litre capacity PSA plant can supply oxygen to 100 patients at a time and added that platform works were completed for installing the machine. “The plant is in transit and is expected to reach this week after which installation would be done”, he added. The dean said that the hospital had received another plant from the Chief Minister’s office and electrical work is on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/erode-dist-gets-oxygen-generating-plants/article35848078.ece
11 August 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||10 shops fined for violations||As many as 10 shops that were opened before the allotted time were fined Rs. 5,000 each by corporation officials here on Tuesday. Many shops in Panneerselvam Park, Manikoondu and Eswaran Kovil Street were found functioning from 5 a.m. Corporation Commissioner M. Elangovan during his inspection found the shops functioning before the allotted time and asked officials to impose fine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/10-shops-fined-for-violations/article35848087.ece
11 August 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Six get life imprisonment for murder in Erode||Third Additional District Judge, Gobichettipalayam, S. Jeganathan, sentenced six persons, who were involved in the murder of a man in Gobichettipalayam Taluk in 2019, to life imprisonment here on Tuesday. The six - Chinraj, his wife Palaniammal, son-in-law Balraj, daughter Ramya and relatives Sudhakar and Dharmaraj murdered T. Senthil Kumar over money dispute. Senthil Kumar had given Rs. 1,800 to Chinraj. On March 28, 2019, Senthil Kumar demanded money from Chinraj who refused to repay. Villagers blamed Chinraj for refusing to repay the money that angered him. The six went to Senthil Kumar’s house and murdered him. Police arrested the six and lodged them in prison.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/six-get-life-imprisonment-for-murder-in-erode/article35848081.ece
11 August 2021||GUDALUR,TAMIL NADU||Check on border areas||Officials from Theni and Idukki districts held a meeting at Kumuli on Tuesday to ensure peace during Onam festival and Independence Day celebrations. Theni ADSP Rajendran, JC (Excise), Idukki, Saleem, Uthamapalayam DSP Uma Devi, among others, participated. They said that surveillance at Cumbum Mettu, Mandiparai, Moongipallam and Kumuli borders had been intensified in view of movement of more commuters and tourists. Apart from screening people for COVID-19, a close watch would be maintained to prevent smuggling of contraband . A police officer said that narcotic substances including ganja and fake liquor could be smuggled. ‘We will ensure that the illegal activities are prevented. Habitual offenders from both sides may use heavy movement of people and indulge in illegal activities. Public can share specific information with officers and their identity would not be revealed. Meanwhile, health department officials in Cumbum said that there could be more tourists from far and near cities with Kerala relaxing guidelines meant for the COVID-19. However, they would insist public to show their vaccine certificates. The tourist operators/drivers have been instructed to wear masks properly and ensure that there was no overcrowding. A travel agent in Cumbum said that people could come for a day trip to Thekkadi as boating was thrown open now there.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/check-on-border-areas/article35848056.ece
11 August 2021||KALLAKURICHI,TAMIL NADU||Farmers get certificates||The administration has issued certificates to about 5,015 small and marginal farmers across the district to enable them to avail benefits of micro irrigation schemes. In a release, Collector P.N. Sridhar said the certificates were issued at special camps held at the offices of the Revenue Inspectors and at the Collectorate from July 28. As many as 6,487 farmers applied for the certificates. Of them 5,015 have got the certificates while 1,472 applications were rejected, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/farmers-get-certificates/article35848397.ece
11 August 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Water from Vaigai dam to be released for single crop today||Water from Vaigai dam would be released for irrigating single crop area of 1.05 lakh acres of ayacut in Madurai, Dindigul and Sivaganga district, on Wednesday. With both the Periyar and Vaigai reservoirs brimming with water, State Government has decided to release water ahead of the schedule release of September 15. Usually, water for irrigation for single crop area can be released on September 15 provided the combined Periyar credit crosses 6,000 mcft. As of now, Periyar credit stood at a comfortable 10, 311 mcft. “With the storage being comfortable in both the dams, the State Government has decided to release water earlier,” said Executive Engineer, Periyar Vaigai Sub-Basin Division, V. Sugumaran. Fifth time This is the fifth time, water is being released ahead of the schedule for the single crop area. Last time, it was released on August 21 in 2018, he said. According to PWD sources, early release from Vaigai dam has been also effected in 1984, 1991 and 2005. “We are expecting a good inflow of water with rainfall anticipated during the northeast monsoon and hence, early release of water has been planned,” the Executive Engineer said. With the water level just three feet down, flood warning downstream Vaigai dam had been issued twice in the last few weeks. The storage has remained very comfortable so much so that the PWD officials did not implement turn system of irrigation even over 70 days after water was released for first crop of double crop area in Madurai and Dindigul districts. While 900 cusecs will be released through Periyar Main Canal, 230 cusecs will be released through Tirumangalam Main Canal. Turn system of irrigation will be implemented, if water shortage is faced.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vaigai-dam-water-to-be-released-for-single-crop-area-from-today/article35848061.ece
11 August 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||HC grants bail to priest||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Tuesday granted bail to Kanniyakumari priest George Ponniah who is accused of passing certain remarks against Bharat Mata, the Prime Minister and the Union Home Minister. Justice B. Pugalendhi granted bail to the priest with conditions after he submitted an affidavit to the court undertaking that he would not make such statements in the future. The petitioner said he had some health issues and was undergoing treatment. He also said he would stay away from Kanniyakumari district. The court directed the priest to stay in Tiruchi and report to Thillai Nagar police station. In his petition, George Ponniah said he regretted the speech made recently at a prayer meeting for Father Stan Swamy in Arumanai. He said the case of the prosecution was entirely misconceived. In a connected case, Justice G. Ilangovan ordered notice to the State on the petition filed by the priest to quash the FIR registered by Arumanai police. The case was adjourned till September 2. The police have booked him under various sections of the IPC for unlawful assembly, criminal intimidation, promoting enmity between different religious groups, and making statements creating or promoting enmity and hatred.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-grants-bail-to-priest/article35847953.ece
11 August 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Plea to take action against ex-City Engineer (in-charge)||Madurai-based Green Land India Trust moved the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Tuesday seeking a direction to the State to take appropriate action against former City Engineer (in-charge) S. Arasu for allegedly mining and selling gravel sand deposits found during excavation at the site of the construction of Periyar bus stand, Madurai A Division Bench of Justices N. Kirubakaran and M. Duraiswamy ordered notice to the State and Mr. Arasu. The petitioner M. Aravind Balaji, the founder of the trust, said that Periyar bus stand was being expanded under the smart city project. Gravel sand is a mineral. Lifting of the same from a place needs to be approved by the Department of Geology and Mining. But, the former City Engineer (in-charge) without obtaining permission from authorities concerned clandestinely sold the gravel sand from the site, in the private market. He did this in connivance with others and enriched himself causing loss to the government. The representations made in this regard seeking action were not looked into, he said. The authorities are statutorily bound to take action as the illegal mining is causing loss to the government. Despite repeated representations, no action is being taken in the case and this shows the callous attitude of the authorities, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/plea-to-take-action-against-ex-city-engineer-in-charge/article35848267.ece
11 August 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Plea to print image of Netaji on currency notes dismissed||What is the use of printing the images of great leaders who fought for the Independence of the country on currency notes without following their principles, observed the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court while dismissing a petition seeking a direction to the Centre to print the image of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose on the Indian currency notes. A Division Bench of Justices N. Kirubakaran and M. Duraiswamy said that merely because the image of Mahatma Gandhi was printed on the currency notes, it does not mean that the currency notes were used only for legal purposes. To have the image of a particular leader on the currency note was a policy decision of the government. In 2010, a panel constituted by the Centre had decided that no other personality could better represent the ethos of India better than Mahatma Gandhi, the judges said. Netaji was a great leader who fought for the independence of the country. There were many known and unsung heroes and their contributions were not being underestimated. But, there will be no end to such claims as made in the present petition. In recent times, it is being made on the lines of community, religion and race, the judges said and dismissed the petition filed by K.K. Ramesh of Madurai. The petitioner said that the image of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose should be printed on the Indian currency notes as many wanted the same.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/plea-to-print-image-of-netaji-on-currency-notes-dismissed/article35848268.ece
11 August 2021||Nagapattinam,TAMIL NADU||Velankanni’s annual feast will be telecast live||Stepping up efforts to prevent the spread of COVID-19, the Nagapattinam district administration on Tuesday announced that the Velankanni Annual Feast 2021 will take place without participation of pilgrims. The celebration of the annual feast will be telecast live by the shrine management, Collector A. Arun Thamburaj said in a press release. The telecast will be from August 29 to September 8. All lodges in Velankanni town have also been instructed to close down for this duration, and no temporary shops or eateries will be permitted for the festival. The district administration has restricted entry to important places of worship in its jurisdiction. There will be no darshan or any religious activity until August 31||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/velankannis-annual-feast-will-be-telecast-live/article35848041.ece
11 August 2021||PALANI,TAMIL NADU||Country made guns seized||The Keeranur police arrested six persons and seized country made guns and a vehicle from them here on Tuesday. Occupants of a vehicle gave contradicting statements during a vehicle check at the Thoppampatti check post. Immediately, the vehicle was checked and the police seized guns. Based on their confession, the police found that they were from Kallakurichi district and were heading to an interior location in a reserve forest here. The names of the arrested were given as Murugan (39), Manikam (40), Satyaraj (40), Ezhumalai (37), Ramachandran (38) and Srinivasan (60). The Superintendent of Police V R Srinivasan commended the Keeranur police for the good work.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/country-made-guns-seized-six-held/article35848070.ece
11 August 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Rangasamy visits AFT Mills||Chief Minister N. Rangasamy on Tuesday inspected the site of the erstwhile AFT Mills, which had been shut down last year after turning unviable. Addressing the media, Mr. Rangasamy said consultations were being held to revive the mill with private sector participation. The legacy mill, established in 1895, was once a thriving enterprise, even exporting cotton fabrics to the U.S, the U.K., France, Italy, Germany, Australia and Belgium. After turning sick following mounting losses, declining net worth and labour unrest because of non- payment of statutory dues to the employees, the mill has remained closed since 2013. The formal closure order came in August 2020. The Chief Minister said the “C” unit of the factory could be an ideal place to set up a control room where officials from the police, transport municipality and disaster management could work as a team. Mr. Rangasamy, who is due to visit Delhi later this month, hoped that the Centre would expedite sanction for the Budget of the Union Territory at the earliest. Meanwhile, a delegation of former employees of the mill met the Chief Minister and sought disbursement of pending salary, pension and gratuity. Mr. Rangasamy assured them that measures would be taken in this regard. E. Vallavan, Industries Secretary, and other officials were also present during the visit. Last week, Home Minister A. Namassivayam had submitted a memorandum to Union Home Minister Amit Shah in New Delhi, seeking permission to sell the AFT land measuring about 55 acres in Pattanur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rangasamy-visits-aft-mills/article35848395.ece
11 August 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||75th Independence anniversary campaigns to involve youth in U.T.||Youth will be engaged in awareness campaigns on HIV/AIDS, TB and voluntary blood donation being hosted in Puducherry under the New India@75 initiatives marking the 75th anniversary of Independence. At a recent meeting of the State-level committee on HIV under the auspices of the National AIDS Control Organisation, it was decided to roll out the campaigns in three phases, targeting students of schools and colleges. The campaigns would engage youth under Adolescence Education Programme (AEP) and Red Ribbon Clubs (RRC) that have already been implemented in schools and colleges respectively under the National AIDS Control Programme with the support of the Education Department. The meeting was chaired by B. Rajambal, project director, Pondicherry AIDS Control Society, in order to chalk out the implementation strategy towards campaigns to be organised in a phased manner. M. Krishnamurthy, Deputy Director (IEC), and S. Settouramane, Assistant Director (Youth) in-charge, explained about the purpose of the meeting. Officials from line departments participated in the meeting. The programme, conceived by the NITI Aayog and touching 41 areas, is to be launched at the national level in hybrid mode. The first phase of the campaign on HIV awareness would be launched by the Union Health Secretary on August 12, coinciding with International Youth Day. The second phase of the campaign on voluntary blood donation awareness would be launched by the Minister of State on October 2, marking National Voluntary Blood Donation Day, while the third phase of the campaign on TB awareness would be launched by the Union Health & Family Welfare Minister on December 2, World AIDS Day. In each phase, 25 government schools and 25 colleges will be covered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/75th-independence-anniversary-campaigns-to-involve-youth-in-ut/article35848383.ece
11 August 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||No COVID-19 death in U.T.||No COVID-19 death was reported in the Union Territory on Tuesday even as 101 new cases were detected against 84 recoveries. The cumulative toll remained at 1,800 — Puducherry 1,426, Karaikal 231, Yanam 105 and Mahe 38. Puducherry accounted for 58 of the new cases, which were confirmed from 5,699 tests, followed by Karaikal (21), Yanam (3) and Mahe (19). The active cases stood at 851 with 194 patients in hospitals and 657 in home isolation. The test positivity rate was 1.77%, case fatality rate 1.48% and recovery rate 97.82%. The Union Territory recorded an aggregate of 1,21,766 cases against 1,19,115 recovered patients. Of an estimated 15.51 lakh tests administered so far, over 13.26 lakh retuned negative. Meanwhile, 4,894 people took the COVID-19 shot in the last 24 hours to take the total vaccinated population to 7,43,238.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-covid-19-death-in-ut/article35848398.ece
11 August 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||SEC begins process to hold local body polls||The State Election Commission has set in motion the process of holding the local body polls after a gap of more than 10 years. The Supreme Court had directed the Commission to conduct the polls on the basis of a contempt petition filed by a lawyer from Mahe, Ashok Kumar, citing the delay in holding the local body elections. Commission sources told The Hindu that preparations were on to conduct the polls before October 4 as per the Supreme Court directions. The SEC had already completed the process of preparing electoral rolls, notification of polling stations, and appointment of District Electoral Officers, Returning Officers and Assistant Returning officers. After the publication of the final ward-wise electoral rolls as per the new delimitation, the statement showing the details of reservation to be made to SC, SC (Women) and General (Women) are to be released. Further the reservation of Backward Classes and Scheduled Tribes has to be drawn by lot in the presence of political parties. The exercise of drawing the lots would be held on August 13 at the SEC Office. Engineers checking EVMs Currently, around 10 engineers from the Electronic Corporation of India are involved in checking around 1,100 EVMs available in Puducherry. The SEC had already approached its counterparts in Telangana and Karnataka for procuring more EVMs. The Commission planned to bring 2,000 machines from Telangana and another 1,300 from Karnataka, sources said. Unlike in the Assembly poll, voters would have to exercise two votes for the municipality and three at the panchayat-level. So, each EVM would have three ballot units and one control unit, said an official involved in the preparations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sec-sets-in-motion-process-to-hold-local-body-polls/article35848402.ece
11 August 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Naval officer calls on CM||Rear Admiral Puneet Chadha, VSM, Flag Officer Commanding Tamil Nadu and Puducherry Naval Area, called on Chief Minister N. Rangasamy in his chamber on Tuesday. The visit was a courtesy call, a press note said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/naval-officer-calls-on-cm/article35848400.ece
11 August 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||A. Amuthan appointed secy. to CM||The Lieutenant Governor has appointed A. Amuthan, associate dean (Autonomy and Accreditation) and professor, Department of Computer Science and Engineering, Pondicherry Enginee- ring College, as private secretary to the Chief Minister on deputation. The appointment order said he would be on deputation for the tenure of the present Chief Minister or till his services were required by the Chief Minister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/a-amuthan-appointed-private-secretary-to-cm/article35848401.ece
11 August 2021||Rajapalayam,TAMIL NADU||‘Irregularities in ration shop’||Cadre of Communist Party of India (Marxist) staged a protest in front of a ration shop at Chozharajapuram on Tuesday complaining of large-scale irregularities. They said that the salesman and the assistant were involved in under-weighing goods and making wrong entries in records. ‘We checked the goods of some of family card holders when they returned from the ration shop after a series of complaints.’ For a person, who had bought 15 kg of rice, the SMS sent to his mobile number mentioned that he had bought 16 kg of rice. However, when we independently weighed the pack, it contained only 10.300 kg of rice, said CPI (M) Rajapalayam town secretary, B. Mariappan. He complained that the ration shop workers were turning away elderly people complaining that their finger prints were not getting registered in the sales machine. However, such people were getting messages of having bought essentials when no such goods were given to them. Besides, the workers were making poor labourers to visit the shop on multiple occasions to buy the goods as the workers sell anyone product on the given day. If they fail to buy a particular product on the given day, the workers refuse to sell them the next day, Mr. Mariappan said. The CPI (M) staged a demonstration stating that the workers were selling ration goods in black market. Taluk Supply Officer, Ramanathan, and Revenue Inspector, Kottairaj, pacified the protesters with a promise of taking action on their complaints.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/irregularities-in-ration-shop/article35848063.ece
11 August 2021||RAMANATHAPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Medical College building inspected||A three-member team from the National Medical Council inspected the Rs. 345 crore construction under way for the new government medical college and hospital here at Pattinamkaathan near Amma Poonga on Tuesday. According to the team including Dr Hanumanth Prasad, Chandmayi Mohanthi and Sushmita Bhattacharya, they would submit a report to the central council on the progress in the Ramanathapuram district. The Tamil Nadu government had obtained permission from the Union government last year for establishing government medical colleges in as many as 11 different districts. While formal permission had been accorded for admitting students from this academic year in four districts, measures were being taken to expedite the construction works as per the schedule so that the delay due to the COVID-19 pandemic lockdown may be overcome. The team members went around the laboratories, class rooms, hostels, Dean’s chamber and other facilities at the site.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/medical-college-building-inspected/article35848065.ece
11 August 2021||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Migration of butterflies to Western Ghats begins||The migration of butterflies ahead of monsoon from Eastern ghats to Western Ghats has begun. Nature enthusiasts said butterflies would migrate from Western Ghats to Eastern Ghats and its plains ahead of Southwest monsoon between April and June, and before Northeast monsoon, butterflies would migrate from Eastern Ghats to Western Ghats, between September and November. However, enthusiasts noticed a change in usual migration pattern as butterflies were noticed to carry out migration earlier in the month of July and it ended by first week of August. M. Elavarasan, a butterfly enthusiast, said, “the migration to Western Ghats generally occurs in between September and October but it happened earlier last year. This year a congregation of butterfly species like Common Crow, Double-Branded Crow, Blue Tigers, Emigrants and Lime were noticed in foothills of Yercaud, Kalvarayan Hills and Palamalai hills.” N. Murugesh, a bird and butterfly enthusiast, said that migration of butterflies has also been reported from ranges in Erode and Thiruvanamalai ahead of usual period.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/migration-of-butterflies-to-western-ghats-begins/article35848083.ece
11 August 2021||salem,TAMIL NADU||Businessman arrested for bomb threats||Salem City Police on Tuesday arrested a Bengaluru-based businessman here allegedly for issuing hoax bomb threats to a District Collector, hotels and other senior government officials. Police identified the accused as Premraj Nair from Bengaluru. He was arrested while he was staying at one of the hotels to which he had issued a bomb threat. Unknown email ID Recently, two luxury hotels here lodged a police complaint that they received bomb threats from an unknown email ID and the suspect allegedly threatened one of the hotels that eight IEDs have been set up at the hotel and threatened to explode them. On inquiry, police found that on August 5, similar threat calls were made to Coimbatore District Collector, Chief Secretary of Kerala government and a few other officials from a mobile number in Salem. Police found that the mobile phone number was owned by a tea stall owner Rani near Siddhanur and she had reportedly complained of her mobile phone being stolen from her few days before the incident. Police found that the mobile phone number was recharged from a store near the Salem Railway junction and by checking the CCTV footages from the vicinity, police traced the car with Karnataka registration that was used by the accused. Based on a tip-off, police arrested the accused from a hotel here and also seized Premraj’s car, the mobile phone and his laptop. On inquiry, police found that Premraj has lost over Rs. 7 crore in business and he has given threat calls to businesses and officials to get that money. Police said in a release that a case has been taken by Cyber Crime police and a separate case has been registered in Salem Steel Plant police station for theft of mobile phone.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/businessman-arrested-for-bomb-threats/article35848084.ece
11 August 2021||Sirkazhi,TAMIL NADU||Couple among three fatally hit by speeding car||Three persons, including a pregnant woman and her husband, were fatally knocked down by a speeding car at Karkovil in Vaideeswarankovil station limits near Sirkazi on Tuesday. The couple – Tamilvani (30) Purushothaman (36) – of Kanniakudi were returning home in a two-wheeler from Vaideeswarankovil Government Hospital when a speeding car coming from the opposite direction knocked them down. They died on the spot. The unidentified driver of the car also knocked down two labourers – Deivanyagi (52) and Rani (60) – before fleeing from the spot. Deivanayagi died while being taken to the Sirkazhi GH. Rani was rushed to the Chidambaram Government Medical College in a serious condition.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/couple-among-three-fatally-hit-by-speeding-car/article35848040.ece
11 August 2021||TENKASI,TAMIL NADU||Commissioner visits refugee camps||Commissioner for Sri Lankan Refugees Rehabilitation Jacinta Lazarus visited the inmates of two refugee camps on Tuesday. Accompanied by Collector S. Gopala Sundararaj, Ms. Jacinta visited the refugee camps at Boganallur in Kadayanallur taluk and Kalappaakulam under Sankarankovil taluk. While the refugee camp in Boganallur has 121 families with 378 persons, the Kalappaakulam camp houses 49 families with 136 persons. After inspecting their houses, Ms. Jacinta also interacted with the residents to ascertain the facilities such as toilets, drinking water, maintenance of their houses, employment under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Programme, old age pension, monthly assistance to the widows and physically challenged, marriage assistance to women etc. Assurance When the refugee camp residents appealed to her to ensure street light, disbursal of scholarship income and native certificates to the students, setting up a ration shop, bus connectivity, road etc., she assured them that she would ensure that their genuine demands were met. While assuring them that special job fair would be conducted for them, she said the government would take all possible steps for sending back the Sri Lankans to their home land if they wanted to return to the island nation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/commissioner-visits-refugee-camps/article35848066.ece
11 August 2021||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||Veeramani hails Division Bench’s observation||Dravidar Kazhagam (DK) president K.Veeramani today welcomed the observation of the Madras High Court Division Bench headed by Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee on the listing of cases by the High Court Registry. Hailing the observation as the need of the hour, the DK president pointed out that such instances did happen at the Madras High Court where public interest litigations (PILs) are listed before single judges when the PILs ought to have been listed only before the Division Benches. Talking to reporters here on Tuesday, Mr. Veeramani said that for instance, the PILs filed in connection with the conduct of ‘pujai’ in Tamil language and appointment of ‘archagars’ in the temples managed by the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowment Department by an association and an individual recently have not been listed before the Division Bench. As far as the plea against the appointment of ‘archagars’, he claimed that such litigation at the time of the call for appointment could not be entertained because legally the aggrieved parties could approach for relief only after appointments were made. He had also claimed that in a case relating to appointments in temples, the Supreme Court had already made it clear that litigations could be raised only after appointments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/veeramani-hails-division-benchs-observation/article35848034.ece
11 August 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Veeramani hails Division Bench’s observation||Dravidar Kazhagam president K.Veeramani on Tuesday welcomed the observation of the Madras High Court Division Bench headed by the Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee on the listing of cases by the High Court Registry. Hailing the observation as the need of the hour, the DK president pointed out that such instances did happen at the Madras High Court where public interest litigations (PILs) are listed before single judges when the PILs ought to have been listed only before the Division Benches. Speaking to reporters, Mr. Veeramani said that for instance, the PILs filed in connection with the conduct of pujai in Tamil language and appointment of archagars in the temples managed by the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowment Department by an association and an individual recently have not been listed before the Division Bench. As far as the plea against the appointment of archagars , he claimed that such litigation at the time of the call for appointment could not be entertained because legally the aggrieved parties could approach for relief only after appointments were made.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/veeramani-hails-division-benchs-observation/article35848092.ece
11 August 2021||TIRUCHENDUR,TAMIL NADU||‘New teacher posts in govt. schools that attracted more new admissions’||Minister for School Education Anbil Mahesh Poyyamozhi has assured that the government schools which have attracted over 2.04 lakh new admissions amidst pandemic will get adequate number of new teaching posts, besides required infrastructure. During an informal chat with reporters here on Tuesday after offering prayers in Lord Subramania Swami Temple, Mr. Mahesh said the families, which had been hit hard by COVID-19 and suffered economic losses, had admitted their children to government schools as they could not pay the fees to the schools where their children were studying. Government schools had attracted 2,04,379 new admissions this year. Infrastructure “In some of the schools, there is 100 per cent increase in student strength. So we’ll sanction new teacher posts in those schools, if required, besides creating infrastructure facilities for ensuring better teaching and learning,” Mr. Mahesh said. On re-opening of schools on September 1, he said the government, after discussing this issue with health experts amidst speculation of the ‘third wave’, had decided to ensure physical presence of the students in their classrooms again which would bail them out from depression. Though online classes were going on, non-availability of smart phones with poor families and connectivity issues in remote areas had prompted the government to bring the children back to the schools.  SOPs Though the previous government had formulated standard operating procedures to be followed in the wake of the pandemic, the Department of Education would add a few more norms in the best interest of the children. Officials were in touch with the heads of the schools to ascertain if their premises and teachers were ready to receive the students in batches. The Minister also said School Education Department had prepared a draft on reducing syllabus. Mr. Mahesh said private schools had been asked to collect 85 per cent of the fees while the COVID-19-affected families could pay only 75 per cent of the fee.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/new-teacher-posts-in-govt-schools-that-attracted-more-new-admissions/article35848277.ece
11 August 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Heavy rain exposes fault lines in Tiruchi’s drainage system||The heavy rain on Monday night inundated almost all arterial roads for several hours and exposing the shortcomings in the drainage system. The rain that started around 7 p.m. continued up to 9.30 p.m. It poured heavily in and around Tiruchi Junction, Central Bus Stand, Melapudur, Woraiyur, Palakkarai, Khajamalai, Golden Rock Edamalaipattipudur and Thillai Nagar. According to the Tamil Nadu State Disaster Management Agency, Tiruchi Junction recorded 92 mm within two hours. It was 60 mm in Tiruchi town and 45.80 mm in Golden Rock. The sudden and heavy downpour literally brought the city to a standstill. Several arterial and interior roads were inundated. The heavy flow of water disrupted traffic movement on Madurai Road, Karumandapam, Bheema Nagar, Melapudur, Williams Road, Lawsons Road, Royal Road. The Melapudur subway looked like a pool, prompting the State Highways and the Tiruchi Corporation officials to engage diesel engines to pump out the water. Vehicles moved at a snail pace on Madurai Road from Ramakrishna Theatre to Holy Cross College as rainwater had filled up the entire stretch. Interior places such as Arasu Colony in Edamalaipattipudur and RVS Nagar in Khajamalai were also affected. To drain out the water in heavily inundated areas, sanitary workers began the day’s work early on Tuesday morning. Besides removing the silt, they cleared the debris accumulated on roads and streets. However, it was alleged that in the interior parts of the city not much work was done. H. Ghouse Baig, a resident of Khajamalai, said that water inundation had brought misery to people, particularly for those living in newly developed areas, which were yet to be provided with proper roads. Water stagnation could have been avoided had all drainages been desilted, he added. Corporation Commissioner P. M. N. Mujibur Rahuman, who visited various areas of the city and checked the condition of the drains during the heavy rain, told The Hindu that many low-lying areas were cleared of rainwater by deploying motor pumps shortly after the rain stopped. Some areas experienced close to 100 mm of rainfall within two hours, thereby causing water inundation. Major issues were sorted out on Tuesday morning, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/heavy-rain-exposes-fault-lines-in-tiruchis-drainage-system/article35848036.ece
11 August 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||CUTN keen to establish its campus in Tiruchi||The Central University of Tamil Nadu (CUTN), Tiruvarur, is keen on pursuing its earlier plan for establishing its first off-campus in Tiruchi. After a proposal was mooted for the Tiruchi campus by the university a few years ago, the district administration had, during 2019, identified a 47-acre site owned by the State Government along Tiruchi-Thuraiyur Highway. However, the proposal did not move further as the university’s executive council had not given its nod then. “The proposal will be placed again before the council and the Union Education Ministry for approval”, M. Krishnan, Vice-Chancellor, said. Since the CUTN was established at the initiative of late Chief Minister Karunanidhi, academicians in the central districts opine that the present dispensation will be as much keen on strengthening the visibility for the university by way of facilitating the start of the off-campus in Tiruchi, which holds the distinction as a major educational hub encompassing institutions of national importance: National Institute of Technology - Tiruchi, Indian Institute of Management - Tiruchi, Indian Institute of Information Technology - Tiruchi, Tamil Nadu National Law University, and ICAR-National Research Centre for Banana, besides Bharathidasan University, and a host of arts and science colleges of a long standing. The vantage location of Tiruchi and easy air, rail and road connectivity will enable the proposed Tiruchi campus to add vibrancy substantially to CUTN’s academic and research activities, they believe. Prof. Krishnan, who assumed charge as Vice-Chancellor, last week said the CUTN will seek to start its off campus on the lines of the regional campuses launched by The English and Foreign Languages University, Hyderabad, (a Central varsity), at Shillong and Lucknow. “The CUTN will also collaborate with State universities for joint academic and research activities,” Prof. Krishnan said. The CUTN will focus its immediate attention on strengthening infrastructure and research facilities within the main campus. “The campus will be spruced up and we will ensure construction of two new hostel buildings - for boys and girls - each with a capacity to accommodate 300 students, and an academic block with the already sanctioned fund of Rs. 91 crore, within six months, in order to improve NAAC (National Assessment and Accreditation Council) from B++ to A+. We will start off by preparing the self-study report,” Prof. Krishnan said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cutn-keen-to-establish-its-campus-in-tiruchi/article35848039.ece
11 August 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Tiruchi MP seeks funds for Pudukottai-Thanjavur rail line||Tiruchi Lok Sabha MP Su. Thirunavukkarasar has urged Railway Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw to allocate adequate funds without delay for the Pudukottai - Thanjavur via Gandharvakottai new railway line and take necessary steps for its early commissioning. Bringing the issue to the notice of the Railway Minister in Parliament on Monday, Mr. Thirunavukkarasar said the survey for the Pudukottai - Thanjavur via Gandharvakottai new railway line was sanctioned in 2012-13. However, no progress was made so far. He said Pudukottai, a district headquarters in Tamil Nadu, was having a number of educational institutions and places of historical importance. Various Central / State government offices and public sector undertakings were functioning in Pudukottai. However, Pudukottai has only limited train facilities due to which people were facing a lot of difficulties. If the railway project was implemented, it would further promote industrialisation and tourism, he added. He urged the Union government to take necessary steps for setting up a Kendriya Vidyalaya in Pudukottai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tiruchi-mp-seeks-funds-for-pudukottai-thanjavur-rail-line/article35848033.ece
11 August 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Admission of students to seven more medical colleges on the anvil||Steps have been taken to get the nod of the Medical Council of India (MCI) for admitting students in seven more medical colleges in the State from 2021-22, said Ma. Subramanian, Minister for Health and Family Welfare. He told reporters after holding a review meeting with the health officials in the district on Tuesday that construction had been geared up in all 11 new medical colleges in the State. Necessary infrastructure would be established for first-year MBBS students, faculty and non-teaching members. Approval was being waited for seven new medical colleges, including one in Ariyalur. Mr. Subramanian said that the State had taken a lead in inoculating people against COVID-19 and had urged the Centre to increase vaccine allocation to the State. To a question, he said that release of white paper on the financial status of the State was to inform the people about the financial burden being faced due to the wrong policies of the previous AIADMK government. It should not be construed as an attempt to impose fresh taxes. Similarly, there was no connection between the release of the white paper and the Directorate of Vigilance Anti Corruption raids against former Minister S.P. Velumani and his associates, he said. Minister for Backward Classes S. S. Sivasankar, Collector P. Ramana Saraswathi and senior officials participated in the review meeting. Perambalur Speaking to reporters at the Government Headquarters Hospital here, he said that he would bring up the issue of establishing a government medical college at Perambalur to the attention of the Chief Minister and take necessary steps to establish the institution. The plan had been blocked due to political vendetta during the 10-year AIADMK rule, Mr. Subramanian alleged and added that steps would now be taken to establish the medical institution and fulfill the dreams of the people of the district. Replying to a query, he said establishment of an emergency accident treatment centre along the Tiruchi - Chennai national highway within Perambalur district limits would be examined. Earlier, Mr. Subramanian accompanied by Backward Classes Welfare Minister S. S. Sivasankar, Collector P. Sri Venkada Priya and officials inspected the government headquarters hospital and the facilities available, including beds for COVID-19 patients and interacted with the patients. He went door-to-door distributing medicines to some persons under the 'Makkalai Thedi Maruthuvam' scheme at Perali village. Later, he held a review meeting with health department officials and those belonging to other departments at the Collectorate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/admission-of-students-to-seven-more-medical-colleges-on-the-anvil/article35848044.ece
11 August 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Bullock cart operators demand reopening of sand quarries||A section of members of the ‘Tiruchi Maavatta Manal Maatu Vandi Thozhilalar Sangam’, owing allegiance to the CITU, staged a demonstration here on Tuesday urging the State government and the Public Works Department to reopen the sand quarries along the Kollidam river at Madhavaperumal Koil and Thalakudi villages to enable transportation of sand through bullock carts and thereby protect the livelihood of several labourers involved in this activity. The demonstration, headed by the Sangam’s district president G. K. Ramar, was organised near the District Collectorate for nearly one-and-half hours. Around 100 members of the Sangam who participated in the demonstration raised slogans urging the State government and the district administration not put the lives of the labourers involved in transportation of sand through bullock carts in jeopardy. They wondered why the two sand quarries were not reopened at a time when TASMAC liquor outlets and big commercial establishments were reopened during the pandemic period. The Sangam members later submitted a memorandum to the Collector. In the memorandum, Mr. Ramar said the livelihood of around 2,000 families were affected badly. At a time when the State government had announced several relaxations in a phased manner and with construction activities also resuming, the government should immediately reopen the sand quarries at Madhavaperumal Koil and Thalakudi villages thereby protecting the labourers and their families, he further said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bullock-cart-operators-demand-reopening-of-sand-quarries/article35848046.ece
11 August 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Central region sees a slight dip in cases||The central region saw a slight dip in fresh cases of COVID-19 over the previous day with 349 persons testing positive for the virus on Tuesday against Monday’s tally of 365. Five more persons succumbed to complications arising out of the infection in the region, according to the bulletin issued by the State Health Department. Two of them were from Tiruchi, while Ariyalur, Pudukottai and Thanjavur districts reported one death each. Thanjavur continued to report the highest number of fresh cases in the region with 97 persons, two more than Monday, testing positive for the virus in the district. Tiruchi had 68 persons testing positive for COVID-19, while 45 fresh cases were from Tiruvarur. Thirty fresh cases were reported in Nagapattinam district, 32 in Pudukottai, 27 in Mayiladuthurai, 19 in Ariyalur and 16 in Karur. Perambalur had the least number of fresh cases in the region with six testing positive. The number of active cases, including those who are under home treatment, stood at 1,002 in Thanjavur, 752 in Tiruchi, 437 in Nagapattinam, 431 in Tiruvarur, 340 in Pudukottai, 258 in Mayiladuthurai, 243 in Ariyalur, 177 in Karur and 109 in Perambalur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/central-region-sees-a-slight-dip-in-cases/article35848051.ece
11 August 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Boy dies||A five-year-old boy died of injuries after a portion of the water tank collapsed and fell over his head at Sokkampatti village in Marungapuri taluk in the district on Monday. The boy, M. Sivaraj, was playing in front of his house when the incident occurred. Police sources said a portion of the water tank made of cement and constructed nearly three feet above the ground in front of the boy's house suddenly collapsed and fell on his head. The minor boy who sustained grievous head injury was immediately rushed to the Primary Health Centre at Valanadu. The doctor who examined the boy declared that the minor had died. The Valanadu Police have registered a case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/boy-dies/article35848047.ece
11 August 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Vaccine camp today||Seven hundred doses of Covaxin will be administered at a vaccination camp to be held at Thevar Hall in the city on Wednesday, a Corporation press release said. The camp will commence at 9.30 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vaccine-camp-today/article35848052.ece
11 August 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||‘Allow us to use cemetery’||A group of Christians attached to Sacred Heart Church in Udaiyarpatti here submitted petition in the Collectorate on Tuesday seeking the Collector’s intervention to ensure their continued use of their cemetery. As the parishioners of Sacred Heart Church in Udaiyarpatti here use the cemetery on a patta land near a temple in Manimurtheeswaram over the past 40 years, it is being opposed by the Hindus for the past few years as the burial ground is situated close to the temple. When a group of miscreants damaged the tombs in the cemetery on October 18, 2020, it triggered tension. Subsequently, the police arrested a few activists of Hindu Makkal Katchi after the representatives of all political parties including the office-bearers of then ruling AIADMK submitted petition to the Collector seeking action against the miscreants involved in this incident. Another meeting attended by representatives from all political parties and the religions passed a resolution in support of using the cemetery by the Christians. “However, we are being discouraged by the police and the Corporation officials from using this cemetery, which is a holy place for us as the mortal remains of our ancestors have been laid to rest there. We are submitting this petition to the Collector seeking his intervention to restore our right,” said the petitioners.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/allow-us-to-use-cemetery/article35848071.ece
11 August 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Encroachments evicted||Officials of the Corporation and the Department of Highways launched encroachment eviction drive here on Tuesday and unauthorized advertisement hoardings and encroachments were removed. Though roads in the city have been narrowed by illegal structures and unauthorized hoardings and the public are demanding stringent action against the violators, no step was taken for the past few years to remove these encroachments. Even though the encroachment eviction drive was conducted in a few places in the past, officials did not touch the encroachers who enjoy political and community backing. Since the Corporation’s biased action triggered murmurs from various quarters, especially from the victims of the partial drive, the encroachment eviction drive was kept in cold storage for the past few years. When the joint encroachment eviction drive resurfaced on Tuesday in all four wards after Commissioner B. Vishnu Chandran warned that all unauthorized hoarding would be removed, it did not evoke any positive response from the public as they are desperately waiting for impartial drive. Even as Mr. Vishnu Chandran monitored the drive, the unauthorized hoarding and the illegal structures installed in front of the business establishments were removed. In Palayamkottai Zone, the unauthorized billboards were removed between Murugankurichi Signal and District Court Complex on Tiruchendur Road. Led by Assistant Commissioner of Melapalayam Zone Sugi Premala and Assistant Executive Engineer Lenin, the officials removed the unauthorized structures from Melapalayam traffic island to Vaeinthaankulam new bus-stand and then along the Thiruvananthapuram Highway. Similar drive was carried out along S.N. High Road, Madurai Highway, Pettai Highway. “The drive will continue… The Commissioner is considering initiating legal action against those who paste posters on the boards erected on the streets by the Corporation and in public places, bridges as done in Chennai. Soon, the city may get a new look,” said a senior official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/encroachments-evicted/article35848482.ece
11 August 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||CRS to inspect track on Aug. 14||Commissioner for Railway Safety, Southern Region, Abhay Kumar Rai, is expected to inspect the newly laid 7-km-long double track with electrification between Thattapparai and Meelavittan on August 14. Rail traffic between Thattapparai and Meelavittan will be allowed after getting his clearance. As doubling of track between Madurai and Thoothukudi via Vanchi Maniyachi and Madurai and Kanniyakumari via Vanchi Maniyachi has been taken up, the work is being completed in a phased manner. After the track doubling work between Kovilpatti and Kadambur was completed, speed trial was conducted on this section in February this year. Similarly, speed trial was conducted between Kadambur and Gangaikondan in November last year. Since the track doubling works are being completed in phased manner, the inspection and subsequent speed trials are conducted now.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/crs-to-inspect-track-on-aug-14/article35848483.ece
11 August 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Two arrested for murder||The Vellakoil police on Tuesday arrested two men on charges of murder. According to the police, K. Vijayaprakash (20) was found dead with multiple injuries near Parambikulam-Aliyar Project canal in Vellakoil on Tuesday. Following an inquiry, the police nabbed two of the deceased's friends -- Raja and Ajithkumar. The accused were remanded in judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-arrested-for-murder/article35847961.ece
11 August 2021||Tiruvarur,TAMIL NADU||Five get 10 years’ imprisonment for bank robbery at Asesham||The Sub Court in Mannargudi sentenced five persons who were found guilty of committing a bank robbery at Asesham near Mannargudi in May 2018 to 10 years imprisonment. Two other accused were sentenced to nine and seven years imprisonment. The Mannargudi police have registered a case of robbery based on a complaint from Govindarajan, Manager, Taminad Merchantile Bank, Asesham, on May 5, 2018 stating that a seven-member gang entered the bank premises with firearm and other lethal weapons. The gang left the bank after looting Rs. 5,58,550 in cash and 84 grams of gold jewellery at knifepoint. Special teams were formed to probe the complaint and seven persons – Mariyaselvam, Meeran Mohideen, Sudalaimani, Muthukumar and Manikandan, all from Tuticorin, Ayub Khan of Karuppayurani in Madurai district and Raja of Thiruvadanai – were arrested and a chargesheet was filed against them at the Sub Court in Mannargudi. After hearing the case, Subordinate Judge A. Premavathi on Monday awarded 10 years imprisonment to the accused, Mariyaselvam, Meeran Mohideen, Sudalaimani, Ayub Khan and Raja, nine years of imprisonment to Muthukumar and seven years to Manikandan, police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/five-get-10-years-imprisonment-for-bank-robbery-at-asesham/article35848043.ece
11 August 2021||Tiruvarur,TAMIL NADU||Youth found dead with stab injuries||The Mannargudi police are investigating the death of a 22-year-old man whose body was found in a desolate place near Sivam Nagar two days ago. According to police, people passing through Sivam Nagar noticed the body with stab injuries and informed the Mannargudi police.The body was removed to the District Government Headquarters Hospital for postmortem. The police registered a case of death under suspicious circumstances. During the course of investigation, the identity of the deceased was ascertained as Ismath of Nachikulam near Muthupettai in Tiruvarur district. On the fateful day, police said, the deceased and his friends, Vajith, Deenhanish, Marooj and Akbarbasha, all residents of Nachikulam, had come to Mannargudi on motorcycles. Due to some misunderstanding, a scuffle broke out. In the melee, Ismath was allegedly attacked by others with lethal weapons and he died on the spot.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/youth-found-dead-with-stab-injuries/article35848042.ece
11 August 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Sloth bear electrocuted||A male sloth bear was electrocuted after getting trapped in a wire fence at Vazhaithottam in the buffer zone of the Mudumalai Tiger Reserve (MTR) on Tuesday morning. The animal, believed to be around eight years old, was found dead on Tuesday morning. Informed of the incident, Forest Department officials arrived at the scene and took the owner of the property, Ramasamy (86), in for questioning. A postmortem was conducted on the carcass by veterinarians.  L.C.S. Srikanth, Deputy Director of MTR (Buffer Zone), said that local residents had seen the bear in the area on many occasions. He said the owner of the property had followed proper procedures by using an energiser to power the fence to protect his property. However, the sloth bear got trapped in the fence and could not extract itself from it, leading to its slow, painful death. Officials said that the energiser supplied power to the fence in small bursts and was used to discourage wildlife from entering the property. However, on this occasion, the animal got stuck in the fence and died due to exposure to continuous electric shocks. Case registered A case was registered against the owner of the property under the Wildlife Protection Act. However, he was not arrested considering his age, and other circumstances. Mr. Srikanth told The Hindu that in the future, the Forest Department would insist with all land owners in the area to power their fences using energisers powered by batteries. “We will also look for alternatives to electric fences,” said Mr. Srikanth. Elephant dies In another incident in the Mudumalai Tiger Reserve buffer zone, a young female elephant was found dead in the Nilgiris Eastern Slopes Range in Thengumarahada. As there was not enough time to conduct a postmortem on Tuesday, physical evidence was gathered from the area where the carcass was found. Officials said the elephant was suspected to have died of anthrax. “There are Standard Operating Procedures issued to deal with this type of death. Hence, all arrangements are made for the disposal of the carcass based on established protocols,” said K.K. Kaushal, Field Director of MTR.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sloth-bear-electrocuted-after-getting-trapped-in-fence/article35847975.ece
11 August 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||RT-PCR report, e-pass must to visit the Nilgiris from Kerala, Karnataka||The Nilgiris district administration has reiterated that travellers to the district from Kerala and Karnataka will have to carry a valid e-pass and a negative RT-PCR test done 72 hours prior to the date of arrival to the district. In a press release, the district administration stated that the restrictions were being enforced due to the spread of the Delta Plus variant of the SARS-CoV-2 virus. People trying to enter the Nilgiris without a negative RT-PCR certificate or vaccination certificate will be turned away at the border, the district administration said. People trying to enter the Nilgiris without a mask will also be turned away at the border and face the prospect of paying fine, the district administration said. “All tourist places in the Nilgiris remain closed, so people are requested to not undertake unnecessary travel to the Nilgiris,” the district administration stated in a press release on Tuesday. The district administration urged all travellers to follow all COVID-19 safety protocols and to wear masks at all times and to follow personal distancing norms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rt-pcr-report-e-pass-made-mandatory-for-those-visiting-nilgiris-from-kerala-karnataka/article35847979.ece
11 August 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Family of four found dead at home||Four persons of a family were found dead in their house near Marlimund in Udhagamandalam on Monday night. Police identified the deceased as Chandran (45), his wife Geetha, and their children Rakshitha (16) and Vishwendar (12). The four had not left their house in Marlimund for the last few days, and the neighbours had knocked on their door. When they failed to open the door, the neighbours broke in and found the bodies. It is suspected that the four persons had died by suicide. A case has been registered. (Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/family-of-four-found-dead-at-home/article35847982.ece
11 August 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||46 new cases reported in Vellore||The total number of COVID-19 cases in Vellore district reached 48,317 with 46 new cases reported on Tuesday. While a total of 46,924 persons have been discharged, the number of active cases in the district stands at 297. The district's death toll is 1,096. In Ranipet district, 22 cases were reported positive and the total number of cases stood at 42,147. In Tirupattur district, 11 new cases were reported on Tuesday and the total number of positive cases stood at 28,400. In Tiruvannamalai district, the number of new cases was 50, taking the total number of cases to 52,534. Out of this, 51,376 have been discharged and the number of active cases stands at 518.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/46-new-cases-reported-in-vellore/article35848490.ece
11 August 2021||VILLUPURAM,TAMIL NADU||‘BJP to train 26,000 volunteers for COVID-19 work’||The BJP has set a target to train 26,000 volunteers who will go to 13,000 villages across the State and help people fight the pandemic, State BJP president K. Annamalai said. Speaking at the State-level health volunteers workshop at Tindivanam near here, he claimed that parties like the DMK, which were preoccupied with criticising the BJP day in and day out, had now appreciated the performance of the Centre in containing COVID-19 and the vaccination programme. The BJP has set a target to train 26,000 volunteers who will go to 13,000 villages across the State and help people fight the pandemic. The party’s health volunteers will educate the people amid fears of a third wave. BJP leaders H. Raja, party co-incharge Sudhakar Reddy and former MP C.P. Radhakrishnan were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bjp-to-train-volunteers-to-curb-covid-19/article35848273.ece
11 August 2021||August 11 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||DVAC searches premises of ex-Minister, associates||The DVAC said that when a writ petition came up for hearing, the Madras High Court directed that “the State should spare no efforts in getting to the bottom of the matter and proceed against those found to be responsible for the regularities”, and that it should conduct an investigation in the light of the CAG’s 2016 report, which highlighted that the injudicious awarding of tenders was resulting in huge loss to the government. Further investigation revealed that between 2014 and 2018, Mr. Velumani wilfully abused his official position in the awarding of work tenders to the tune of Rs. 810 crore, with the connivance of unknown officials of the Greater Chennai and Coimbatore corporations, thereby giving undue favour to certain firms. While awarding these tenders, corporation officials blatantly violated the Tamil Nadu Transparency in Tenders Act, 1998; Rule 31 of the Tamil Nadu Transparency in Tenders Rules, 2012; and guidelines of the Central Vigilance Commission, among others. Pointing to serious violations in the tender bidding, tender negotiations and execution of work, as well as the CAG’s findings, the DVAC gave details of what it described as the high trajectory of growth of some firms favoured during the injudicious award of tenders. After a preliminary inquiry into allegations of irregularities in the award of contracts by the Chennai and Coimbatore corporations, the DVAC found no material to book Mr. Velumani. His counsel informed the Madras High Court in June this year that in January 2020, the State (AIADMK) government accepted the report of the DVAC and dropped all proceedings against Mr. Velumani. Meanwhile, the DVAC said on Tuesday that Rs. 13.08 lakh cash, fixed deposit receipts to the tune of Rs. 2 crore, a computer hard disk, company transaction papers and documents relating to the municipal corporations were among the material seized.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dvac-searches-premises-of-ex-minister-associates/article35847920.ece
11 August 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||New-age check dams built under MGNREGA cost less, give more||The State government is promoting construction of new generation check dams across natural streams, rivulets and other waterbodies under the MGNREGA programme. Over 5,000 multiple arch buttress check dams (MACD) have come up under MGNREGA, 1,820 in the last two years. The project is unique because the design consumes less concrete and lasts longer than traditional stone masonry check dams. The cost of MACD is around 25% less than Reinforced Cement Concrete check dams. They harvest rain water, act as temporary impounding structures, and recharge the aquifer. Apart from providing water to farmers in drier months, they act as water holes for wildlife too. Aniruddha Shravan, commissioner, MGNREGA, said MACDs ensure better utilisation of funds, scientific construction, and increased efficiency in water harvesting. “We use the services of Karnataka State Remote Sensing Application Centre to map probable locations for check dams to prevent unscientific construction. We have been using an app designed by the Foundation for Ecological Security called CLART to locate dams near appropriate strata. We choose a site where the stream is at its narrowest width, as it reduces costs and to see that the stream should not be meandering as it can cause flooding and shifting of the river’s course,” he said. He added that gram panchayats are creating boulder checks with recharge pits in large numbers. “To avoid slush getting collected in downstream check dams, several water harvesting structures are built upstream,” added Mr. Shravan. They hold back silt, improve soul moisture, support vegetative growth, and harvest the rain more effectively. “MACDs have brought long-lasting change in districts like Vijayapura, Bagalkot and the drier taluks of Belagavi,” said Mahantesh Biradar, Vijayapura-based environmentalist. In several villages in Vijayapura district, ground water levels have increased and women are relieved of the burden of walking for miles to fetch drinking water, he added. The MACD model was introduced by the Bidar Zilla panchayat in 2004. Naveen Raj Singh, a civil engineer by training, was the ZP CEO then. He introduced the design and led the construction of around 100 such structures in two years. Now, Bidar has over 700 MACDs. The design was approved for MNREGA in 2015, Mr. Singh recalled.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/new-age-check-dams-built-under-mgnrega-cost-less-give-more/article35847898.ece
11 August 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Maratha organisations seek berth for MLA from their community||Members of different Maratha organisations came together in Belagavi on Tuesday to demand a Ministerial berth for an MLA from the Maratha community, in the Basavaraj Bommai Cabinet. They demanded that the BJP appoint either Kagwad MLA Shrimant Patil, who has been dropped in the reconstituted Ministry, or other Maratha MLAs from BJP, including Anil Benake from Belagavi North or Rupali Naik, MLA from Karwar, as Minister. They threatened to launch a State-wide protest after holding district-wise meetings of the community, if the demand was not met. They said that the community’s population in the State was around 70-80 lakh and it could influence poll results in several Assembly and Parliament seats across North Karnataka. They said that the community will be constrained to reconsider its support to the BJP if it continued to neglect its leaders. “Maratha community has been a strong supporter of Hindutva ideology, and it has not been linked to politics. In fact, the Maratha community has been supporting Hindutva long before the BJP came to power in Karnataka. The BJP should recognise this and reward the community. It should not take our support for granted,’’ KMF director Appa Saheb Awatade, said. Bhau Saheb Jadhav, senior leader, said that the BJP had betrayed the community. Shrimant Patil defected from the Congress to the BJP and helped form the B.S. Yediyurappa government. Mr. Yediyurappa made Mr. Patil a Minister, who performed his duties well. As Textiles Minister, Mr. Patil helped weavers and other crafts persons. The Patil Foundation headed by him helped thousands of poor people during the lockdown. His contribution cannot be forgotten, he said. The community shall not keep quiet if the injustice continues, he said. Leaders of other community organisations such as Sudhakar Bhagat, Bandu Satanure, Bahusab Waghamode and Satish Chouhan were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/maratha-organisations-seek-berth-for-mla-from-their-community/article35848103.ece
11 August 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||‘We will stage a protest if canteen name is changed’||“Changing names of projects and places is the only achievement of Prime Minister Narendra Modi,’’ KPCC working president Satish Jarkiholi said in Belagavi on Monday. He was speaking at an event where Pradeep M.J. took charge as Congress district unit general secretary in the Congress Bhavan. “Changing name plates and boards is the only notable achievement of the Modi government. What else has the government achieved in these seven years?’’ Satish Jarkiholi asked. KPCC president D.K. Shivakumar has said that the party will organise a protest if the State government attempts to change the name of Indira Canteens, the low-cost food outlets. We will not sit quiet if that is even attempted,’’ he said. He was reacting to BJP leader C.T. Ravi’s demand that the eateries named after the former Prime Minister be named after Annapurneshwari, the Goddess of food. “Mr. Ravi keeps making such statements. His desires seldom come true,’’ he said. However, Mr. Jarkiholi said that the BJP will not achieve anything by changing the names of such institutions. “Does the importance of Indira Gandhi reduce if the BJP drops her name? Does that make the poor people forget what all she did for them? No. You may change the name of a university, for example. But does that make the people forget who started the university?’’ he wondered. Member of the Legislative Assembly Laxmi Hebbalkar said that the BJP was more worried about leadership change during the time of floods and epidemic. “People of North Karnataka and Coastal Karnataka are suffering from the ill-effects of the floods. They are yet to get compensation for the loss caused in the previous years. Similarly, the State government has not properly managed the epidemic, ” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/we-will-stage-a-protest-if-canteen-name-is-changed/article35848113.ece
11 August 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Plantation drive||Members of Rotary Club of Belgaum Darpan and Green Saviours NGO participated in a plantation drive in Belagavi on Tuesday. They planted 200 fruit saplings on the Karnataka State Reserve Police premises in Macche near VTU. Club president Pushpa Parvatrao, secretary Soumya Patil, event chair Lakshmi Chavali, Sameer Majali, KSRP battalion Commandant Hamza Hussain and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/plantation-drive/article35848104.ece
11 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Road widening: Work near Tin Factory begins||The Bangalore Metro Rail Corporation Limited (BMRCL) has started demolition work to widen the road located near the hanging bridge at Tin Factory. A majority of the 50 buildings on a one-km stretch from Outer Ring Road (ORR) flyover to K.R. Puram Railway station will be partially demolished, while a few will be razed so that the three-lane road can be widened to five. Work on the right side of the road, from the under construction K.R. Metro Station to the petrol bunk near the Tin Factory foot-over-bridge, has already been completed. BMRCL has to now widen another 500 m of land from the petrol bunk towards ORR flyover. The corporation is spending Rs. 343 crore for the acquisition of 17,000 sq.m of land to compensate owners of the affected structures and rehabilitate tenants. As per the decision taken at the State-government level, BMRCL is widening the road to ease traffic moving towards K.R. Puram, Hoskote, Central Silk Board, and Whitefield on the left side. On the other side of the road, the project will help motorists coming towards Baiyappanahalli and Hebbal. There are plans to build bus bays on either side of the road. The stretch sees heavy traffic and motorists fear that congestion will increase once work begins. The project will facilitate the construction of Jyotipuram metro station, which is part of the extended Purple line from Baiyappanahalli to Whitefield near the Tin Factory. Another elevated line — K.R. Puram to Kempegowda International Airport (KIA) — will also pass through the area towards ORR. Channappa Goudar, general manager (land acquisition), said widening of the road to facilitate metro work was necessary. “It will help traffic flowing from Benniganahalli lake side to K.R. Puram Railway station. We are also widening the road under the bridge by acquiring the parking lot so that more space is available for vehicles moving towards Whitefield and Central Silk Board and those taking U-turn under the bridge.” The foot-over-bridge located at Tin Factory, which is used by hundreds people to cross the busy Old Madras Road is likely to be removed once metro construction work advances. BMRCL is also contemplating shifting it to a new location as once Jyotipuram metro station becomes operational, pedestrians will be allowed to use it to cross the road. Business loss for tenants Tenants renting out commercial properties such as eateries and automobile spare part shops in the area, who have been hit by the pandemic, are hoping that BMRCL will complete the widening work as early as possible. “We were told that the structure in which we are running our business will be partially demolished. We are shifting to a new location just behind the old one. While the road widening project is essential to ease traffic congestion, it is crucial that there are no delays as our livelihood will be impacted,” said Saddam, who sells automobile spare parts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/road-widening-work-near-tin-factory-begins/article35847882.ece
11 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘BBMP can’t levy lake rejuvenation fee and seek labour welfare cess upfront’||The High Court of Karnataka has declared that the Bruhat Bangalore Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) has no power in law to levy lake rejuvenation fee and also cannot demand payment of labour welfare cess upfront while approving building plans. Justice M. Nagaprasanna delivered the verdict while hearing petitions by landowners, real estate developments, and others challenging the BBMP’s bylaws related to levy of building plan, scrutiny, ground rent, and lake rejuvenation fees levied for building plan sanction. “Imposition of lake rejuvenation fee invoking Section 18(1)(A) of the Karnataka Town and Country Planning Act is impermissible as it is imposed by way of a circular dated January 27, 2017,” the court, while pointing out that the Act “not even remotely authorises the BBMP to expressly or impliedly charge or levy lake rejuvenation fee.” “It is to be noticed that lake rejuvenation fee is not imposed in terms of the Act, but on the strength of a circular dated January 27, 2017. When the Act itself is not authorising charge of any fee of the kind that is charged by the BBMP, the circular can hardly generate power to impose such fee,” the court observed. The KTCP Act empowers the planing authority to impose cess for carrying out water supply scheme, a surcharge for formation of ring road, a cess for the purpose of improving slums, a surcharge for establishing mass rapid transport system while grating permission for development of land or building, the court noticed. The court also said that neither the State government nor the BBMP have the power to demand upfront payment of cess under the provisions of the Building and Other Construction Workers’ Welfare Cess Act, 1996, as the Act and the Rules lay down procedure for payment of cess. “It is this Government Order [of February 28, 2007] that is the fly in the ointment as a demand upfront is made by the State through the BBMP for payment of cess. This runs completely counter to the Act and the Rules, which nowhere mandate that payment of labour cess should be paid upfront,” the court said. The court also made it clear that petitioners are not required to pay cess upfront before construction takes place but would not escape such payment as mandated under the Act and as such the demand of cess by the BBMP being valid but only the demand of it upfront is invalid.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bbmp-cant-levy-lake-rejuvenation-fee-and-seek-labour-welfare-cess-upfront/article35847888.ece
11 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||HC: BBMP bylaws contrary to municipal corporations Act||In a judgment that will cause a huge blow to the Bruhat Bangalore Managara Palike’s revenue, the High Court of Karnataka has declared that the bylaws, under which ground rent, licence fee, building licence fee, scrutiny fee, security deposit are being charged for a building plan sanction, are unenforceable, as they are contrary to the provisions of the Karnataka Municipal Corporations Act, 1976. The court also directed the BBMP to refund crores of rupees deposited by petitioners, including several landowners, real estate developers, and others, while applying for building licences, within 12 weeks from the date of receiving representations from the petitioners. However, the court made it clear that the State government or the BBMP are not precluded from bringing in these fees lawfully by making suitable amendments to the Act and the Rules. Justice M. Nagaprasanna delivered the verdict while allowing 140 petitions filed by Sunderam Shetty and others during 2015-2020, questioning the BBMP’s bylaws related to levy of these fees, and the circulars issued in 2015 and 2017, revising these fees linking them to the guidance value of the properties. Pointing out that framing of bylaws is dealt under Sections 295 and 423 of the KMC Act, the court said that nowhere do these sections empower framing of bylaws to impose any of these fees by the corporation. “Imposition of ground rent, linking of licence fee and scrutiny fee to the guidance value are manifestly arbitrary, as the guidance value would vary from place to place...,” the court said, while noticing that the imposition of ground rent, which is being charged for storing construction materials on public places like roads, pavements etc., on constructions on large private properties is arbitrary, as many of them don’t use public properties to store such materials. “Linking guidance value for the same purpose of imposition of ground rent would result in gross arbitrariness and is violative of Article 14 of the Constitution of India. It is these circulars that linked the demand of the impugned levy to the guidance value that left the citizens bleeding and the business houses fleeing,” the court observed, while pointing out that the guidance value, which is determined for ensuring uniform stamp duty, cannot be used for levy of fee for a building plan sanction. At the same time, the court said that it cannot be said that any person, who uses the public property, can use it without payment of any fee. The fee, chargeable for storing materials on the public property, cannot be levied based on guidance value but has to be properly determined after bringing in suitable amendment to the law and not under the by-laws that are now being used to impose such fee, the court said. “Even a rupee cannot be taken from a citizen as fee except in accordance with law,” the court observed, while pointing out from the judgments of the apex court that fee can be charged for special services rendered by the government agency and that fee is supposed to be based on expenses incurred by the government in rendering the services and there should be a reasonable co-relation in service rendered and collection of fee. In BBMP’s case, the fees for grant of building licence are payable to the BBMP for approving construction plan and issuing licence, and an applicant for approval of a plan would submit a blueprint of a plan prepared at his own expense along with no objection and other supporting documents as prescribed in law, the court said, while declining to accept BBMP’s contention that fee is being levied towards expenses for grant of licence and for improvement of the city. The court also noted that BBMP has separate provision to levy betterment/improvement charges.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hc-bbmp-bylaws-contrary-to-municipal-corporations-act/article35847871.ece
11 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||HC asks Centre to respond on State’s plea for vaccine doses||The High Court of Karnataka on Tuesday directed the Union government to respond by August 25 on the State government’s recent request to supply 35 lakh doses of COVID-19 vaccine, so that everone above 18 years in Karnataka can be vaccinated in three months. A Special Division Bench, comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Aravind Kumar, issued the direction while hearing PIL petitions on various issues cropped up due to COVID-19. As the State government, in its action plan to tackle the possible third wave of COVID-19, has proposed to vaccinate all eligible persons at the earliest, the Bench said that action plan has not dealt with the aspect of effectiveness of the two doses of Covaxin and Covishield vaccines. If effectiveness of both the doses of vaccines are for a limited period then there is a necessary to provide additional doses of vaccine, the Bench pointed out.  Meanwhile, the State government has told that Court that 19.7 lakh college students, lecturers and non-teaching staff in the colleges have been vaccinated resulting in covering 84.13% of these groups.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hc-asks-centre-to-respond-on-vaccine-plea/article35847889.ece
11 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Rush to complete college admission process||A day after the Secondary School Leaving Certificate (SSLC) examination results were announced, thousands of students and parents rushed to Pre- University (PU) colleges on Tuesday seeking applications. Although many private unaided colleges had completed provisional admissions even before the results were announced, parents had to complete the official formalities. PU college managements are expecting a higher demand for courses as all the students who appeared for the SSLC examination have been deemed pass. With so many students scoring high marks as the pattern of the question paper had been changed, the cut-off marks too are expected to soar. As per the data provided by the Department of Pre-University Education as many as 12 lakh seats are available at colleges across the State. The department has said that colleges can seek to increase the number of seats if they have the necessary infrastructure.  The DPUE has released admission guidelines for first year PU courses. The last date for admissions without a penal fee is August 31. Students can complete the admission formalities between September 1 and 11, but have to pay a penal fee of Rs. 670. Thereafter, students can pay a special penal fee of Rs. 2,890 if they want to be admitted in colleges, till September 25.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rush-to-complete-admission-process/article35847891.ece
11 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Role of police force in preventing third wave||Reminding the police about their important role in handling the pandemic, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai said action needs to be taken to prevent a possible third wave of COVID-19. “Precautions have to be taken in border districts and inspection at border check-posts will be mandatory. Senior officers will have to work more responsibly,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/role-of-police-force-in-preventing-third-wave/article35847902.ece
11 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Techie’s collection of animal pelts, tusks seized||Officials of the forest mobile squad and the city police on Sunday raided the house of a software engineer in J.P. Nagar and recovered a huge collection of animal pelts and ornamental articles made from bones and skin of wildlife and marine life. The team raided the house of Pawan Kumar, 34, in KSRTC Layout and seized trophies such as deer skin and horns, tiger claws, necklaces, rings, combs, bracelets, carrom strikers, beads and dice made from elephant tusks, various types of conches, porcupine quills, a walking stick made from camel bone, tortoise shells, kangaroo pelts, corals, seahorse, and shark teeth. “The accused is a software engineer working for a multinational IT company. He claimed it was his hobby to collect rare artifacts and had purchased many of them online and sourced some from other countries. He also claimed that some of it had belonged to his grandfather Chikkaraja, who had worked with the royal family of Mysuru,” said Deputy Conservator of Forests Gangadhar G.A. The accused has been remanded in judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/techies-collection-of-animal-pelts-tusks-seized/article35847906.ece
11 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Authority proposed for maintenance of arterial, sub-arterial roads||After a separate board was constituted to handle solid waste management, the government is thinking of constituting another authority for the maintenance of 860 km of arterial and sub-arterial roads in the city. This was one of the discussion points at a meeting on Bengaluru’s development chaired by Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Tuesday. The meeting was attended by city MLAs, Ministers and officials from various civic agencies, including Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP), Bangalore Water Supply and Sewerage Board (BWSSB), Bengaluru Metro Rail Corporation Ltd (BMRCL). A release from the CM’s office stated that the board would also be responsible for tackling congestion issues on these thoroughfares. However, no formal decision has yet been taken in this regard. Officials also discussed bringing the BBMP under the purview of the Karnataka Local Fund Authorities Fiscal Responsibility Act, 2003. This will ensure that only projects that are implementable within the budgetary allocations are planned and taken up. Ongoing works Mr. Bommai directed officials to expedite all ongoing works and ensure they are completed in a time-bound manner with no room for corruption. Civic agencies must work as a team for the city’s development and take into confidence the elected representatives, he said, while reiterating that development programmes and projects chalked out by former Chief Minister B.S. Yeddiyurappa would be continued. Streetlights The BBMP was also directed to convert at least 3 lakh streetlights to LED lights by the year-end, besides taking up immediate repairs of roads damaged by the rains. Officials have to submit project proposals by October to be taken up under the third phase of the CM’s Nagarothana Scheme. Smart City projects He also told the officials to expedite all Smart City projects that were in the last stages, apart from work on eight different flyovers that are under various stages of completion. While stating that a separate meeting would be held to discuss stormwater drains, the Chief Minister directed the BWSSB to take up repairs and maintenance of the 8,000 borewells in the 110 villages in BBMP limits.  Other highlights Discussions on bringing BBMP under the purview of the Karnataka Local Fund Authorities Fiscal Responsibility Act, 2003 Development projects chalked out by former Chief Minister B.S. Yeddiyurappa to be continued Convert at least 3 lakh streetlights into LED lights by the year-end Immediate repairs of roads damaged by the rains BWSSB directed to take up repairs and maintenance of 8,000 borewells in the 110 villages in BBMP limits||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/authority-proposed-for-maintenance-of-arterial-sub-arterial-roads/article35847876.ece
11 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Begur lake statue: Activists allege harassment||Environmentalist Leo Saldana and others who had petitioned the HC over the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike’s (BBMP) ‘development’ of the 137.24-acre Begur Lake alleged that they are being threatened by right-wing activists. Mr. Saldanha, one of the petitioners in the case, told The Hindu that he has been labelled ‘anti-national’. The BBMP, which had taken up development of the lake that was once a cesspool of industrial effluents and sewage, built an island and installed a statue of Shiva here. In August 2019, the HC stayed the inauguration of the project and pulled up civic officials for reducing the lake area. However, the tarpaulin around the statue was removed by locals, and videos of locals seeking completion of the work, and giving the stay a communal tinge, have been circulating on social media. A public statement issued jointly by CIVIC Bangalore, Citizens for Bengaluru, and Campaign Against Hate Speech, along with scores of citizens, stated: “Various communal statements were also made against the petitioners, in particular Leo Saldanha. This was followed by more videos by others, and posters were also circulated in which serious threats were issued against anyone who came in the way of the Hindutva project. All this has happened under the direct gaze of the local police, BBMP officials and other officials.” In March this year, the court also gave the BBMP two weeks to make its stand clear on the erection of the statue on the island. BBMP senior officials, who spoke to The Hindu on condition of anonymity, said that no decision had yet been taken on action against miscreants who had removed the tarpaulin shroud. “We only got to know that it had been removed following the videos on social media. We are following the court’s directions and have stopped all work on the lake,” an official maintained.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/begur-lake-statue-activists-allege-harassment/article35847878.ece
11 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Youth falls to death while trying to trap pigeon||A 19-year-old lost his footing from the fourth floor of a building and died while allegedly attempting to trap pigeons in Sanjaynagar on Monday night. The deceased, Umar Farooq, was a resident of Bhoopasandra and worked as a food delivery executive. According to the police, Umar loved pigeons and was taking care of many of the birds near his house. His friends told the police that he went to an apartment where a lot of pigeons roosted with the aim of catching one and bringing it back home. The Sanjaynagar police registered a case of unnatural death.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/youth-falls-to-death-while-trying-to-trap-pigeon/article35847883.ece
11 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||CCB seizes 80 kg of sperm whale ambergris||The Central Crime Branch (CCB) police on Tuesday arrested a gang of five who were allegedly attempting to smuggle sperm whale ambergris worth Rs. 80 crore. Ambergris, produced in the digestive system of sperm whales and often called floating gold, is extremely rare, commanding exorbitant rates as it is used in the fragrance industry. A kilogram of the substance can sell for as much as Rs. 1 crore in the international market. The police team seized 80 kg of ambergris from the accused, who have been identified as Majeeb Pasha, 48, Mohammed Munna, 45, Gulab Chand, 40, and Santosh, 31, all residents of Bengaluru. The fifth gang member, Jagannathachar, 52, is a resident of Raichur. “They procured the ambergris from their sources in Mangaluru and were trying to sell it to their customers in the city,” said a senior police officer. Along with the ambergris, the CCB team also seized two antique items from the gang: a steam fan with the label of East India Company dating back to 1818 and two red mercury copper cups also from the East India Company. “On Sunday, the team received credible information that the accused who had smuggled ambergris, were trying to sell it in RMK Enterprise in Bagalagunte police station limits. Following this information, we conducted a raid and nabbed the accused,” said the police. Concern Senior police officials have raised concerns over the smuggling of ambergris. In June this year, the KG Halli police had arrested four people for selling 6.7 kg of ambergris, valued at Rs. 8 crore. Ambergris is used in high-end perfumes. It is brownish in colour, and has a solid and waxy substance. As sperm whales come under Schedule 2 of the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972, it is illegal to possess or trade in any of its byproducts in the country, said the CCB.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ccb-seizes-80-kg-of-sperm-whale-ambergris-worth-rs-80-crore/article35847886.ece
11 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Panel to be appointed to draft Kannada Book Policy||A new committee will be appointed to frame a new book policy, taking into account new media platforms for the holistic development of the Kannada book industry, Kannada Book Authority chairman M.N. Nandish Hanche said. According to a release, addressing a preliminary meeting of panel members for the drafting of Kannada Book Policy on Tuesday, he said e-books, audiobooks, and Internet book publishing have changed the nature of the industry. This makes it imperative to caste the policy in a new mould, he said. The chief adviser will be critic Narahalli Balasubramanya and writer Vasudhendra will be one of the members.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/panel-to-be-appointed-to-draft-kannada-book-policy/article35847901.ece
11 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Webinar series focuses on anti-federalism aspects of NEP||Samudaya Karnataka, a cultural organisation, is holding a series of webinars on the New Education Policy, 2020, with the argument that it is inimical to the idea of federalism. It has held three sessions so far. In the latest edition held earlier this week, it discussed how though education is on the concurrent list, NEP had been pushed forward with no consultation and it is a ruse to privatise the sector further. Speaking at the webinar, Leader of Opposition Siddaramaiah called for withdrawal of NEP and said it would eventually destroy the multi-cultural and multi-linguistic aspect of the Indian ethos. YSV Datta of JD(S) said increasing the duration of degree course from three to four years would hit the poor and disadvantaged sections hard. Culture critic Purushotham Bilimale questioned how allocation in education would be scaled up to 6% when it is currently no more than 2%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/webinar-series-focuses-on-anti-federalism-aspects-of-nep/article35847899.ece
11 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||1,338 new COVID-19 cases in State||Karnataka on Tuesday reported 1,338 cases of COVID-19, taking the total infections to 29,21,049. At 378, Dakshina Kannada recorded the maximum number of cases in the State, followed by Bengaluru Urban district (315). With 31 deaths, the toll rose to 36,848. As many as 1,947 people were discharged on Tuesday. With this, the total recoveries stands in the State at 28,61,499.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/1338-new-covid-19-cases-in-state/article35847893.ece
11 August 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||PNB inaugurates digital banking outlet||PNB@ease, a digital banking outlet of Punjab National Bank, was inaugurated on Monday on M.G. Road. The PNB@ease outlet will be loaded with five KIOSKS such as ATM, bulk note acceptor, account opening KIOSK, online cheque deposit KIOSK, and Internet-enabled KIOSK.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/pnb-inaugurates-digital-banking-outlet/article35847884.ece
11 August 2021||Bengaluru/Mysuru,KARNATAKA||KSE makes controversial remark again, expresses regret||Rural Development and Panchayat Raj Minister K.S. Eshwarappa landed in controversy again on Tuesday by using an unparliamentary word while describing Congress leaders who had taken exception to his remarks on Sunday that BJP workers when attacked will face the adversary “with the same stick and take two for one”. He, however, expressed regret over using the word and asked people not to “make an issue” of it. He had used the word after senior Congress leaders Ramalinga Reddy and B.K. Hariprasad had said that some of Mr. Eshwarappa’s virulent articulations stemmed from his frustration over not being made Deputy Chief Minister, let alone Chief Minister, and he was behaving like a “joker”. Siddaramaiah hits out Speaking at Mysuru, former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah hit out at the Minister for his “irresponsible” and “culture-less” statements against Congress leaders. He said one cannot expect anything better from Mr. Eshwarappa, but he should bear in mind that he is part of the government. ‘Petty’ politics At the press conference in Bengaluru, Mr. Reddy and Mr. Hariprasad had also attacked the ruling BJP governments at the Centre and State saying they are indulging in politics as “name changers and not game changers” and asked the Karnataka government not to get into “petty politics” with its attempt to rename Indira Canteens, named after former Prime Minister Indira Gandhi. Soon after renaming the Rajiv Gandhi Khel Ratna Award, India’s highest sporting honour, after Dhyan Chand by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, BJP general secretary C.T. Ravi asked Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai to rechristen Indira Canteens as ‘Annapoorneshwari Canteens’. The flagship programme was launched by the previous Siddaramaiah-led Congress government to provide ready-to-eat food to economically-disadvantaged people in the State. The Congress leaders sought to know if Mr. Modi was a cricket player to rename the Sardar Patel Stadium in Motera, Ahmedabad, as the Narendra Modi Stadium and said that days would not be far away when names of stadiums and schemes would be named after BJP leaders.  Rural Development and Panchayat Raj Minister K.S. Eshwarappa had on Sunday said that when attacked, BJP workers will face the adversary “with the same stick and take two for one”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kse-makes-controversial-remark-again-expresses-regret/article35847904.ece
11 August 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Campaign against corruption||The Karnataka Rashtra Samiti, a political party led by Ravi Krishna Reddy,recently began a 32-day Statewide campaign urging the corrupt to quit politics at Esuru in Shikaripur taluk. The party chose Esuru to launch the campaign honouring the residents of the village who sacrificed their lives after taking part in the Quit India Movement in 1942. Activist S.R. Hiremath, writer D.S. Nagabhushan, poet Savita Nagabhushan and others flagged off the campaign. Mr. Hiremath, speaking on the occasion, said the campaign was necessary to spread awareness among the public about corruption in politics. A group of KRS members will travel across 31 districts in 32 days on bikes. They will visit government offices and spread awareness among the public about their rights and duties and appeal to them to fight corruption. Ravi Krishna Reddy and other office-bearers of the party are leading the campaign, which will end at Tumakuru on September 8, said a press release issued by the party.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/campaign-against-corruption/article35848324.ece
11 August 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Farmers slam move to table Electricity (Amendment) Bill||Farmers hit the streets in Shivamogga, Hassan, and Chikkamagaluru on Tuesday opposing the draft Electricity (Amendment) Bill, 2021. Terming the Bill anti-people, the protesters said the Union government had proposed to privatise production of power and its distribution, and such measures would help the private companies, leaving residential and agricultural consumers with losses. Members of the Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha staged a dharna in front of the Deputy Commissioner’s office Shivamogga. H.R. Basavarajappa, general secretary of the forum, said the Centre has been bringing in anti-people and anti-farmer policies. He added that the proposed Bill would also bring in drastic changes to power production and distribution. “The private players will give priority to industrial and commercial users of power, ignoring the residential and agricultural consumers,” he said. Farmers staged a protest in Hassan under the leadership of KRRS State vice-president Anekere Ravi. Addressing the gathering, Mr. Ravi said the BJP would pay a heavy price if it went ahead with the privatisation of energy production. He said the government should look into the theft of power by influential people and industrialists. The protesters submitted a memorandum to the Deputy Commissioner. In Chikkamagaluru, farmers, under the leadership of D.R. Duggappa Gowda and Dayakar, submitted a memorandum to the Deputy Commissioner against the proposed Bill. They claimed that once private companies are allowed to play a major role in the energy sector, the consumers would have to pay the bills in advance to get services. They urged the Centre not to table the Bill in Parliament.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/farmers-slam-move-to-table-electricity-amendment-bill/article35848330.ece
11 August 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Two arrested for murder in Shivamogga district||The Shivamogga police on Monday arrested two people on the charge of murdering a youngster following a squabble in Kote police limits in the city. The arrested are Ajgar Khan, 21, of Tank Mohalla, and Athik Pasha, 36, of Ragi Gudda in the town. The accused allegedly murdered Rahil, 21, of Bapuji Nagar in Shivamogga. Rahil had a squabble with the accused on Sunday night. While he was riding his bike, he accidentally hit a cyclist belonging to Ajgar’s family. Following this, Ajgar and his uncle Athik developed a grudge against Rahil. They spotted Rahil on Monday in Tank Mohalla and stopped him. Following a heated argument, the accused attacked Rahil with a knife. He eventually succumbed to his injuries. Kote police have registered a case under IPC Section 302.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/two-arrested-for-murder-in-shivamogga-district/article35848337.ece
11 August 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Miffed Preetham Gowda meets Chief Minister||Preetham J. Gowda, Hassan MLA, who recently hit the headlines after finding fault with Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai meeting former Prime Minister H.D. Deve Gowda of the JD(S), met the former in Bengaluru on Tuesday to convey the sentiments of people of his constituency. Speaking to presspersons after the meeting, Mr. Preetham Gowda said he discussed with Mr. Bommai and Revenue Minister R. Ashok various issues concerning party workers in Hassan in particular and the Old Mysore region. “I have discussed with him the development of Hassan city and conveyed the feelings of party workers in Hassan. The Chief Minister has assured that no party workers in Hassan or old Mysuru region would be let down,” he said. Earlier in the day, senior Minister V. Somanna had taken objection to Mr. Preetham Gowda’s statement on the CM’s meeting with Mr. Deve Gowda and said there was nothing wrong in meeting the senior leader who had 50 years of experience in politics. He went on to say that that Mr. Preetham Gowda was “not yet born when he became the Minister”. Reacting to this, Mr. Preetham Gowda said there was no need for Mr. Somanna to intervene on the issue. “I don’t know if Mr. Somanna has been in politics since the period of Hoysalas,” he said sarcastically.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/miffed-preetham-gowda-meets-chief-minister/article35847900.ece
11 August 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Construction workers stage protest||Members of the Hassan district unit of Karnataka State Construction Workers’ Central Union staged a protest here on Tuesday urging the Chief Minister to cancel the membership of non-construction workers enrolled with the Construction Workers’ Welfare Board. The protesters said the board had over 23 lakh workers registered. However, during the lockdown on account of the COVID-19 pandemic, four lakh people more got enrolled. Many people working in different sectors — such as factory employees, auto and cab drivers, hotel workers, and farmers — have enrolled with the board, they said. The board should constitute a vigilance wing and review the list of workers enrolled and cancel the enrolment of non-construction workers, they demanded. The protesters said the board had not yet cleared the applications seeking financial assistance for marriage, medical treatment, and educational purposes. The board should clear the applications before the end of August, the protesters said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/construction-workers-stage-protest/article35848338.ece
11 August 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||‘Lack of awareness main reason for atrocities on children’||Chairman of the Karnataka State Commission for Child Rights Protection Anthony Sebastian has said that parents, guardians, officials and society in general should take up the responsibility of ensuring that no children are deprived of their legitimate facilities and rights. Chairing a progress review meeting on child rights and PoCSO Act, Child Marriage Prevention Act, and RTE at the zilla panchayat hall in Dharwad on Tuesday, Mr. Sebastian said that due to lack of awareness on child rights and laws protecting them, atrocities on children are taking place in society. He said that there is a dire need for sensitising people and also children on the rights of children and officials should conduct extensive sensitisation programmes through workshops and training programmes starting from the gram panchayat level. Various government schemes have been implemented, programmes initiated and laws enacted for ensuring the overall personality development of children and to shape their career, he said. Pointing out that officials too lacked proper knowledge on Child Marriage Prevention Act, RTE and Child Labour Prevention Act, Mr. Sebastian said that this has indirectly helped anti-social elements in engaging children in hazardous jobs in factories. He emphasised the need for officials to update themselves and understand the nuances of the various laws that are enacted to protect children. Referring to funds released for conducting surveys on children and teenagers working in various areas, he said that officials should visit every village and conduct surveys. He also asked the Deputy Director of Public Instruction to make a list of schools that lack drinking water supply, toilet and other basic amenities and submit it to the commission. Mentioning that all steps have been taken for protecting child rights, Deputy Commissioner of Dharwad Nitesh Patil said that several minor girls have been rescued from child marriages and are being provided free education after their rehabilitation. He said that there are 31 Child Care Centres in the district that were actively involved in children’s programmes. He said that these centres were regularly being monitored by officials. And, if it was found that the funds are being misused, then the licence of such centres will be cancelled. CEO of Zilla Panchayat B. Susheela told the meeting that awareness programmes are being held at the gram panchayat level and steps have been taken to provide drinking water facility to every school under Jal Jivan Mission. Deputy Commissioner of Police K. Ramrajan, members of the commission Ashok Yaragatti, Parashuram M.L., Bharathi S.W., Jayasree and others were present. On the occasion, awareness posters were released. Earlier, Mr. Sebastian inaugurated the regional office of the commission set up at the Vartha Bhavan in Dharwad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/lack-of-awareness-main-reason-for-atrocities-on-children/article35848108.ece
11 August 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Protest against Electricity (Amendment) Bill 2021||Opposing the Electricity (Amendment) Bill 2021 and moves to privatise the energy sector, a demonstration was staged in front of the head office of Hubballi Electricity Supply Company (HESCOM) in Hubballi on Tuesday. The protest was in response to a call given by AITUC-affiliated All India Powermen’s Federation (AIPF), for All India Protest Day against the Bill terming it an effort to privatise the power sector. Addressing the protestors, Gangadhar Badiger of ESCOM Employees Association said that already protests are being staged across the nation against the new farm laws and Electricity (Amendment) Bill. The workers, farmers and the general public are vehemently opposing the these new laws which are being implemented with the sole intention of helping the corporate sector, he said. He mentioned that because of the united fight of the employees of the power sector, the tabling of the new Bill has been withheld by the Union government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/protest-against-electricity-amendment-bill-2021/article35848110.ece
11 August 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||‘Land acquisition proposal for industrial corridor unscientific’||Opposing the process initiated to acquire farmland in 14 villages in Dharwad district for the Bengaluru-Mumbai Industrial Corridor Project, the former Minister and Congress leader Santosh Lad has termed the land acquisition proposal unscientific. He said that it was more of a real estate business. Addressing presspersons in Dharwad recently after staging a protest in front of the Deputy Commissioner’s office, Mr. Lad questioned the rationale behind fresh land acquisition when thousands of acres of land already acquired for facilitating industrial development was lying unused. Mr. Lad said that in Dharwad district itself, the KIADB has acquired 10,000 acres of land for the purpose of attracting major industries, of which none has come through so far. “When there is enough land available, what is the need for further acquisition. The government is speaking about creating land banks, which appeared more like a real estate business,” he said. The former Kalghatgi MLA said that real estate developers have already started approaching farmers in the 14 villages where land acquisition notice is being issued. Without any demand from industries, land is being acquired. “There is a Supreme Court order against acquiring fertile land. Hence, the government should immediately stop the process of acquiring 5,000 acres in 14 villages,” he urged. Regarding the development of Indirammana Kere, which has been pending for long, he said that despite repeated pleas to ensure the development of the tank, particularly to prevent breach during the rainy season, the government has ignored the people’s demand. Now, because of the delay, around 800 people had to be shifted because of the breach. And, crops in hundreds of acres were damaged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/land-acquisition-proposal-for-industrial-corridor-unscientific/article35848114.ece
11 August 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||SBR School student brings laurels to his institution||Vedanth R. Patil of Sharnbasveshwar (SBR) Residential Public School has brought laurels to the institution by securing the highest marks of 618 (98.88%) out of 625 in the school in the SSLC examination, the results of which were declared on Monday. Vedanth Patil scored 100 in four subjects (Kannada, Mathematics, Science and Social). Speaking to The Hindu over phone, he attributed his academic success to his parents, teachers and the institution. He said that tuitions and lockdown period helped them prepare well for the exams. Sahebgouda M. Police Patil was the second topper for the institution by securing 616 marks (98.56%), while Aditya Babalad and Sneha Sedamkar secured 615 marks (98.40%) each. As many as 61 students scored 100 marks in Kannada language, 49 students in Hindi language, 12 students in Science, 11 students in Maths and 14 students scored 100 marks in Science. Of the total 551 students who appeared for the examinations in the institution, 208 students secured above 85% and 314 have scored between 60% and 84% marks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/sbr-school-student-brings-laurels-to-his-institution/article35848106.ece
11 August 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||‘Unscientific statements’ by BJP leaders reason for slow pace of vaccination: Priyank||Attributing the slow-going vaccination campaign against COVID-19 to what he called “unscientific statements” by BJP leaders, Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee spokesperson and MLA from Chittapur Priyank Kharge has said that innocent people did not show interest in vaccination as many BJP leaders had claimed that consumption of cow urine and applying cow dung will cure COVID-19. “Many BJP leaders went on to claim that consumption of cow urine and applying cow dung on the skin will cure COVID-19. These unscientific statements misled the people and discouraged them to opt for vaccination against COVID-19. This is one of the major reasons for the disinterest among people in COVID-19 vaccination and the resultant set-back to the vaccination drive,” Mr. Kharge said in a statement here on Tuesday. As a corrective measure that could undo the blunder committed by the BJP leaders and encourage people to increasingly opt for vaccination, Mr. Kharge suggested that the government announce a special incentive of Rs. 25 lakh to those gram panchayats that achieved 100% vaccination of targeted groups in their jurisdiction. “Such an incentive will encourage people in the rural areas to get vaccinated. The amount could be used for the development of the villages. I am ready to spend money from my Member of Legislative Assembly Local Area Development Fund for the purpose,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/unscientific-statements-by-bjp-leaders-reason-for-slow-pace-of-vaccination/article35848116.ece
11 August 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Stray dogs attack four children||Four children playing on the street outside their houses received serious injuries after being attacked by stray dogs in the Muslim Chowk locality in Kalaburagi on Tuesday. The dogs attacked a two-year-old boy causing injuries in his legs and arms. They also attacked two other boys causing injuries on their hand and shoulder. Meanwhile, they ate a portion of the skin in the head of a four-year-old child. All the victims have been admitted to the Gulbarga Institute of Medical Sciences Hospital. Residents said that the Kalaburagi City Corporation has failed in controlling the street dog menace and urged the corporation to intensify animal birth control and anti-rabies vaccination programmes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/stray-dogs-attack-four-children/article35848107.ece
11 August 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Jindal Vidya Mandir students do well||Jindal Vidya Mandir in Ballari district achieved 100% pass in Class X and Class XII CBSE Board examinations. In the Class X examination, Sumeed S.S. topped the school by securing 98.8% followed by Jayeeta J. Joshi with 96.8%. The third place was shared by Pragna Yanamadala and Smaranika Sahoo who both scored 96%. In the Science stream of Class XII, Tamojeet Roy Chowdhury bagged the first place with 98.2% and Harsha Bhat the second place with 97.4%. The third place was shared by Tisha Rani and Sindhu N. who both scored 95.6%. In the Commerce stream of Class XII, Vikas Rawat secured the first place with 95.6%. K. Karthik Reddy with 90.8% and K. Keerthi with 90.6% bagged the second and third places, respectively.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/jindal-vidya-mandir-students-do-well/article35848100.ece
11 August 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Konkan Rly. does a volte-face, seeks more coaches now||Konkan Railway Corporation Ltd. (KRCL) that had sought cancellation of the Bengaluru-Karwar-Bengaluru overnight express based on calculation of reduced occupancy during COVID-19 second wave has now sought five extra coaches for the same train saying that occupancy is more than 100%. On April 19, KRCL wrote to the Railway Ministry seeking cancellation of several trains on its network, including the Bengaluru-Karwar overnight express, now named Panchaganga, and the Yeshwantpur-Karwar day express. It said, “It is observed that the occupancy of special trains has reduced drastically during the period from April 20, 2021 to May 20, 2021 due to surge in COVID-19 positive cases.” While the occupancy on the night train was below 17%, that on the day train was 1%, it told the Ministry then. As against KRCL’s letter, the occupancy on Bengaluru-Karwar overnight express special had been over 80% during the second wave lockdown with the South Western Railway asking the Ministry not to cancel the service. The day train, however, was partially cancelled between Mangaluru Junction and Karwar. On August 6, KRCL wrote to South Western Railway saying that occupancy on both up and down services was more than 100% in July and the existing 14 coaches on the train were insufficient to handle rush. The demand was increasing and hence, five more coaches may be added, it told South Western Railway. “For the first time in the history of KRCL, it has offered something unbelievable for Karnataka passengers,” said Rajeev Gaonkar, secretary of Railway Seva Samithi, Uttara Kannada. “We are happy with the existing service and whoever does not get train accommodation, will travel by bus,” he added. If more coaches are added on the train, its timetable will be affected and the journey hours will get extended, from 14 hours. The Shiribagilu Railway Station on the Sakleshpur-Subrahmanya Road Ghat stretch where trains are allowed to cross on the single-track section now can accommodate only a 15-coach train. More coaches means the trains have to be allowed to cross elsewhere entailing their detention thus extending journey hours, Mr. Gaonkar said. Kundapura Rail Prayanikara Hitharakshana Samithi president Ganesh Puthran said that KRCL’s gesture was an eyewash to divert the demand for reintroduction of the Yeshwantpur-Karwar day train. Instead of resorting to such gimmicks, KRCL should reintroduce the cancelled service that is now running with Vistadome coaches between Yeshwantpur and Mangaluru Junction, he said. If KRCL feels that there is so much demand, let it introduce one more train between Bengaluru and Karwar; but let it not meddle with the existing service, Mr. Gaonkar added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/konkan-rly-does-a-volte-face-seeks-more-coaches-now/article35848292.ece
11 August 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||MUDA takes up work to rejuvenate Moily Kere||The Mangaluru Urban Development Authority (MUDA) has undertaken rejuvenation of another tank in the city and this time, it is the Moily Kere at Shettibettu in Bolara. Mangaluru South MLA D. Vedavyas Kamath, Mayor Premananda Shetty, MUDA Chairman Ravishankar Mijar and others laid the foundation stone for the rejuvenation of Moily Kere here on Saturday. MUDA has earmarked Rs. 50 lakh for the work. Mr. Kamath said that the administration has planned rejuvenating lost water bodies across Mangaluru to increase the groundwater table. Rejuvenation of lakes and tanks that were full of life once is a part of this endeavour, he said. The funds provided by MUDA will be utilised for the complete overhaul of the Moily Kere, he added. Mr. Mijar said that the MLA had sought the assistance of MUDA for tank and lake rejuvenation works. The authority is working on his proposal and has already sanctioned funds for some. While the administration will rejuvenate lost water bodies, it is the responsibility of the general public to maintain them in good condition, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/muda-takes-up-work-to-rejuvenate-moily-kere/article35848288.ece
11 August 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||All attempts to create communal tension should be foiled: SDPI||The Social Democratic Party of India will not allow the Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) to misuse the recent arrest of the family members of the former MLA and poet late B.M. Idinabba by the National Investigation Agency in Ullal and create communal tension in the region, president of SDPI Dakshina Kannada district unit A.M. Ataullah said on Tuesday. In a statement here, Mr. Ataullah said that NIA is still investigating the IS link to some family members of late Idinabba and if it is found true, then the accused will undergo necessary imprisonment. It was improper for the VHP to use this incident to tarnish the whole Muslim community, he said. Mr. Ataullah was reacting to VHP Mangaluru divisional secretary Sharan Pumpwell’s call to VHP activists to display placards in Ullal on Wednesday to condemn the support expressed by Idinabba’s family members to IS. Mr. Pumpwell had also called upon Muslim religious leaders to stop their youths from indulging in Love Jihad. The SDPI leader said that Mr. Pumpwell has not spoken a word about the involvement of several Hindus in anti-national activities. Asking people not to fall prey to the words of Mr. Pumpwell, Mr. Ataullah said that all attempts to create communal tension should be foiled.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/all-attempts-to-create-communal-tension-should-be-foiled-sdpi/article35848299.ece
11 August 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Ban on liquor sale in border areas causing huge loss: merchants||The Dakshina Kannada District Wine Merchants Association on Monday urged Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra to review his order closing liquor shops on Karnataka-Kerala border till August 15 to contain the spread of COVID-19. Office-bearers of the association met Dr. Rajendra at his office and submitted a memorandum under the leadership of R. Dhanraj. Another office-bearer Louis J. Pinto said that licence holders of liquor shops who have paid advance licence fee to the Excise Department have been suffering huge loss following the order to close the liquor shops for a long period of time. Ban on sale of Indian-made liquor in the border areas on the premise that COVID-19 will spread due to people visiting from neighbouring Kerala has resulted in liquor being sold in black. People are forced to buy liquor at double the price, he said and added that the administration has failed to prevent black marketing of liquor. With some lodges being allowed to sell liquor to guests, they are indulging in diverting liquor to the black market. Due to all these, licence holders who have been functioning legally are made to suffer huge loss, the association said. The association has also said that the order to close down liquor shops during festivals and processions too was affecting licence holders. It will be prudent to close liquor shops a few hours before such processions, it said. Association president M. Ganesh, general secretary C.N. Appachchu and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ban-on-liquor-sale-in-border-areas-causing-huge-loss-merchants/article35848289.ece
11 August 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Maggi Pustaka to aid basic teaching at home||In an effort to draw children away from gadgets and enable parents to train their wards in basic language and mathematical concepts, the office of Karkala Block Education Officer has brought out a pictorial booklet, Maneye Modala Paatashale Maggi Pustaka, for the over 7,000 students in Classes 1 to 3 in the taluk. Apart from alphabets in Kannada, English, Tulu and Hindi, this booklet gives information about 1-100 numerals in Kannada, English and Hindi. The booklet contains multiplication tables till 20; days of the week in English and Kannada; names of months in English, Kannada and Tulu; shapes of objects and pictures of animals, birds and plants. To make it interesting, the booklet has some moral stories, daily workout that children can do, home remedies for simple ailments and hand washing techniques. It has a song about Karkala, the well-known names of Karkala taluk, the State and national anthems. In the introduction, Karkala MLA and Energy, Kannada and Culture Minister V. Sunil Kumar, who has brought out the booklet, said that it has been brought out to enable parents do the basic teaching at home. “We grew up in the days when our parents made us say slokas, taught us multiplication tables and told us moral stories after our return from schools. This old style ingraining life lessons at home is important when schools are yet to start physical classes,” he said. The former Karkala BEO G.S. Shashidhar, who was actively involved in bringing out the booklet, said that the booklet is product of the efforts made by 41 teachers of Udupi district. They worked between May and July to bring out the booklet early this month. “We have made some changes to the traditional Maggi Pustaka to make it relevant to today’s children,” he said. Among the teachers involved in bringing out the booklet include Kamal Ahmed from the Government Secondary School, Shivapura, Udupi district, who designed the cover page. Commending the effort in releasing the new Maggi Pustaka, Professor of Education, Government College of Teachers Education, Mangaluru, H. Kumaraswamy that said parents should be provided guidelines for effective use of the booklet. “Rather than rote learning, children should have fun in using this booklet that deals with basic reading and counting skills,” he said. Mr. Sunil Kumar told The Hindu that there is a good demand for Maggi Pustaka. “The first set of booklets have been distributed. I have ordered for additional booklets and they will be distributed shortly,” he said and added that he will wait for the outcome of this effort before suggesting it for State-wide implementation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/maggi-pustaka-to-aid-basic-teaching-at-home/article35848286.ece
11 August 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||We’ll make efforts to project Kannada culture in its true sense: Sunil Kumar||Minister for Energy, Kannada and Culture V. Sunil Kumar said here on Monday that in a situation when there is a general feeling that the State Department of Kannada and Culture is being influenced by Left ideologies, he, as a Minister, will make efforts to project Kannada culture in its true sense. Addressing Bharatiya Janata Party activists after receiving felicitations at the party’s district office here, Mr. Kumar said that the party has given responsibility to an ordinary party worker like him to handle two important portfolios. “Obviously, the expectations are high. I will try my best to meet your expectations and bring positive changes in the two departments,” he said. Mr. Kumar said that he will continue to speak aloud about Hindutva and its virtues. Making him a Minister, Mr. Kumar said, showed the way the party respects a worker and grooms him to serve people. It was in March 2004 when he was on on electricity pole as part of making lighting arrangements for an RSS event in Chikkamagaluru that he got a call from a BJP functionary that he will be the party candidate from Karkala. “Incidentally, I am now handling Energy portfolio,” he said. In the last three terms as MLA from Karkala, Mr. Kumar said that he has obtained many welfare schemes for his Assembly constituency. Mr. Kumar said that he will work with senior Ministers S. Angara and Kota Srinivas Poojary and Union Minister of State Shobha Karandlaje in addressing issues related to Dakshina Kannada and Udupi. Dakshina Kannada district BJP president Sudharshan Moodbidri recalled the days he worked along with Mr. Kumar in the Bajrang Dal. He said that it was the dedicated work of Mr. Kumar as a legislator that led him to be appointed as Minister in the Basavaraj Bommai Cabinet. He told Mr. Kumar that there is a need to bring the Kannada and Culture Department on the right track. Member of Legislative Council Pratapsimha Nayak felicitated Mr. Kumar. Mangaluru City South MLA D. Vedavyas Kamath and Mayor Premanand Shetty were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/well-make-efforts-to-project-kannada-culture-in-its-true-sense-sunil-kumar/article35848291.ece
11 August 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Door-to-door survey||Udupi City Municipal Council will carry out a door-to-door survey to identify school dropouts and those who have completely remained away from schools, from August 11 to August 17. People have been requested to cooperate with the surveyors by furnishing the required information and by showing relevant documents sought for during the survey, the Municipal Commissioner has said in a release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/door-to-door-survey/article35848295.ece
11 August 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Robosoft Technologies to sell 100% stake to TechnoPro Holdings||Shareholders of Robosoft Technologies, a provider of digital transformation solutions for enterprises based out of Udupi, on Tuesday announced the signing of a definitive agreement with TechnoPro Holdings Inc. for the sale of 100% stake in the company. A release from Robosoft said that the company will continue to be led by its current management team, headed by Chief Executive Officer Ravi Teja Bommireddipalli, who is also being elevated as Managing Director and CEO. Robosoft is a full-service digital transformation company, with its mission to simplify lives. The company offers end-to-end solutions in product advisory, design, engineering and analytics. With over two decades of experience in digital platform development, the company is uniquely placed to have witnessed dramatic shifts in the digital world. Robosoft has been instrumental in bringing alive technologies which have changed the way consumers engaged online. TechnoPro Holdings in its website disclosure said that the total cost of acquisition was Rs. 805 crore. It said that the purchase price was agreed upon due diligence performed by outside experts and assessed comprehensively according to the EBITDA (earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortisation) multiple method, net cash balance and so forth. The shares will be transferred in two phases with the first tranche (80%) price determined by EBITDA as on March 2021 and the second tranche to be decided on EBITDA in March 2022. “Robosoft has had a phenomenal journey over the last two decades and has grown by leaps and bounds during this period. The partnership with Ascent Capital and Kalaari Capital heralded a strong growth era for us and I am very happy that we are handing over the reins of the ompany to a global player like TechnoPro,” the release quoted Rohith Bhat, who founded the Company on October 13, 2000, as saying. It also quoted Takeshi Yagi, president, Representative Director and CEO, TechnoPro, as saying, “TechnoPro is delighted to invest in Robosoft, an innovative leader in the digital transformation space. We are excited by Robosoft’s rapid growth, strong leadership team, expertise in emerging technologies and deeply integrated customer relationships.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/robosoft-technologies-to-sell-100-stake-to-technopro-holdings/article35848298.ece
11 August 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Screening test for training aspirants||The police will conduct a test on Friday to screen 200 persons for a month-long free crash course for aspirants to the post of police constables and police sub-inspectors. The hour-long screening test will be held at the University College here at 5 p.m. Seeing poor percentage of people from Dakshina Kannada getting selected for the post of police constables and police sub-inspectors, the police decided to conduct the crash course for aspirants who have cleared physical examination and are scheduled to write the written examination. The police will hold the crash course at the St. Aloysius College. As many as 685 aspirants filed their applications showing their interest in attending the course. While 566 applicants are from Dakshina Kannada, the remaining are from Udupi, Uttara Kannada and Chikkamagaluru districts. Police Commissioner N. Shashi Kumar said that they have decided to conduct the course for 200 aspirants. Registration numbers of aspirants will be conveyed to aspirants through WhatsApp, Facebook and Twitter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/screening-test-for-training-aspirants/article35848294.ece
11 August 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||COVID-19 raises demand for intensive care||The second wave of COVID-19 saw a huge demand for intensive care because of the severity of the infection. This also led to an increase in demand for skilled manpower. But, in view of the shortage of specialists and doctors with ICU skills, Mysore Medical College and Research Institute (MMCRI) has found a new way to get skilled manpower for running its ICUs. The college has got 118 junior doctors, who had been assigned rural service, for carrying out COVID-19 duties. These doctors, along with the final-year students of nursing, are being trained in ICU management. This arrangement is in place to overcome manpower shortage and because of the difficulty of getting specialists like pulmonologists and medicine experts despite the hospital offering an attractive salary of Rs. 2.5 lakh a month. MMCRI is now training the junior doctors, nursing staff, and PG students in critical care management. Three batches are done with the training. C.P. Nanjaraj, Dean of MMCRI, said the institute was trying this model to ease the crisis for the time being since getting doctors had become difficult. “By this way, we could address the shortage as the senior faculty available at MMCRI will be tele-guiding the doctors and nursing staff in managing ICU beds,” he said. The MMCRI’s senior faculty is imparting the training on ICU management. “Alternatives have to be worked out when the situation warrants them. With reports of a possible third wave, we need to be prepared in advance and ICU training is one such step,” Dr. Nanjaraj said. The training is on managing ICU beds, ventilators, oxygen flow, and so on. The hospitals have the task of handling both COVID-19 and non-COVID-19 patients. “Doctors attend to cases on rotation. With limited numbers, we are managing the situation using the available specialist doctors shuttling from one hospital to another. By training doctors and nursing staff on ICU management, we could ease the situation.” The medical equipment manufacturers were suggested to come up with “tele ICU” facilities ahead of the third wave for critical care monitoring as faculty could monitor the ICUs on their smartphones and guide the on-duty nursing staff. On the advice of many experts, the outgoing students of MBBS were also trained in ICU management as a readiness strategy. The MMCRI had set aside 77 ventilators at K.R. Hospital, 10 at the trauma care, and seven at the super-speciality hospital for COVID-19 patients in the last wave. It had an equal number of ventilators for non-COVID-19 care.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/covid-19-raises-demand-for-intensive-care/article35848333.ece
11 August 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Young futsal player from Mysuru dies in Rome||A young futsal player from Mysuru, who was aspiring to make it big in the sport in international leagues, has had a tragic death in Italy. Yashwanth Kumar, who was pursuing Masters in Marketing at the Rome Business School, died on August 6, said his father N. Kumar, a resident of N.R. Mohalla. Mr. Kumar, who is into handicrafts business, said his son was very passionate about futsal and therefore chose Italy so that he could pursue higher education and the game, besides playing in futsal leagues. He had gone to Rome four months ago. “We became anxious when he became inaccessible on the phone. We contacted his friends and others known to him. On Friday, we got the heartbreaking news that Yashwanth’s body had been found. We were told that Yashwanth is assumed to have slipped into a body of water and drowned. The Italian authorities are looking into the case and more details are awaited. The autopsy is expected on Wednesday,” said Mr. Kumar. The last rites are expected to be held in the next two days as the body is unlikely to be shifted to India. “We are unable to go there to bring the body. His friends and members of an association of Kannadigas told us they would conduct the final rites in view of the current situation,” he added. A mechanical engineer, Yashwanth had played for the Indian futsal team and was selected in the Italian Serie B National Championships for the 2020 season to play for the Rhibo Fossano team. He had played for the national team a few years ago in Barcelona and Sri Lanka. Futsal is an indoor football game. The 24-year-old goalkeeper had rubbed shoulders with legendary international football players while playing in the Premier Futsal League in India in the Kerala team. Yashwanth was picked for the Italian team based on his performance in the league matches. He was training in a local futsal circuit here.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/futsal-player-from-mysuru-dies-in-rome/article35848296.ece
11 August 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||‘Kollegal-Kozhikode NH-212 needs to have six lanes’||Citing the reasons of rising traffic and also the upcoming mega project of Container Corporation of India (Concor) at Kadakola near Nanjangud, MP for Mysuru Pratap Simha has urged Union Minister for Road Transport, Highways and Shipping Nitin Gadkari to consider widening the four-lane National Highway between Kollegal and Kozhikode in Kerala into a six-lane one. The Kollegal and Kerala section of NH-212 was developed into a four-lane highway in 2016 by the State Public Works Department NH wing under Ministry of Road Transport and Highways. However, the developed section seems to be inadequate considering the present traffic density. Other reasons cited for the rise in traffic was industrial development in Kadakola and Thandavapura estates and the movement of commercial and industrial vehicles, as well as tourist vehicles to Ooty and Kozhikode, on the NH stretch. The MP, who recently met the Minister, sought the statistics on the present traffic load between Kollegal and Kerala and Mysuru to Kerala section of the NH-212. In view of reasons cited, the NH stretch meets the requirements for widening into a six-lane highway. In this connection, the MP urged the Minister to issue the necessary instructions to the National Highways Authority of India officers to prepare for a detailed project report by appointing consultants.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kollegal-kozhikode-nh-212-needs-to-have-six-lanes/article35848335.ece
11 August 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Mysuru sees under 100 cases for second day||Mysuru district reported 71 COVID-19 cases on Tuesday, a day after reporting 82, thereby keeping its daily tally under 100 for two consecutive days. The number of daily deaths too has shown a marked decline in the past few days, with two reported on Tuesday and one on Monday. Health officials in Mysuru said the pandemic, which was raging in the district during May and June, was under control now. Since the onset of the viral disease last year, Mysuru has reported a total of 1,74,081 cases and 2,328 deaths. On Tuesday, 179 persons were discharged, taking the total number of persons discharged to 1,70,545. The number of active cases in the district has also come down considerably to reach 1,208 on Tuesday. The Test Positivity Rate of the last seven days in Mysuru was 1.31%, which was a shade higher than the State average of 1.09% as per the State COVID-19 War Room analysis report released on Monday. The report also said that the week-on-week cases reported from Mysuru had come down to 667 during the week ending Monday from 898 cases reported during the previous week. However, the government appears to be in no mood to relax the weekend lockdown imposed in Mysuru and the other border districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mysuru-sees-under-100-cases-for-second-day/article35848331.ece
11 August 2021||August 11 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||More than 600 booked for smoking in public||“By conducting such drives, our aim is to make Mysuru a high-compliance district as far as COTPA is concerned,” Mr. Shivakumar said. The cell distributed for free 354 signages, which should be mandatorily displayed on the premises of shops selling cigarettes or other tobacco products. The signage seek to warn the public against smoking in public places and selling cigarettes to minors. Though the focus was against smoking in public, the personnel involved in the drive also ensured that advertisement boards of tobacco products, particularly cigarettes, displayed in the shops were removed. Section 5 of COTPA prohibits advertisement of tobacco products. Mr. Shivakumar said they came across the sale of several illegal cigarettes. One box of illegal cigarettes was seized from a shop in Lakshmipuram police station limits. The shop owner was forced to burn the illegal cigarettes and was let off with a warning that he would be booked if he repeated the offence. The Mysuru District Tobacco Control Cell would, next week, begin an enforcement drive in the taluks of Mysuru district, he added.  Drive outcome Month-long drive to enforce COTPA, 2003, was carried out in Mysuru Section 4 of COTPA, 2003, prohibits smoking in public — 606 booked in city, penalty of Rs. 67,020 collected Section 6A prohibits sale of cigarettes and other tobacco products to persons below 18 years of age – 354 cases booked, penalty of Rs. 38,500 collected Section 6 prohibits sale of cigarettes and other tobacco products within a radius of 100 metres of educational institution – 13 shops booked, penalty of Rs. 2,600 collected||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/more-than-600-booked-for-smoking-in-public/article35848340.ece
11 August 2021||August 11 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Traditional celebration||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/traditional-celebration/article35848112.ece
11 August 2021||August 11 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Patriotic fervour||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/patriotic-fervour/article35847875.ece
11 August 2021||August 11 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||HC: BBMP bylaws are contrary to Act||At the same time, the court said that it cannot be said that any person, who uses the public property, can use it without payment of any fee. The fee, chargeable for storing materials on the public property, cannotbe levied based on guidance value but has to be properly determined after bringing in suitable amendment to the law and not under the by-laws that are now being used to impose such fee, the court said. “Even a rupee cannot be taken from a citizen as fee except in accordance with law,” the court observed, while pointing out from the judgments of the apex court that fee can be charged for special services rendered by the government agency and that fee is supposed to be based on expenses incurred by the government in rendering the services and there should be a reasonable co-relation in service rendered and collection of fee. In BBMP’s case, the fees for grant of building licence are payable to the BBMP for approving construction plan and issuing licence, and an applicant for approval of a plan would submit a blueprint of a plan prepared at his own expense along with no objection and other supporting documents as prescribed in law, the court said, while declining to accept BBMP’s contention that fee is being levied towards expenses for grant of licence and for improvement of the city. It also noted that BBMP has separate provision to levy betterment/improvement charges.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hc-bbmp-bylaws-are-contrary-to-act/article35847890.ece
11 August 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||AC Road to have tighter curbs||District Collector A. Alexander on Tuesday directed officials concerned to strictly enforce traffic restrictions on parts of the Alappuzha-Changanassery (AC) road where reconstruction work is in progress. Last month, authorities imposed a total ban on the movement of goods and heavy vehicles as part of reconstructing the 24.16-km road connecting Alappuzha and Kottayam districts. Following the demolition of the Pallathuruthy West bridge, near Kaithavana, last week, a temporary bund was constructed on the northern side of the bridge for the movement of two-wheelers and ambulances along with small four-wheeler vehicles during emergency situations. However, flouting traffic restrictions, vehicles in large numbers continued to ply along the temporary bund, which resulted in traffic congestions and affected the bridge reconstruction work. It also led to friction between local residents and authorities. Mr. Alexander who visited Kaithavana said the movement of four-wheeled vehicles would be strictly regulated. He directed the police to initiate necessary measures to regulate vehicular traffic on the road. Bridge at Ponga Meanwhile, the demolition of another bridge at Ponga is expected to begin soon. The reconstruction of the Pallathuruthy West and Ponga bridges will be completed in three months. In view of traffic restrictions on the road, the State Water Transport Department is running special boat services. The Kerala State Road Transport Corporation is conducting bus services in a limited manner. The AC road, under the Kerala State Transport Project Kottarakara division, is being reconstructed as a semi-elevated highway at a cost of Rs. 649.76 crore. The project, which is expected to the prevent flooding of the road during the monsoon season, will be completed in 30 months. Once completed, the two-lane road and flyovers with footpaths will have a width between 13 and 14 meters. The work is being carried out by the Uralungal Labour Contract Cooperative Society.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ac-road-to-have-tighter-curbs/article35848261.ece
11 August 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Houseboat aid for a year more||The State government has decided to continue the houseboat support scheme for one more year, Tourism Minister P.A. Mohamed Riyas has said. He was replying to a submission by Alappuzha MLA P.P. Chitharanjan in the Assembly on Tuesday. The State government introduced the scheme, a one-time financial assistance up to Rs. 1.2 lakh, last year to support the ailing houseboat sector. Mr. Riyas said the government had so far sanctioned Rs. 1.60 crore to 261 houseboats under the scheme. Revolving fund The Tourism Department would introduce a revolving fund scheme, which would benefit houseboat and shikara boat employees. The Minister said the government had implemented a tourism working capital scheme, a loan scheme, in association with the State Level Bankers’ Committee. For employees in the tourism sector, the government has introduced a tourism employment support scheme. It enabled the employees to raise a loan up to Rs. 30,000 from the Kerala Bank, the Minister said. The houseboats and shikaras in Alappuzha, which had remained anchored for three months due to the restrictions imposed to tackle the spread of the second wave of the COVID-19 pandemic, restarted operations last week after the district administration granted permission to resume services under strict conditions.  Minister says the government has so far sanctioned Rs. 1.60 crore to 261 houseboats under the scheme||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/houseboat-aid-for-a-year-more/article35848256.ece
11 August 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Literary fest begins||Xpressions 2021, an all-Kerala intercollegiate literary fest organised jointly by the Department of English, SD College, and its Literary Club, began on Monday. It was inaugurated by author and orator A. Khyrunnisa. “There are creative contemplations in every student. The responsibility of a teacher lies in discovering and moulding them,” she said. More than 100 college students from Kerala and outside are participating in the fest being held online. The fest will conclude on August 13. The valedictory ceremony will be inaugurated by actor and scriptwriter Renji Panikkar. The department is organising the fest in connection with the platinum jubilee celebrations of the college. E. Krishnan Namboothiri, vice principal and head of the department of English, presided over the inaugural function.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/literary-fest-begins/article35848254.ece
11 August 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Money chain fraud: youth arrested||The Alappuzha South police have arrested a 22-year-old man in connection with a money-chain fraud case. The arrested person has been identified as Muhammed Suhail of Alappuzha. Officials said the accused had swindled money from several youths after luring them to invest in Kozhikode-based My Club Trading Company by promising hefty returns. S. Sanal, circle inspector, Alappuzha South police, said more people would be arrested soon in connection with the case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/money-chain-fraud-youth-arrested/article35848255.ece
11 August 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Couple commits suicide||A couple committed suicide in Mavelikara on Tuesday. The deceased were identified as Santhosh, 51, and his wife Sheeba, 45 of Eravankara. According to the Mavelikara police, Sheeba was found hanging at the couple’s house in the early hours. Later, her husband also ended his life. The police said they suspected family problems forced them to take the extreme step. “The couple used to quarrel. The woman was found hanging around 1.30 a.m. Although she was shifted to a hospital, her life could not be saved. After her death, Santhosh returned to the home and ended his life,” said an official. (People in distress or having suicidal thoughts can seek counselling by calling suicide prevention helpline number: DISHA- 0471-2552056, 1056)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/couple-commits-suicide/article35848257.ece
11 August 2021||Chennai,KERALA||Fresh cases drop to 1,893 as 27 more die in Tamil Nadu||After 11 days, fresh cases of COVID-19 dropped below 1,900 in Tamil Nadu, as 1,893 people tested positive for the infection on Tuesday. While cases continued to fluctuate in a number of districts, Chennai’s daily tally increased to 209 from 182 on the previous day. Cases began fluctuating from the last week of July. During the last two weeks, the highest daily tally was recorded on August 1 (1,990). Fresh cases dropped to 1,893 on Tuesday, compared to 1,929 on Monday. In Coimbatore, cases fell marginally from 235 to 224, while Erode registered a small dip from 178 to 169. Chengalpattu recorded 105 cases. There were 97 cases in Thanjavur, 92 in Salem, 79 in Tiruvallur and 71 in Tiruppur. With this, the State’s case tally rose to 25,79,130. Active cases stood at 20,363, with Chennai’s active caseload crossing 2,000. Another 1,930 people were discharged after treatment, taking the total recoveries so far to 25,24,400. The State recorded 27 deaths, taking the toll to 34,367. There were no deaths in 24 districts. While Coimbatore and Tiruppur recorded five deaths each, there were three deaths in Salem. Chennai recorded two fatalities. Andhra Pradesh reported 1,451 new infections and 15 deaths on Tuesday. The death toll rose to 13,564, and the cumulative infection tally to 19,85,182. The State tested 63,849 samples which showed a TPR of 2.29%. Chittoor reported six new deaths, Krishna and Nellore three each, East Godavari two and West Godavari one death. West Godavari reported 235 new infections, Krishna (210), Chittoor (195), Nellore (195), Guntur (182), Prakasam (112), East Godavari (98), Visakhapatnam (74), Kadapa (59), Srikakulam (41), Anantapur (28), Vizianagaram (20) and Kurnool (12). As many as 494 persons tested positive in Telangana, which also recorded three fatalities, a medical bulletin said on Tuesday. The Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) limits recorded 80 cases, Karimnagar (51), Warangal Urban (45), Nalgonda (33), Khammam (29), Peddapalli (28), Medchal Malkajgiri (26) and Rangareddy (23). In 17 districts there were single-digit cases. The overall tally was 6,40,353 and toll 3,831. There were 8,112 active cases, the bulletin said. The number of samples tested on Tuesday was 89,037. On the COVID-19 vaccination drive, the Director of Public Health said 60,257 people were administered the first dose while 72,139 had their second dose on Tuesday. In all, the figures were 1,16,49,267 who got the first dose and 39,65,625 the second dose. Karnataka reported 1,338 new cases and 31 deaths, taking the total number of infections to 29,21,049 and death toll to 36,848, the Health department said on Tuesday. Of the new cases, 315 were from Bengaluru Urban, and the city added three deaths. There were 22,676 active cases. While the TPR for the day stood at 1.05%, case fatality rate (CFR) was 2.31%. Out of the 31 deaths reported on Tuesday, eight were from Dakshina Kannada followed by Uttara Kannada (4), Bengaluru Urban and Hassan (3), Kolar and Mysuru (2), followed by others. Dakshina Kannada accounted for 378 new cases, Bengaluru Urban (315), Chikkamagaluru (93), and Udupi (92). With a higher test positivity rate (TPR) of 15.91%, Kerala on Tuesday registered 21,119 new cases of COVID-19 from 1,32,769 samples tested.  (With inputs from Vijayawada, Hyderabad and Thiruvananthapuram bureaus, and PTI)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fresh-cases-drop-to-1893-as-27-more-die-in-tamil-nadu/article35848200.ece
11 August 2021||HYDERABAD,KERALA||IICT’s membrane-based face mask going places||CSIR-Indian Institute of Chemical Technology (IICT) work on re-purposed drugs and making the key adjuvant for making the indigenous Covaxin to combat COVID-19 is well known. Apart from these, the premier research body has been doing innovative work on a more basic level of making a scientific, effective and comfortable face mask. Face masks are the first line of defence against COVID and although a wide variety of face masks like surgical, cloth, N-95s, etc. are available in the market, the four-layered cotton cloth mask made by scientists here is as good as they come since lot of scientific input has gone into making it. “Last March itself, our director, S. Chandrasekhar, mooted designing a protective and reusable face mask to replace single-use masks to reduce pollution. Within two months, we got the SaanS mask ready with two different hydrophobic layers sandwiched between two textile layers,” explains senior principal scientist S. Sridhar. Making use of two-decade experience in dealing with membrane science and technology, his team used the hydrophobic ‘polyethylene terephthalate’ layer extracted from used membrane modules as the second layer to repel respiratory droplets carrying the virus with first layer being 100% cotton. Next critical layer is the non-woven hydrophobic polypropylene barrier with a high contact angle of 120 degrees to create minimum critical pressure as a barrier and prevent aqueous aerosols from entering the human respiratory system. First and last textile layers provide tight porosity and comfort to the wearer, he says. “Our reusable mask is developed using scientifically tested materials to prevent entry of small particles, aerosols, harmful microbes and other air-borne pollutants like pollen grains, but also offering high air permeability and comfort. The masks underwent exhaustive testing protocols at our membrane laboratory,” affirm senior principal scientists Pradosh Chakraborti and M. Chandrasekharam. These have passed air and water permeability measurement, candle extinguishing test, filtration efficiency towards particulate matter and water holdup duration. “A good mask means it should not be able to extinguish a candle flame two feet away and should hold 10 ml water for a minute. ‘SaanS’ masks can withstand up to 30 washes for reuse,” claims Dr. Sridhar. IICT scientists, after distributing the in-house made masks free to frontline workers, transferred the technology to a startup and voluntary organisations when Cipla Foundation (CF) came on board, ensuring 1 lakh masks are distributed free in villages, schools and hospitals across Telangana. Khar Energy Optimizers was the first production partner and CF roped in HelpAge India (Bihar and Puducherry), Ambuja Cement Foundation (Himachal Pradesh), Manndeshi Foundation (Pune), Halo Medical Foundation (Pune) and Divya Disha (Hyderabad) to take the product to 20 States. “We provide extensive online and hands-on training on all aspects of mask production to create livelihood opportunities for self-help groups. Project SaanS is also supporting vendors supplying tight porous cotton layers to benefit weavers. Total masks made till date are 3.5 lakh,” adds the scientist. CF managing trustee Rumana Hamied informed earlier that four NGOs had earned Rs. 65 lakh (Rs. 30 a piece) and they are ready to help more with seed capital, training and marketing help. IICT has already filed for a patent for the product.  Our reusable mask is developed using scientifically tested materials to prevent entry of small particles, aerosols, harmful microbes and other air-borne pollutants. Pradosh Chakraborti & M. Chandrasekharam, Principal scientists, IICT||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/iicts-membrane-based-face-mask-going-places/article35848132.ece
11 August 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||Reception accorded to freedom fighter||The district administration has accorded a reception to freedom fighter Ouseph George of Manimala Veettil, Pallikkamury, Thodupuzha, as part of the anniversary of the Quit India movement. A team of officials led by Subcollector P. Vishnuraj visited him at his home on Tuesday and presented him a shawl and a letter from President Ramnath Kovind. The Subcollector said that Mr. George became a model of dedication to the nation by contributing to the Independence struggle at a very early age. He said that Mr. George organised students and was sent to jail for joining the struggle. Based at Pala Mr. George was born at Payappar, near Pala, in 1928. He became a part of the freedom struggle while studying at school in 1942. He led agitations based at Pala and during that time senior leaders like Pattom Thanu Pillai and R.V. Thomas were hiding in Pala. Mr. George was the nephew of Mr. Thomas and was assigned tasks like arranging food and conveying messages to those who were hiding at Pala. He led the students and started agitations as part of the Quit India movement in 1942-’43. He was an organiser of the Vidyarthi Congress at Pala. Jail term He was arrested as per the orders of Diwan C.P. Ramaswami Iyer and underwent jail term. He was arrested again for taking part in the freedom struggle on his release from the jail. He led functions to celebrate Independence when the country gained freedom in 1947. He attended Thevara College and Kerala Varma College in Thrissur for higher education. He married Rosakutty in 1960 and the family moved to Velliyamattom. In 1972, the family shifted to the present residence near Thodupuzha. He has seven children.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/reception-accorded-to-freedom-fighter/article35848259.ece
11 August 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||Pest outbreak triggers panic among farmers in Wayanad||A pest outbreak has triggered panic amid the farming community living on the forest fringes in Wayanad district. The outbreak has been reported at Valluvady area in Noolpuzha grama panchayat. Huge swarms of insects landed on trees and shrubs in nearly two acres of agricultural land near the Wayanad Wildlife Sanctuary. The population was so big that small branches of trees drooped and broke under the weight of the aggregating bugs, said K.K. Suneesh, a farmer. Residents were worried about the creatures causing allergy or spreading diseases as an offensive stench emanated from the insects, he added. After primary observation, the insect was identified as bamboo sap feeder or bamboo seed bug, Udonga montana, belonging to the Pentatomidae family of shield bugs, said K. Ajithkumar, associate director of research, Regional Agricultural Research Station (RARS), Ambalavayal. The bug is nearly 13-mm-long with yellowish brown colour. It multiplies in large numbers on bamboo, feeding on the shoot and seeds. They affect the regeneration of bamboo as the developing seeds are affected. The bugs lay eggs in clusters on the flowers, said Dr. Ajithkumar. In 1991 and 1992, the insect formed similar large swarms on forest plants, teak, coffee and pepper in Wayanad and Shivamogga in Karnataka. In July 2014, Udonga was found to aggregate massively on forest trees and crops such as arecanut, pepper, banana, guava and maize in Shivamogga. However, critical observations indicated that they did not feed on any of the trees, said Seena R. Subhagan, assistant professor, Agricultural Entomology, RARS. A similar outbreak was reported in June 2021 from Vathikudy in Idukki. The outbreak in Valluvadi area coincided with the mass flowering of bamboo that provided abundant food, said Ms. Subhagan. Exhaustive feeding on bamboo by the bug has severely affected the flowering and seedling cycle of bamboo in the area. So far, no serious feeding injury or yield losses to agricultural crops in the area had been observed, she said. In natural stands of bamboo, the pest populations are regulated by natural enemies. However, human intervention can have profound effects on the ecological balance and the population dynamics of insects in bamboo forest ecosystems. The pest outbreak was expected to die down within a few weeks due to natural causes, said Ms. Subhagan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pest-outbreak-triggers-panic-among-farmers-in-wayanad/article35848176.ece
11 August 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||Greens seek probe into construction of building||Environmental organisations have sought a comprehensive investigation into the construction of a multi-storey building at Manjoora in Thariyodu grama panchayat in Wayanad district. Speaking to mediapersons here on Tuesday, Varghese Vattekkattil, president of the Western Ghats Protection Committee, alleged that the construction of a private multi-specialty hospital was launched after bulldozing a hillock and flouting all norms set by the government. The District Disaster Management Authority had restricted the height of buildings in grama panchayats to 10 metres (three-floor levels). But, the huge structure was being constructed in four floors, he said. The local body authorities were trying to legalise the construction, he added. The Mining and Geology Department officials were yet to take any action against the owners of the property even after they bulldozed a hillock in the area, said Mr. Vatttekkattil. The grama panchayat authorities had not given details of the construction though applications were submitted under the Right to Information Act, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/greens-seek-probe-into-construction-of-building/article35848177.ece
11 August 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||CM offers support of local bodies for Kerala Chicken||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said that the support of local administrative bodies will be ensured for the expansion of the Kerala Chicken project. Speaking to a delegation of the Brahmagiri project headed by chairman P. Krishnaprasad, Mr. Vijayan said steps would be taken to expedite the transfer the amount earmarked by the government for the project. The government had earmarked Rs. 37.74 crore for the Brahmagiri project for implementing government-sponsored projects such as the procurement of coffee at the minimum support price from coffee growers, execution of the Kerala Chicken project, and renovation of the Malabar meat plant during the 2016-2021 period, said Mr. Krishnaprasad in a memorandum. But, the government had granted only Rs. 7.66 crore so far, he said. The Chief Minister said the government would adopt steps to release the remaining amount at the earliest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cm-offers-support-of-local-bodies-for-kerala-chicken/article35848174.ece
11 August 2021||KASARAGOD,KERALA||Sexual abuse case: parents held for hiding info||The police on Tuesday arrested the parents of a 13-year-old girl in connection with a case of sexual abuse. The parents were remanded in two weeks of judicial custody for allegedly concealing information of sexual abuse and torture of their child. With this, the number of those arrested in the case has gone up to 11. Earlier, nine people were arrested in the case of sexual abuse of the child in Uliyathadukka in Kasaragod district. The police produced the parents before the Judicial First Class Magistrate court, where they were remanded in custody. The incident took place when local residents caught one of the accused while he allegedly tried to sexually abuse the victim at an empty house in Rahmat Nagar, Uliyathadukka, on June 25. According to the girl, the accused had taken her to various places and tortured her for two years. Further investigation revealed that the parents had concealed the information about the sexual abuse. The girl is in the care of the Child Welfare Committee at present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sexual-abuse-case-parents-held-for-hiding-info/article35848183.ece
11 August 2021||KASARAGOD,KERALA||Bike seized in murder case missing from police station||A two-wheeler seized by the Crime Branch in the Periya twin murder case in Kerala has gone missing from the Bekal police station in Kasaragod district. The motorbike in question bears the registration number KL-60-L-5730 and belongs to A. Subhash, who is accused of direct involvement in the case. Subhash, a CITU activist, had fled to Sharjah after the murder. However, he was arrested on May 16, 2019 at the Mangalore airport by the Crime Branch. The confiscated two-wheeler was later produced in court and handed over to the Bekal police station. Of the 12 vehicles involved in the case, 11 are in the custody of the Crime Branch. Two Youth Congress activists, Kripesh and Sarath Lal, were hacked to death while they were returning home on a bike late evening on February 17, 2019. The case is being investigated by the CBI following a Supreme Court order.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bike-seized-in-murder-case-missing-from-police-station/article35848178.ece
11 August 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Illegal vehicle alterations on the rise||Last September, the Muvattupuzha Regional Transport Office in Kerala slapped a fine of nearly Rs. 50,000 on a vehicle owner and suspended the vehicle’s registration for six months for nine illegal alterations. The oversized tyres, steel-fabricated crash guard, a number of high-intensity light units, removal of front bumpers, replacement of front and rear suspension systems, lengthening of the propeller shaft and changes in the braking system and steering gears were found to have changed the “total height, ground clearance, wheel track and other basic measurements of the vehicle.” The issue, however, did not create the same flutter as the seizure of the similarly altered vehicle of ‘E Bull Jet’ vlogger brothers by the Motor Vehicles Department (MVD) in Kannur on Monday, as the owner in the above-mentioned case chose to pay the fine. Though the scaled-up fine regime of Rs. 5,000 for each alteration under the Motor Vehicles (Amendment) Act 2019 is considered an adequate deterrent, illegal alterations of vehicles seem to be on the rise of late. MVD preoccupied “The MVD’s preoccupation with COVID-19-related duties, especially the movement of oxygen tankers during the second wave of the pandemic, took its toll on the enforcement drive, which was exploited by a section of vehicle owners,” said Shaji Madhavan, Deputy Transport Commissioner, Ernakulam. With enforcement back on track, MVD officials are cracking the whip on alterations now, he added. Modification of silencers in two-wheelers and fitting of oversized tyres in four-wheelers are cited as some of the common illegal alterations. The replacement of silencers with catalytic converters, especially in BS VI vehicles, violate pollution control norms as well. Thripunithura Regional Transport Office in Ernakulam alone has fined owners of nearly 100 vehicles in the last one week under its ongoing Operation Rash. “We fine the owners and ask them to produce the vehicles restored to their original form in three to seven days. In the case of repeat offenders, we initiate steps to suspend the registration certificate as they hardly seem deterred by the fine,” said B. Shefiq, Joint RTO, Thripunithura. Further strengthening the enforcement regime is a modified High Court order in April this year that clearly delineated the illegal alterations and even held the enforcement authorities not acting on them accountable. Alterations of vehicles of the differently-abled motorists, however, are also authorised under the Act. There are authorised centres to make those modifications using approved kits. While the MVD can act on illegal alterations, they have little authority over workshops or spare parts shops facilitating the modifications. “We plan to report such shops to the local body concerned since it issues them the licence,” said Mr. Madhavan. Insurance claims Lawyer Rajesh R. Pillai said vehicle alterations normally draw fines and reach courts only if the offender challenges the charges, which happens rarely. “Besides, owners of altered vehicles run the risk of their insurance claims getting rejected,” he said. P.K. Vijayakumar, former State insurance ombudsman, said that owners are supposed to inform any change in the basic structure of their vehicles with the insurance companies and pay the premium that such changes entail, failing which they may lose the insurance coverage.  We plan to report shops facilitating alterations to the local body concerned since it issues them the licence Shaji Madhavan Deputy Transport Commissioner, Ernakulam||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/illegal-vehicle-alterations-on-the-rise/article35848187.ece
11 August 2021||Kochi,KERALA||In-principle approval for street vending by-laws||The Kochi Corporation has approved in principle by-laws for street vendors. Different opinions were raised during a discussion on rehabilitation of street vendors on Tuesday. Councillors P.S. Viju, V.K. Minimol, and Priya Prasanth have been given the responsibility to complete the drafting of the by-laws, said Mayor M. Anilkumar in a statement here on Tuesday. Leaders of trade unions and organisations representing street vendors participated in the discussions. Besides representatives of the police, officials of the Greater Cochin Development Authority and the Town Planning Department participated. Street vendors will be issued identity cards, and spots where street vending can be carried out will be decided on the basis of the width of roads and footpaths. Only those vendors who depend on street vending for a living will be allowed. Strict inspections will be carried out and no ‘benamies’ will be allowed. Street vending, which will obstruct footpaths, will not be permitted. United Democratic Front parliamentary party leader Antony Kureethara alleged that the by-laws had been drafted without detailed study. He said the rules governing street vending should be studied in detail to help the community. He said that there were already about 2,000 street vendors and another 1,000 had applied for licences. It was difficult to find space for all street vendors. He said that there was no objection against people trying to make a living through street vending but the corporation must study the problem in detail.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/in-principle-approval-for-street-vending-by-laws/article35848192.ece
11 August 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Thrikkakara Municipality to look for space to feed dogs||The Thrikkakara Municipality, which was recently mired in a controversy over the killing of an unspecified number of stray dogs in the municipal area, has offered to find space for feeding strays. Municipal chairperson Ajitha Thankappan said on Tuesday that the municipality submitted before the Kerala High Court that suitable space would be found for feeding stray dogs. The municipality had five spaces in mind as feeding grounds for strays, the municipal chairperson said even as she reiterated that the municipal authorities had not authorised the alleged killing of the dogs. The chairperson said that the municipality would go ahead with action in keeping with the court directive. The Daya Animal Welfare Organisation in Muvattupuzha has said it is willing to provide its expertise to contain the dog population even as it is estimated that the stray population in the municipality is around 1,000. Animal rights activists had blamed the municipal authorities for allegedly authorising the killing of strays after 25 dog carcasses were found in a municipal waste dumping ground last month. The Organisation has said it will help handle dogs that need to be sterilised as part of the animal birth control (ABC) programme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/thrikkakara-municipality-to-look-for-space-to-feed-dogs/article35848189.ece
11 August 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Special team inspects files at Fort Kochi RDO office||A team of officials from the Revenue Department, constituted by District Collector Jafar Malik, began inspection of files relating to land conversion applications at the Fort Kochi RDO office on Tuesday. The inspection is expected to continue for another four to five days as there are more than 3,000 files to be looked into. The inspection team will submit a report to the District Collector after the scrutiny is completed. The team comprises ten officials from different wings of the Revenue Department. Though the inspections had begun early last week, more officials were assigned to the task considering the large number of files to be examined, sources said. The scrutiny of the files has been instituted in the wake of widespread complaints of anomalies in which applicants were allegedly asked by employees of the RDO office to pay large sums of money as bribe for considering their applications. It has also been alleged that there was substantial delay in considering applications. The State government had issued an order on February 25, 2021, that those seeking conversion of land from the date for area up to 25 cents did not have to pay any conversion fee. The allegations relate to change of date of applications submitted by people seeking conversion of property from paddy fields or wetlands into land suitable for building purposes. The conversion of a property in the revenue records raises its value substantially.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/special-team-inspects-files-at-fort-kochi-rdo-office/article35848197.ece
11 August 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Sreejesh accorded rousing reception in Kochi||The domestic terminal of the Cochin airport hosted a unique medal ceremony when the Indian hockey team goalkeeper P.R. Sreejesh put the Olympic bronze medal he won at the Tokyo Games on his father P.V. Raveendran on his return on Tuesday evening. Overwhelmed by emotions, the father returned the favour as the family looked on. Sreejesh exchanged hugs with every member of his family as soon as he emerged from the check-in area. Apart from the family and friends, well-wishers and fans massed outside the domestic terminal to receive the Olympic medallist. Raised aloft to receive him were countless hockey sticks, placards, and selfie sticks. Cheers soon erupted when Sreejesh emerged out of the terminal flanked by his family. His mother, Ushakumari, wife, P.K. Aneeshya, daughter, Anusree, and son, Sreeansh, were there to receive him. But the fans had little time with their hero as he was literally swept into an open jeep that took him to his home at Kizhakkamabalam on a convoy, escorted by the police. Earlier, inside the terminal, Sreejesh was received by a State government delegation led by Sports Minister V. Abdurahiman. Sports Council president Mercy Kuttan, MLAs P.V. Sreenijan and Anwar Sadat, District Collector Jafar Malik, State Olympics Association office-bearers, and hockey players were present. While the reception accorded to the Olympic medalist was fitting, the pandemic protocol went for a toss in its wake raising quite a few eyebrows.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sreejesh-accorded-rousing-reception-in-kochi/article35848213.ece
11 August 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Threat to CM: man held||The Hill Palace police on Tuesday arrested a man on the charge of making a threatening call to the Chief Minister. The arrested was identified as Anil, 41, of Thiruvanchoor in Kottayam. He was nabbed from a bus aboard which he had allegedly made the call. The Vaikom police located his mobile phone to Thripunithura following which the Hill Palace police made the arrest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/man-held-for-making-threat-call-to-cm/article35848188.ece
11 August 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Nellikuzhi murder: SIT seeks custody of accused||The special investigation squad probing the murder of a young dental student at Nellikuzhi near Kothamangalam filed an application for the custody of the two accused on Tuesday. Sonu Kumar, 20, a resident of Parsando village in Munger district, and Maneesh Kumar, 23, of Buxar district, were remanded in judicial custody on Monday. The 24-year-old student was gunned down on July 29 using a country-pistol by her alleged stalker, Rakhil, at her paying guest accommodation right next to the Indira Gandhi Institute of Dental Sciences at Nellikuzhi where she did her house surgeoncy. He then took his own life. The Bihar residents were arrested for allegedly supplying the weapon to Rakhil. While Sonu is accused of supplying the firearm, Maneesh is charged with playing the intermediary between Sonu and Rakhil. The investigation team would be able to verify their primary statements in detail only after getting their custody. Among other things, the team is likely to verify whether the accused had sold more guns in the State. Sonu, who ran a firm dealing in money transfer, was arrested from a village near the Bihar-Jharkhand border by the sleuths posing as customers. The police team was attacked while transporting the arrested.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/nellikuzhi-murder-sit-seeks-custody-of-accused/article35848201.ece
11 August 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||2,539 new COVID cases in Ernakulam; TPR 14.47%||As many as 2,539 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Ernakulam on Tuesday. Nearly 2,456 persons got infected through local contact. The source of infection in 75 cases has not been ascertained. The test positivity rate was 14.47%. The regions in which the positive cases were higher than 40 included Thrikkakara (79), Nellikuzhi (69), Elankunnapuzha (66), Edathala (60), Kalamassery (59), Keezhmad (58), Karumalloor (54), Kothamangalam (54), Vengola (54), Njarakkal (53), Alangad (50), Rayamangalam (50), Koovapadi (45), Payipra (42), and Vadakkekara (42). Some of the regions that reported fewer than five cases were Ayappankavu, Ernakulam North, Kaloorkad, Pampakuda, Perumpadapu, Maneed, Ashamanoor, Maradi, Varappetti, Elamkulam, Okkal, Thoppumpady, Ramamangalam, Karuvelipadi, Poonithura, Ponekkara and Manjapra, according to an official release. A total of 17,546 COVID-19 tests were conducted on Tuesday. As many as 21,163 persons are under treatment for the disease in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/2539-new-covid-cases-in-ernakulam-tpr-1447/article35848195.ece
11 August 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Metro’s Pettah-Thripunithura extension by next year-end||Kochi Metro Rail Limited (KMRL) would complete its Phase 1A &1B extensions, from Pettah to SN Junction and from there to Thripunithura, a total of 3 km, by March and December 2022 respectively, the metro agency said in a release. The metro’s 25-km Aluva-Pettah Phase I was completed at a revised project cost of Rs. 6,218 .14 crore. The estimated project cost of phase 1A & 1B extensions including property development is Rs. 710.93 crore and Rs. 448.33 crore respectively and this includes land acquisition for property development work at Vadakekotta and Thripunithura. The total project cost for Phase 1 including the extension Phase 1A and 1B is Rs. 7,377.4 crore. The 11.20-km Phase II extension to Kakkanad for a distance of 11.2 km is estimated to cost Rs. 1,957.05 crore. The total project cost including Phase I & II will thus be around Rs. 9,334.05 crore. Construction work in Phase 1A & 1B has been progressing as per schedule in full swing to complete the work before deadline.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/metros-pettah-thripunithura-extension-by-next-year-end/article35848190.ece
11 August 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Experts to be roped in to study stench issue||The Eloor Municipality and the State Pollution Control Board will seek the services of experts in analysing the increasing incidents of unpleasant smells in the industrial area. The decision was taken at a joint meeting held here on Tuesday following complaints of odour pollution and poor air quality in the region. Experts in the field of smell control will be engaged to find out the exact reason behind such incidents. A meeting involving the authorities of the municipality, Kadungalloor panchayat and the industrial units will also be convened to discuss the problem, said M.A. Baiju, Chief Environmental Engineer, State Pollution Control Board, Ernakulam.  Pollution Control Board officials also visited the industrial area on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/experts-to-be-roped-in-to-study-stench-issue/article35848196.ece
11 August 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Finalise SEBC report: HC||The Kerala High Court has asked the Union and State governments to finalise the report of the socio-economic study required for the identification of Socially and Educationally Backward Classes (SEBCs) in the State within six months. Once the report is ready, it shall be submitted to the Kerala State Commission for Backward Classes. The commission and the Centre shall take all endeavour to finalise the evaluation and submit recommendations to the State government within six months, said a Division Bench of the court consisting of Chief Justice S. Manikumar and Justice Shaji P. Chaly. It was while disposing of a contempt of court petition filed by V.K. Beeran, chairman, Minority Indians Planning and Vigilance Commission Trust, that the court issued the order. The petitioner contended that the State government failed to come up with the list even after the expiry of the deadline fixed by the court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/finalise-sebc-report-hc/article35848202.ece
11 August 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||1,637 fresh cases reported in Kollam||The district reported 1,637 new cases of COVID-19 and 1,365 recoveries on Tuesday. While 1,631 patients contracted the virus through contact, others include six health workers. While 3,422 persons completed home quarantine the Health Department has traced 3,20,246 primary and 19,278 secondary contacts. 1,230 cases in Alappuzha The district reported 1,230 cases. It also recorded seven deaths. The test positivity rate for the day stood at 12.7%. Of the fresh cases, 1,215 patients contracted the disease through contact, while the source of infection of nine others remains unidentified. Six health staff also tested positive. 1,245 cases in Kottayam Kottayam continued to witness a sharp rise in fresh cases with 1,245 persons testing positive on Tuesday. Of the fresh cases, 1,236 persons including seven health workers contracted the virus through contact. The test positivity rate (TPR) for the day stood at 13.14%. With 185 cases, Kottayam municipality reported the highest number of cases. As many as 863 persons recovered during the day, bringing down the total active cases to 7,232. 686 in Pathanamthitta In Pathanamthitta, 686 persons tested positive for the disease during the day. Of this, all persons contracted the virus through local transmission. The contact source of four cases were yet to be ascertained. The TPR for the day was 9.8%. Meanwhile, the decease claimed seven more lives in the district.  (With inputs from Alappuzha, Kottayam and Pathanamthitta bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/1637-fresh-cases-reported-in-kollam/article35848264.ece
11 August 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Book on inspiring women||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan released Athishayapathu , a book by State youth commission chairperson Chintha Jerome by giving a copy to Finance Minister K.N. Balagopal recently. Published by DC Books, it chronicles lives of inspiring young women.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/book-on-inspiring-women/article35848262.ece
11 August 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||At eco-tourism spots, no space for selling indigenous products||At a time when private tourism entrepreneurs are going all out to generate extra income through the sale of various home-made products, government-controlled tourism projects in Kozhikode district are yet to explore such options. Though the number of domestic tourists is steadily on the rise, the sale of entry tickets continues to be the only source of income at various eco-tourism spots. “The Tourism Department can easily permit counters of various government-sponsored projects in the fields of horticulture, food-based business and handicrafts. Many tourists are willing to purchase such products during their sightseeing visits,” said Binoy Joseph, a homestay entrepreneur at Kakkadampoyil. No such counters were seen anywhere at the eco-tourism spots in the district, he added. At present, only traders of snacks and soft drinks are permitted in such locations, where they are supposed to pay a fee to the facility operators. No space is dedicated to the promotion of government-sponsored units engaged in the production of handicrafts or consumables. The situation is similar at facilities run by the Forest Department. Though tribal communities are experts in collecting various forest resources such as honey and medicinal herbs, the marketing scope for such products is yet to be explored. “The lack of a policy-level decision prevents the district administrators from permitting such revenue-generating options at the eco-tourism spots. We could submit a proposal to begin with,” said a local body member at Thusharagiri, a popular eco-tourism spot. He said the District Tourism Promotion Council could make interventions in the sector other than permitting conventional income-generating activities such as boating and fairs. Rural homestay entrepreneurs said they were getting additional income from the sale of home-made products. At government tourism spots, a specific area could be set apart for opening different stalls that would assure a steady income for entrepreneurs and the government, they added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/at-eco-tourism-spots-no-space-for-selling-indigenous-products/article35848185.ece
11 August 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Two MCHs likely to start liver transplant surgery||Two government medical college hospitals (MCH) in the State may soon get facilities for liver transplant surgery. Sources in the Health Department said on Tuesday that the hospitals at Thiruvananthapuram and Kottayam would have an operation theatre, liver transplant intensive care unit, and other required equipment in the coming days. The demand for liver transplant surgeries in government hospitals have been a long-pending one. The cost in private hospitals is very high, and often beyond the reach of the common man. It is learnt that the government is planning to bring organ donation and surgeries under one system. The Cabinet recently decided to set up a State Organ and Tissue Transplant Organisation. There is already a similar entity at the national-level, which lays down protocols and guidelines. The sources added that the government was also taking steps to avoid delay in organ transplantation. However, Liver Foundation of Kerala, an organisation representing people who have undergone the surgery in the State, have demanded that the government bear the expenditure of both the surgery and the treatment thereafter. Not utilised M. Rajesh Kumar, general secretary of the foundation, told The Hindu that earlier efforts to conduct liver transplant surgery at government medical college hospitals at Thiruvananthapuram and Kannur had reportedly failed. He claimed out that though there were facilities for the surgery at Kozhikode as well, they were not being utilised. “Lakhs of rupees are spent for each liver transplantation surgery. A majority of the patients manage the funds from their relatives, friends and acquaintances. Very few get the money from people who run charity organisations,” Mr. Kumar said. The money thus collected often gets exhausted after the surgery. The patients require around Rs. 25,000 a month for the tests and medicine later. “The Social Justice Department had a scheme to give a pension of Rs. 1,000 to us. It was stopped in 2015. The government should provide some sort of financial assistance to us,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/two-mchs-likely-to-start-liver-transplant-surgery/article35848266.ece
11 August 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||SPC to launch State’s first cycle brigade in Kozhikode school||The Student Police Cadet wings in select schools in the State will soon get a Cycle Brigade. The new group that is set to be launched later this month is a joint initiative of the Kozhikode-based Grand Cycle Challenge and Bycs, an organisation of Bicycle Mayors across the world. Sahir Abdul Jabbar, the Bicycle Mayor of Kozhikode, said that the first cycle brigade in the State would be set up at the Government Vocational Higher Secondary School for Girls at Nadakkavu, Kozhikode. The decision was made at a recent meeting between Mr. Sahir and Mohammed Shafi, the State nodal officer of the SPC project. The new initiative is part of the 12th anniversary celebrations of SPC in the State. Accordingly, 12 students in the school would be provided cycles free of cost to be part of the brigade. “The purpose of cycle brigade is to develop a bicycle culture among the new generation, to make them aware of the positive aspects of cycling, a non-polluting mode of transportation, which could also be a good exercise and to develop them as socially responsible citizens”, Mr.Sahir said. Cycle Smile project The Grand Cycle Challenge was instrumental in introducing cycle brigades among National Service Scheme volunteers a few years ago. Through its Cycle Smile project, several old cycles were repaired and handed over to children who could not afford a new one. The Grand Cycle Challenge plans to provide cycling training to the members of these cycle brigades. The cycle track on Kozhikode beach will be used for the purpose. They will also be provided maintenance support. Above all, interested members of the cycle brigade will be given expert training in professional cycling to equip them to be part of cycling competitions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/spc-to-launch-states-first-cycle-brigade-in-kozhikode-school/article35848182.ece
11 August 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Vadakara-Mahe Canal to be ready by 2025: CM||The construction of the Vadakara-Mahe canal, part of the National Waterway (NW) project linking Kuttiady and Mahe rivers, is progressing in full swing and the canal will be ready, befitting NW standards, by 2025. This was informed by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan in the Assembly on Tuesday while responding to a submission by K.P. Kunjammad Kutty, MLA. The social impact study and report of the expert panel for Reach-1 of the canal was available, he said, adding that the construction of the lock-cum-bridge at Moozhikkal would be completed by December 2022. Action has been taken for the reconstruction of the Kanninada bridge. One of the two walkways has been completed while the other is expected to be completed by October 31. The dredging and widening process has been completed for Reach-2. The social impact study for reconstruction of Kottappally bridge is complete and the land acquisition is in progress. Two of the walkways are also complete. The canal construction is in progress in Reach-3, where work on two bridges and walkways has been completed. However, reconstruction of the aqueduct spans of the Kuttiady Water Conservation Project at Periya Poyil would take time, said the Chief Minister. The dredging work was almost complete in Reach-4, where work to acquire 37.56 acres of private land for canal widening was in progress, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/vadakara-mahe-canal-to-be-ready-by-2025-cm/article35848173.ece
11 August 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||TPR surges to 20.12% in Kozhikode||The test positivity rate (TPR) for COVID-19 surged to 20.12% in Kozhikode on Tuesday when 2,335 of the 11,894 samples tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. The District Medical Officer said in a release that 2,296 of the fresh cases were due to local transmission of the infection and the source of 29 others was not known. Kozhikode Corporation accounted for 416 locally acquired infections, Peruvayal 80, Kunnamangalam 72, Kodiyathur 64, Atholi and Chathamangalam 63 each, and Olavanna 50. As many as 2,472 people recovered from the infection and the active caseload is 25,112.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tpr-surges-to-2012-in-kozhikode/article35848179.ece
11 August 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Palakkad MCH doctors go on token strike||Doctors of Government Medical College Hospital (MCH) here went on an hour-long token strike on Tuesday protesting against the government’s failure to give them salaries. As many as 441 employees of the medical college, including doctors, nurses and house surgeons, have not been paid their salary since May. Although they had raised the issue with the government on several occasions, no favourable decision was made so far. The Government Medical College Hospital here is functioning under the State Scheduled Castes Development Department. The government has decided to stop paying the salaries from the funds allocated for SC/ST development. A month’s salary given The doctors went on the token strike on Tuesday as it turned out to be the 100th day after they got their last salary. Following the hour-long strike, one month’s salary was given to all staff, except house surgeons and non-academic junior resident doctors. Meanwhile, the doctors threatened to launch an indefinite strike if the government did not find a solution to the crisis. They pointed out that the delay in payment was a major cause of worry in spite of the government sanctioning an ad hoc grant of Rs. 10 crore on July 29.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/palakkad-mch-doctors-go-on-token-strike/article35848373.ece
11 August 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Doctor alleges threat to spouse from colleague||A physician here has complained to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan against Arogyakeralam district programme manager V.G. Anoop for allegedly threatening to finish off his wife. Jobi Paul, a consultant physician at a private hospital here, said in his complaint that his wife Mary Jyoti Wilson, who is the district COVID-19 treatment nodal officer and COVID-19 control room nodal officer, was abused and threatened over telephone by Dr. Anoop on July 31 night. No action taken Although Dr. Mary had complained to District Medical Officer K.P. Reetha soon after the incident, no action was taken. Dr. Paul said that the police registered an FIR only three days after they filed their complaint. “The police refused to register the case at first. Even when the FIR was filed after three days, they have slapped relatively minor charges. They have not included the threat on the life of my wife,” said Dr. Paul. Dr. Anoop did not attend to the call from The Hindu .  COVID-19 treatment nodal officer allegedly threatened over telephone by Arogyakeralam district programme manager.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/doctor-alleges-threat-to-spouse-from-colleague/article35848374.ece
11 August 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||No plan to hike milk price: Milma chairman||The Kerala Cooperative Milk Marketing Federation, popularly known as Milma, has denied reports about a possible increase in the price of milk. Milma chairman K.S. Mani said here on Tuesday that they had not even contemplated such a move. “This is not the time to increase the milk price, especially when our neighbouring Tamil Nadu government headed by M.K. Stalin reduced its milk price by Rs. 3,” said Mr. Mani. He said Milma was trying to tide over the crisis caused by a fall in the sale of milk by focusing on new products. “Several of new products are going to hit the market very soon. Apart from milk-based products, we will make non-milk based products as well,” he said. Mr. Mani said that the crisis posed by a fall in milk sale in Malabar region was circumvented by increasing the share of milk products from 23.5% to 30%. “It is a creditable achievement,” he said. He said work was in full swing for a proposed milk powder factory at Moorkkanad in Malappuram district. At present, the State does not have any milk powder factory. Milma was forced to depend on factories in Tamil Nadu, Karnataka and Andhra when it had four lakh litres of surplus milk a day during the lockdown. “In spite of the crisis and the loss, we supported the dairy farmers by offering them Rs. 38.60 a litre for milk. No State in the country gives dairy farmers as much amount for their milk,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/no-plan-to-hike-milk-price-milma-chairman/article35848449.ece
11 August 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Held on cheating charge||The police on Tuesday arrested a man in connection with a cheating case at Cherpulassery, near here. Suresh Krishna, 45, head of a private finance firm named Hindustan Development Bank, had collected funds from the people offering attractive returns of interest. Suresh Krishna had attracted the investors by advertising it as an exclusive Hindu bank. However, the investors complained against him when they did not get either the interest or principal deposit amount. Suresh Krishna was detained by some investors at Chittur. Later the police arrested him and took him to Cherpulassery.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/held-on-cheating-charge/article35848375.ece
11 August 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Supplyco Onam fair begins||Minister for Food and Civil Supplies G.R. Anil inaugurated the Supplyco Onam district fairs at a function at Putharikandam Maidan here on Tuesday. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan in a message at the inaugural said the State had been able to ensure that people were not starving during the pandemic. The government’s COVID package was an example of the government’s efforts to reduce people’s hardship. During the first phase of COVID-19, the government ensured not only medicines but food also for the people. 70 new outlets Community kitchens and Janakeeya hotels were opened across the State. Even free food was provided to those unable to afford it. Even after the first phase, foodgrain was provided to the people without looking at profit. The government also intervened in the market, through 70 new outlets of Supplyco and renovation of 97 outlets. It also worked with the cooperative sector to regulate prices during festivals, the Chief Minister said. Mr. Anil said Kerala had been able to regulate the prices of essentials more than any other State. Athijeevanam kits were distributed to ensure no one went hungry. Steps were taken to distribute foodgrain to card-holders without glitches. Special kits for Onam had reached more than 12.72 lakh people. Steps had been taken to distribute priority cards taken back from the ineligible to those eligible, and deliver ration items directly to tribal settlements. Minister for Transport Antony Raju presided over the function. Minister for General Education V. Sivankutty inaugurated the stalls and made the first sale. The Onam fair at Putharikandam Maidan will be on till August 20. Household equipment too would be available at the fairs. The prices of some items are as follows – Green gram – Rs. 74, Urad dal – Rs. 66, Black gram – Rs. 43, Tuvar dal – Rs. 65, Mulagu -Rs. 75, Coriander seeds – Rs. 79, Sugar – Rs. 22, Jaya rice – Rs. 25, Raw rice – Rs. 23, Matta rice – Rs. 24. Branded products will be available at discount of 5 to 30 per cent at the retail outlets. Taluk fairs, Onam markets, Onam mini fairs will function from August 16 to 20 adjacent to the retail outlets from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/supplyco-onam-fair-begins/article35848430.ece
11 August 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Lockdown if WIPR goes above 8||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Tuesday said the government would impose a lockdown in localities that have registered a weekly infection population ratio (WIPR) above 8. The government had earlier said triple lockdown restrictions would kick in localities that register the WIPR above 10. It would increase microcontainment zones by more than 50% in districts where the WIPR is above 14. The administration has upped the number of daily visitors to Sabarimala to 15,000 when the temple opens for monthly puja on August 15. Devotees can gain admission to Sabarimala for darshan only through the Kerala Police’s virtual queue portal. At the Nilackal base camp checkpost, devotees should produce a COVID-19 fully vaccinated certificate or a recent (within 72 hours) RT-PCR negative certificate. No Onam cultural fete The State has banned gatherings, cultural events and socialising during Onam. It has limited hawking of wares on the street to licensed vendors. The police would impose the restrictions in tandem with presidents of local bodies . Ideally, only people with an immunity passport (a COVID-19 vaccination certificate or recent RT-PCR negative authentication) should visit shops. Traders should emphasise home delivery and process orders online. Vaccination priority The government on Tuesday issued orders decentralising the vaccination process to ensure that the first dose of vaccine reaches all vulnerable categories as fast as possible. District Collectors have been directed to coordinate with the Health Department and to prepare ward-wise lists of people of 60 years of age and above who have not yet received the first dose and to vaccinate them on priority basis. The order says all bedridden patients above 18 years should also be identified and vaccinated, for which mobile vaccination units should be deployed. The vaccination of these two categories should be completed before August 15. Vaccination for the rest of the people may be planned properly, depending on the availability of vaccines. People can register online on the CoWIN portal and book the vaccination session, for which 50% of slots will be available online, while the rest 50% shall be set aside for spot registration. However, when registering online, people should ensure that they are registering in the local body where they reside and preferably in the same ward. Beneficiaries for the 50% slots for spot registration should be selected on the order of priority. Beneficiaries above 60 years who are due for second dose and all bedridden individuals above 18 years due for second dose come at the top of the list for spot registration.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/lockdown-if-wipr-goes-above-8/article35848206.ece
11 August 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Karamana-Vellarada road project progressing||Public Works and Tourism Minister P.A. Mohamed Riyas has said the preparatory works for the Rs. 255.3-crore Karamana-Vellarada road was progressing. Replying to a submission by Kattakada MLA, I.B. Satheesh in the Assembly on Tuesday, Mr. Riyaz said the detailed project report (DPR) for the 35.5-km-long proposed road was being examined by the State government. The road will link the Nemom, Kattakada, Aruvikkara and Parassala Assembly constituencies. Sanction Administrative sanction had been accorded for the project in 2016 following which it was included in the upgradation package of the State Roads Improvement Project. The project is being undertaken by the Road Infrastructure Company Kerala Ltd. (RICK). The Minister said administrative sanction had been granted for Rs. 21.4 crore to acquire 8.375 hectares of land. An amount of Rs. 1.07 crore was also handed over to the Revenue Department from the total allocation of Rs. 7.5 crore that was earmarked for establishment and contingency charges. Besides, RICK has completed the laying of boundary stones for the road development. Special meeting A special meeting will be called with the representatives of the constituencies including General Education Minister and Nemom MLA V. Sivankutty and Mr. Satheesh to review the progress of the project, Mr. Riyas added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/karamana-vellarada-road-project-progressing/article35848438.ece
11 August 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||3 panels to lead higher education overhaul||Higher Education Minister R. Bindu has said the government will appoint three commissions to overhaul the higher education system. Replying to a discussion on demands for grants in the revised Budget for 2021-22 at the Assembly on Tuesday, Dr. Bindu said a higher education reforms commission will be entrusted with recommending steps to modernise the sector and prioritise programmes. A university laws reforms commission will be tasked with assisting the government in reforming outdated university statutes and Acts. Thirdly, an examination reforms commission will be formed to overhaul the examination system. She added that a common admission system would be implemented for all State universities. By way of reform, candidates who would be allotted unique code numbers would be able to opt for any course provided by universities in accordance with the eligibility norms. Mark lists and certificates would be made available on cloud-based platform DigiLocker. The facility would serve to simply certificate verification and, thereby, foreign students and those who aspired to travel abroad for work. While the government had announced 30 inter-university centres in the budget, Dr. Bindu said, steps were under way to upgrade seven centres as centres of excellence this year. A research enhancement council was being considered to coordinate and improve quality research being undertaken in research centres at universities and elsewhere in the State. Ranking system A ranking system that incorporated the ranking criteria adopted by global ranking agencies, including the Academic Ranking of World Universities (or Shanghai Ranking) and the Times Higher Education World University Rankings, would be introduced for universities and colleges, Dr. Bindu said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/3-panels-to-lead-higher-education-overhaul/article35848210.ece
11 August 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Onam kit distribution goes off track||The paucity of essential items required for the government’s Onam provision kit has thrown the ongoing distribution drive off track in the State. Less than 13% of the beneficiaries have received the food kit with just 10 days left for the festival. The Food and Civil Supplies Department, which launched the Statewide programme on July 31, hoped to complete the distribution among priority categories, Antodaya Anna Yojana (AAY) (yellow) and priority household (pink) cardholders, by August 7. However, the disbursal rate remained abysmal. Only 11.24 lakh out of the 38.30 lakh beneficiaries in these categories received the kits as of 5 p.m. on Tuesday. Cashew nut shortage According to sources, the shortage of cashew nut and green gram cardamom has affected the distribution. While the Kerala State Civil Supplies Corporation, tasked with preparing the kits, has been receiving sizeable stock of green gram and cardamom during the last few days, the failure to obtain cashew nut in bulk quantities has disrupted the distribution of kits among ration outlets. However, Supplyco chairman and managing director Ali Asgar Pasha P.M. maintains that there is sufficient availability of all items. He attributes the low distribution rate to the failure of the public to adhere to the days allotted for various categories. In all, 12.04 lakh people out of the 90.96 lakh ration cardholders have been provided the kit so far. The government had hoped to complete the process by August 16. All Kerala Retail Ration Dealers’ Association general secretary T. Muhammedali says the shortage of kits has led to the public venting their ire on ration dealers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/onam-kit-distribution-goes-off-track/article35848208.ece
11 August 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Pinarayi fetes police in Assembly||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Tuesday feted the State police in the Assembly for their public service and professional commitment during the COVID-19 pandemic and other civic emergencies, including catastrophic floods and landslips. However, members of the United Democratic Front accused Mr. Vijayan of sweepingly lionising law enforcement and whitewashing its chequered track record to escape pointed criticism. The UDF legislators walked out of the House after Speaker M.B. Rajesh denied them leave to move an adjournment motion to discuss the recent police “high-handedness” against a tribal community in Palakkad. Indian Union Muslim League legislator N. Shamshudeen gave the notice. He said the police had raided the Vattilakki settlement on August 8 and arrested tribal chieftain Choriya Moopan and his son, Murukan, on trumped-up charges of assault. Mr. Vijayan said an argument between the chieftain and his neighbour over grazing rights had resulted in a brawl. The neighbour had accused the chieftain and his son of assaulting him grievously. The incident occurred on August 3. Earlier, Murukan’s wife had accused the neighbour of throwing stones at her. The police were constrained to enter the settlement and arrest the chieftain and Murukan after they refused to heed repeated summons for questioning. Mr. Vijayan requested the UDF not to make light of the law enforcement’s sacrifices. “That is the creed of fundamentalists, anarchists and anti-nationals.” Leader of the Opposition V.D. Satheeshan said the police were overzealous in punishing ordinary people. They had collected crores in fine from the COVID-hit community for perceived misdemeanours. However, the same zeal was conspicuously absent in arresting the CPI(M) men accused of assaulting a doctor in Alappuzha.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pinarayi-fetes-police-in-assembly/article35848204.ece
11 August 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||1,040 new cases, 861 recoveries||The district recorded 1,040 COVID-19 cases and 861 recoveries as the active caseload rose to 10,031 on Tuesday. The test positivity rate also increased to 9.8%. As many as 948 people contracted the infection through local transmission. Five health workers were among those who tested positive. The district administration has currently placed 33,016 people under quarantine. The State received 5.11 lakh doses of COVID-19 vaccine on Tuesday, which is being distributed to all regional vaccination stores, an official release issued by the office of the Health Minister said . With the State almost running out of vaccine stock and that too on the eve of the vaccination campaign it announced, only 95,308 doses were administered across the State on Tuesday, through 411 government sites and 333 private hospitals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/1040-new-cases-861-recoveries/article35848437.ece
11 August 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Dowry: women’s panel submits draft Bill to govt.||The Kerala State Women’s Commission (SWC) has submitted a draft Bill to the State government on checking dowry harassment and extravagant weddings. The draft ‘Bill for Prevention of Extravaganza and Unlimited Expenditure on Marriages in Kerala, 2021’ comes in the wake of an increase in ostentatious marriages in the State. The commission had been entrusted with preparing the draft of the Bill. Debt burden The rise in ostentatious weddings among sections of society and the social and economic implications of such pomp and rapacity; the debt burden on families of the bride and groom, particularly those of the bride; and the murders of women in the name of dowry after marriage or their suicides in the wake of harassment led to the drafting of the Bill, the commission said in a statement on Tuesday. The extravagance in ceremonies before and after weddings in various caste and religious communities will come under the purview of the Bill, which also recommends penalty for violators. The commission had earlier launched a campaign to create awareness on ostentatious weddings and violence against women in homes in the name of dowry. Campaign on media, including social media, with the message ‘End dowry’ had been held in this phase. Second phase The second phase of the campaign titled ‘Sakudumbam sthreedhanathinte ethire’ (Family against dowry) will get under way on August 15. It will involve entire families taking a pledge against dowry online. They will participate in classes on the Dowry Prohibition Act, 1961, and share their opinions on dowry prohibition. The four-month online campaign, which will see Ministers, people’s representatives, and artistes and sportspersons take part, will conclude on November 26 that will be observed as Dowry Prohibition Day in the State. The commission has also submitted its recommendations on amendments to the the Dowry Prohibition Act to the government. It had observed that as per Clause 2 of Section 3 of the Act, any presents made at the time of a marriage to either party to the marriage shall not be deemed to be dowry. However, in the name of gifts, dowry was indirectly changing hands in the State. In such marriages, cases were not being charged under the Act, unless a woman lost her life. It also recommended that a clause added to the Dowry Prohibition (Maintenance of Lists of Presents to the Bride and Bridegroom) Rules, 1985, that a list of the presents received should be signed by the couple and their parents/guardians and certified by a notary and be presented with the application for registration of marriage and that an affidavit on this could be handed over to the dowry prohibition officers by the bride’s family. The State had been rocked by a series of deaths of young women owing to dowry harassment in recent months.  The commission had earlier launched a campaign to create awareness on ostentatious weddings||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/dowry-womens-panel-submits-draft-bill-to-govt/article35848428.ece
11 August 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Test positivity rate soars to 15.91%||The State registered 21,119 new cases of COVID-19 on Tuesday when 1,32,769 samples were tested over the past 24 hours. The test positivity rate, which had been remaining stable around 13% for the past several days, soared to 15.91% on the day. ICU occupancy of COVID patients has remained more or less unchanged at 2,088. The number of patients requiring ventilator support has climbed to 787. The active case pool has not shown much fluctuation over the past few days and now stands at 1,71,985, with 18,493 more recovering. The case fatality in the State continues to rise and has crossed the 18,000 mark. It now stands at 18,004, with the State adding 152 deaths to the official toll. On Tuesday, the number of patients newly admitted to hospitals was 2,101. Total hospitalisations of those with moderate or severe infection now stand at 28,750. Among the districts, Malappuram reported the highest number of new cases at 3,603, followed by Ernakulam 2,539, Kozhikode 2,335, Thrissur 2,231, Palakkad 1,841, Kollam 1,637, Kottayam 1,245, Alappuzha 1,230, Kannur 1,091, Thiruvananthapuram 1,040, Wayanad 723, Pathanamthitta 686, Kasaragod 536 and Idukki 382 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/test-positivity-rate-soars-to-1591/article35848203.ece
11 August 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Interest-free loans under Navajeevan project||The Labour Department will implement Navajeevan, a project to provide a means of livelihood to those in the 50-65 age group, Minister for Labour V. Sivankutty has said. Responding to the discussion on demand for grants in the revised Budget for the current financial year, the Minister said those in the 50-65 age group who have registered themselves in employment exchanges but are unable to find jobs will be given interest-free loans to start self-employment ventures as part of Navajeevan. Widows who have registered with the exchanges but have no jobs and belong to the below-the-poverty line category, unmarried above the age of 30, unmarrried mother belonging to the Scheduled Tribes, physically challenged women, those with bed-ridden or sick husbands are being given a loan of Rs. 50,000 to start self-employment ventures, he said. The Karmachari project was intended to provide employment opportunities along with education to students. Those in Class IX or XI would be provided with two hours of work in public sector units, cooperative institutions, or commercial establishments for 25 Saturdays in a year in return for wages. The Minister also said that a career development centre would be started in the Kovalam and Vizhinjam areas for school and college students.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/interest-free-loans-under-navajeevan-project/article35848436.ece
11 August 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Ration dealers’ demand rejected||Food and Civil Supplies Minister G.R. Anil on Tuesday turned down the demand made by ration dealers for their commission dues for the distribution of provision kits during the past 10 months. Replying to a submission made by former Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala, Mr. Anil said the government was not in a position to agree to the demand on account of the pandemic-induced financial crisis. Stopping short of saying that the demand was rejected, he said that it would be considered with due seriousness. Mr. Chennithala claimed that around 14,300 ration dealers were yet to receive their dues amounting to over Rs. 45 crore during the past 10 months.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ration-dealers-demand-rejected/article35848450.ece
11 August 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Murugappa group plans expansion||The Murugappa group, a business conglomerate with stakes in agriculture, engineering, financial services and other sectors, has expressed interest in making fresh investments in Kerala. Group chairman M.M.Murugappan on Tuesday held discussions with Industries Minister P.Rajeeve on setting up a Rs. 200 crore project in the State. Industrial climate A pressnote quoting Mr.Rajeeve said the company would also expand its operations in the State. Mr.Murugappan conveyed his satisfaction with the industrial environment in Kerala. The Minister, on his part, offered all support for the group to expand its footprint. Principal Secretary, Industries K.Elangovan and MD, Carborundum Universal N.Anandaseshan were present at the discussions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/murugappa-group-plans-expansion/article35848433.ece
11 August 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Bomb threat: one held||The Kerala police have arrested a person on the charge of making a hoax call to Cliff House, official residence of Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, to claim that anonymous persons had placed a bomb in the high security precincts. They identified the suspect as Premraj Nair. An official said the Tamil Nadu police helped nab him from Salem. Investigators traced the threat call to his mobile phone. He had allegedly made the call from Thrissur. Consequently, the Hill Palace police registered a case against the suspect. Officials said the police would seek his custody to understand the motive for the crime.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bomb-threat-one-held/article35848434.ece
11 August 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Sub-inspector suspended||City Police Commissioner Balram Kumar Upadhyay placed a sub-inspector attached to the Kazhakuttam police under suspension for allegedly manhandling a youth two days ago. Principal sub-inspector Vimal was placed under suspension on the basis of a report by the Special Branch. The action was taken in connection with the excessive force that a police team had allegedly taken out on Kazhakuttam native U.V. Shibu Kumar late Sunday when he was standing by the roadside near his house. He alleged that the group of police officers had come in a private car and beat him repeatedly using a lathi without enquiring about his details before chasing him away. Bearing visible wound marks on his back, Mr. Kumar sought treatment at the General Hospital the next day following which he submitted formal complaints to the State Police Chief and the State Human Rights Commission. Inebriated state However, the police had justified the action by claiming that they had received numerous complaints regarding anti-social elements in the area. The particular incident had taken place during efforts to drive away a group of people who had created a ruckus in an inebriated state, they claimed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sub-inspector-suspended/article35848439.ece
11 August 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Online UG, PG courses soon: Minister||Higher Education Minister R. Bindu informed the Assembly on Tuesday that universities in the State have commenced steps to seek approval of the University Grants Commission for launching online undergraduate (UG) and postgraduate (PG) programmes. She was replying to a question by A.P. Anil Kumar (Congress) on why none of the universities have failed to obtain UGC approval in this regard. Kerala University which recently dismissed reports of having decided to join the online bandwagon is likely to discuss its feasibility in its Syndicate meeting scheduled to be held next week.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/online-ug-pg-courses-soon-minister/article35848378.ece
11 August 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Renovated Ponnara Park opened||Minister for Tourism P.A. Mohamed Riyas on Tuesday inaugurated Ponnara Sreedhar Park at Thampanoor that was renovated by the city Corporation as part of the Smart City project. The park in the name of Ponnara G. Sreedhar who was a freedom fighter, MLA, and city Mayor has got electrical lights, art installation, and fountain as part of the renovation. Mayor Arya Rajendran who presided over the function said the park, in the heart of the city, would be a welcome sight for those reaching the Central railway station and the Thampanoor bus-stand and those coming to Thampanoor for other purposes. Minister for Transport Antony Raju and Deputy Mayor P.K. Raju were chief guests at the function.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/renovated-ponnara-park-opened/article35848431.ece
11 August 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||KU publishes final-year UG results||Kerala University declared the examination results of its final-year undergraduate (UG) courses on Tuesday. The sixth-semester examinations of BSc, BA, BCom and other programmes were conducted in March. According to official sources, all results except those of a group of BSc Physics and Economics students have been published. The pending results will be declared at the earliest. The deadline to apply for revaluation and scrutiny of answer sheets is August 25. Further details can be obtained from the university website.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ku-publishes-final-year-ug-results/article35848432.ece
11 August 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Bank ex-secretary misused position: CB||The remand report filed by the Crime Branch (CB) at the Irinjalakuda Magistrate Court on Tuesday alleged that T.R. Sunil Kumar, key accused and the former secretary of the Karuvannur Service Cooperative Bank, misused his position. A loan fraud of Rs. 100 crore was committed at the bank by creating fake documents and manipulating software, the report said. The court remanded Sunil Kumar in judicial custody for 14 days. Kiran, one of the accused in the case, who was not a member of the bank, was given a loan of Rs. 23 crore. This was possible with the intervention of Sunil Kumar. In all, 279 loans worth more than Rs. 50 lakh each were sanctioned by the bank. Without signature Documents furnished for these loans were not complete. The overpricing of the land submitted as collateral security was also found. Sunil Kumar sanctioned many loans without the signature of the president of the Director Board, the report noted. The Thrissur District Sessions Court on Tuesday rejected the anticipatory bail plea of three other accused in the case - Biju Kareem, C.K. Jilse and Reji Anil. The Crime Branch team had on Monday arrested Sunil Kumar, who was absconding after a case was registered against six persons, in the Rs. 100-crore loan fraud. It is suspected that the other accused had escaped from the State. The Crime Branch has issued a look out notice for them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bank-ex-secretary-misused-position-cb/article35848445.ece
11 August 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Congress sees vaccine black marketeering||Congress leader Padmaja Venugopal has alleged that the Left Democratic Front government has been promoting black marketeering of the COVID-19 vaccine. She was addressing a protest march organised by the Thrissur District Congress Committee here on Tuesday as part of the campaign ‘Give Vaccine, Protect Lives.’ When the government failed to give vaccines for even the most vulnerable sections of society, private hospitals were distributing them at exorbitant rates. The government was supporting the black marketeering, she alleged. The spread of the pandemic would increase if the Pinarayi Vijayan government, which collected huge amounts in the name of vaccine challenge, waited for free vaccines from the Centre, she said. Could COVID spread be checked only by slapping fines and implementing restrictions, she asked. DCC vice president Joseph Tajet presided. The protest rally will cover all the 55 divisions in Thrissur Corporation; 210 wards in municipalities; and 1,300 wards in grama panchayats in the district. The protest would continue till all people in the district received vaccines, said DCC president M.P. Vincent.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/congress-sees-vaccine-black-marketeering/article35848377.ece
11 August 2021||August 11 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Safety at peril||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/safety-at-peril/article35848194.ece
11 August 2021||August 11 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Farm fresh||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/farm-fresh/article35848447.ece
11 August 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||DPO ‘absconding’ as police probe begins||Anantapur District Panchayat Officer (FAC) B. Parvathi is allegedly absconding and has switched off her mobile phone after the Nandyal Divisional Panchayat Officer A. Srinivasulu lodged a police complaint with regard to the alleged financial irregularities committed by her while she was working as Divisional Panchayat Officer at Nandyal and Special Officer of Banaganapalli Panchayat. The Panchayat Officer filed the complaint on Sunday and the Banaganapalli police have been on the lookout for Ms. Parvathi for the past two days to take her into custody and begin an inquiry, Banaganapalli Circle Inspector Bommisetty Subbarayudu said the accused official was absconding and the police were on the lookout for her. A case under Section 409 of IPC has been registered and the police have three months’ time to file a charge sheet in this case. The complaint was filed after the issue was exposed by The Hindu in these columns on Sunday. Banaganapalle MLA Katasani Rami Reddy had complained about the whole incident in 2019, said a police officer, and based on that the District Collector instituted an inquiry last year and sent the report to Panchayat Raj Commissionerate, which ordered filing of the complaint on July 8. After she failed to furnish documents with regard to expenditure from Banaganapalli Panchayat funds, the Commissionerate directed the Divisional Panchayat Officer to file the complaint.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/dpo-absconding-as-police-inquiry-begins/article35848344.ece
11 August 2021||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Present books instead of bouquets’||The State government has banned presentation of garlands, bouquets, shawls, and fruits in official programmes. It said that organisers can, instead, present Kannada books to guests. The order by the State government was issued on Tuesday by P. Ravi Kumar, Chief Secretary of Karnataka. All department heads and government undertakings have been asked to comply with the directions. Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai, who participated in a meeting of senior police officials in Bengaluru earlier in the day, had refused to accept a bouquet. “This is unnecessary expenditure. There is no need to give bouquet, garlands, and shawls in the name of protocol. Henceforth, the tradition should be stopped,” he said. Government departments spend a lot of funds on presentation of shawls and flowers to guests at various programmes. Sometimes these gifts are received multiple times in a single day by leaders, as they participate in several programmes. Mr. Bommai had brought up the issue of cost cutting in the first meeting with bureaucrats when he took oath as Chief Minister. He had said that in the context of the COVID-19, there is a need to bring in financial discipline and unnecessary expenditure should be curtailed in every department. Newly sworn in Energy and Kannada and Culture Minister V. Sunil Kumar had appealed to those coming to greet him not to give garlands and gifts and asked for Kannada books instead, which he would donate to a library in Karkala constituency. At the meeting with police officials, Mr. Bommai urged the police force to be people-friendly and initiate measures to bring the crime rate under control. He particularly told the police that crimes related to land disputes must be prevented. Asking them to prepare for future challenges, he said the dark web, gambling and other illegal activities must be controlled without compromise. “Our fight against narcotics and drugs will continue. Strict action has to be taken in all districts in this regard,” he said, and stressed the need for strengthening the internal security division. The Chief Minister told police authorities to initiate measures to increase the income of prisoners. Home Minister Araga Jnanendra appealed to Mr. Bommai to extend support for modernising and improving the department.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/present-books-instead-of-bouquets/article35847788.ece
11 August 2021||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||3 held for stuntman’s death on film set||Following the death of a stuntman who was electrocuted during the shoot of a Kannada film in Jogenahalli near Bidadi on August 9, the police on Tuesday arrested the director, stuntmaster and crane operator. They have been charged for causing death due to negligence. The victim, Vivek, 35, was working on the set of the film ‘Love You Rachchu’, starring Ajay Rao and Rachita Ram. “Five people have been booked. We have arrested stuntmaster Vinod Kumar, director Shankar Idigar, and crane operator Mahadev. We are on the lookout for the producer, Guru Deshpande who was not present when the incident took place, and the unit incharge, Fernandes, who was on the set but is absconding,” said a senior police officer, adding that they visited the spot and conducted an inspection. The stunt crew were shooting a fight sequence with cranes and a metal rope at a private resort. During the sequence, Vivek came in contact with a high tension wire and was electrocuted on the spot. Two others were also injured during the shooting and have been hospitalised. A case has been taken up based on the complaint filed by a constable who visited the spot. “It is a clear case of negligence as everyone at the spot knew that there was a high tension wire over the area where the shoot was taking place. Despite this, there were no safety measures in place. No permission was taken from the concerned authorities to perform the stunt,”said a police officer. He added that given the presence of the high tension wire, a crane and metal ropes were used. “The crane was operating close to the high tension wire, which led to the mishap. This act shows rash and negligent acts endangering the lives of people,” said the police officer. The three arrested accused were produced before the court and remanded into judicial custody till August 24. “We are questioning all the crew members and will also be calling the lead actor, Ajay Rao,” said the police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/3-held-for-stuntmans-death-on-film-set/article35847786.ece
11 August 2021||CHENNAI,ANDHRA PRADESH||DVAC searches 60 premises of T.N. ex-Minister and associates||The Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption (DVAC) on Tuesday launched simultaneous searches on the premises of former AIADMK Minister S.P. Velumani and his associates at 60 places, including Chennai and Coimbatore. According to sources in the agency, the Special Investigation Cell registered a case against Mr. Velumani and 17 others, including KCP Engineers Private Ltd., based on the outcome of a preliminary inquiry. Besides the office/residence of the former Minister, DVAC officials also swooped down on the premises of his close business associates, relatives and friends. No information on the seizures or arrests was confirmed by the DVAC till late on Tuesday. Considered an AIADMK bigwig in the western districts of Tamil Nadu and a powerful Minister in the 2016-21 regime of the party, Mr. Velumani, who was the Minister for Municipal Administration, faced allegations of corruption, which were investigated by the DVAC. In the FIR registered on Monday, the agency said two complaints were received in 2018 from R.S. Bharathi, DMK MP, and V. Jayaraman, convener, Arappor Iyakkam. A preliminary inquiry was conducted and the report was forwarded to the government. A copy was submitted as a status report to the Madras High Court. The complainants alleged that Mr. Velumani engaged in largescale favouritism by abusing his official position as the Minister for Municipal Administration in matters concerning the award of “construction” and “supply of goods services” work tenders in the Greater Chennai and Coimbatore municipal corporations to his close associates, including his brother, their relatives and companies associated with them. It was also alleged that unknown officials of the two municipal corporations “blatantly violated all rules of business” in the allocation of tenders under the influence of the former Minister. Further investigation revealed that between 2014 and 2018, Mr. Velumani wilfully abused his official position in the awarding of work tenders to the tune of Rs. 810 crore, with the connivance of unknown officials. The DVAC said that when a writ petition came up for hearing, the Madras High Court directed that “the State should spare no efforts in getting to the bottom of the matter and proceed against those found to be responsible for the regularities”, and that it should conduct an investigation in the light of the Comptroller and Auditor General’s report of 2016, which highlighted that the injudicious awarding of tenders was resulting in huge loss to the government in certain set of works executed by the Greater Chennai Corporation during 2014-18. Further investigation revealed that between 2014 and 2018, Mr. Velumani wilfully abused his official position in the awarding of work tenders to the tune of Rs. 810 crore, with the connivance of unknown officials of the Greater Chennai and Coimbatore corporations, thereby providing undue favour to certain firms. While awarding these tenders, the officials of the respective corporations blatantly violated the Tamil Nadu Transparency in Tenders Act, 1998; Rule 31 of the Tamil Nadu Transparency in Tenders Rules, 2012; and guidelines of the Central Vigilance Commission, among others. Pointing to serious violations in the tender bidding, tender negotiation and execution of work, as well as the findings in the CAG report, the DVAC gave details of what it described as the high trajectory of growth of some companies that were favoured during the injudicious award of tenders. After a preliminary inquiry into allegations of irregularities in the award of contracts by the Greater Chennai Corporation and the Coimbatore Corporation, the DVAC found no material to register a case against Mr. Velumani. The counsel for the former Minister informed the Madras High Court in June this year that in January 2020, the State (AIADMK) government accepted the report of the DVAC and dropped all proceedings against Mr. Velumani. Meanwhile, the DVAC said in a statement on Tuesday that Rs. 13.08 lakh cash, Fixed Deposit receipts to the tune of Rs. 2 crore, a computer hard disk, company transaction papers and documents relating to the municipal corporations were among the material seized.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/dvac-searches-premises-of-tn-ex-minister/article35847895.ece
11 August 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Additional staff join Red Sanders Task Force||An additional force of 66 members from various wings of the A.P. Police Department was added to the Red Sanders Anti-Smuggling Task Force at Tirupati on Tuesday. The additional force, comprising personnel from the armed reserve, special and civil police arenas, was need of the hour to counter the smuggling network, Superintendent of Police (Task Force), Meda Sundara Rao said. Addressing the new joinees at Kapilatheertham complex at Tirupati, Mr. Sundara Rao said that the protection of the red sanders trees in Seshachalam Hills should be considered a sacred duty. The Task Force SP said the additional force would be deputed in combing operations in Kadapa and Railway Kodur ranges. Meanwhile, a special party of the Task Force nabbed a red sanders smuggling operative at Karakambadi beat on the eastern side of the Seshachalam Hills on Tuesday, and seized 23 logs from him. The accused was identified as Lakshmanan (51). The logs, estimated to be worth about Rs. 50 lakh, were shifted to the Task Force office at Kapilatheertham. In another incident, 23 red sanders smuggling operatives were held in Piler while they were exiting from the forest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/additional-staff-join-red-sanders-task-force/article35848350.ece
11 August 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Heavy rain lashes Chittoor dist.||Heavy rain lashed several parts of Chittoor district on Tuesday, covering all the 66 mandals. The district recorded 2,172.2 mm of rainfall during the last 24 hours ending Tuesday morning, while the total rainfall in August was 2,587.2 mm, while projection for the whole month is 7745.1 mm. Several western mandals experienced downpour from Monday night till the early hours of Tuesday. The parched Pedda Tippa Samudram mandal recorded the highest daily rainfall of 104.2mm, followed by Shantipuram with 92 mm, and Mulakalacheruvu 88.2 mm. The KVB Puram mandal in the eastern side recorded the least of 1.2 mm. ‘Good rainfall this time’ Agriculture officials said the district had received a good rainfall in the southwest monsoon, particularly in June. So far, only five of the 66 mandals received deficient rainfall, and zero mandals were under the scanty category. The showers in July and August would help the farmers under the kharif, which is at its fag-end. The groundnut, paddy and sugarcane crops would sustain the brief dry spell since a fortnight with the Tuesday rains, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/heavy-rain-lashes-chittoor-dist/article35848348.ece
11 August 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||BJP leader takes oath at temple, refutes allegations||Bharatiya Janata Party(BJP) State general secretary S. Vishnuvardhan Reddy on Tuesday visited Varasiddhi Vinayaka Swamy temple at Kanipakkam and took oath refuting the allegations of fraud levelled against him by Proddatur YSR Congress Party MLA Rachamallu Sivaprasad Reddy. Following the temple norms, the BJP leader took an oath, amidst priests and staff, stating that he was never involved in any fraud and that he did not get any financial benefits from the Hindu religious organizations as has been alleged. He said the oath was taken to prove his integrity and added that though he challenged the MLA to swear at the temple in a similar manner to support his allegations, he did not turn up. “It is unfortunate that Mr. Sivaprasad Reddy made baseless allegations saying that I had misused the reputation of the premier religious mutts and got financially benefited,” Mr. Vishnuvardhan said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bjp-leader-takes-oath-at-temple-refutes-allegations/article35848347.ece
11 August 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Wish to see ANGRAU become a world-class institution: Governor||Governor and Chancellor of Acharya NG Ranga Agricultural University (ANGRAU) Biswa Bhusan Harichandan said he wishes to see the varsity transform into a world-class institution, for which it will have to play a stellar role in teaching and research activities. The Governor made the observations while taking part virtually in the 50th Annual Convocation celebrations of the university held at Mahati Auditorium in Tirupati on Tuesday. Mr. Harichandan congratulated winners of gold medals, awards and distinctions and appreciated their efforts and hailed them as true ambassadors of the university. The Governor also congratulated Vice-Chancellor A. Vishnuvardhan Reddy for achieving 13th rank among national agricultural universities for the 2019-20 academic year assessed by the Indian Council of Agriculture Research (ICAR). “Teaching skills of the faculty have to be upgraded from time to time to achieve excellence in research by allowing academic freedom, providing well-equipped facilities for teaching, research, extension and administration,” said the Governor. He suggested that ANGRAU could take up projects under Public-Private-Partnership (PPP) mode in association with agro-industries to achieve synergy in solving field problems and benefit the students in terms of employability, fellowships, and sharing of resources. Going by the demand for food security at the national level, there is a need to boost crop productivity by release of crop varieties that have high yield potential and are resistant to pests and diseases, the Governor said. Mr. Harichandan drew attention to recent statistics released by the Food and Agricultural Organization (FAO), according to which the country holds the largest undernourished population in the world. “About 14% of the population and 20% of our children below five years of age are underweight, 34.7% of them are stunted, and 51.4% of women in reproductive age are anaemic,” said the Governor. He said there is a pressing need to overcome malnourishment, and agricultural universities have to do cutting-edge research on bio-fortification of crops, which is a cost-effective and a sustainable way to overcome the problem of malnutrition. The Governor added that he was happy to learn that ANGRAU has devised novel strategies such as ‘Massive Open Online Courses’ through the Open and Distance Learning Centre (ODLC), offering certificate courses in organic farming, terrace gardening, bee-keeping, mushroom production, millet promotion and agricultural journalism.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/wish-to-see-angrau-become-a-world-class-institution-governor/article35847851.ece
11 August 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||British delegation meets Chief Minister||A delegation led by British Deputy High Commissioner (Andhra Pradesh and Telangana) Andrew Fleming and head of British Trade and Investment Varun Mali met Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy at the latter’s camp office at Tadepalli on Tuesday. Describing the State as one of the fastest growing States in the country, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy extended an invitation to the delegation to explore all possibilities of investment in Andhra Pradesh. “The State has embarked on a journey of welfare and development. We are confident that it will grow faster,” he said. Mr. Andrew Fleming said that the U.K. was interested in investing in health, energy, electric vehicle and agricultural technology sectors in the State. The Chief Minister felicitated Mr. Fleming with a shawl and a replica of a tiger, showcasing the conservation efforts to save the big cats in Andhra Pradesh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/british-delegation-meets-chief-minister/article35848361.ece
11 August 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||CM to present YSR Achievement awards on Friday||Chief Minister Y.S Jagan Mohan Reddy will present the YSR Lifetime Achievement Award and YSR Achievement Award at a function to be held at Vijayawada on August 13. Sixty three personalities from different walks of life have been selected for the awards. Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy would present the awards at a function to be held at A Convention in Vijayawada. The awardees have been chosen from arts, literature, social work, journalism and institutions which have been doing yeomen service. Out of the awardees, 11 are from agricultural background, 20 from fine arts, culture, arts, seven from Journalism, seven who have been worked courageously during COVD-19. Each awardee of YSR Lifetime Achievement Award would get Rs. 10 lakh, a bronze statue of YSR. Each awardee of YSR Achievement Award would get Rs. 5 lakh and a bronze statue of YSR.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cm-to-present-ysr-achievement-awards-on-friday/article35848501.ece
11 August 2021||Hyderabad,ANDHRA PRADESH||EAMCET results likely on Aug. 25||Results of the Telangana State Engineering, Agriculture and Medical Common Entrance Test (EAMCET) in all likelihood would be released on August 25 while the first phase of admission counselling process will start from August 30. Students will be allowed to fill basic information online, pay processing fee and book a slot for certificate verification from August 30 to September 9 and the certificate verification would be done from September 4 to 11, according to the EAMCET 2021 Admissions Committee that met here on Tuesday. Web options will be allowed from September 4 to 13 and the provisional seat allotments will be made on September 15. Students allotted seats as per their merit and choice have to pay the tuition fee and self-report online between September 15 and 20. The final phase schedule will be declared depending on the JEE admissions, according to officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/eamcet-results-likely-on-august-25/article35848128.ece
11 August 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||3,400 kg ganja seized in E.G.||The East Godavari police on Tuesday seized 3,400 kg of ganja and arrested 11 members of a gang. Police raided vehicles transporting ganja procured in Visakhapatnam Agency. “We have seized four mini-vans loaded with 3,400 kg of ganja worth over Rs. 3 crore. The vehicles were seized at Vutukuru area on the Maredumilli-Gurthedu road,” Maredumilli Circle Inspector A.L.S. Ravi Kumar said. Prime accused Sobha Subba Rao is absconding and a search is on to nab him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/3400-kg-ganja-seized-in-eg/article35847794.ece
11 August 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||11,000 litres of jaggery wash destroyed||East Godavari Special Enforcement Bureau (sand and liquor) teams on Tuesday destroyed 11,000 litres of jaggery wash in the Coringa mangrove cover on the Kakinada coast. The SEB and the Law and Order police conducted the raids in the mangrove cover, where they traced a huge number of ID liquor production units. In an official release, SP M. Ravindranath Babu said at least 11,000 litres of jaggery wash had been destroyed. It was found stored in 55 drums. None of the accused could be traced during the raid, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/11000-litres-of-jaggery-wash-destroyed/article35848406.ece
11 August 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rs. 52 crore disbursed under Nethanna Nestam in E.G.||As many as 7,092 beneficiaries on Tuesday received a financial aid of Rs. 17 crore under the Nethanna Nestam scheme in the East Godavari district. In an online meeting chaired by Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy, Collector Ch. Hari Kiran said that a total of Rs. 52 crore aid had been offered to handloom weavers since 2019-20. Handloom weavers Vadige Lakshmi of Kakinada and Bandaru Baburao of Amalapuram interacted with the Chief Minister and thanked him for the financial aid. Joint Collector G. Raja Kumari and other officials were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rs-52-crore-disbursed-under-nethanna-nestam-in-eg/article35848407.ece
11 August 2021||KANNUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vlogger brothers held after commotion at RTO get bail||The Kannur judicial first class magistrate court granted bail to the two vlogger brothers, who were arrested on Monday for causing a ruckus at the Regional Transport Office after their vehicle was confiscated by the officials for non-compliance with rules and for failing to pay taxes. The brothers, Ebin and Libin, both residents of Iritty, are well known through their YouTube channel, E Bull Jet. They were arrested based on a complaint filed by the RTO and were sent to judicial custody by the First Class Judicial Magistrate Court. They were granted bail on Tuesday on the condition that they pay Rs. 3,500 each for destroying public property. Officials threatened The brothers, who arrived at the RTO office on Monday morning to produce their vehicle’s documents, stormed into the control room and threatened vehicle inspectors and other staff and refused to pay the taxes. They burst into tears and made an emotional live video on social media. Several fans and followers gathered at the police station after learning that they had been taken into custody. Meanwhile, the Motor Vehicle Department on Tuesday served a notice on the brothers asking them to restore the vehicle to its old condition. The Iritty Joint Regional Transport Officer gave them a week’s time to comply with the notice, failing which the registration of the vehicle would be suspended, said Unnikrishnan, Kannur Regional Transport Officer. The police have also registered cases against 17 of their accomplices. Kannur District Police Chief R. Ilango said said an inquiry had been ordered into a video showing them driving the vehicle with an ambulance siren during their trip to Bihar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vlogger-brothers-held-after-commotion-at-rto-get-bail/article35847795.ece
11 August 2021||KOCHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||ED arrests key accused in Popular Finance scam||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has arrested the key accused in the 2,000-crore Popular Finance scam that rocked Kerala in August last. Thomas Daniel, managing director, and Rinu Mariam, his daughter and chief executive officer, were arrested following their interrogation in the Kochi office of the agency on Monday night. They were produced before the special court for Prevention of Money Laundering Act cases in Kochi on Tuesday. The court remanded Mr. Daniel in judicial custody for 14 days while granting bail for his daughter. ED to seek custody The ED will seek the custody of the accused to further investigate the scam. It is learnt that the duo had deposited the money collected from various persons in the country and abroad in violation of the provisions of the Money Laundering Act. The Central Bureau of Investigation is also probing the scam involving the Konni-based non-banking financial company. The fraud came to light after the depositors filed a cheating complaint against Mr. Daniel for failing to repay their deposits. The company had collected about Rs. 2,000 crore from around 1,600 customers within and outside the country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ed-arrests-key-accused-in-popular-finance-scam/article35847790.ece
11 August 2021||KOCHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||No stay on single judge order: Kerala HC||The Kerala government’s plea to stay a single judge’s order preventing the inclusion of Christian Nadar community in the list of Other Backward Classes (OBC) was turned down by a Division Bench of the Kerala High Court. However, the Bench posted the case for August 25 considering the fact that a Constitution amendment Bill empowering the States to modify the OBC list was under the consideration of Parliament. Moreover, a few States have approached the Supreme Court seeking permission to modify the list. The single judge had earlier stayed the State government’s decision after observing that only the President had the right to expand the list. The court also held that the government decision of inclusion of the community in the list went against the spirit of the Supreme Court verdict in the Maratha reservation case. ‘Prospective effect’ In its appeal, the State contended that the single judge overlooked the fact that the law declared by the apex court in the case had only prospective effect. The apex court judgment in the Maratha reservation and related cases conclusively showed that all the lists made by the State governments would stay till a comprehensive decision regarding the lists was taken by the President, the Kerala government submitted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/no-stay-on-single-judge-order-kerala-hc/article35847793.ece
11 August 2021||Kochi,ANDHRA PRADESH||Why no COVID norms at bars, asks Kerala HC||“Baffling, surprising and incongruous” was how the Kerala High Court on Tuesday termed the non-applicability of the new COVID norms which require at least one dose of vaccination or a negative RT-PCR test for queueing outside bars or Kerala State Beverages Corporation (Bevco) outlets to buy alcohol when they have to be followed for visiting any other shop in the State. Why is the government order not applicable to bars and Bevco outlets where people gather in long queues for several hours, Justice Devan Ramachandran asked the State government and said the new guidelines should be implemented in such establishments also. “It is baffling, surprising, incongruous that order of August 4 is not applicable for buying of alcohol.... Why is it not complied with in bars and Bevco outlets? I want an answer to this,” Justice Ramachandran said. Fillip to vaccination The court said it was of the view that the order should be applicable to such outlets also for the additional reason that it “would give an impetus to vaccination”. If getting vaccinated is a requirement for buying alcohol, “more and more people would opt for it,” the court observed. The observations and directives of the court came while hearing a contempt plea which was filed claiming non-compliance of a 2017 judgment of the High Court directing the State government and Bevco to ensure that no nuisance is caused to businesses and residents of an area in Thrissur due to a Bevco outlet there. (The government has since insisted that persons who shop for liquor require to provide a fully COVID-19 vaccinated certificate or a recent RT-PCR test to purchase legal alcohol.) Vaccination priority If someone needing a third dose of vaccine to travel abroad cannot be given that on the ground that it would be at the expense of others in need of a jab, then it would be inappropriate to give priority in vaccination as that too would be at the expense of others, the Kerala High Court said on Tuesday. The observation by Justice P.B. Suresh Kumar came after the Central and State governments expressed their reservations in granting a third jab of vaccine to a person who had received two doses of Covaxin but wanted a third dose of an internationally recognised vaccine for travelling back to Saudi Arabia for work.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/why-no-covid-norms-at-bars-asks-kerala-hc/article35847796.ece
11 August 2021||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kurnool ACB unit takes over probe into ticket scam in Srisailam temple||The Kurnool unit of the Anti Corruption Bureau has taken over the comprehensive investigation of the tickets scandal at the Srisailam temple that was alleged to have taken place from 2016 to 2020 at seven counters. Kurnool ACB Deputy Superintendent of Police J. Siva Narayana Swamy in a release here on Tuesday said that the ACB had given its full report in February 2021 on the alleged misappropriation of funds at various counters of the temple after conducting inquiry and investigation. The State government had issued an order seeking filing of criminal cases/ initiating proceedings in July 2021. Seven different cases were registered by the Kurnool ACB and are inquiring into them against persons responsible for the fraud at Abhishekam Counter, VIP Abhishekam Counter, Darshan Ticket Counter, Donations Counter, Toll Gate 1 and 2 Counters, Kalyanakatta Counter, and at the IOCL Petrol Pump. The ACB DSP said in the release that another five cases registered at the Srisailam I Town police station regarding the financial irregularities at the temple had also been sought to be transferred to the Kurnool unit of the ACB. A proposal to this effect has been sent to the government, Mr. Narayana Swamy said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kurnool-acb-takes-over-probe-into-srisailam-ticket-scam/article35848345.ece
11 August 2021||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Support for slain journalist’s kin||Condemning the alleged brutal murder of a journalist in Nandyal on Sunday night, Andhra Pradesh SC/ST Lawyers’ Forum president Y. Jayaraju has announced full support to the family of the victim in fighting the case in the court. At a meeting on Tuesday, Mr. Jayaraju, a senior advocate in Kurnool and A.P. High Court, demanded the immediate arrest of constable Venkata Subbaiah and his accomplices. The forum members appealed to the State government and District Collector P. Koteswara Rao to support the bereaved family members by sanctioning an immediate financial relief of Rs. 10 lakh and provide a job to the widow of Chennakesavulu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/lawyers-forum-announces-support-to-slain-journalists-kin/article35848346.ece
11 August 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Subabul growers rue price fall, seek Centre’s help||Worried over the drastic fall in the prices of subabul and eucalyptus, farmers have urged the Centre to come out with policy initiatives to support the growers in the drought-prone region. A delegation of farmers, led by former Minister Vadde Sobhandreswara Rao, called on Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman and pressed for a direction to the Central GST council to impose zero tax on the logs. Imposition of GST on subabul and eucalyptus, including debarked ones, was not justified as their essential characteristics had not undergone any change. ‘Discourage paper pulp imports’ Allowing duty free import of paper pulp had contributed a market crash leading to unbearable loss to the growers, they said. The prices of subabul and eucalyptus ruled over Rs. 4,200 per tonne during 2014. Now it ranged from Rs. 1,500 to Rs. 2,500 per tonne only, explained All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee Prakasam district president Ch.Ranga Rao on return from New Delhi on Tuesday. The Centre should impose countervailing duty to discourage import of paper pulp as imports proved to be detrimental to domestic growers. The government should ensure reasonable prices for the logs taking into consideration the cost of production and the prevailing international prices, All India Kisan Sabha national vice-president R.Venkaiah said. This was needed to arrest the declining forest cover from the ideal 33% to 22%. A suitable direction should be given to the forest department to grow only trees of long life leaving social forestry plantations to the farmers who make a living out of it in drought-prone areas. Eucalyptus is grown in an extent of over 1.10 lakh acres and subabul in about 60,000 acres in Prakasam district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/subabul-growers-rue-price-fall-seek-centres-help/article35848355.ece
11 August 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Contract medical employees seek fair deal||Para-medical employees taken on a contract basis staged a demonstration in front of the Prakasam Bhavan here on Tuesday demanding regularisation of their services. Led by State para-medical staff Joint Action Committee, the employees, who have been working on temporary basis for up to 20 years, raised slogans demanding justice for them. As many as 40 para-medical staff in the State had succumbed to COVID-19 and none of their family members had been provided with financial aid, lamented JAC district president Ratnakar Babu. Financial assistance provided to regular employees should be extended to them along with other benefits including group insurance, they added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/contract-medical-employees-seek-fair-deal/article35848352.ece
11 August 2021||ONGOLE/NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Active cases dip in South Coastal A.P.||The number of active COVID-19 cases declined to a little over 4,100 in South Coastal Andhra Pradesh as recoveries outnumbered new cases by over 300 in the last 24 hours. Three more persons succumbed to COVID-19 in SPSR Nellore district in the 24 hours ending 9 a.m. on Tuesday taking the toll to 1,992 in the region. Prakasam district recorded zero deaths during the period. As a result, the toll remained unchanged at 1,020 in Prakasam district, according to a health bulletin released by the State government. The cumulative coronavirus count rose to over 2.67 lakh in the wake of 301 new cases in the region, including 94 in Prakasam district during the period. As many as 626 persons recovered from the disease in the region, including 319 in Prakasam district, bringing down the active caseload further down to 4,146 in the region, including 2,583 in SPSR Nellore district. With this, the recovery rate improved to 97.70%. Meanwhile, reviewing the health situation in Ongole, Prakasam District Collector Pravin Kumar said the health professionals had to gear up for a possible third wave of coronavirus by equipping the hospitals with an adequate number of oxygen beds and strengthening of the paediatric wing. Vaccine coverage He patted the staff for the high recovery rate in the district. So far, he noted that 80% in the targeted group has been vaccinated in the district and exhorted the health staff to step up vaccine coverage.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/active-cases-dip-in-south-coastal-ap/article35848354.ece
11 August 2021||RAJAMAHENDRAVARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police bring Rajahmundry under drone surveillance||Urban SP Aiswarya Rastogi on Tuesday stated that the strategic and vulnerable areas have been brought under drone camera surveillance in order to prevent anti-social activities and ensure safety of women at public places across the city. In an awareness meeting on the Disha police system held at Adikavi Nannaya University, Mr. Rastogi appealed to women to cooperate with the city police by utilising the Disha services, including the app. “On the ground, special teams have been deployed to monitor the public places, schools, and college zones. The city is now under the drone camera surveillance,” he said. In a drive against drinking liquor in open and public places, the city police have imposed a fine on 1,500 persons in the past two weeks. “At least 10,000 persons have been found violating the number plate guidelines of two-wheelers. We have imposed a fine on them. The drive will be intensified,” the SP said. Rajanagaram MLA Jakkampudi Raja said cash prizes ranging from Rs. 10,000 to Rs. 20,000 would be given to the women police who encourage more women to download the Disha app in the city and the Rajanagaram Assembly segment. East Godavari Child Welfare Committee Chairperson B. Padmavathi and other police officials were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/police-bring-rajahmundry-under-drone-surveillance/article35848405.ece
11 August 2021||SANGAREDDY,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tension in village as man dies post clash||Tension prevailed at Peddareddypet in Pulkal mandal of Telangana’s Sangareddy district on Tuesday as a man from a minority community, injured in a clash in the village, died while undergoing treatment at a hospital. As a precautionary measure, police clamped prohibitory orders in the village. According to Pulak Sub-Inspector Naga Lakshmi, there was a clash in the village on Monday between Kothakota Shekhar and Mohammad Mahaboob over a piece of land. In a fit of rage Shekhar assaulted Mahaboob. The latter, who sustained injuries in the attack, died on Tuesday while undergoing treatment. This led to minor tension in the village. As a precautionary measure, the Telangana police imposed Section 144 and brought the situation under control.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tension-in-village-as-man-dies-post-clash/article35847785.ece
11 August 2021||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||NEP a boon for students, says V-C||Dr. B.R. Ambedkar University Vice-Chancellor Nimma Venkata Rao on Tuesday said that the National Education Policy would be a boon for youngsters as it would help them acquire skills in chosen subjects. The university organised a roundtable conference on the campus at Etcherla in the district. Mr. Venkata Rao urged faculty members and academicians to study the NEP thoroughly and implement its guidelines in letter and spirit. CBSE Director S. Devadas said that the NEP was designed in accordance with the international standards of education.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/nep-a-boon-for-students-says-v-c/article35848403.ece
11 August 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,ANDHRA PRADESH||Test positivity rate in Kerala soars to nearly 16%||After 11 days, fresh cases of COVID-19 dropped below 1,900 in Tamil Nadu, as 1,893 people tested positive for the infection on Tuesday. While cases continued to fluctuate in a number of districts, Chennai’s daily tally increased to 209 from 182 on the previous day. Cases began fluctuating from the last week of July. During the last two weeks, the highest daily tally was recorded on August 1 (1,990). Fresh cases dropped to 1,893 on Tuesday, compared to 1,929 on Monday. In Coimbatore, cases fell marginally from 235 to 224, while Erode registered a small dip from 178 to 169. Chengalpattu recorded 105 cases. There were 97 cases in Thanjavur, 92 in Salem, 79 in Tiruvallur and 71 in Tiruppur. With this, the State’s case tally rose to 25,79,130. Active cases stood at 20,363, with Chennai’s active caseload crossing 2,000. Another 1,930 people were discharged after treatment, taking the total recoveries so far to 25,24,400. The State recorded 27 deaths, taking the toll to 34,367. There were no deaths in 24 districts. While Coimbatore and Tiruppur recorded five deaths each, there were three deaths in Salem. Chennai recorded two fatalities. Andhra Pradesh reported 1,451 new infections and 15 deaths on Tuesday. The death toll rose to 13,564, and the cumulative infection tally to 19,85,182. The State tested 63,849 samples which showed a TPR of 2.29%. Chittoor reported six new deaths, Krishna and Nellore three each, East Godavari two and West Godavari one death. West Godavari reported 235 new infections, Krishna (210), Chittoor (195), Nellore (195), Guntur (182), Prakasam (112), East Godavari (98), Visakhapatnam (74), Kadapa (59), Srikakulam (41), Anantapur (28), Vizianagaram (20) and Kurnool (12). As many as 494 persons tested positive in Telangana, which also recorded three fatalities, a medical bulletin said on Tuesday. The Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) limits recorded 80 cases, Karimnagar (51), Warangal Urban (45), Nalgonda (33), Khammam (29), Peddapalli (28), Medchal Malkajgiri (26) and Rangareddy (23). In 17 districts there were single-digit cases. The overall tally was 6,40,353 and toll 3,831. There were 8,112 active cases, the bulletin said. The number of samples tested on Tuesday was 89,037. On the COVID-19 vaccination drive, the Director of Public Health said 60,257 people were administered the first dose while 72,139 had their second dose on Tuesday. In all, the figures were 1,16,49,267 who got the first dose and 39,65,625 the second dose. Karnataka reported 1,338 new cases and 31 deaths, taking the total number of infections to 29,21,049 and death toll to 36,848, the Health department said on Tuesday. Of the new cases, 315 were from Bengaluru Urban, and the city added three deaths. There were 22,676 active cases. While the TPR for the day stood at 1.05%, case fatality rate (CFR) was 2.31%. Out of the 31 deaths reported on Tuesday, eight were from Dakshina Kannada followed by Uttara Kannada (4), Bengaluru Urban and Hassan (3), Kolar and Mysuru (2), followed by others. Dakshina Kannada accounted for 378 new cases, Bengaluru Urban (315), Chikkamagaluru (93), and Udupi (92). With a higher test positivity rate (TPR) of 15.91%, Kerala on Tuesday registered 21,119 new cases of COVID-19 from 1,32,769 samples tested.   (With inputs from Vijayawada, Hyderabad and Thiruvananthapuram bureaus, and PTI)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/test-positivity-rate-in-kerala-soars-to-nearly-16/article35847801.ece
11 August 2021||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||Three-day Pavithrotsavams at Tirumala from August 18||The three-day annual Pavithrotsavams at the temple of Lord Venkateswara here are scheduled to commence on August 18 with customary ankurarpanam the previous evening. Immense importance is attached to the annual event as the temple priests seek forgiveness for all the omissions and commissions committed knowingly or unknowingly during the discharge of the daily rituals to the presiding deity during the year. Even though the historical evidences with regard to the performance of the festival at the hill temple date back to 15th century, the practice was restored in 1962 after a brief hiatus in between. While the auspicious Pavitra Pratista will be carried out on the first day, Pavitra Samarpana will be observed on the following day and the festival will draw to a close with Purnahuti on Aug. 20. Snapana Thirumanjanam will be conducted for the deities on all the three days followed by a grand procession around the thoroughfares of the town in the evenings. The TTD has resolved to observe the festival in ‘ekantham’ (private) in view of COVID-19 health protocols and also dispensed with the performance of all kinds of day time arjitha sevas inside the temple on all the three days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/three-day-pavithrotsavams-at-tirumala-from-august-18/article35848363.ece
11 August 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Eight of 13 districts report zero COVID-19 deaths in 24 hours||The State reported 1,451 new infections and 15 deaths due to COVID in the 24 hours ending Tuesday morning. The death toll increased to 13,564 and the cumulative infection tally reached 19,85,182. The number of active cases came down to 18,882,  as 2,113 patients recovered in the past day. So far 19,52,736 patients recovered and the recovery rate was at 98.37%. The daily test positivity rate of the 63,849 samples tested in the past day was 2.29%, one of the lowest in past few days. Chittoor reported six new deaths and it was followed by Krishna and Nellore which reported three deaths each. East Godavari reported two deaths and West Godavari reported one death. Eight districts reported no death in the past day. West Godavari reported 235 new cases. It was followed by Krishna (210), Chittoor (195), Nellore (195), Guntur (182), Prakasam (112), East Godavari (98), Visakhapatnam (74), Kadapa (59), Srikakulam (41), Anantapur (28), Vizianagaram (20) and Kurnool (12). The district tallies are as follows: East Godavari (2,80,999), Chittoor (2,34,023), West Godavari (1,71,050), Guntur (1,69,756), Anantapur (1,56,622), Visakhapatnam (1,53,332), Nellore (1,36,508), Prakasam (1,31,380), Kurnool (1,23,515), Srikakulam (1,21,135), Kadapa (1,11,208), Krishna (1,11,073) and Vizianagaram (81,686).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/eight-of-13-districts-report-zero-covid-19-deaths-in-24-hours/article35848359.ece
11 August 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Class X students of city school complain of poor GPAs||Many Class X students of Nirmala High School, Patamata, who completed schooling during 2020-21, alleged that they were given a lower Grade Point Average (GPA) than what they deserved. The students, along with their parents, met the school management and also lodged a complaint with the School Education Commissioner, seeking justice. According to sources, there were about 300 students in the batch. As per the suggestions of the Supreme Court, the State government declared all students ‘pass’ and awarded the GPA. Depressed over the poor marks, a student reportedly attempted suicide at home and was rescued by the parents. They later approached the school management for corrective measures but were reportedly told by the staff to take the matter to the notice of the School Education Department officials. “Out of 300-plus students who studied tenth class in our school only a few got 10 GPA, and many were given 4.5, 5.7, 6 and 7.5 GPA though we are good at studies,” said a student. “My daughter fared well in SA-1 and SA-2 examinations and the online tests conducted by the school management. But she was given only 5 GPA in the final examinations,” a parent told The Hindu . Students alleged that the school management was throwing the blame on the government. The School Education Department officials, on the other hand, said the GPA was based on the merit list given by the school staff. The students submitted a representation to the School Education Department Commissioner seeking a revision of the GPA. When contacted, Krishna District Educational Officer (DEO) Tahera Sultana said that the issue had come to the notice of the government and an inquiry has been ordered into the students’ allegations. “We will verify the marks scored by the students in the SA and online tests conducted by the school management. A report will be submitted to the higher officials soon,” Ms. Sultana said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/class-x-students-of-city-school-complain-of-poor-gpas/article35848496.ece
11 August 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP seeks White Paper on ‘atrocities’ against Dalits||Even as the Andhra Pradesh police foiled the Telugu Desam Party’s bid to organise a ‘Dalit Pratighatana’ rally from the Gymkhana grounds to Tummapalli Kshetrayya Kalakshetram here on Tuesday, the party has demanded that the government release a White Paper on the “atrocities against Dalits” in the State. The TDP’s Dalit wing leaders condemned the police action and described it as an attempt to infringe on the fundamental rights of the weaker sections. Former Minister K.S. Jawahar alleged that atrocities against the Dalits were on the rise ever since the YSRCP assumed office. “SCs and STs are being detained illegally. False cases are being foisted upon them to silence the voice of dissent. The government should release a White Paper on the attacks on Dalits,” he said. Former Minister Nakka Anand Babu said Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy won the election with the support of the SCs, the STs and minorities in 2019. “However, he [Mr. Reddy] has been suppressing the communities with an iron hand after coming to power. Police are behaving in a high-handed manner by not according permission to the Dalit Pratighatana rally. SC and ST leaders are not being allowed to express their democratic rights to protest against the atrocities of the ruling party,” he said. Former Minister Peetala Sujatha said the voice of Dalits was being “throttled”. TDP Mahila Wing president Vangalapudi Anita sought to know as to why the government “obstructed” the rally.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tdp-demands-white-paper-on-atrocities-against-dalits-in-ap/article35847798.ece
11 August 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||British envoy meets officials of AP Chambers||British Deputy High Commissioner Andrew Fleming held a meeting with delegates of the Andhra Pradesh Chambers of Commerce and Industry Federation (AP Chambers) on Tuesday. Office-bearers and members of AP Chambers from the Vijayawada and Guntur regions attended the meeting. Mr. Fleming discussed the possibility of exploring trade and partnership opportunities between the United Kingdom and Andhra Pradesh. As A.P. is strong in sectors like food processing, aquaculture and textiles, the possibility of exporters from the State setting up operations in the UK was discussed by Mr. Andrew Fleming and his team with the members of AP Chambers. AP Chambers officials briefed the British delegation about the investment opportunities in the State. AP Chambers president K.V.S. Prakash Rao, general secretary Potluri Bhaskara Rao, and members M. Murali Krishna, Ch. Sudhakara Chowdary, Ch. Sambasiva Rao, P. Ravi Kumar, P. Venkat Rami Reddy, and A. Nagaveer participated in the interactive meeting. Later in the day, Mr. Fleming visited the Vijayawada Municipal Corporation (VMC) office. He met VMC Commissioner V. Prasanna Venkatesh and discussed issues related to the city and its development aspects. Mr. Venkatesh felicitated Mr. Fleming on the occasion. VMC Additional Commissioners J. Aruna, U. Saradha, Chief Engineer M. Prabhakar Rao and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/british-envoy-meets-officials-of-ap-chambers/article35847853.ece
11 August 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘PSBs sanctioned loans worth Rs. 50,076 cr. to A.P. since 2019’||The State government has availed of loans to the tune of Rs. 50,076 crore from the public sector banks (PSBs) since April 1, 2019. Answering an unstarred question raised by TDP Rajya Sabha member Kanakamedala Ravindra Kumar on Tuesday, Union Minister of State for Finance Bhagwat Karad disclosed these details. The loans were sanctioned by the PSBs to various companies and corporations owned by the State government, he said. As per the provisions of Clause (b) of Sub-section(1) of Section 21A of the Reserve Bank of India Act,1934, the RBI, by agreement with any State government, may undertake the issue of any new loans by the latter. “In accordance with the same, the RBI currently acts as a banker to all State governments except for Sikkim. Thus, new loans are issued by the RBI (and not by banks) in its capacity as a banker ,” Mr. Bhagwat Karad explained. According to him, the Bank of Baroda sanctioned Rs. 9450 crore, while Bank of India sanctioned Rs. 7,075 crore. The State Bank of India sanctioned Rs. 15,047 crore, while Bank of Maharashtra sanctioned Rs. 2,800 crore. Similarly, the Central Bank sanctioned Rs. 2,307 crore. Indian Bank sanctioned Rs. 4,300 crore. Indian Overseas Bank and Punjab National Bank sanctioned Rs. 1,750 crore and Rs. 5,797 crore respectively to the State government. Punjab and Sind Bank sanctioned Rs. 750 crore, while Union Bank of India sanctioned Rs. 6,800 crore, the Minister said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/psbs-sanctioned-loans-worth-rs-50076-cr-to-ap-since-2019/article35848365.ece
11 August 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||All teachers will be inoculated by August 14, says Minister||Education Minister A. Suresh on Tuesday said schools will reopen on August 16 and function as per normal timings with strict COVID guidelines in place. Speaking to reporters after attending a meeting, the Minister said 95% of the teachers had been vaccinated and the District Collectors had been told to give top priority to ensure that the remaining 5% of teachers get their shot by August 14. Private schools had been asked not to conduct online classes, he said, adding that all schools would be sanitised and use of masks, hand sanitisers and social distancing would be mandatory on campuses. Earlier, addressing a meeting on “Administrative and Academic Reforms in School Education”, attended by officials of School Education and all other aligned departments, the Minister said the government wanted to take along all the stakeholders in its decision to implement the recommendations of the National Education Policy-2020. Already two rounds of discussions had been held with representatives of various teacher organisations and Members of the Legislative Council from Graduates’ constituencies. He said to help the students pursue academic courses of their choice without the obstacles of poverty, the government had ushered in radical reforms in the education sector. Infra development The unique and innovative programmes like Nadu-Nedu and Amma Vodi had been widely appreciated by other states and even the Chairman of the NEP-2020 Dr. Kasturi Rangan, he said, informing that 15,714 schools in the State were given a makeover at a cost of Rs. 3,600 crore in the first phase of Nadu-Nedu, while in the second phase, another Rs. 4,456 crore would be spent to prove a facelift to schools. The Minister said implementation of the NEP would help the government strengthen the pre-primary education system in the State. The Department intended to organise awareness meetings in different regions of the State on the need to implement NEP, he added. Panchayat Raj Minister Peddireddy Ramachandra Reddy, Minister for BC Welfare Ch. S. Venugopal Krishna, Principal Secretary, School Education B. Rajasekhar, Principal Secretary, Department of Women and Child Welfare, A.R. Anuradha and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/schools-in-ap-to-reopen-on-august-16/article35847894.ece
11 August 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||SSC students can get migration certificates||The Department of Government Examinations is issuing migration certificate for the convenience of students who have passed the SSC (10th class) and have plans to pursue higher studies outside the State. In view of the coronavirus pandemic that prevented the government from going ahead with its plans to conduct the SSC board examinations, all students who paid the examination fee were declared pass and promoted to the next level for the 2020-21 academic year on August 6. In a statement on Tuesday, Director of Government Examinations A. Subba Reddy said students who had paid an additional sum of Rs. 80, along with the examination fee, can obtain migration certificate from their respective school login. The respective headmaster should hand over the certificates to the students. However, this facility will be available till September 5. After the stipulated date, students will have to pay Rs. 80 again and apply afresh in online mode to the Department of Government Examinations for the certificate, he said. Students of the previous 10th class batches can also apply for the certificate online. The process of applying would be explained through a video and a power point presentation to be uploaded in the department’s official website www.bse.ap.gov.in shortly, he said. Inter second year classes from Aug. 16 Meanwhile, the Board of Intermediate Education (BIE) has announced that physical classes for second year Intermediate students for the 2021-22 academic year will commence from August 16 (Monday). Principals of Junior Colleges have been told to make the necessary arrangements for the same.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ssc-students-can-get-migration-certificates/article35848366.ece
11 August 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||State continues to witness hot weather||The State continued to reel under hot weather conditions with increasing day and night temperatures, as mainly westerly and south-westerly winds prevailed over the State. Above normal maximum and minimum temperatures were recorded across the State. According to India Meteorological Department, Bapatla in the Guntur district experienced heatwave conditions as its maximum temperature at 38.2 °C was five degrees higher than the normal temperature. Ongole and Visakhapatnam recorded a maximum temperature of more than 37 °C, while Narsapur and Visakhapatnam recorded 29.2 °C minimum temperature with a departure of three degrees from normal. Machilipatnam and Tuni also recorded minimum temperatures with three-degree departure from normal. Meanwhile, rainfall occurred in various areas of East Godavari, Nellore, Prakasam, Krishna and Guntur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/state-continues-to-witness-hot-weather/article35848497.ece
11 August 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Murder mystery of woman solved, 2 held||The police claimed to have solved the missing-cum-death case of a woman, who was allegedly killed in Uttar Pradesh. They arrested two persons of Saharanpur in U.P. and recovered her gold ornaments from them. Disclosing this to the newsmen here on Tuesday, West Zone in-charge Deputy Commissioner of Police (DCP) K. Babu Rao said the victim’s father, a native of Chittinagar, under Two Town police station limits, lodged a missing complaint with the police on July 11 this year. Police Commissioner B. Srinivasulu formed special team and contacted the Uttar Pradesh police regularly to detect the case, the DCP said. West Zone Assistant Commissioner of Police (ACP) K. Hanumantha Rao said the family members took the woman, who was in depressed condition to a self-styled sorcerer, Mohammad Wasif, of Saharanpur Uttar Pradesh. However, Wasif on the pretext of giving treatment spoke with the woman over phone, pretended love and assured to marry her. He allegedly asked the woman to come to his State. On July 9, the woman left for Secunderabad from Vijayawada by train, from where she travelled to Delhi, on the ticket reportedly booked by Wasif. She was kept in a house at Ketakeri village by Wasif, who allegedly sexually assaulted her. When the issue came out, Wasif and his friend, Mohammad Tayyab, allegedly took her on a two-wheeler and pushed her into Hathni Kund Barrage and killed her. Two Town CI D.K.N. Mohan Reddy, said a team of police visited Uttar Pradesh, arrested the accused, produced them in the local court and brought them to Vijayawada.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/murder-mystery-of-woman-solved-2-held/article35848494.ece
11 August 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Dockless scooter sharing service launched in city||Minister for Transport and I&PR Perni Venkataramaiah and Minister for Endowments Velampalli Srinivasa Rao launched scooter sharing service Bounce’s electric vehicle (EV) dockless service with a fleet of about 600 electric scooters here on Tuesday. Bounce Chief Operating Officer G. Anil said EV dockless service had been introduced as an intracity mobility solution in Vijayawada. “We believe in an EV-centric fleet based public mobility system and feel Andhra Pradesh is the right State to expand our services,” he said. Vijayawada will be the third city in the country to have Bounce dockless service under which EV scooters can be booked and picked up at any location and left at any legal parking location after ending the ride. The scooters have patented keyless technology through which riders are given access to the vehicle via a smartphone app. The Bounce launched its service in Vijayawada on a pilot basis in December 2019, in collaboration with Kirana stores. It has registerred more than one million kilometres in 1.2 lakh rides since then.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/dockless-scooter-sharing-service-launched-in-city/article35848499.ece
11 August 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vimukti plea to bail out sex workers||Vimukti and Indian Leadership Forum Against Trafficking (ILFAT) submitted a memorandum to Principal Secretary (Women, Children, Disabled and Senior Citizens) A. R. Anuradha urging her to extend support to women sex workers in the wake of COVID. Vimukti convener M. Mehrunnisa said there were 1.20 lakh commercial sex workers as per the reports of AP State Aids Control Society. Owing to COVID, the sex workers were left with no other choice but to enter into a inter-generational debt trap for their lifetime unless they were given alternate livelihoods, she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vimukti-plea-to-bail-out-sex-workers/article35847852.ece
11 August 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Shivendra Mohan is new DRM||Shivendra Mohan, an officer of Indian Railway Service of Mechanical Engineers, took charge as Divisional Railway Manager (DRM), Vijayawada, on Tuesday. Mr. Mohan has a mechanical engineering degree from The Engineering Council, London, and Metallurgical Engineering from Institution of Engineers (India). Having joined the Railways in 1991, he worked in various capacities in different divisions, production units and workshops.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/shivendra-mohan-is-new-drm/article35847849.ece
11 August 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||PepsiCo’s products listed in CSC Grameen e-store in A.P.||PepsiCo India has extended its partnership with Common Service Centres (CSC) under the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MeitY) to list its food products on Grameen e-store platform. According to a release, after the successful pilot project in Uttar Pradesh, PepsiCo India’s snacking brands Lay’s, Kurkure, and Uncle Chipps will be listed on the CSC Grameen e-Store across 11 districts in Andhra Pradesh. The partnership with CSC extends to Madhya Pradesh, and Jharkhand besides listing the snacking brands in more districts of Uttar Pradesh and products will be made available through 20,000 Village Level Entrepreneurs (VLEs) and 489 Distributor Village Level Entrepreneurs (DVLEs). DLVEs will ensure product availability to VLEs to facilitate smooth rural e-commerce and the orders can be placed by customers through the e-store that can either be picked up directly from VLE or delivered by the VLE at the doorstep ensuring zero contact. PepsiCo India Senior Director and Head of Sales Aditya Sinha said CSC has been paramount in driving digital inclusion in rural and remote locations. The CSC Grameen e-store programmwe is a unique purpose vehicle that has economically empowered rural entrepreneurs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/pepsicos-products-listed-in-csc-grameen-e-store-in-ap/article35848500.ece
11 August 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Honorarium for imams released||Deputy Chief Minister and Minister for Minority Welfare S.B. Amzath Basha on Tuesday said the State government credited Rs. 14.74 crore in the accounts of masjid committees. The committees were requested to pay the honorarium to imams and muezzins without any delay. The amount released was pertaining to May and June. A sum of Rs. 7.38 crore was being deposited for July.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/honorarium-for-imams-released/article35848502.ece
11 August 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Applications invited for scholarships||Bengaluru-based Sarojini Damodaran Foundation has invited applications for “Vidya Dhan” scholarships from students who have passed SSC and are seeking admission in Intermediate or Class 11. Students applying for scholarships would be provided with a financial assistance of Rs. 12,000 of Intermediate course in 2021-2022. Students who secured 90% in SSC are eligible to apply. For physically handicapped, the eligibility is a score of 75 %. September 10 is the last date to apply and an exam followed by an interview is on September 25.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/applications-invited-for-scholarships/article35848503.ece
11 August 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Dalit Christians observe ‘black day’||Leaders of various Dalit Christian organisations observed a ‘black day’ on Tuesday, demanding that the State government treat them as part of the Scheduled Castes (SC) community. The leaders, who participated in a protest at Gunadala, said that the government was extending benefits to people from other castes who had converted to other communities, but not to Christians. They urged the Central and State governments to recognise them as Scheduled Castes, and provide benefits as per the Constitution. Some lakhs of Dalits, who embraced Christianity, were suffering due to their inability to avail benefits allotted to the Scheduled Castes, the protesters said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/dalit-christians-observe-black-day/article35848495.ece
11 August 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. hospitals in Agency areas plagued by shortage of doctors, technicians: NGO||Shortage of doctors and technicians is plaguing government hospitals in the Agency areas of Visakhapatnam district. Though many of the hospitals have the required beds and equipment, the lack of specialist doctors and technicians to operate the equipment is forcing the tribal people to go for distant places for treatment. A team from Praja Arogya Vedika (PAV), an NGO, conducted a field study in the Agency areas recently to know the health problems of the tribal people. “Though the government has increased the bed strength, there is no hike in the hospital budget or proportionate increase in the number of doctors. Even the sanctioned medical officer posts are not being filled. The 150-bed Area Hospital at Araku has only two doctors and the district hospital at Paderu has only four doctors as against the requirement of 34 doctors,” says PAV general secretary T. Kameswara Rao. “The Area Hospital at Araku has a scanning machine but absence of a scanning technician is forcing pregnant women to go all the way either to S. Kota or Paderu for scanning. The Araku hospital is equipped to perform eye surgeries but lack of ophthalmologists has rendered the equipment waste. In the absence of proper facilities for their stay, doctors are not preferring to stay at their place of posting,” he says. “The government is providing buildings and medical equipment but neglecting recruitment of doctors and technicians, thereby rendering costly medical equipment a waste. The non-availability of specialists and anaesthetists was preventing doctors from undertaking surgeries. Pregnant women, requiring surgical treatment, are being referred to the King George Hospital (KGH) in the city, sometimes endangering the life of both the mother and the baby due to delay in medical aid,” he says. Vaccination Of the 11 lakh population in the 11 mandals in the Agency, only 1.26 lakh have been vaccinated, so far. Though people living in villages, located close to mandal headquarters, were taking the vaccine shots, those from the interior hamlets have their own apprehensions and are refusing to take the jab. Mr. Kameswara Rao suggests that tribals who have already taken the jab, should be used as volunteers to motivate and educate those who are shunning the vaccine. The other suggestions made include appointment of specialist doctors on permanent basis at PHCs, CHCs, Area and District Hospitals and provision of accommodation to doctors, grant of special allowance and benefits to doctors to attract them to the Agency areas and hastening the vaccination process to prevent spread of COVID-19. Other team members who participated in the field survey are V. Umamaheswara Rao and R. Sankara Rao, Girijana Sangham leaders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govt-hospitals-in-agency-areas-plagued-by-shortage-of-doctors-technicians-ngo/article35848505.ece
11 August 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Steep rise in dengue cases in district||There has been a steep increase in the number of dengue cases from all the regions in the district, in this year. According to the statistics obtained from the Health Department, this year till August 8, the district reported as many as 233 dengue cases, as against 112 in the year 2020, during the same period. Among the 233 cases, 102 were reported from the urban region alone. Similarly, 89 cases were recorded from the rural areas, while 21 cases were reported from tribal regions. Twenty-one cases were reported from peri-urban areas. Fortunately, there were no deaths in both the years. Government hospitals, including King George Hospital (KGH), as well as private hospitals have been receiving a number of dengue cases on a daily basis. Most of the cases are being treated at Bhavnagar ward in KGH. Keeping in view of rise in the cases, the officials have arranged a special ward with 12 beds at Rajendraprasad Ward. According to a duty doctor from male section in Bhavnagar ward, from July, they has been an increase in dengue cases. Since July, almost 60 to 70 cases were treated, the doctor said. Similarly, the Out-Patient (OP) block in the KGH is also receiving number of fever cases since the last four weeks, according to the doctors. Poor sanitary condition With most of the cases being reported from the urban areas, the poor sanitary condition in a few areas, is said to be one of the reasons for the rise in mosquitoes, especially in peri-urban regions. Admitting that there was a rise in dengue cases compared to last year, District Malaria Officer (DMO) Y. Mani, attributed the rise to increase in testing. “During the year 2020, till August, we have conducted about 597 tests and of which 112 cases tested positive. But in 2021, we collected 1,376 samples and out of which 233 reported positive,” she said. The DMO also said that till last year, the district had only one testing and sample collection centre at KGH. But from this year, four more centres have been functioning at hospitals in Anakapalle, Narsipatnam, Araku and Paderu. “Compared to the past few years, the dengue positivity rate has also declined in the district,” she added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/steep-rise-in-dengue-cases-in-district/article35848515.ece
11 August 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Complete Jagananna housing works by Aug. 15, officials told||District Collector A. Mallikarjuna has directed the officials concerned to complete the grounding of works under Jagananna housing by August 15. The Collector reviewed the progress of the construction of houses through video conference on Tuesday. Mr. Mallikarjuna asked the officials to work with dedication for the early completion of the construction works taken up under Navaratnalu – Pedhalandariki Illu, Pradhan Mantri Awaas Yojana and YSR Urban Phase-I houses. He directed them to review the progress of the works from time to time and inform him of the same. The layouts, internal roads, approach roads, electricity supply, borewells and water supply works should be hastened and materials like cement and sand should be kept ready. Housing Project Director M. Srinivasa Rao said that the grounding of 33,302 houses has been completed in the district as against the target of 36,932. Visakhapatnam district has bagged the first place in the State with the grounding of 90% houses in the first phase.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/complete-jagananna-housing-works-by-aug-15-officials-told/article35848507.ece
11 August 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Work on cruise terminal in Visakhapatnam to begin soon||The construction of a ‘cruise terminal’ at the Visakhapatnam Port is expected to begin soon with the Navy issuing the NOC recently and the clearance by the A.P. State Environmental Impact Assessment Authority (AP SEIAA) expected by the end of the month. A world-class cruise terminal, proposed nearly two years ago to tap the tourism potential of the region, could not be started due to a delay in the issuance of mandatory clearances. The original plan was to construct the berth at an estimated Rs. 55 crore and the cruise terminal building at Rs. 22 crore, shared equally by the Central Tourism Department and the Visakhapatnam Port Trust (VPT). Berth for large vessels The cruise berth, designed by IIT-Madras, would be 330 metre long and15 metre wide to enable berthing of Panamax vessels, which can accommodate 2,000 to 2,500 passengers. The length of a regular berth is 180 metres. Cruise liners from different countries like Singapore and Sri Lanka, anchoring at ports like Chennai and Goa, can make Vizag a port of call once the terminal is ready. There will be tourism circuit packages and agents will arrange local tours. “The terminal building, which will come up in about 2,000 square metres, will have facilities like passenger gangways, lounge restaurant, entertainment and shopping and customs and immigration. The architectural work has been entrusted to Creative Group, New Delhi,” Port Chairman K. Rammohana Rao said .  Cost escalation “The Union Ministry of Shipping had accorded in-principle approval for the project for an estimated cost of Rs. 77 crore. The design consultants, IIT-Madras, and architectural consultants of the terminal building have submitted the revised cost estimate for Rs. 96.05 crore with the berth cost estimated at Rs. 64.24 crore and terminal building cost estimated at Rs. 31.81 crore,” he said. The revised cost has been approved by the port and the approval of the Economic Advisor, Ministry of Tourism, has been sought for the contribution of an additional Rs. 9.525 crore. S.V. Enviro Labs and Consultants, Visakhapatnam, has been entrusted with carrying out Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) study and to obtain clearance from the AP SEIAA. “Once the EIA clearance is obtained, finalisation if tenders may take a few months. On commencement of the work, the project will take 15 months for completion,” Mr. Ramamohana Rao said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/work-on-cruise-terminal-in-visakhapatnam-to-begin-soon/article35848369.ece
11 August 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Four RPF constables rescue woman||Prompt response from four Railway Protection Force (RPF) constables saved the life of a woman passenger at Visakhapatnam Railway Station on Monday. According to officials, the woman passenger V. Swathi tried to board the Visakhapatnam- Vijayawada Ratnachal Express, which was already in motion, to go to Samarlakota on Monday. She accidentally slipped and got stuck between the gate and the footboard of the train. Two women RPF constables Rashmi Kumari and K.M. Shoba, as well as two male constables P.V. Ratnam and S.K. Bharathi, who noticed the incident, ran towards the woman and pushed her inside the train and saved her life. CCTV camera The entire episode was captured on the CCTV camera arranged on the platform. Fellow passengers appreciated the RPF constables for saving the life of the woman passenger. After the incident, the Railway Protection Force officials have appealed to the passengers not to board running trains.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/four-rpf-constables-rescue-woman/article35848517.ece
11 August 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Maoist bandh evokes poor response||The State-wide bandh call given by the banned CPI (Maoist) on Tuesday evoked a lukewarm response in Visakha Agency. The bandh call was given in protest against the alleged illegal mining of laterite and bauxite in the Agency areas of Visakhapatnam and East Godavari districts. The police said no untoward incident was reported and that all shops and establishments remained open. Public transport functioned as usual. The Maoists allege that the mining of laterite in 121 hectares at Bhamidikaloddi in Sarugudu panchayat of Nathavaram mandal in Visakhapatnam district was allotted to a tribal person named J. Lakshmana Rao, who in fact is a benami of some influential people. They claimed that the mining had exceeded its designated lease area and a road was laid without obtaining the manadatory permissions and clearances from the authorities concerned. The police said that there was no response to the bandh in Maoist-prone mandals such as G.K. Veedhi, Pedabayalu, Munchingput or Chintapalli.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/maoist-bandh-evokes-poor-response/article35848370.ece
11 August 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Remand prisoner dies||A remand prisoner S. Shiva died after reportedly developing seizures in the Sub-Jail at Yelamanchili in Visakhapatnam district in the early hours of Tuesday. According to Superintendent of Sub-Jail, Yelamanchili, G. Kanakaraju, Shiva was handed over to the sub-jail by the excise officials on August 7. Between 2.30 a.m. to 2.45 a.m. on Tuesday, he developed seizures. “Fellow prisoners immediately informed it to the guards, who alerted me,” he said. “We called 108 vehicle and shifted the prisoner to Yelamanchili Government Hospital immediately. At around 3.45 a.m., the doctors declared him dead while undergoing treatment,” he said. The sub-jail officials have lodged a complaint with the police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/remand-prisoner-dies/article35848518.ece
11 August 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘CM fulfilling all promises made during padayatra’||Minister for Tourism, Culture and Youth Advancement Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao on Tuesday said that Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy is implementing all the promises that he had made during his Statewide padayatra in the run-up to the 2019 Lok Sabha and Assembly elections, and is extending all the benefits of various welfare schemes to all people without any discrimination. The Tourism Minister participated in the third phase of ‘YSR Nethanna Nestham’, launched by the Chief Minister from his camp office, through video conference on Tuesday. Weavers, who have their own ‘maggam’, are being extended financial assistance under the scheme. Participating in the programme from Visakhapatnam on Tuesday, the Tourism Minister said that Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy has announced the calendar for welfare schemes and was implementing them accordingly. His idea was to ensure the economic and social growth of all people without any discrimination, without giving any scope for corruption. The Minister and District Collector A. Mallikharjuna distributed cheques to beneficiaries for the value of Rs. 60,96,000. Joint Collector R. Govinda Rao, MLA Gudivada Amarnath and NEDCAP Chairman K.K. Raju took part in the video conference.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cm-fulfilling-all-promises-made-during-padayatra/article35848506.ece
11 August 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||SAI to conduct selection trials for volleyball and boxing||Sports Authority of India, Training Centre, Visakhapatnam is going to conduct the selection trials for volleyball (Boys & Girls) on August 21, 22 and for Boxing (Boys & Girls) on August 23, 24, at Port Stadium, Akkayyapalem. The timings for the selection trails is 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. According to Centre in-charge of SAI, Visakhapatnam, M. Satyanarayana, interested candidates should bring documents like date of birth certificate original, sports performance certificates, education qualifications, six passport size photographs, medical fitness certificate and Aadhaar card. He also said that the required height for volley ball for boys is 190 cm and above and for girls, is 170 cm and above. For more details, contact 0891-2565366, 7989526632||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sai-to-conduct-selection-trials-for-volleyball-and-boxing/article35848508.ece
11 August 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rs. 17 lakh stolen from private hospital||An unidentified miscreant reportedly stole Rs. 17 lakh in cash and a gold bracelet from a private hospital at Kancharapalem late on Monday night. According to Kancharapalem police, the cash and gold was stolen from a desk in a doctor’s chamber. Sources in the police said that the accused is suspected to be an ex-employee of the hospital. Kancharapalem police have registered a case and have launched a search for the accused. Further investigation is on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rs-17-lakh-stolen-from-private-hospital/article35848509.ece
11 August 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Garbage collection poor: Srijana||Expressing displeasure over garbage collection in several areas, Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) Commissioner G. Srijana said that she had noticed heaps of garbage on roads at different places. Instructing the sanitary inspectors to check their wards at least two times in a day, she asked them to use sanitary workers and ensure garbage is cleared. Addressing a review meet here on Tuesday, she asked the staff to ensure the garbage collection vehicles have covers and they do not spill the wastes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/garbage-collection-poor-srijana/article35848516.ece
11 August 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||74 new COVID cases take tally to 1,53,842||As many as 74 new COVID-19 infections were reported in the district, in the last 24 hours, ending Tuesday morning, taking the cumulative tally to 1,53,842. No deaths The death toll stands at 1,060 as no death was reported in the last 24 hours. During the same period, 102 persons undergoing treatment have recovered. The total number of recoveries has increased to 1,51,363, which is approximately 98.3 %. The number of active cases stands at 1,419.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/74-new-covid-cases-take-tally-to-153842/article35848513.ece
11 August 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||NRDC, Vizag, bags national IP Award||The Technology Innovation Support Centre (TISC) of the National Research Development Corporation (NRDC), Visakhapatnam, has been selected for the National IP Award. Union Minister Piyush Goyal will present the award to B.K. Sahu, Regional Manager and Head NRDC IPFC and TISC, Visakhapatnam, on August 17.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/nrdc-vizag-bags-national-ip-award/article35848512.ece
11 August 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Dy. Mayor, Corporators feted||Deputy Mayor Kolagatla Sravani on Tuesday urged the youngsters of the Arya Vysya community to join politics and serve the society. Vizianagaram Arya Vysya Sangham president Kummarigunta Srinivasa Rao, members Kapuganti Prakash, Vetsa Satyanarayana Murthy and others felicitated Ms. Sravani on her elevation as the Deputy Mayor of the fort city. They also felicitated Corporators Kedarasetti Sitaramamurthy, Bandaru Anand Babu and Vajrapu Satyagowri who belong to the Arya Vysya community.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/dy-mayor-corporators-feted/article35848411.ece
11 August 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||No vigilance notice received, says Ashok||MANSAS Trust chairman P. Ashok Gajapathi Raju on Tuesday said that he had not received any notice from the Vigilance and Enforcement Department pertaining to the probe into the alleged misdeeds by the trust. The former Union Minister said the government was trying to prolong the issue by ordering new inquiries into the allegations. He alleged that the government was intruding into affairs of the MANSAS Trust, while claiming that it was not interested in the issues pertaining to the Pusapati family.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/no-vigilance-notice-received-says-ashok/article35848362.ece
11 August 2021||Vizianagaram,ANDHRA PRADESH||Innovation council at SITAM||The National Research Development Corporation Regional Manager and AICTE member Bijay Kumar Sahu on Tuesday told students to come up with new ideas and concentrate on startups. He said that the government was encouraging new ideas with the support of the Institute of Innovation Councils (IICs). He was here in connection with the establishment of an IIC at SITAM. He handed over the certificate of establishment to SITAM director Majji Sasibhushana Rao.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/innovation-council-at-sitam/article35848409.ece
11 August 2021||August 11 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Down to earth||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/down-to-earth/article35848412.ece
11 August 2021||August 11 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Colours of freedom||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/colours-of-freedom/article35848511.ece
11 August 2021||August 11 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||With hope||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/with-hope/article35848357.ece
11 August 2021||August 11 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Urban sprawl||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/urban-sprawl/article35848372.ece
11 August 2021||CHOUTKUR (SANGAREDDY DISTRICT),TELANGANA||Sign boards no restraint to rash drivers||Choutkur mandal headquarters village is hardly few kilometres away from the four-lane national highway road 161 under construction from Sangareddy to Nanded in Maharashtra. At about 2.30 p.m. on Friday, a car going towards Kowdipally in Medak district. Despite enough space to drive the vehicle perfectly without any risk, the car lost control and hit a lorry resulting in the death of five persons including two women and a child. The accident spot explains how negligent the driver was and at how much speed the vehicle was moving when the tragic incident took place. There are some pits and at some points the road is in worse condition due to various reasons including improper maintenance. Some of the workers were seen repairing the road by black-topping it at one point on Saturday. There are sign boards indicating the turns and speed limits of 20 kilometre per hour (KMPH) or 30 KMPH. But several vehicles were seen passing the road with speeds more than the prescribed limit. Even at the turnings the drivers are not slowing the vehicles and many a time indicators are not being used while siding to one side or other. “It seems the vehicle which met with the accident might have been at a speed of 100 kmph and while overtaking tried to avoid hitting another vehicle/ person,” commented a police officer on condition of anonymity. Choutkur is an accident-prone area due to various reasons including large number of turning points. As many as 13 people died in 20 accidents that took place between Shivampet and Choutkur in the last one year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/sign-boards-no-restraint-to-rash-drivers/article35848419.ece
11 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Plea to scale up cotton, redgram cultivation falls flat||Notwithstanding the repeated appeals made by the Agriculture Department to scale up cultivation of crops such as cotton and redgram and bring down paddy extent, the farming community appears to have decided to have their own way as being described by the pattern of raising crops this Kharif (Vaanakalam) season. Against nearly 70.05 lakh acres area proposed for cotton cultivation this season, farmers have taken up the crop in nearly 50.19 lakh acres as on August 9, with the ideal time for sowing the seed ending in the third week of July itself. Similarly, redgram was proposed in 20.01 lakh acres this season but it is sown in less than half (43.77%) the planned extent. Sown in nearly 8.76 lakh acres, the extent of redgram is lower than its extent during the last Kharif when it was cultivated in nearly 9.81 lakh acres. Instead, farmers have taken to maize and soybean on a large scale – over 260% of the extent proposed for the season. As a result, focus is back on paddy to reach the total extent proposed for the season – over 1.40 crore acres. Kharif crops have so far been taken up in nearly 1.03 crore acres irrespective of favourable seasonal conditions and reaching the proposed area now largely depends on paddy, which is transplanted in 31.15 lakh acres against the proposed area of 41.85 lakh acres. “From mandal level officers – Agriculture Officers and Agriculture Extension Officers – to Minister for Agriculture, the farming community was being told repeatedly to downsize the cultivation of paddy and instead go for cotton, redgram and other alternative crops not only to make optimum utilisation of water available but also to prevent the glut,” a senior official said admitting that reaching the proposed extent would depend only on paddy now. The official stated that farmers were told to go for cotton in a large extent as there was good demand for the fibre in the international market and there was also demand for redgram in the domestic market itself as it being major pulses crop consumed by people across the regions. “Over all, cultivation of pulses is just 47.4% as redgram, greengram and blackgram have been sown in 10,45,212 acres against the planned area of 22,04,448 acres,” the official said. With heavy rains and flooding damaging greengram and blackgram in about 25% of their sown extent (1,69,450 acres), their production is expected to be hit badly this season. On the other hand, farmers have sown maize in nearly 263% (nearly 5.97 lakh acres) and soybean in over 260% (nearly 3.47 lakh acres) of the planned extents of 2.27 lakh acres and 1.33 lakh acres, respectively.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/plea-to-scale-up-cotton-redgram-falls-flat/article35848151.ece
11 August 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||After 90-day battle, COVID patient on road to recovery||A 36-year-old woman, who battled severe respiratory distress for 90 days due to COVID-19, is finally on the path to recovery. The doctors initially tried to manage with high flow oxygen support but the patient had to be put on ventilator. After her oxygen levels didn’t go up despite the ventilator support, the doctors put on her on extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (ECMO) support. She stayed on ECMO support for 41 days during which time she had lots of fluctuations in her condition, and on some occasions, the doctors felt that she would not make it, according to press release issued by Medicover Hospital. After 41 days, she was taken off ECMO support and put on complete ventilator support. Subsequently, through the tracheostomy, she was connected to high-flow oxygen and taken off the ventilator. Meanwhile, her kidneys also started to recover and she was taken off dialysis. She had developed severe weakness of her muscles which made it difficult for her to even stand or sit. Intense physiotherapy was started from an early period which helped her regain her strength to some extent. The tracheostomy tube was also removed and she was able to speak and eat on her own. “Presently, she is on 1 litre of oxygen support, awake, cheerful, eating and talking, but still weak and needs rehabilitation through extensive physiotherapy and good nutritive support,” said director-Critical Care Ganshyam M. Jagathkar.  She stayed on ECMO support for 41 days during which time her condition fluctuated a lot.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/after-90-day-battle-covid-patient-on-the-road-to-recovery/article35848136.ece
11 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Cabinet panel moots demo farms in all districts||Minister for IT, Industries and Municipal Administration K.T. Rama Rao stated that agriculture sector in TS is making rapid strides towards comprehensive growth from the crisis at the time of State formation. Speaking at a meeting of the Cabinet Sub-Committee on Agriculture on Tuesday, he said four revolutions in agriculture and allied sectors were taking place with second green revolution (agriculture) starting with pro-farmer policies and commendable work of the department. Blue revolution was on with development of fisheries, pink revolution with sheep scheme and white revolution with dairy sector growth. Citing an example of transformation with the help of agriculture, Mr. Rama Rao said Ellanthakunta village in Rajanna-Sircilla district was a perennially drought-prone area but not farmers there were harvesting riches with provision of irrigation and free power. He stated that it was the agriculture sector that had the capacity change the future of the State as about 2 crore people in the State were depending directly or indirectly on agriculture. He suggested setting up food processing industries on a large scale to turn agriculture into an industry. He also mooted that the sub-committee meet Prof. M.S. Swaminathan, Jayati Ghosh, P. Sainath, Subhash Palekar to make the farm sector remunerative and attractive. A team should also visit agriculture museum at Iowa in the USA, the country which gets 9% contribution to its GDP from agriculture from just 3% population depending on it. He suggested establishment of demonstration farmers in 32 districts in 50 to 100 acre area. Asking the Agriculture Department to make best use of technology, Mr. KTR told them to examine giving phablets for timely information on dealing with crop management and encourage the youth to innovate farmer-friendly technologies, including use of drones. Minister for Agriculture S. Niranjan Reddy said there was need to turn the future generations towards agriculture and allied sectors as there was no alternative to food, which was one of the vital requirements for survival of any form of life. He appealed to legislators to encourage farmers to take up groundnut cultivation in Rabi (Yasangi) on a large scale as there was huge demand for aflatoxin-free peanut in the world market.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cabinet-panel-moots-demo-farms-in-all-districts/article35848154.ece
11 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||HC directs hospital to perform transplant||Justice T. Amarnath Goud of Telangana High Court on Tuesday instructed Apollo Hospitals in Jubilee Hills to permit donation of kidney by a man for his ailing sister without having to ask for his wife’s consent. A private company employee from Ramakrishnapuram of Hyderabad decided to donate his kidney to his sister suffering a chronic renal failure. They planned a kidney transplantation at Apollo-Jubilee Hills on July 30 this year. To their surprise, a day ahead of the surgery they received a communication from the hospital seeking a letter of consent from the man’s wife to carry out the surgery. The prospective donor, who moved the HC, stated that he had differences with his wife and had already filed a petition in Malkajgiri family court for dissolution of his marriage. The petitioner’s brother-in-law contacted the donor’s wife through WhatsApp and explained the situation. He sought her consent for the transplantation. However, the woman blocked his number and stopped receiving communication, the petitioner claimed. ‘No commercial element’ He contended that there was no requirement of consent from his wife if no commercial elements were involved in kidney transplantation. The receiver was his own sister and came under the definition of ‘near relative’ as per the kidney transplantation related laws, he stated. The donor stated that he and his sister made a joint application to the Authorisation Committee of the hospital. He stated that even his father had given consent for the transplantation. Since his wife was unlikely to give consent for donation of his kidney, the petitioner sought direction from the court to permit the transplantation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/hc-directs-hospital-to-carry-out-transplant/article35848137.ece
11 August 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||TRS leaders lash out at Revanth for remarks against KCR||Telangana Rashtra Samiti (TRS) went on an offensive on Tuesday by criticising TS Congress president A. Revanth Reddy for his outbursts against Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao at the Dalita Girijana Dandora at Indervelli on Monday. Ministers Vemula Prashanth Reddy and Indrakaran Reddy said that Revanth Reddy should stop using vulgar language against the CM and he has no stature to criticise KCR, who is a ‘tall politician’ in the country. Mr. Prashanth Reddy said Revanth should get ready to go to jail in the ‘note for vote’ episode as the case was nearing completion. “How dare Revanth says he would send KCR to jail,” he asked and advised him to realise his stature before uttering words against KCR. He challenged Revanth to campaign and win in Huzurabad if he was confident about people’s belief in him. Stating that Revanth was a liar, Mr. Indrakaran Reddy said people were laughing at him and would take care of him when the time comes. KCR was all for giving rights to girijans on Podu lands and it would be done soon. The distasteful remarks on KCR would not be spared. Former Minister Jogu Ramanna and MLC Puranam Satheesh Kumar at a separate press conference said the Indervelli meeting exposed Revanth Reddy’s lack of history of the place and reminded that it was during Congress rule that the girijans were shot for seeking their rights. Mr. Ramanna said it would be have been wise if Revanth had apologised on behalf of the Congress for killing tribals. In fact, Congress governments never allowed people to visit the memorial and it was developed only after TRS came to power. Tribal leader Komram Bheem got recognition by TRS government and a new district was named after him, he said. Mr. Ramanna accused the Congress that it was unable to digest the Dalit Bandhu and KCR empowering the Dalits with the scheme giving Rs. 10 lakh to each Dalit family. He also took objection to the remarks that KCR would be sent to jail and said people were aware whom to send behind the bars. He also ridiculed the Congress claim that more than a lakh of people attended the meeting stating that the capacity of Indervelli was not more than 20,000. He said Revanth’s criticism on the ‘family rule’ was ridiculous as KCR’s family in power is part of Telangana agitation and elected by the people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/trs-leaders-lash-out-at-revanth-for-remarks-against-kcr/article35848161.ece
11 August 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Girls outnumber boys in UoH applications for entrance test||More girls are showing interest in pursuing higher education at the University of Hyderabad (UoH) here, going by the number of applications received this year for the entrance exams for admissions into various courses. So far, 62,458 candidates have applied online this year, out of which 52.26% are female candidates while 47.73% are male candidates. About 11 applications have come from transgenders as well, university Vice-Chancellor B.J. Rao said. Of the total applicants, 37.28% have applied under the general category, 32.71% OBC, 5.23% EWS, 16.01% SC and 8.75% ST. Telangana students make for the highest number of applicants at 18,221, followed by Kerala (7,968), West Bengal (5,922), Andhra Pradesh (5,551), Uttar Pradesh (4,435) and Odisha (3,824). The number of applications from north eastern states is also substantial. The five-year Integrated M.Sc (Sciences) course saw maximum applications (5,595) followed by M.Sc Chemistry (4,349), MCA (3,914), M.Sc Physics (3,499), M.A. English (3,004) and five-year Integrated MA (Social Sciences - 2,664). The V-C said that in addition to the growing number of applications, there has been a 5 to 6-fold increase in the applications received from foreign students despite the ongoing pandemic. Coveted tag The Institution of Eminence tag has created a positive image among the student community who want to be a part of the institution. He added that the entrance exams will be notified once the nationwide situation on COVID-19 improves. A total of 2,272 seats are being offered for admissions into 114 courses. This includes 17 integrated courses, 45 PG courses, nine M.Tech and 45 Ph.D programmes.  There has been a 5 to 6-fold increase in the applications received from foreign students despite the ongoing pandemic. B.J. Rao, Vice-Chancellor, UoH||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/girls-outnumber-boys-in-uoh-applications-for-entrance-test/article35848133.ece
11 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Victims’ families to get job and housing||Vice-Chairman of the National Commission for Scheduled Castes Arun Haldar has assured job, housing and pension for the family members of the two workers who died after entering the sewage manhole at Padmavathi Colony, in Vanasthalipuram a week ago. Mr. Haldar visited the site of the death of the two workers Shiva and Anthaiah on Tuesday, along with the Commission member Ramulu, GHMC Commissioner D.S. Lokesh Kumar and other officials. Later, he called on the family members of the workers at their homes in Chintalbasti of Saidabad, and spoke to them. The two workers died after entering the manhole for fixing the rope of bucket cleaning machine for de-silting works. Anthaiah went missing in the manhole, and his body was found almost a week later, on Monday. Forced to action by the furore generated around the incident, the government announced compensation of Rs. 15 lakh each to the families of the victims— Rs. 5 lakh of it payable by the contractor and the remaining by the government. Orders were issued suspending two officials — one Assistant Engineer and a Work Inspector, while services of another work inspector employed on outsourcing basis have been terminated. Two more officials have been transferred. Interacting with media, Mr. Haldar said the government should pay more attention to such incidents. Human beings need not be employed in such jobs, as there are machines to fulfil the task, he said. Citing the family members, Mr. Haldar said the contractor had forced the labourers to enter the manhole in the night threatening them that they wouldn’t be paid otherwise. The workers had to enter the manhole for the sake of sustaining their families, he said. As per the SC, ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, the affected families will get compensation, housing, government job and a pension of Rs. 5,000, Mr. Haldar assured, and asked officials to build a watertight case so that the erring contractor gets exemplary punishment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/victims-families-to-get-job-and-housing/article35848140.ece
11 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Rs. 1,450 cr. to LIC for Rythu Bima||The State government has handed over a cheque of Rs. 1,450 crore to the Life Insurance Corporation (LIC) of India here on Tuesday towards the annual premium for Rythu Bima, farmers’ group life insurance scheme, for the year 2021-22. Over 41.58 lakh eligible farmers are covered under the scheme for 2021-22. The insurance coverage under the scheme commences from August 14 and ends on August 13 next year with a premium of nearly Rs. 3,487 per farmer, including GST and stamp duty. All farmers with landholding (pattadar passbook) in the age group of 18 to 59 years would be covered under the insurance scheme with a claim of Rs. 5 lakh in the event of death of an insured farmer, irrespective of the cause. Ministers K.T. Rama Rao, S. Niranjan Reddy, P. Sabitha Indra Reddy, A. Indrakaran Reddy, P. Ajay Kumar and G. Jagadish Reddy, Chief Advisor to government Rajiv Sharma, Principal Secretary (Finance) K. Ramakrishna Rao and Secretary (Agriculture) M. Raghunanadan Rao handed over the cheque to LIC representatives. Mr. Niranjan said Telangana is the only State in the world to provide life insurance cover to farmers. He recollected that in case of death of a farmer, the dependents would wait for months to get ex gratia of Rs. 50,000 under Apadbandhu and very few used to get. But, under Rythu Bima, dependents would get a cheque for Rs. 5 lakh within 10 days of his/her death.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/rs-1450-cr-to-lic-for-rythu-bima/article35848153.ece
11 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TS scouts for agri tech innovation partners||TS government is ready with an expression of interest (EoI) document, which it is expected to issue within a fortnight, to select partners for implementing a vision of transforming agriculture value chain through innovative technological solutions. The objective is to onboard suitable project implementation partners (PIPs) and their consortia of agri ecosystem players to prove and establish the transformation potential of innovative technological solutions along the value chain, IT Minister K. T. Rama Rao’s officesaid in a release here on Tuesday. At the heart of this move is Saagu Baagu, a project conceptualised under a flagship initiative called AI for Agriculture Innovation (AI4AI) to transform the state of agriculture by deploying emerging technologies in a scalable, inclusive and sustainable way. The project seeks to touch at least one lakh farmers over four crop cycles and establish enough readiness to scale it across the State. Agriculture Department with support from the State’s Agricultural University (PJTSAU), IT Department and World Economic Forum is spearheading the Saagu Baagu project. Mr.Rao had launched AI4AI in August 2020 in continuation of a collaboration of the State government with C4IR India, World Economic Forum and a cross-section of the agritech industry and the start-up community. Nine frameworks and 30 use cases along four parts of the agriculture value chain — crop planning, smart farming, farmgate-to-fork and data-driven agriculture — have been identified under AI4AI. While Saagu Baagu project will be a five-year effort, the role of PIPs will be for two years or 3-4 crop cycles across multiple districts of select priority crops such as cotton, chilli and turmeric for kharif season and groundnut, bengal gram and paddy for rabi season. Each PIP, along with its consortium, is required to propose at least five distinct use-cases across any crop value chain to ensure holistic deployment is undertaken and not just a conventional single use-case pilot approach. IT Secretary Jayesh Ranjan said adoption of technology is the only sustainable approach to improve lives of farmer and the same is to be facilitated under Saagu Baagu. For the project, a Public-Private Cooperation framework has been finalised under which the government will establish an enabling environment in collaboration with State institutions, which would address challenges and accelerate the adoption and usage of agritech use cases, the Minister’s office said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ts-scouts-for-agri-tech-innovation-partners/article35848158.ece
11 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||MLA citizenship: HC for possibility of impleading German Consulate||Justice Abhinand Kumar Shavili of the Telangana High Court on Tuesday asked senior counsel Ravi Kiran Rao to explore the possibility of impleading German Consulate in the writ petition involving Vemulawada MLA Chennamaneni Ramesh’s citizenship issue. The writ petition filed by Mr. Ramesh of TRS challenging the Union Home Ministry’s order cancelling his Indian citizenship came up for hearing in the HC. While hearing the contentions presented by the MLA’s counsel Y. Rama Rao and private respondent Adi Srinivas’ lawyer Ravi Kiran Rao, the judge observed that the MLA’s citizenship matter was being heard for the last 13 years. He told Assistant Solicitor General Namavarapu Rajeshwar Rao to expedite the process of presenting material evidence to substantiate the stand of the Centre on the matter. The judge sought to know from the ASG as to why the Indian government could not secure specific clarification from Germany embassy over citizenship. The ASG explained that German embassy declined to provide the details on the matter claiming that laws of its country did not permit to disclose such information. Mr. Kiran Rao contended that the MLA had filed an application before the Indian embassy in Berlin seeking Overseas Citizen of India (OCI) card to travel to India without visa. He claimed in that application that he had been residing in Germany since 2013. That evidence was sufficient to declare he had German citizenship, the lawyer said. Mr. Ramesh was also travelling to and fro Germany with that German passport, he said. Mr. Rama Rao contended that holding German passport would not qualify a person to be German citizen. The onus of securing a clarification from German Consulate over Mr. Ramesh’s citizenship lay with the Central government, he said. The matter was posted to August 24 for next hearing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/mla-citizenship-hc-for-possibility-of-impleading-german-consulate/article35848157.ece
11 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||PCB’s public hearing on Palamuru-RR LI project||Telangana State Pollution Control Board (TSPCB) conducted a public hearing on the environmental impact of Palamuru-Rangareddy Lift Irrigation Scheme (PRLIS) in Nagarkurnool, Rangareddy, Narayanpet, Mahabubnagar, Vikarabad and Nalgonda districts on Tuesday. Several farmers, representatives of farmers’ associations, elected representatives, retired engineers and general public attended the public hearing held at Hanwada in Mahabubnagar district and expressed their views. District Collector of Mahabubnagar S. Venkata Rao said the view expressed by the participants were recorded in video and audio formats and would be sent to the government. At the beginning of the public hearing, Superintending Engineer of the project D. Narsing Rao explained about the salient features. He stated that the project was intended to provide irrigation to 12.3 lakh acres in the six districts and drinking water to 1,226 villages by lifting 90 tmc ft of water Srisailam during the 60 flood days. The project involves five-stage lifting of water and filling six major reservoirs under construction. Executive Engineer of TSPCB M. Dayanand and Samapika Mishra from a consultancy agency that studied the environmental impact of the project on 247 villages of 13 mandals in the district explained about the findings of their survey. The public hearing was held for the second-phase of canal network of the project that would irrigate over 3.59 lakh acres in 330 village of 20 mandals in Rangareddy district, 3.42 lakh acres in 417 villages of 18 mandals in Vikarabad, 2.35 lakh acres in 247 villages of 13 mandals in Mahabubnagar, 1.03 lakh acrs in 61 villages of eight mandals in Nagarkurnool and 1.61 lakh acres in 155 villages of 9 mandals of Narayanpet district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/pcbs-public-hearing-on-palamuru-rr-li-project/article35848155.ece
11 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||FGG seeks limitations in Rythu Bandhu||The Forum for Good Governance has asked the government to modify the operational guidelines of Rythu Bandhu in such a manner that the amount being spent on it is limited to help small and marginal farmers. The government should take steps to limit the benefit to five acres land holding and exclude fallow lands not under cultivation from its purview. Politicians, bureaucrats, IT assesses, NRIs and employees should be excluded from the scheme. Forum secretary M. Padmanabha Reddy appreciated the scheme saying it was an excellent scheme that helped farmers to come out of debt trap. But the scheme was wide open to any farmer without any restrictions. A rough estimate put it that half of the Rs. 15,000 crore being spent on the scheme annually was being pocketed by big landlords, absent landlords, including NRIs. “Most politicians have large chunks of land under their control,” he said in a memorandum submitted to Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan. He cited the central scheme titled Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Yojana under which Rs. 6,000 a year was being paid to eligible farmers in three instalments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/fgg-seeks-limitations-in-rythu-bandhu/article35848159.ece
11 August 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||‘Indervelli meet shook TRS out of its slumber’||Mulugu MLA Seethakka and former Union Minister Balaram Naik have claimed that the Dalita Girijan Dandora at Indervelli has at least woken up the TRS leadership from its slumber as it was suddenly talking about podu lands. Speaking to reporters along with senior leader Addanki Dayakar, TPCC SC cell chairman Preetham and ST Cell chairman Jaganlal Naik here on Tuesday, Ms. Seethakka alleged that the TRS leaders remember people and reminded of schemes only when elections were around. She said Huzurabad elections has created Dalita Bandhu scheme and extending podu land rights to tribals after Congress party’s Indervelli meeting. The Mulugu MLA reminded that tribals were given the rights on Podu lands by Indira Gandhi and the TRS had only snatched them of their Constitutional rights. On TRS leaders’ criticism against Congress president Revanth Reddy, she said that people have forgotten CM K. Chandrasekhar Rao who had confined himself to the farm house and were now looking up to Mr. Revanth Reddy for support. Mr. Balaram Naik said TRS was worried with the Indervelli meeting success and has suddenly remembered the Podu land issue. He said Congress had given 10 lakh pattas to poor people while not a single patta was given during the TRS rule. “All that Dalits and tribals experienced in the TRS rule was attacks and insults.” Mr. Dayakar took objection to the comments made on Indervelli meeting by the TRS leaders and asked how can they find fault of the meeting presided over by tribal leader Seethakka. He said the vulgar language in Telangana politics was introduced by KCR himself.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/indervelli-meeting-shook-trs-out-of-its-slumber-seethakka/article35848162.ece
11 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TS logs 494 coronavirus cases, three more deaths||As many as 494 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in the State, which also recorded three fatalities, according to the medical bulletin issued on Tuesday evening. The Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) limits recorded 80 cases followed by Karimnagar (51), Warangal Urban (45), Nalgonda (33), Khammam (29), Peddapalli (28), Medchal Malkajgiri (26) and Rangareddy (23). Atleast 17 districts recorded single-digit cases with Narayanpet registering zero infections. The tally has reached 6,40,353 and the number of recovered cases is 6,38,410. The total deaths, so far, is 3,831. The case fatality rate in Telangana was 0.58% against 1.3% at the national level. The active cases stand at 8,112, the bulletin said. The number of samples tested on Tuesday was 89,037, taking the total samples tested so far to 2,29,91,849. Vaccination In another release on COVID-19 vaccination drive, the Director of Public health and Family Welfare said as many as 60257 people were administered the first dose while 72,139 had their second dose on Tuesday. The cumulative figure of first dose is now 1,16,49,267 and second dose is 39,65,625.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ts-logs-494-new-cases-three-deaths/article35848130.ece
11 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Youth awarded 20-year RI for kidnapping, rape||A local court on Tuesday awarded 20 years rigorous imprisonment to a 20-year-old man for kidnapping and raping a minor girl. According to Rachakonda police, the accused is G Gangadhar, a native Thumbiganur village in Ananthapuram district in Andhra Pradesh. Gangadhar was employed at a poultry farm where the 14-year-old victim’s father too worked. He eloped with her to Thumbiganur where he lied to her, tied a yellow thread around her neck and claimed that with this, they were now married. He then sexually assaulted her several times. Following the incident, a case was registered at Kandukur Police Station and a chargesheet was filed after investigation. Metropolitan Sessions Judge B Suresh convicted Gangadhar to 20 years rigorous imprisonment and fined him Rs. 20,000.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/youth-awarded-20-year-ri-for-kidnapping-rape/article35848141.ece
11 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Two youths assaulted and bike, phones stolen||Two persons were allegedly assaulted, and their motorcycle and mobile phones stolen near Ghouse Nagar, police said on Tuesday. According to Chandrayagutta police, who are investigating the case, the victims have been identified as G Sudhakar alias Laddu (24), a resident of Tukkuguda, and his friend. Sudhakar was riding the two-wheeler and his friend was riding pillion. On Monday night, the victims were on their way to have dinner and were travelling from Tukkuguda to Errakunta. When they reached Shaheen Nagar bus stop they met with an accident. They then proceeded towards Ghouse Nagar where around four persons allegedly stopped them, assaulted them, and fled with their two-wheeler and mobile phones. Police booked a case under section 392 of the Indian Penal Code. An investigation is underway.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/two-youths-assaulted-and-bike-phones-stolen/article35848146.ece
11 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Best Airport award for RGIA||GMR Hyderabad International Airport Ltd, a GMR led consortium, announced that Rajiv Gandhi International Airport (RGIA) has been adjudged as the ‘Best Regional Airport in India and Central Asia’ for the third consecutive year in 2021 Skytrax World Airport Awards. It also progressed in its overall ranking, moving from 71st position in 2020 to 64th position in 2021 World’s Top 100 Airport league.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/best-airport-award-for-rgia/article35848138.ece
11 August 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Girl killed after almirah falls on her||An 8-year-old girl Keerthi was killed after a wooden almirah in a school room where she was playing with her younger sibling tipped over and fell on her on Monday. According to Medipally police, who are investigating the case, the victim’s mother Srilatha, who works as an aayah in a private school in Boduppal, took the siblings along with her to the place of work. “Keerthi was playing with her 5-year-old sister Rohitha in the room when the wooden almirah fell on her. She was rushed to a hospital where she died while undergoing treatment,” police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/girl-killed-after-almirah-falls-on-her/article35848417.ece
11 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Justice Keshava Rao remembered||Justice P. Keshava Rao, who passed away on Monday, would be remembered for his simplicity, sincerity, hard work and impeccable integrity, said Chief Justice of Telangana High Court Hima Kohli on Tuesday. Speaking at the referral meeting held in First Court hall of the HC here, the CJ said late Justice Keshava Rao had disposed of 5,222 main cases and 1,104 miscellaneous cases during his tenure lasting a month short of four years. His contribution to legal fraternity in general and the judiciary in particular was enormous, the CJ said. Justice Keshava Rao was diagnosed with a brain tumor two years ago. He underwent a surgery and was administered chemotherapy and radiotherapy. After the surgery, he continued to attend the HC. He was under palliative care for past six months.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/justice-keshava-rao-remembered/article35848147.ece
11 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Post offices not to charge for PM-KISAN withdrawal||The India Post, Telangana Circle has made arrangements for withdrawal of the PM Kisan financial assistance through its 5794 post offices across the State. The department has arranged Postal Micro ATMs to make cash payments to the farmers. The Centre on Tuesday had released the ninth instalment of PM KISAN. A press release from the office of the Post Master General, Hyderabad Region said the services can be availed by farmers having Aadhaar-linked accounts of any bank from village Post offices.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/post-offices-not-to-charge-for-pm-kisan-withdrawal/article35848148.ece
11 August 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Global Hospitals founder pledges 70% wealth to build university||Founder of Global Hospitals Group, Ravindranath Kancherla has pledged 70% of his wealth to build a world-class, not-for profit medical education, research and innovation institute here. Dr. Ravindranath has decided to float Global University Foundation to build a medical university and research innovation hub in Hyderabad with the pledged amount of Rs. 350 crore. The surgeon known for setting up global scale organ transplantation healthcare infrastructure in India will establish Global Health Tech University and Innovation Hub that would consist of a top medical university and hospital with multi-disciplinary research and innovation focus. To establish a medical university, a 750 to 1,000-bed hospital and health-tech innovation hub requires over US$100 million of capital over seven years towards medical technology infrastructure and human resources. Dr Ravindranath’s foundation will take care of 50% of capital required, many of his philanthropist-friends will contribute the balance funds. He said the institute will provide a new model for sustainable development of medical infrastructure, which helps the global population by building infrastructure on philanthropic model.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/hospital-founder-pledges-70-wealth-to-build-varsity/article35848135.ece
11 August 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Praveen Kumar tests positive||Former IPS officer and coordinator of Bahujan Samaj Party (BJP) in Telangana R.S. Praveen Kumar has been tested positive for COVID. Mr. Praveen went to Gandhi Hospital on Tuesday morning where he tested positive in the Rapid Antigen Test. He gave sample for the RT-PCR test and went home in the afternoon from Gandhi Hospital. Mr. Praveen, who recently joined the BSP at a huge public meeting in Nalgonda, was seen without a mask. Moreover, he had been addressing several meetings in Telangana over the last two weeks since he resigned from IPS.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/praveen-kumar-tests-positive/article35848164.ece
11 August 2021||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Rally over podu land issue||To mount pressure on the TRS dispensation in the State to deliver on its reported pre-election promise of resolving podu farmers’ issues, the All India Kisan Mazdoor Sabha (AIKMS) and the CPI (ML-New Democracy) organised a protest march and a dharna in the town on Tuesday. Scores of podu farmers from the fringe areas of the forests in various mandals of the old undivided Khammam district took out a massive rally as part of the “podu poru yatra” to press for their charter of demands. Their main demands include grant of pattas to all podu farmers , extension of the Rythu Bandhu to podu farmers, withdrawal of cases allegedly registered against cultivators and repeal of the Centre’s three farm laws. CPI (ML-New Democracy) State assistant secretary Potu Ranga Rao charged the TRS government with adopting vindictive attitude towards podu farmers and trying to snatch away the hard-won rights of tribals and the traditional forest dwellers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/rally-over-podu-land-issue/article35848426.ece
11 August 2021||MEDAK,TELANGANA||Charred body found in car||In a shocking incident, a charred body was found in a car at Mangalparthi village in Veldurthi mandal in the wee hours of Tuesday. As the car belongs to one Dharmakari Srinivas and he was not traced since Monday afternoon, it is suspected that Srinivas may have died in the car, but police are yet to ascertain the details. Whether Srinivas was burnt alive or not was also not clear. The body was totally burnt and only the skull remained. The bones were shifted to the forensic lab to ascertain the details of the victim. According to the police, a burnt white Honda car with number TS15 EH 4005 was found on the outskirts of Mangalaparthi village. A charred body was found in the dicky. Police investigation revealed that the car belongs to one Dharmagari Srinivas alias Katiak Srinu. Srinivas left home on Monday afternoon and his whereabouts were not traced till Tuesday afternoon. Not only that, his phone was switched off since Monday morning. Police went to the house of Srinivas and questioned the family members. DSP Kiran Kumar and CI Swamy Goud rushed to the spot and started investigating. Six teams were engaged by the police. Clues team and dog squads were also pressed into service.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/charred-body-found-in-car/article35848423.ece
11 August 2021||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||Public hearing for Palamuru Rangareddy LI scheme held||Telangana State Pollution Control Board, under the chairmanship of District Collector Prashant J Patil, on Tuesday conducted environmental public hearing for Palamuru-Rangareddy Lift Irrigation Scheme – canal network phase -2 works at Kondamallepally. The scheme proposes lifting of 90 tmcft water from Srisailam reservoir’s backwaters to provide irrigation to 12.30 lakh acres and drinking water for 1, 226 villages in six districts. The exercise lasts for 60 days and six reservoirs would be filled up in five phases, officials said. The project works are taken up in two phases, based on the proposed need – drinking and commercial use, and irrigation. Through phase-1 works, approach canals, open canals, tunnels and pump houses would be completed. Irrigation For irrigation, 13 main canals running a length of 915 kms and distributary canals along it will be taken up in the phase -2. In Nalgonda district, 16 villages of Marriguda and Chintapally mandals would get irrigation to an extent of 29, 339 acres, and 494 acres land will be acquired for the reservoir works. On Tuesday, concluding the hearing, Mr. Patil said 23 persons, locals, people representatives and from voluntary organisations, have elicited their views. Officials added that the hearing exercise passed smoothly, and the prospective oustees have pressed for compensation for their lands as per market value and for the early completion of the project. Superintendent of Police A.V. Ranganath, Project’s chief engineer Hameed Khan, PCB official Rajender and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/public-hearing-for-palamuru-rangareddy-li-scheme-held/article35848416.ece
11 August 2021||Nalgonda,TELANGANA||Revenue officer caught taking bribe||Officials of Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) on Tuesday arrested Neredugomma’s Mandal Revenue Inspector Orsu Ram Srinu after he was reportedly caught red-handed with a bribe. The ACB stated that the officer had demanded Rs. 20,000 from one Mudavath Redya, to transfer the inquiry report of government-allotted house plots to beneficiaries, to the Tahsildar for further action.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/revenue-officer-caught-taking-bribe/article35848166.ece
11 August 2021||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||Man kills his mother over property dispute||A 65-year-old woman was allegedly murdered on Tuesday by her own son. The motive behind the alleged matricide is disputes over property in the victim’s name. The gruesome murder happened in Kummera village in Chevella mandal, which is approximately 45 km from the city on Monday. According to Chevella police, who are investigating the case, the accused Dharmapuram Kistaiah (40) had disagreement with the victim, identified as Papamma, after she threatened to disinherit him of property which included land and a house. The accused is said to have borne a grudge against his mother because of this and allegedly picked up a quarrel with his mother over this issue on Monday evening. Police said that Kistaiah smashed his mother’s head with a boulder when she was sleeping outside her house. Man killed One Byagari Agamaiah was murdered here by unidentified persons on Monday night. According to Sangareddy Circle Inspector B. Ramesh, Agamaiah went to his field and did not return even late at night. As the family members went there to search, he was found in a pool of blood. The family members suspect the role of son-in-law Yadagiri as he was bringing pressure on Agamaiah to sell the farm land which the entire family had opposed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/man-kills-his-mother-over-property-dispute/article35848424.ece
11 August 2021||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||Leopard kills calf||A leopard reportedly killed a calf in the wee hours of Tuesday. According to sources, the feline was moving around at Kishtapur, Nagdhar, Sirgapur and Khajapur villages in Kalher mandal for the last few days. The incident came to light when P. Hanumappa, a farmer from Kadpal village, went to his farm on Tuesday morning. Forest range officer K. Devilal with veterinary officer rushed to the spot. The leopard’s pug marks were also found in the area. The farmer would be compensated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/leopard-kills-calf/article35848167.ece
11 August 2021||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||Woman kills self, serves pesticide to sons||Upset over not getting due share of money from the proceeds of the land surrendered to the government for the construction of Mallannasagar, a woman allegedly committed suicide and served pesticide to her two children. The incident took place at Tukkapur in Toguta mandal two days ago and she died in the hospital in the wee hours of Tuesday. Police force was mobilised in the village to prevent any untoward incident. According to sources, N. Anitha (26) had a dispute with her father-in-law Komuraiah over not receiving their due share of money from the compensation. Worried over this, Anitha consumed pesticide and served the same to her son Mokshit. Her another son Akshit did not consume it. They were immediately shifted to the government hospital at Siddipet. Later, Anitha was shifted to a private hospital in Hyderabad where she breathed her last. “My daughter Anitha had repeatedly asked Komuraiah and other family members for her due share, but they rejected. Instead, the amount was used to buy land elsewhere, which was registered in the names of Komuraiah and his second son Devaraj. My son-in-law Kishtaiah is a timid person who could not demand his share from his father. She attempted suicide unable to bear the torture by her in-laws. Please take action against those responsible for her suicide,” L. Komuraiah, father of Anitha, said in the complaint filed with the police. Knowing about the suicide of Anitha and irate people from Choudaram village in Chinnakodur mandal arrived at Tukkapur. Relatives of Anitha reportedly demanded that the land and house sites must be registered in the name her children and only then they will relent . Situation was still tense in the village by the time last reports came in.  [Roshini — Suicide Prevention Helpline: 040-66202000]||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/woman-kills-self-serves-pesticide-to-sons/article35848421.ece
11 August 2021||GURUGRAM,||Haryana has no report on Coronil efficacy: RTI||The Haryana’s AYUSH Department, which purchased Rs. 2.72 crore-worth of Ramdev’s Ayurvedic COVID-19 medicine ‘Coronil’ in May this year, is not in possession of any test reports to establish its efficacy, an RTI reply has revealed. The department also does not have a record of those who have recovered from the use of the ‘medicine’. The proposal for the purchase of Coronil was referred by the office of Chief Minister Manohar Lal as per a letter by Haryana Medical Services Corporation Limited, the RTI reply revealed. Due to paucity of funds with the AYUSH Department, the drug was bought with funds from the Haryana Corona Relief Fund. The set of documents shared by the department, in reply to the RTI application by Panipat-based activist P.P. Kapoor, revealed that the technical panel of the AYUSH Department met on May 18 and approved the purchase saying the composition and strength of Coronil was as per the recommendations for immunity boosting and “maybe finalised and it may also be suitable for Corona patients”. It also recommended that approval of the CM be taken to procure Coronil under the relief fund by giving relaxation in Medicine Procurement Policy, 2016, and tendering process since the department did not have funds for procurement. The State had 83,161 active cases on the said date and the panel approved to buy one lakh Coronil kits as mentioned in the quote given by Divya Pharmacy. Some of the ingredients of the tablet includes Giloy, Ashwagandha, Tulsi, Mulethi, Marich, and Choti Pipal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/haryana-has-no-report-on-coronil-efficacy-rti/article35848024.ece
11 August 2021||Mumbai,||8 archaeological sites in Osmanabad to be part of State’s revenue land records||Eight protected archaeological sites at Ter in Maharashtra’s Osmanabad district have become part of the State’s revenue land records in a bid to preserve and conserve them. The move, which is a first in the State, comes after the incident in the same district where yet another historical Mankavati kunda (pool) near the temple of goddess Tuljabhavani was encroached upon by a local politician who made fake land documents by which he claimed the ownership of it. “I have given orders to file a criminal case against the person. We cannot let individuals use historical monuments for personal profits. Directions have been given to make appropriate changes in land records as well,” said Kaustubh Divegaonkar, Collector, Osmanabad. He said that the incident was also the trigger behind the move to safeguard eight archaeological sites at Ter by including them in the revenue land records. “At some places excavations have been done on private land as well. A decade ago, there was an incident where a farmer destroyed remains of a temple found under his land fearing that the land would be taken over by the government. Inclusion in land record as protected site would mean that nobody can destroy or claim ownership on excavated land for personal profits,” he added. Mr. Divegaonkar said that he is also moving the proposal whereby all such sites will be deemed Class II lands. This means any transfer of such lands would require the Collector’s nod. Ter, a village on the banks of the Terna river, was a trade centre for centuries, going as far back as third century B.C. when it was called Tagar. Its glory peaked during the Satvahanas and it was even on ancient India’s trade route to Rome.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/8-archaeological-sites-in-osmanabad-become-part-of-revenue-land-records/article35848028.ece
11 August 2021||Mumbai,||Guidelines for rail pass issued||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Tuesday issued guidelines to help people get monthly pass to travel by local trains. Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray had on Sunday said that those who had received two doses of a COVID-19 vaccine could take the local trains from August 15. The offline verification procedure for issuing pass will start at 7 a.m. on Wednesday at all suburban railway stations. Those who have completed 14 days since their second dose are required to carry a hard copy of the COVID-19 final vaccination certificate and a photo ID for verification. While 358 help desks will be set up near the ticket windows at 53 railway stations within the BMC limits. The help desks will be operational from 7 a.m. to 3 p.m. and from 3 p.m. to 11 p.m.. Upon presenting the COVID-19 final vaccination certificate at the ticket window, railway officials will verify it and issue a pass.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/guidelines-for-rail-pass-issued/article35848317.ece
11 August 2021||Mumbai,||Schools to reopen from Aug. 17||The Maharashtra government on Tuesday issued directions to reopen offline classes from Standard V to VII in rural areas and from Standard VIII to XII in urban areas from August 17. The notification comes a day after Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray met the task force for COVID-19 management. Municipal Commissioners of areas such as Mumbai and Thane have been authorised to take decisions within their respective areas of jurisdiction. Collectors of districts such as Kolhapur, Satara, Sangli, Solapur, Pune, Ahmadnagar, Beed, Pune, Ratnagiri, Sindhudurg, Raigad and Plaghar have been authorised to take decisions locally as they continue to report cases. Classes from Standard VIII to XII in rural areas have already resumed in July. The government has also issued standard operating procedures to resume schools. Collectors will plan vaccination of teachers and non-teaching staff.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/schools-to-reopen-from-aug-17/article35848319.ece
11 August 2021||New Delhi,||Mental pressure, meagre pay take a toll on contract nurses||Beeram Singh, 31, tested positive for COVID-19 in June last year while working as a contractual nurse at the Safdarjung Hospital. He had been on COVID duty for 15 days. Soon after the infection, his condition worsened and he had to be admitted to the hospital for 20 days. “Everyone was scared of the virus but no contractual nurse said no to COVID duty. I did it as my duty towards the nation. Despite such efforts, we are paid very little and our contracts last only for three months. This puts us under a lot of pressure. We don’t know whether we will have a job tomorrow and there is no one to listen to us,” Mr. Singh, a father of two children, said. Three-month contracts Like Mr. Singh, several nurses of the hospital who are on a contract basis since 2016 said that they are facing mental pressure as their contracts have to be renewed every three months and their salary has stayed stagnant at Rs. 37,500 for five years. Nurses, who have been working in the hospital for over five years, said their salaries get reduced due to the breaks every three months. Meanwhile, the All India Government Nurses Federation (AIGNF) said the government is trying to outsource the contract work to a private agency and had even issued a tender for it. This effectively means that the current contractual nurses will lose their jobs. No word from hospital The Medical Superintendent of Safdarjung Hospital did not respond to calls and messages seeking comment on the issue. “Two other Central government hospitals: RML Hospital and Lady Hardinge Medical College, have the same three-month policy. In Delhi government hospitals, the contract is for 11 months and the pay is better,” said G.K. Khurana, secretary-general of AIGNF.  Mr. Singh said he had breathlessness when he got infected and has lost 20kg since then. “My second child is a year old now. It has been difficult to meet the monthly expenses after his birth as my wife doesn’t have a job. At the hospital, we do not get equal pay for equal work... the Delhi government pays better salaries,” he said. Vincy Chacko, 29, another contractual nurse, said: “We have to renew the contract by September 30 and the tension will start again. This is torture. We will have to start running to the ministry to get an extension.” Ms. Chacko worked during the pandemic, though not on COVID-19 duty. “I stayed away from my one-and-a-half-year-old son for three months last year. We have done so much, but no one is helping us,” she said. Ms. Khurana, 76, who worked as a nurse for 38 years said there was no contract system for nurses earlier. “The regular posts are not filled by the government for years as the process takes forever. Thus, they started hiring contractual nurses. We fought at least four times against their attempts to outsource these contractual posts. If Safdarjung Hospital outsources it, then other hospitals will follow suit,” AIGNF leader said. She said workers will lose their rights if the job is outsourced. They will also be paid less by whichever company gets the tender from the hospital.  I stayed away from my toddler for three months last year. We have done so much, but no one is helping us Vincy Chacko Contractual nurse||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/mental-pressure-meagre-pay-take-a-toll-on-contract-nurses/article35848027.ece
11 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||14 States, UTs set to reopen schools for Classes X-XII as COVID cases dip||At least 14 States and Union Territories have reopened or plan to reopen schools partially this month, given the continued low numbers of COVID-19 infection and the high rate of vaccination among teachers. However, almost all States only plan to bring back older students despite the Indian Council of Medical Research’s recommendation to start with primary school students. At a Health Ministry press conference on Tuesday, NITI Aayog member V.K. Paul said almost 50% of teachers across the country had been vaccinated, but emphasised that more effort was needed. Circulars issued Although teachers were not among front-line workers, who received the first priority in vaccination, some States had issued circulars directing them to get their shots even as schools begin to reopen. Last week, a parliamentary panel noted that school closures had hurt the social fabric of families, led to an increase in child marriages and in children being pressed into work at home. The expected learning losses are likely to impact the cognitive capabilities of students, it said, warning that children’s nutrition and mental health had also been affected. Over 15 lakh schools across the country shut their doors in March 2020, and only a few reopened briefly before the second wave of the pandemic. More than 25 crore school children have been dependent on online or distance education since then, with many from poor or remote communities effectively losing more than a year of schooling. In response to a query from Congress MP Shashi Tharoor in the Lok Sabha, Education Minister Dharmendra Pradhan listed eight States that have opened or planned to reopen schools by mid-August. Haryana leads the way The first to resume face-to-face classes was Haryana, which reopened for Classes 9 to 12 from July 16, followed by Nagaland, which allowed Classes 11 and 12 from July 26. Punjab, Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh, Puducherry and Lakshadweep all began classes in the first week of August, although only the two Union Territories reopened school for all classes, with the other three sticking to high schoolers only. Andhra Pradesh plans to begin on August 16. Apart from these eight mentioned by Mr. Pradhan, Karnataka intends to resume offline classes from August 23 for Classes 9 and 10 and the pre-university courses, equivalent to Classes 11 and 12. Tamil Nadu will also reopen school for Classes 9-12 from September 1. Uttar Pradesh plans to restart classes from August 16 for intermediate students, while Odisha is carrying out a phased reopening through July to September. Offline classes Maharashtra plans to reopen schools on August 17, with offline classes beginning for students from Class 5 onwards in rural areas and from Class 8 onwards in urban areas, although these plans are restricted to areas with a consistently low rate of infection. In the national capital, students of Classes 10 to 12 will be allowed to visit schools for admission-related work and practical activities for their board exam from this week onwards, as the Delhi government continues to deliberate on a reopening date.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/14-states-uts-set-to-reopen-schools-for-classes-x-xii-as-covid-cases-dip/article35848242.ece
11 August 2021||New Delhi,||Centre has not sought data on oxygen-scarcity deaths, says Sisodia||Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia on Tuesday said the Centre has not asked the Delhi government for data on deaths due to lack of oxygen in the city. “No information or letter has been sent to the Delhi government so far. The Central government is spreading a lie that States are not giving information, whereas they have not asked for any information from the States,” Mr. Sisodia said, He said that during the second wave, the country was struggling with the oxygen crisis and people in hospitals were “dying due to lack of oxygen”. “We have decided that the Delhi government will send complete information about the deaths due to lack of oxygen in the form of a report to the Central government,” Mr. Sisodia said. Meanwhile, Joint Secretary of Union Health Ministry Lav Agarwal on Tuesday said no State has so far said specifically that there were deaths because of oxygen shortage except one.  Delhi Congress Chief Ch. Anil Kumar said the Delhi government was finally admitting that people had died due to shortage of medical oxygen as Mr. Sisodia accused the Centre of “lying”. This, he said, comes after Minister of State for Health Bharati Parvin Pawar, in a written reply in the Rajya Sabha, said “no deaths due to lack of oxygen have been specifically reported by States/UTs during the second of the pandemic”. “Due to the shadow boxing between the Modi and Kejriwal governments, the people of Delhi suffered,” Mr. Kumar said.  Meanwhile, the BJP accused Mr. Sisodia of playing “petty politics” on the issue of oxygen-scarcity deaths. Rohini BJP MLA Vijender Gupta said the Delhi government was “lying” in the court on this issue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/centre-has-not-sought-data-on-oxygen-scarcity-deaths-says-sisodia/article35848023.ece
11 August 2021||New Delhi,||CM reviews construction works in illegal colonies||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday chaired a meeting to review the ongoing construction of roads and streets in unauthorised colonies being undertaken by the Irrigation and Flood Control Department and the Delhi State Industrial and Infrastructure Development Corporation. He directed officials to get the projects completed within the stipulated timelines and asked them to maintain the speed and quality of work, stating that required funds will be disbursed as required by the finance department. According to the government, 441 projects have been completed by the Irrigation and Flood Control Department, while 153 are in the final stages.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/cm-reviews-construction-works-in-illegal-colonies/article35848019.ece
11 August 2021||New Delhi,||CM felicitates Ravi Dahiya for Tokyo feat||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal met with Tokyo Olympics silver medallist Ravi Dahiya on Tuesday and felicitated the wrestler for his victory at the event. Mr. Kejriwal expressed his delight at the way the wrestler performed at the Olympics and congratulated him and his team. Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia said the Delhi government was doing its best to promote sports and support athletes in the region. “I would like to congratulate Ravi Dahiya on behalf of the Delhi government and all the people of the Capital,” Mr. Kejriwal said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/cm-felicitates-ravi-dahiya-for-tokyo-feat/article35848020.ece
11 August 2021||New Delhi,||Delta variant not a cause for concern, says Jain||Health Minister Satyendar Jain on Tuesday said the Delta variant of the novel coronavirus is not a concern as the same was the cause of the second wave. “Genome sequencing of the samples during the second wave and after has been done. The results of both show that about 80% of the sample population was infected by the Delta variant. All the reports of Delhi were sent to the ICMR and they also pointed out that the Capital was battling the Delta variant during the second wave. Therefore, I don’t think that the Delta variant should be a cause of concern for us,” he said.  Seven hospitals The Minister also confirmed that the Health Department had received financial approval for the construction of seven make-shift hospitals. “Construction of the make-shift hospitals is expected to be completed within the next six months on a war-footing. Make-shift hospitals will also be equipped with 7,000 ICU beds for improvement in health infrastructure and battling any next possible COVID wave in the Capital,” said Mr. Jain. Make-shift hospitals will come up at Sarita Vihar, Shalimar Bagh, Sultanpuri, Kirari, Raghubir Nagar, GTB hospital and Chacha Nehru Bal Chikitsalaya. 52 new cases, 1 death The city reported only 52 new COVID-19 cases over 24 hours, taking the tally to 14,36,852, as per a bulletin released by the Delhi government on Tuesday. One death was also reported, pushing the toll to 25,068. A total of 65,123 tests were conducted in a day and the test positivity rate was 0.08%. There are currently 504 active cases in the national capital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/delta-variant-not-a-cause-for-concern-health-minister/article35848025.ece
11 August 2021||Pune,||Robust recoveries bring Maharashtra’s active COVID-19 cases down to 66,000||Maharashtra reported a robust 7,720 recoveries on Tuesday as against 5,609 new COVID-19 cases which saw the State’s active case tally dip further to 66,123. The death toll, however, rose sharply with 137 fatalities pushing the State’s cumulative deaths to 1,34,201. The case fatality rate stands at 2.1%. The total cases have reached 63,63,442 while the cumulative recoveries have climbed to 61,59,676 with the recovery rate standing at 96.8%. Pune, where restrictions were lifted recently, saw a big surge of nearly 1,000 new cases — of which more than 550 were reported from Pune city — taking its total case tally to 10,98,705 while 16 deaths pushed the toll over 18,420. Mumbai reported 239 new cases to take its total tally to 7,37,954 while the active count has declined to 4,501. Five fatalities took the city’s toll to 15,959. Ahmednagar continued to see a rise in cases, registering more than 580 new ones and eight deaths, taking its total cases to 2,93,924 of whom 6,192 are active. Neighbouring Sangli reported more than 700 new cases and 21 deaths. The total cases stand at 1,91,647 with the active tally falling to 7,297 while its fatality toll reached 5,205.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/robust-recoveries-bring-maharashtras-active-covid-19-cases-down-to-66000/article35848318.ece
11 August 2021||New York,||Cuomo resigns over sex abuse charges||New York Governor Andrew Cuomo resigned on Tuesday over a barrage of sexual harassment allegations in a fall from grace a year after he was widely hailed nationally for his detailed daily briefings and leadership during the darkest days of COVID-19. The three-term Governor’s decision, which will take effect in two weeks, was announced as momentum built in the Legislature to remove him by impeachment. It came after New York’s Attorney General released the results of an investigation that found Cuomo sexually harassed at least 11 women. Investigators said he subjected women to unwanted kisses; groped their breasts or buttocks or otherwise touched them inappropriately; made insinuating remarks about their looks and their sex lives; and created a work environment “rife with fear and intimidation”. Lt. Gov. Kathy Hochul, a 62-year-old Democrat and former member of Congress from the Buffalo area, will become the State’s 57th Governor and the first woman to hold the post. The #MeToo-era scandal cut short not just a career but a dynasty: Mr. Cuomo’s father, Mario Cuomo, was Governor in the 1980s and 1990s, and the younger Cuomo was often mentioned as a potential candidate for President, an office his father famously contemplated seeking. Even as the scandal mushroomed, Mr. Cuomo was planning to run for reelection in 2022. Mr. Cuomo still faces the possibility of criminal charges, with a number of prosecutors around the state moving to investigate him. The string of accusations that spelled the Governor’s downfall began to unfold in news reports last December and went on for months. Mr. Cuomo called some of the allegations fabricated, forcefully denying he touched anyone inappropriately. But he acknowledged making some aides uncomfortable with comments he said he intended as playful, and he apologised for some of his behaviour. He portrayed some of the encounters as misunderstandings attributable to “generational or cultural” differences, a reference in part to his upbringing in an affectionate Italian American family. As a defiant Mr. Cuomo clung to office, State lawmakers launched an impeachment investigation, and nearly the entire Democratic establishment in New York deserted him — not only over the accusations, but also because of the discovery that his administration had concealed thousands of COVID-19 deaths among nursing home patients. The harassment investigation ordered up by the Attorney General and conducted by two outside lawyers corroborated the women’s accounts and added lurid new ones.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/cuomo-resigns-over-sex-abuse-charges/article35847613.ece
11 August 2021||Kabul,||Thousands flee amid Taliban gains in north||The Taliban were in control of eight Afghan provincial capitals on Tuesday after a blitz across the north forced tens of thousands of people to flee their homes for the relative safety of Kabul and other centres. The insurgents now have their eyes on Mazar-e-Sharif, the north’s biggest city, whose fall would signal the total collapse of government control in a region that has traditionally been anti-Taliban. Government forces are also battling the hardline Islamists in Kandahar and Helmand, the southern Pashto-speaking provinces from where the Taliban draw their strength. The United States — due to complete a troop withdrawal at the end of the month and end its longest war — has all but left the battlefield. However, Washington’s special envoy Zalmay Khalilzad is now in Qatar to try and convince the Taliban to accept a ceasefire. Envoys from hosts Qatar, Britain, China, Pakistan, Uzbekistan, the United Nations, and EU were due to discuss the situation in Afghanistan, a source told AFP. But even with a new round of talks in the works, Pentagon spokesman John Kirby said it was down to the Afghan government and its forces to turn the tide, and there was “not much” the U.S. could do to help. On the move The Taliban have appeared largely indifferent to peace overtures, and seem intent on a military victory to return to power after their ouster 20 years ago in the wake of the September 11 attacks. As fighting raged, tens of thousands of people were on the move inside the country, with families fleeing newly captured Taliban cities with tales of brutal treatment at the hands of the insurgents. “The Taliban are beating and looting,” said Rahima, now camped out with hundreds of families at a park in the capital, Kabul, after fleeing Sheberghan province. “If there is a young girl or a widow in a family, they forcibly take them. We fled to protect our honour.” “We are so exhausted,” added Farid, an evacuee from Kunduz who did not want to be further identified. In the northern city of Kunduz that was captured by the Taliban over the weekend, residents said shops had begun to reopen as insurgents focused their attention on government forces who had retreated to the airport. “People are opening their shops and businesses, but you can still see fear in their eyes,” said shopkeeper Habibullah. On Tuesday, The Taliban captured Pul-e-Khumri, capital of Baghlan province, and Farah city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/thousands-flee-amid-taliban-gains-in-north/article35847600.ece
11 August 2021||Stockholm,||Iranian denies part in 1988 executions||Lawyers for a former Iranian prison official denied his involvement in the 1988 execution of thousands of political dissidents on Tuesday on the first day of a landmark case in Sweden likely to stoke tensions in the Islamic republic. Hamid Noury, 60, appeared relaxed and smiling in Stockholm District Court while his defence counsel Daniel Marcus refuted the charges including “murder” and “war crimes” dating from between July 30 and August 16, 1988, when Noury was assistant to the deputy prosecutor of Gohardasht prison in Karaj, near Tehran. Earlier Kristina Lindhoff Carleson, for the prosecution, read out the indictment which accused Noury of “intentionally taking the life of a very large number of prisoners sympathetic to or belonging to the People’s Mujahedin” (MEK). MEK supporters were among several hundred protesters who gathered outside the court carrying photos of the dead and called for justice for the estimated 5,000 prisoners killed across Iran, allegedly under the orders of supreme leader Ayatollah Khomeini in reprisal for attacks carried out by the MEK at the end of the Iran-Iraq war of 1980-88. The demonstrators urged Swedish and international justice to condemn Iran’s newly inaugurated president Ebrahim Raisi, also accused by rights groups of involvement in the extra-judicial killings. Swedish court officials believe Tuesday’s case is the first of its kind against someone accused over the killings. A verdict in the three-day case is expected in April 2022. The allegations were brought to the attention of the Swedish authorities by a group of 30 complainants.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/iranian-denies-part-in-1988-executions/article35847609.ece
11 August 2021||COLOMBO,||‘There should be no surprises in Indo-Sri Lanka relations’||India and Sri Lanka should maintain open and regular communication across multiple channels and ensure there are “no surprises” to either side, according to Milinda Moragoda, shortly to assume duties as Sri Lanka’s High Commissioner in New Delhi. Speaking to The Hindu in Colombo, Mr. Moragoda, who recently submitted a ‘road map’ to President Gotabaya Rajapaksa, outlining proposals for strengthening Indo-Lanka ties, said that while the relationship is evidently “asymmetric”, the focus must be on elevating bilateral ties from the current “transactional” phase to one that is more “strategic”. “It has to evolve into a special relationship, that should be our aim,” said the High Commissioner-designate, who has been awarded a ‘Cabinet rank’ by the Sri Lankan government, effectively enabling him to report directly to President Rajapaksa. Political solution The road map itself came amid considerable strain in relations. In a surprise move earlier this year, Sri Lanka unilaterally dropped a 2019 plan to jointly develop the East Container Terminal at the Colombo Port with India and Japan. Citing domestic opposition to foreign investment in strategic national asset, the Rajapaksa administration reneged on the trilateral agreement signed by the predecessor government, instead offering the West Container Terminal to the Adani Group in India.  Further, Mr. Moragoda’s strategy paper lays out plans to enhance investment prospects, religious and cultural ties, but makes no mention of expediting a political solution to Sri Lanka's national question that has remained a cornerstone of India’s engagement. Observing that President Rajapaksa is leading a “diverse coalition”, Mr. Moragoda said a political solution or post-war reconciliation must be “home-grown”. “A political solution is not all about laws and the Constitution,” he said. Mr. Moragoda, 57, is a businessman and a former politician who has held key ministries in past governments. He was earlier aligned to former PM Ranil Wickremesinghe and was a prominent arbiter in the government’s peace talks with the LTTE, brokered by Norway in the early 2000s. He is also the founder of the Colombo-based think tank, Pathfinder Foundation. Mr. Moragoda has advocated the abolition of provincial councils, arguing that the structure has proved “superfluous, expensive, divisive, and is fraught with inefficiency.” “That is my personal view,” Mr. Moragoda said, of the provincial structure envisioned in Indo-Lanka Accord of 1987. “I believe we should look at a model where we devolve more power to the local governments instead, while keeping a Senate at the Centre, where all ethnic groups are fairly represented,” he said. Sri Lanka’s nine provincial councils have remained defunct for at least two years, pending elections. Asked about frequent calls to repeal the provincial council system, from Sinhala nationalists including those in government, Mr. Moragoda said: “As of now, the provincial council system is very much part of our Constitution, and there is no threat. However, elections to the councils will have to wait until we have a consensus on a new electoral system in Parliament.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/there-should-be-no-surprises-in-indo-sri-lanka-relations/article35847602.ece
11 August 2021||Dubai,||Over 200 held in Saudi anti-corruption purge||Saudi Arabia announced the arrest of 207 employees across about a dozen Ministries in the latest sweep by an anti-corruption body empowered by Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman. Those detained were not named and it was unclear when the arrests were made. The kingdom’s National Anti-Corruption Commission, known as “Nazaha”, announced the arrests late on Monday. The Crown Prince’s anti-corruption purge began in late 2017. It has helped him consolidate power and netted the kingdom $106 billion in assets. Saudi nationals have long complained of rampant corruption in government and of public funds being squandered or misused by those in power. The commission said more than 460 people were investigated in this latest round, and that as a result, 207 Saudi citizens and residents were detained on allegations of corruption, abuse of authority and fraud. Those accused will be referred to prosecution. They hail from the national guard and a range of Ministries, including Defence, Interior, Health and Justice.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/over-200-held-in-saudi-anti-corruption-purge/article35847610.ece
11 August 2021||Hong Kong,||‘Hong Kong set to adopt China’s anti-sanctions law’||China’s anti-sanctions law will be implemented in some form in Hong Kong, the city’s leader confirmed on Tuesday, a move that will add fresh regulatory pressure on international companies in the finance hub. Beijing’s rubber-stamp legislature passed the law in June in response to Western penalties that were imposed following crackdowns in Hong Kong and Xinjiang. Its powers include denying visas, deportation, or seizing assets of those who formulate or comply with sanctions against Chinese businesses or officials. Foreign companies can be sued in Chinese courts for applying sanctions and the law can also be wielded against family members. On Tuesday, Hong Kong’s Chief Executive Carrie Lam confirmed Beijing had consulted her on adding the law to the city’s mini-Constitution, known as the Basic Law. “The purpose of the Anti-Sanctions Law is to defend our country’s sovereignty, security and development interests,” she told reporters. But she said Beijing could also impose the measures directly like it did with a national security law last year that snuffed out dissent. “Some foreign forces, foreign governments and western media will definitely stir up this issue, hoping to weaken our status as a financial centre or the outside world’s confidence in Hong Kong,” she said.International companies face being punished by each side if they adhere to either sanctions regime. A bank that refuses to implement U.S. sanctions, for example, could find itself cut off from access to the dollar. But those that adhere could find themselves in hot water with Beijing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/hong-kong-set-to-adopt-chinas-anti-sanctions-law/article35847607.ece
11 August 2021||Seoul,||N. Korea vows to strengthen capabilities||The powerful sister of North Korean leader Kim Jong-un ripped South Korea for proceeding with military exercises with the U.S. that she said are an invasion rehearsal and warned on Tuesday that the North will work faster to strengthen its pre-emptive strike capabilities. Kim Yo-jong’s statement came after South Korean media reported that the allied militaries will begin four days of preliminary training on Tuesday before holding computer-simulated drills on August 16-26. Ms. Kim said she was given authority to release the statement, implying the message came directly from her brother. Hours after her comments were published on state media, South Korea’s Defence and Unification Ministries said North Korean officials hadn’t responded to their calls on Tuesday afternoon over inter-Korean hotlines, which had been disconnected for a year before North Korea agreed to reopen them in late July.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/n-korea-vows-to-strengthen-capabilities/article35847611.ece
11 August 2021||Islamabad,||Banned scribe calls Imran a ‘helpless’ PM||Hamid Mir, a prominent Pakistani journalist who was taken off air indefinitely for making hard-hitting remarks against the military, has said that Imran Khan is a “helpless” Prime Minister and underlined that there is a growing “climate of fear” for media personnel in the country. Mr. Mir, the host of the now-off air talk show ‘Capital Talk’ of Geo News channel, on May 28 delivered a fiery speech at a protest staged by scribes against an attack by “unknown” persons aginst journalist Asad Ali Toor in Islamabad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/banned-scribe-calls-imran-a-helpless-pm/article35847614.ece
11 August 2021||Beijing,||China demands recall of Lithuanian envoy over Taiwan recognition||China on Tuesday demanded that Lithuania recall its envoy to Beijing, after Vilnius allowed Taiwan to set up an office under its own name in a move seen as provocative by the Chinese government. The self-ruled island, which China considers part of its territory, last month said it was setting up a representative office in Vilnius under the name “Taiwan” as opposed to “Taipei”, an act Beijing interprets as a diplomatic insult.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/china-demands-recall-of-lithuanian-envoy-over-taiwan-recognition/article35847603.ece
11 August 2021||NEW YORK,||US--Epstein-Prince Andrew Lawsuit||One of Jeffrey Epstein’s longtime accusers sued Prince Andrew on Monday, taking accusations that she has repeatedly publicly lodged against him, including that he sexually assaulted her when she was 17, to a formal venue. Lawyers for the plaintiff filed the lawsuit in Manhattan federal court, where Epstein was charged criminally with sex trafficking before he killed himself in August 2019 in the prison.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-epstein-prince-andrew-lawsuit/article35847605.ece
11 August 2021||August 11 2021 00:00 IST,||The construct behind the ‘Shining U.P.’ card||These days, India’s national capital, Delhi, is a sight to behold — strangely, not for reasons connected to the city-State. As a matter of fact, a visitor might think she was in neighbouring Uttar Pradesh seeing the profusion of posters and flex boards featuring its Chief Minister, Yogi Adityanath, and Prime Minister Narendra Modi, all of them claiming that U.P. is today India’s number one State. Bagging the top rank U.P. as India’s number one State? The miracle owes to an award that was given out this summer by the Union Housing and Urban Affairs Ministry under the Smart Cities Mission (https://bit.ly/3yAAPJx). Tamil Nadu, with an exemplary record on development and welfare, was placed third on the list after Madhya Pradesh. If anyone had quibbles about the line-up, they had to lump it. U.P. and its Chief Minister were going to savour the trophy which had most conveniently arrived in the months ahead of the 2022 State Assembly election. By another coincidence, it was also the first time that States had been picked for the award. In the days since the award, the Chief Minister has found himself hit by an avalanche of praise, most notably from the Prime Minister and the Union Home Minister, Amit Shah. The praise also settled speculation that Mr. Adityanath and Mr. Modi were in conflict over a State-level appointment proposed by the Prime Minister. In the end, Mr. Adityanath had his way. The Gujarat cadre retired IAS officer, said to have been Mr. Modi’s nominee for the State Cabinet, got appointed to an ornamental party post. If indeed there was a conflict over this, it made sense for both sides to sue for peace. U.P. is the all important State that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has to win, and win by a wide margin. What has followed is a mammoth, nothing-left-to-chance effort to rebrand Mr. Adityanath as the leader of India’s best-run State. In their speeches, Mr. Modi and Mr. Shah have attributed qualities to the U.P. Chief Minister that are in embarrassing contradiction of evidence and felt experiences. Some of the flattery and claims were so over-the-top that fact-checking sites such as Alt News instantly demolished them, among them the astonishing one that the Chief Minister’s handling of the second COVID-19 wave was “unparalleled”. The situation in U.P. at the time was indeed unparalleled, but not in the glowing manner it has been imagined and told. Quite the opposite with images of floating corpses and mass burning of pyres making it to the international media. In the pandemic’s grip As the second wave raged, there was no sign that U.P. had become a shining example of good governance. Hundreds lost their lives in the scramble for hospital beds, ambulances and oxygen. Men and women collapsed unattended and many died begging for oxygen. These deaths were not statistics that the Government could hide or dispute. These happened in real time as friends and families watched helplessly. A Lucknow journalist’s last cries for help are recorded in the phone of an editor friend she desperately called. He continues to be hounded by her cries and remains inconsolable over not being able to save her despite his access to higher-ups in the Government. The sad truth is that U.P failed its citizens during the second COVID-19 crisis — the better off died trying in vain to work the political system for beds and oxygen. The worse off died anyway, some of them abandoned by their kin and turning up as bloated corpses in the swirling waters of the Ganga. The floating bodies, discovered along the length of the Ganga by the reporting teams of the Hindi newspaper, Dainik Bhaskar , have since become a metaphor for all that is wrong with U.P. The U.P. government and the Chief Minister have underplayed the deaths and passed them off as jal samadhis — the ancient practice of burying the dead in shallow river beds. However, the explanation has not convinced many. In his report dated May 22, 2021 (https://bit.ly/37sZTGu), The Hindu ’s Omar Rashid cites residents who had watched the bodies wash up as saying they had not witnessed floating bodies on this scale before. For Vishwambhar Nath Mishra, the head priest of Varanasi’s Sankat Mochan temple, the floating bodies represented a truth that could not be hidden. “Ganga has revealed the truth,” he told Mr. Rashid. Mr. Rashid also reported on the deaths of Government employees who had contracted COVID-19 while on polling duty in the panchayat elections that were held irresponsibly at the peak of the second wave. The Government at first denied the deaths, but has now confirmed them by awarding compensation to the families of over 2,000 employees who fell to COVID-19 after being on election duty. The horror of U.P.’s second wave is too recent and too graphically captured for it to be so easily forgotten. To insist that the virus was controlled with “incomparable efficiency”, therefore, amounts to a reconstructed truth, an alternative reality intended to replace the original memories by the time the 2022 Assembly election is held. There have been other exaggerations in the project to build Mr. Adityanath as a brand, among them claims that U.P. has topped the charts for COVID-19 testing and administration of vaccine shots and also that it has provided a violence-free environment to its residents. The State does have impressive absolute numbers for both COVID-19 testing and vaccine shots but plunges close to the bottom once the figures are adjusted for population. U.P. has so far lagged behind even the national average on both counts. Crime data On general law and order and women’s safety, the less said the better. Women’s safety, a key promise in the BJP’s election campaigns, has been callously treated in U.P. An Alt News analysis of national crime data placed U.P. on top for custodial rapes and dowry deaths. Further, National Crime Records Bureau data show that the number of dowry deaths per one lakh people in U.P. is the highest in the country. This is besides the gang rapes that have regularly hit the headlines. The State BJP’s sweep of the recently held block pramukh elections came amidst widespread violence and allegations of booth capturing and intimidation. Clearly, in the current day U.P., law and order has come to mean just one thing: the State government’s aggression against minorities and its crackdown on alleged gangsters and anti-nationals, many of whom are in fact students and rights’ activists. U.P.’s self-appointed status as India’s top State is ironic considering it was at the bottom among large States in an index (Public Affairs Index) compiled by the Public Affairs Centre, a not-for-profit organisation headed by K. Kasturirangan, formerly chairman of the Indian Space Research Organisation. Released in October 2020, the index used 50 indicators to measure the quality of State-level governance on the three pillars of equity, growth and sustainability. Unsurprisingly, Kerala was adjudged the best-governed State while U.P. came last (in the large States category). Political impact So what are the BJP’s opponents in U.P. doing to counter the party’s public relations offensive? Not much as both the Samajwadi Party (SP) and the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) seem focused on chasing the elusive Brahmin vote in U.P. This is baffling logic considering the well-known Brahmin affinity to the BJP. The SP and the BSP both came to power on rainbow alliances of the forward and backward castes. Having lost that platform to the BJP, they now watch as Mr. Adityanath plays his ‘Shining U.P.’ card. Vidya Subrahmaniam is a senior journalist||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-construct-behind-the-shining-up-card/article35847588.ece
11 August 2021||August 11 2021 00:00 IST,||Unpacking the resiliency of global trade, yet again||In the last year, the devastating impact of COVID-19 pandemic has shrunk the world economy by 4.4% and global trade by 5.3%; job losses have been estimated to be to the tune of 75 million. Around the world, countries have responded to pandemic-induced shortages with protectionist reactions and nationalist aspirations with the potential to disrupting complex cross-border supply chains. The blame game on trade openness and trade agreements for widening trade deficits, income inequalities and growing unemployment are all but natural domestic reactions. These trends make projections for the post-COVID-19 world even more dismal and depressing. Past trends Going by past experiences, historic ruptures often generate and accelerate new global links that lay foundations for institutional changes, seeking enduring cooperation among nations. The Second World War created sustaining multilateral institutions; besides the United Nations, the Bretton Woods Institutions such as World Bank and International Monetary Fund (IMF) and International Trade Organisation (ITO) were created to help rebuild the shattered post-war economy. The General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) was negotiated in 1947 as a means to reducing barriers to international trade. The oil shocks of the 1970s led to the establishment of the International Energy Agency (IEA) in 1974 to manage oil supply disruptions and went on to create awareness on the need for global energy security. The financial crisis of 2008 led to the G20 Leaders Summit, an elevation from the G20 Finance Ministers forum in 1999, in a bid to take cooperation beyond the G7 in a global quest to control inflation due to fiscal expansion. These developments had a consequential impact on global trade, with dramatic surges in volumes; from a mere $60.80 billion in 1950 to $2,049 billion in 1980; $6,452 billion in 2000; $19,014 billion in 2019 (Source: wto.org). Future prospects The patterns above leave much hope for optimism for global trade in the post-COVID-19 crisis in the collective belief that international trade is vital for development and prosperity, while competition is central to generating competence. Stimulus packages and forced savings in several countries in the last year have created financial buffers. Global supply chains that have remained dormant for long are expected to be resilient to help revive manufacturing with lower production costs, induce investments and promote technology transfers. In a post COVID-19 world, members of the World Trade Organization are expected to stitch trade facilitating rules that may impinge on national sovereign policy space with a collective resolve to discipline errant nations that are known to dumping goods and erecting trade barriers through multilateral rules. Mutually beneficial trade arrangements that seek deeper economic integration will be entered into at the bilateral and regional levels to create win-win situations for all stakeholders, including consumers, who tend to benefit from lowered barriers and harmonised standards. Countries that harness technology are expected to dominate international trade in future with a transformational impact on the global economy. Just as the steam engine in the 19th century and computing power in the 20th century, data will be the main driver of economic growth in the 21st century. Businesses will aim to harness data for innovation to remain ahead of the curve in a post-COVID-19 world. However, increasing use of data and automation will make nations vulnerable to job losses. Rapid growth in e-commerce and the virtual world will demand entirely new skills from the workforce. Therefore, economic policies are likely to focus on stronger safety nets for workers; income protection, skill training, health care and educational support for families. India’s outlook India’s challenges during the COVID-19 pandemic have been no different from those faced by other countries: its GDP contracted by 7.3% according to the National Statistical Office; and about 10 million jobs were lost according to the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy Pvt. Ltd; trade remained subdued at $493 billion (goods at $290 billion and services at $203 billion). The projections of the International Monetary Fund for India’s economic growth ahead are positive and in line with the general trends world-wide, assuming that the widespread vaccination might limit the COVID-19 agony. Unleashing trade potential is expected to have a ripple effect on the economy. Merchandise exports for the second quarter of 2021 from April-June at $95 billion (+6%), is indeed encouraging, but would need to remain focussed on value added products, beyond the traditional exports basket comprising refined petroleum products, pharma, gems and jewellery, textiles and garments, engineering items, rice, oil meals and marine products (Source: DGCI&S). Building an ecosystem that incentivises value-added manufacturing and technology-induced finished products should form a part of our long-term strategy. Plug and play manufacturing units under Production Linked Incentive Scheme (PLI) schemes, if carefully nurtured, could lead the industry on that path. Beyond the timely stimulus packages for micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs), supporting them with cheaper input costs, including raw material and intermediate goods would help sustain them with job creation at the local level. Developing a synergistic relationship between the big industry and MSMEs is at the core of a successful Atmanirbhar Bharat; the former should be encouraged to move into technology space and finished products, while the latter feeds them with locally made inputs at competitive prices. Skills upgradation to global standards should form a part of India’s strategy in a post-COVID-19 world. Dammu Ravi is a serving Foreign Service Officer, currently working in the Ministry of External Affairs. The views expressed are personal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/unpacking-the-resiliency-of-global-trade-yet-again/article35847590.ece
11 August 2021||August 11 2021 00:00 IST,||A call for improving civil registration systems||A working paper for the Center for Global Development, co-authored by former Chief Economic Adviser Arvind Subramanian, concludes that excess deaths during the pandemic period could be as high as 49 lakh in India as against the 4.14 lakh reported in government data. The Hindu has come out with estimates of excess deaths based on Civil Registration System (CRS) data for many States which showed that the death toll was several times higher than the official death toll due to COVID-19. Such discrepancies have been reported from other countries including the U.S. and Europe though they may not have been of such magnitude. Capturing excess mortality ‘Excess deaths’ are defined as the difference between the observed number of deaths in specific time periods and the expected number of deaths in the same time periods. At the time of a pandemic, when the normal system is disrupted, it is not likely that every person who dies could have been tested for COVID-19 or the death could have been mistakenly assigned to some other cause. Soumya Swaminathan, Chief Scientist at the World Health Organization, has tweeted in this connection: “For every country, it’s important to capture excess mortality – only way to prepare the health system for future shocks & to prevent further deaths. It’s also why we need to invest in strong civil registration and vital statistics, so policies can be adjusted based on real data”. Section 19 of the Registration of Births and Deaths Act, 1969, stipulates that the State governments have to “publish for the information of the public a statistical report on the registered births and deaths during the year at such intervals and such form as may be prescribed”. The Act also stipulates that the deaths be registered at the place of occurrence. In India, the annual report for 2019 that is based on the data provided by the Chief Registrars has been released though the States themselves have not published the data. According to the Rules, these were to be submitted by the Chief Registrars to the State governments by July 31, 2020 and published within five months thereafter. Considering that technology enables the States to release data on the number of deaths registered on a monthly, weekly or daily basis, it is shameful that in some States researchers had to use the Right to Information law to obtain data on the number of deaths registered. What stands in the way of our ability to record deaths and bring out reports that are of critical importance today? Complicating factors Let us look at the organisational structure of the administrative machinery that is responsible for this task. While the Registrar General, India, is the head of the national organisation tasked with the registration of births and deaths, the actual work is carried out by the State and Union Territory (UT) administrations. The heads of the State organisations are called Chief Registrars. These officers come from the Health Department in 21 States/UTs and the Department of Planning, Economics and Statistics in 13 States/UTs. In two States/ UTs, they are from the Panchayat/Local Administration Departments. We also have Secretaries to the State government functioning as Chief Registrars in a few States. The multiplicity of agencies responsible for the registration of births and deaths is replicated at the district and lower levels with municipalities and panchayats playing a major role in registration. This impedes effective oversight. Also, the traditional bureaucratic practice is to function within departmental silos. Another complicating factor is that civil registration involves good coordination between different actors. The responsibility to report births and deaths to the  Registrar rests with the hospital where the event occurred or with the head of the household if it occurred at home. The Registrar then provides them with a legal document (the birth or death certificate) that is the evidence for registration. The Registrar could be a full-time government employee, or a medical officer in a hospital or a health centre, or the secretary of a local panchayat or municipality as appointed by the State government. In case of deaths occurring in public places, other agencies like the police or the local government would need to be involved. The State governments have not given adequate attention to the CRS. This has resulted in an inadequate budget for carrying out its regular activities including processing of the data. The data needed to establish ‘excess deaths’ originates from the processes described briefly above. The information on deaths registered are compiled at regular intervals by the Chief Registrar. Dissemination of this data is neglected to such an extent that the Health Departments, including the States where they are in charge of the system, are generally not aware of this data. All the agencies involved in the processes of civil registration will need to coordinate their activities seamlessly to ensure that the civil registration work is carried out efficiently. Committees established at the State, district and local government levels to ensure coordination meet rarely and the challenges of coordination continue to be a major issue in most parts of the country. Strengthening the system The first step that needs to be taken to address this is to accord high priority to strengthening civil registration and generation of vital statistics. The top level of the leadership at the Central and State governments must announce a time-bound commitment to achieve 100% registration of deaths in the country. While eleven States register more than 90% of deaths, they do not include several of the larger States including Madhya Pradesh, Telangana, Uttar Pradesh and Bihar. Uttar Pradesh registered 63% of the deaths and Bihar registered only 51.6%, according to the 2019 report of the Registrar General, India. Vital Statistics Reports that the government is required to publish are expected to meet a standard that is set by the UN Statistics Division, which seeks to ensure that all national reports are produced in a way that they can be internationally comparable. Apart from the problem that our reports are overdue, they do not contain all the tables that are prescribed even under our own Rules. Data include deaths that took place in previous years but are registered in the years that the report is published. This distorts the accuracy of the report. Some reports do not cover some major areas in the country. For instance, the Kerala report does not include data for Kochi Corporation. We need data that fully meets quality standards. This is what the pandemic has called on us to do. We need to use this as an opportunity to mend matters in this critical area of public concern and swiftly assign resources and give high priority to make the changes that are badly overdue in all States and UTs. Gopalan Balagopal is a former civil servant and continues to work on Civil Registration and Vital Statistics Systems, primarily in Africa. K. Narayanan Unni is a statistician and former Deputy Registrar General (CRS)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-call-for-improving-civil-registration-systems/article35847599.ece
11 August 2021||August 11 2021 00:00 IST,||The silent erasure of Adivasiyat||On the first day of the monsoon session of the Vidhan Sabha in Madhya Pradesh, Opposition leaders staged a protest demanding that the State holiday on International Day of the World’s Indigenous Peoples on August 9 be restored. At first glance, the demand seems ordinary. Jharkhand Mukti Morcha-ruled Jharkhand and Congress-ruled Chhattisgarh, both of which have considerable Adivasi populations, declared that August 9 would be a public holiday. The Congress-led government in Madhya Pradesh had declared it a public holiday too. When the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) came to power, it made the holiday optional and did not allocate any money for celebrations despite the fact that over a fifth of the State’s population comprises Adivasis. The roots of this intransigence are located within the ideological imperatives of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS), its approach to Adivasi identity and its fundamental opposition to the discourse of Adivasiyat (indigeneity) .  Imagined community of Hindus The RSS’s stated objective is the establishment of a Hindu Rashtra. In this imagined community of Hindus, the community will be the master race by virtue of being the majority. However, nations are not a given entity; they need to be constructed, nurtured and sustained. Each nation is sustained by an ideological edifice erected upon shared historical experience, myths, memories and folklore. These elements combine to create a sense of a shared past which imparts the feeling of oneness and a common destiny. It is this sense of a shared past which forms the fountainhead of any collective identity. The Hindutva discourse situates the Hindu nation at the intersection of history and mythology, thereby investing it with a divine and timeless quality. V.D. Savarkar used myths and symbols from the Ramayana and Vedas to construct the foundational notions of the geographical sovereignty and cultural identity of the Hindu nation. This quasi-historical narrative performed the twin functions of anchoring the identity of the Indian nation in the framework of Vedic Hinduism and, by implication, establishing the adherents to Vedic Hinduism as the indigenous inhabitants of this land; and ‘othering’ Muslims and Christians within the nation. However, the discourse of Adivasiyat or non-Vedic cultural survival dislocates this narrative. Moreover, it strips the Hindu nation of its divine quality and re-establishes it within the secular historical framework. This is why the RSS is opposed to the category of Adivasi, for accepting it would entail giving up its claim of being autochthonous. Competing indigeneities Hindutva’s approach towards Adivasis is dictated by the need to address the twin anxieties of destabilisation of the imagined ethnic Hindu nation by the discourse of Adivasiyat and the conversion of Adivasis to Christianity. Therefore, the RSS re-articulates the Adivasi identity as Vanvasi or forest dweller, who is just an imperfectly integrated Hindu. It takes upon itself the task of integrating the Adivasis within the Hindu fold by co-opting their rituals. It constructs an undifferentiated Hindu past by retelling the narratives of autonomous Adivasi struggles as fragments of the larger Hindu nation’s story of resistance against Christian and Muslim oppressors. It is in a bid to construct such an alternative tribal past that the RSS-BJP advocate the celebration of Birsa Munda’s anniversary as ‘Tribal Pride Day’ in place of observing World Indigenous Day. In Hindutva’s narrative, the Vanvasis are simple, animistic Hindus who need to be protected primarily against the onslaught of proselytisation by Christian missionaries. Towards this end, the memory of Birsa Munda is also reshaped in order to paint him as an antagonist of the Christian ‘other’, while historical facts point to a much more complicated picture of his resistance movement. Progressive forces like the Jai Adivasi Yuva Shakti construct the Adivasi identity primarily in terms of dispossession and exploitation. Therefore, while they look upon proselytisation by missionaries with scepticism, they consider the exploitative outsider, irrespective of religion, as the primary other. This figure of the non-Christian other, the outsider, is absent within the Hindutva discourse. The discourse of Adivasiyat enables politics to be framed in terms of ownership of resources, rights and dignity. In this discourse, the Adivasi is the owner of the land rather than an imperfectly integrated cultural fragment. Hence, it links the story of the Adivasi with the global story of oppression and dispossession of indigenous populations at the hands of outsiders. It is in this context that the observance of such a past on World Indigenous Day assumes great ideological significance for the Adivasis. What is playing out in Madhya Pradesh is that very struggle against the silent erasure of Adivasiyat. Anshul Trivedi is a PhD candidate at the Centre for Political Studies, JNU. He tweets @anshultrivedi47||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-silent-erasure-of-adivasiyat/article35847593.ece
11 August 2021||August 11 2021 00:00 IST,||It’s the ecosystem, stupid!||The news from Tokyo has warmed the hearts of Indians. It is not as if we have not had success at the Olympics in the past. For about half a century our hockey players excelled on the global stage through a display of skill and wile. Their dominance declined with the change in the surface on which the game is played. When astroturf replaced dirt the attributes for success altered; skill and nimbleness were replaced by speed and strength. But Indian hockey is bouncing back, with a medal for the men’s team and a commendable performance by our young women. In fact, it may be on the ascendant. Actually, this could be said for all of India’s future sporting endeavours, with Neeraj Chopra’s sterling performance opening up vistas in the track and field space. Road to success The rising level of India’s performance in sport has been evident for a while now, arguably starting with victory in World Cup Cricket in 1983. But something has changed of late. While half a century ago some of our stars were aristocrats, many of today’s sportspersons come from far less privileged backgrounds. Unlike the former, they were not trained on the storied playing fields of England but come from Tier-3 towns and even villages, rising through their own determination and self-belief. However, admirable as their individual efforts may be, this could not have by itself got them where they are today. Their naturally endowed capability has been nurtured by an external agency. Though what is apparent to us are the sports bodies that are their chaperones, their rise has received financial support from the Indian state. There has been a substantial step up in this too, which has made a great difference. The training facilities at the nationally dispersed camps of the Sports Authority of India are close to being world class and the sportspersons get their healthy diet there. Funds have added a dimension unimaginable in the past. The best Indian sportspersons are now able to compete in global championships and have international coaches. In his interviews, Neeraj Chopra has spoken of the former driving him to produce superior results as he is pitted against the world’s best. Foreign coaches, trainers and physiotherapists are almost commonplace now. It is not their foreignness that has mattered but that they bring along the highest class of expertise available. It may be seen in the winning outcome from badminton to hockey. Something more than money would have been necessary to bring these wonderful gurus to our shores. This was the Indian government’s willingness to finally recognise what is takes to succeed globally. An enabling ecosystem needed Staring at the harvest of medals for India’s sportspersons the economist is left wondering how some of this can be replicated in our struggling economy. Surely it is a wonder that a land that once exported goods to West Asia and ideas to China, then the richest and most evolved civilisations, is now one of the poorest in the world. Why is India no longer a flourishing arena of economic activity? A message has now reached us. It may be from faraway Japan but has emanated from the performance of our youthful compatriots in Japan. One may as well paraphrase it as ‘It’s the ecosystem, stupid!’ Economic activity in India needs an enabling ecosystem, and everything from the availability of infrastructure to regulation of economic activity must be re-oriented towards creating it. Compared to the attitude of our sportspersons, who went out fearlessly to meet their opponents on the world stage, the leadership’s last-minute withdrawal from the prolonged negotiations on accession to the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership appears as a skittish volte face. India’s producers, irrespective of their size, cannot expect permanent protection. At the same time, they would be within their rights to expect global standards in the bureaucracy they face and the infrastructure the state provides. Pulapre Balakrishnan teaches at Ashoka University, Sonipat, Haryana||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/its-the-ecosystem-stupid/article35847595.ece
11 August 2021||August 11 2021 00:00 IST,||Undermining justice||It was only a matter of time before the controversy over the Union government delaying judicial appointments hit the headlines again. In recent days, the Supreme Court has voiced concern over the Government’s lackadaisical attitude towards the large number of vacancies in High Courts and tribunals. Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana confronted the Government with a list of 240 vacancies in various tribunals. He asked rather bluntly whether there was a plan to close down some tribunals. Many tribunals lack presiding officers, and recommendations made by selection committees have not been acted upon. The vacancies in High Courts are at a staggering 455, as on August 1. It appears that exhortations from the courts, and even a judicial order from the top court in April — fixing time-frames for the Intelligence Bureau and the Government to process names forwarded by the Collegium for making appointments to the High Courts or returning files and for accepting names reiterated by the judges’ body — has not imparted a sense of urgency. A two-judge Bench has noted that the Centre’s delay in making appointments to the High Courts is adversely affecting the adjudication of commercial disputes. The judiciary’s concern over the vacancies in the tribunals is quite justified, as the jurisdiction previously exercised by High Courts is now being exercised by the tribunals, and the failure to adjudicate or dispose of disputes in these fields would amount to denial of justice to the parties. The present regime’s eagerness to undermine the independent functioning of tribunals is quite apparent. It has been repeatedly framing rules that seek to provide for greater executive control over the tenure, emoluments and conditions of service of those manning the tribunals. If specialisation, domain expertise and relatively quicker adjudication are the reasons for which certain kinds of disputes are being resolved through tribunals, these purposes are lost if these bodies are rendered nearly dysfunctional through a large number of vacancies. To compound the problem, the Union government has been inexplicably reluctant to create a national body for overseeing the work related to the appointment of members on tribunals as well as the appraisal of their functioning. As far as higher judiciary appointments are concerned, there is little to enlighten the public on what is causing the delay. Whether it is a dispute over the undoubtedly problematic memorandum of procedure, or the desire of the executive to subject the Collegium recommendations to its own political scrutiny is not clear. In any case, the delay is causing great harm to India’s justice delivery system.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/undermining-justice/article35847582.ece
11 August 2021||August 11 2021 00:00 IST,||Choppy waters||When Prime Minister Narendra Modi took the stage to address the UNSC on a debate on maritime security — the first Indian premier to do so — he might have hoped to keep the focus of the discussion on building maritime ties and developing maritime infrastructure through regional cooperation initiatives. Yet, once more the discussion veered toward major nations trading barbs on continuing strategic dissonance in this sphere. At the heart of the strident claims and counterclaims regarding allegations of abuse of maritime resources and disrespect of territorial sovereignty rights of nations were the U.S., on the one hand, and China and Russia on the other. Mr. Modi deserves credit for bringing to the table a five-prong plan to enhance maritime security worldwide through cooperation, including removing barriers to legitimate maritime trade, settling maritime disputes peacefully and based on international law, jointly facing natural disasters and maritime threats created by non-state actors, preserving maritime environment and resources, and encouraging responsible maritime connectivity. Indeed, the acceptance at the UNSC of the legislative framework for UNCLOS, the “legal framework applicable to activities in the oceans, including countering illicit activities at sea”, is seen as an important achievement during India’s month at the helm of the Council. The sustained interest of India in promoting maritime security also draws from Mr. Modi’s SAGAR vision plan aimed at strengthening economic and security connections with regional maritime nations. If there are strategic barriers to creating momentum in achieving these goals, they are associated with specific regions of maritime tension including the South China Sea and the Black Sea. Regarding the former, U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken decried the “dangerous encounters between vessels at sea and provocative actions to advance unlawful maritime claims”, rejecting “actions that intimidate and bully other states from lawfully accessing their maritime resources”. Similarly, regarding the Black Sea, the Kerch Strait, the Sea of Azov, Mr. Blinken at the UNSC debate hit out at what Washington considered “continued aggressive actions against Ukraine... which are disrupting commerce and energy access”. Although India’s presidency of the Council is brief, its sustained commitment to promoting maritime security and boosting trade through sea routes will require it to be adroit in negotiating with these squabbling powers and creative in seeking resolution of the very real conflicts at the heart of their disputes. While some may deride UNCLOS as lacking teeth for enforcement, ultimately it is the only comprehensive framework of laws available to maritime powers to assert their rights consistent with the rules-based international order. Through its UNSC presidency and beyond, New Delhi must faithfully advocate for ratification of UNCLOS by all major maritime powers, including the U.S.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/choppy-waters/article35847583.ece
11 August 2021||August 11 2021 00:00 IST,||Kennedy visits refugee camps||U.S. Democratic Senator Edward Kennedy was greeted by thousands of Bangla Desh refugees shouting slogans like “Joi Bangla”, “Kennedy zindabad” and “Sheikh Mujib zindabad” as he arrived at the Salt Lake camp on the outskirts of Calcutta [Calcutta, August 10]. Some of them carried placards saying “Make Yahya quit Bangla Desh, we will return in seven days,” “Thank you for coming to see us,” “Independent Banga Desh only solution,” “Helping Yahya is helping genocide” and “Save Democracy.” At camp No. 5 camp commandant Major S.K. Deb welcomed My. Kennedy and apprised him of the conditions there. Mr. Kennedy also inquired about the organisations working in the camp. On being asked, Maj. Deb told Mr. Kennedy that so far there had been no political activities in the camps. Sheikh Mujibur Rehman’s press secretary Badsah requested Mr. Kennedy to save the life of the Sheikh and thus save democracy. Barrister Maudud Ahmed of Bangla Desh sought an interview “to present our case.” Mr. Kennedy assured them that he would try to find some time to meet Bangla Desh intellectuals. Mr. Kennedy, who was then taken around the camps, talked with some refugees who broke down while narrating their sufferings at the hands of Pakistani army.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/kennedy-visits-refugee-camps/article35847591.ece
11 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||Price pressures to smoothen out in coming months: Ministry||The Finance Ministry has blamed the recent uptick in inflation on adverse supply shocks due to the pandemic and elevated international commodity prices, and said it expects price pressures to abate in the coming months. The comments on inflation in the Department of Economic Affairs’ monthly economic report for July, released on Tuesday, largely mirror the central bank’s assessment. However, the ministry did concede that high inflation had pushed up government bond yields. Reserve Bank of India (RBI) Governor Shaktikanta Das last week noted that recent inflationary pressures “evoke concerns” but added that they were seen as “transitory and largely driven by adverse supply side factors”. The RBI, however, raised its projection for retail inflation in 2021-22 to 5.7%, from 5.1% forecast in June. “Inflation has remained above the band of 6% in May and June but these pressures are likely to smoothen out over the coming months with easing of restrictions, progress of southwest monsoon, and recent supply-side policy interventions in pulses and oilseeds market,” the ministry said. “However, G-sec yield curve steepened mildly owing to inflation pressures,” it added. Retail inflation “seems to have plateaued” at 6.26% in June, from 6.30% in May, but had increased from 6.23% a year earlier, the ministry noted, with increases in major groups like ‘food and beverage’ and ‘fuel and light’. “Pressure of high inflation prints continued to prevail on G-Sec yields in July… 10-year G-Sec yield reached 6.2% as compared to 6.05% at end-June,” it noted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/price-pressures-to-smoothen-out-in-coming-months-ministry/article35847566.ece
11 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||Telecom sector needs ‘long overdue’ support: Mittal||Bharti Airtel chairman Sunil Mittal said the telecom industry required ‘long overdue’ government support to maintain its current ‘3+1’ industry structure, adding that unsustainable pricing and low returns had extracted a toll on the sector. Mr. Mittal’s comments come amid concerns over the survival of Vodafone Idea — one of the three private players — in the absence of support from the Centre. “As our sector’s role in the economy becomes more pervasive, our challenges loom larger. Unsustainable pricing and low returns in a highly capital-intensive environment, coupled with legacy legal issues, have extracted their toll,” Mr. Mittal said in the firm’s annual report. He added that the industry required government support for players to earn respectable returns on their investments. “I am hopeful that the government and the regulators will step in to ensure there is adequate balance in the industry and it remains a viable place for continued investments.”  He also noted that the company’s India mobile business is now at a lifetime-high revenue market share along with industry-leading metrics such as in average revenue per user and data usage. He pointed out that the non-mobile businesses in India had also gathered significant momentum. “As the Indian economy digitises further, there are large opportunities ahead in areas such as data centres, submarine cable deployment, cloud services and cybersecurity. We will look to scale up our investments in these areas in the coming fiscal,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/telecom-sector-needs-long-overdue-support-mittal/article35847564.ece
11 August 2021||Bengaluru,||‘Banking, financial, insurance sector to hire 3 lakh this fiscal’||The Indian Banking, Financial Services and Insurance (BSFI) sector is quite bullish on the outlook and would be hiring at least three lakh people in the current fiscal in contrast to the ‘bare minimum’ recruitment it witnessed in the previous year, industry observers said. Boom in activity Interestingly, financial activities among the general public have seen a dramatic increase in the last 15 months. For instance, 1.44 crore new demat accounts were added in FY21, as against 0.48 crore in FY20, according to Motilal Oswal Financial Services. “Many new jobs are being created in the space,” said Sudhir Dhar, head, HR at Motilal Oswal. “Broking firms alone are expected to hire over 35,000 people in metros in FY22,” he added. “The BSFI sector, in general, seems to be very bullish on hiring and is expected to hire at least more than 3 lakh people this fiscal,” said B.S. Murthy, CEO, Leadership Capital, a CXO hiring firm. Motilal Oswal said it would hire 3,500 broking agents, financial advisors, analysts, sales and marketing staff in this fiscal to take its people’s strength to close to 12,000. “We are hiring 3,500 graduates, MBAs and techies,” Mr. Dhar said. “This will also include more than 600 people for our housing finance business as collection officers, relationship managers and sales staff,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/banking-financial-insurance-sector-to-hire-3-lakh-this-fiscal/article35847560.ece
11 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||MFIs urge RBI to drop urban, rural difference for borrowers||Microfinance lenders have urged the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) to drop the distinction between urban and rural households in its proposed new definition of eligible borrowers and allow the use of ration cards to identify households. Currently, a microfinance borrower is identified by annual household income not exceeding Rs. 1.25 lakh for rural areas and Rs. 2 lakh for urban and semi-urban areas. As per fresh norms drafted for the sector in June, the RBI proposed retaining these thresholds while tweaking the definition of households in line with that used by the National Sample Survey Office — a group of persons normally living together and taking food from a common kitchen. Sa-Dhan, a self-regulatory body representing microfinance institutions (MFIs), has suggested that the central bank peg the annual income limit at Rs. 2 lakh for both urban and rural households, and revise the threshold based on inflation, perhaps once in 2-3 years. Stressing that the household definition may not work for migrant labourers, Sa-dhan said that using the ration card as an identifier should help. “While they won’t be living together and using the common kitchen, migrant labour contribute in the household income. “Therefore, exclusion of these members will give an improper household income assessment,” it noted, adding that around 19% of the rural population and 33% of the urban population, however, do not possess any ration card.  Household definition may not work for migrant workers. Use ration card as an identifier||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/mfis-urge-rbi-to-drop-urban-rural-difference-for-borrowers/article35847567.ece
11 August 2021||MUMBAI,||RIL arm to invest $50 mn in U.S. energy storage firm||Reliance New Energy Solar Ltd. (RNESL), a wholly owned subsidiary of Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL), has announced it will invest $50 million to acquire 42.3 million shares of preferred stock in Ambri Inc., an energy storage company based in Massachusetts, U.S.A. This is part of a $144-million investment that RNESL, strategic investors Paulson & Co., Bill Gates, and a few other investors have committed to make in Ambri, the company said. “The investment will help the company commercialise and grow its long-duration energy storage systems business globally,” RIL said in a statement. “Based on patented technology and designed to last between 4-24 hours, Ambri’s long-duration energy storage systems will break through the cost, longevity and safety barriers associated with lithium-ion batteries used in grid-scale stationary storage applications,” the company added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/ril-arm-to-invest-50-mn-in-us-energy-storage-firm/article35847562.ece
11 August 2021||MUMBAI,||‘India Inc’s deal activity rose to $13.2 bn in July’||India Inc witnessed a 3% rise in deal activity to $13.2 billion across 181 transactions in July, according to a report on Tuesday. Going by the number of deals, the volumes showed a 66% increase to 181 transactions, thus indicating a dip in average ticket sizes, the data by the consultancy firm Grant Thornton Bharat said. When compared with the preceding June, the deal volumes were 6% higher, while the deal values were 33% up because of a higher number of big-ticket transactions, the firm added. “This surge in deal activity was primarily due to companies continuing to borrow economically and spending their cash reserves on transformative deals to reposition themselves for the post-COVID-19 world,” its partner Shanthi Vijetha said. She said the firm hopes the deal trend will remain positive in the coming months as well. According to the report, the $13.2 billion of investments is the highest ever for any month since 2005. Mergers and acquisitions activity witnessed 36 deals worth $5.6 billion in July.   The surge was due to firms spending cash reserves on transformative deals||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/india-incs-deal-activity-rose-to-132-bn-in-july/article35847570.ece
11 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||Zomato loss widens on rise in expenses||Online food delivery platform Zomato on Tuesday reported that its net loss widened to Rs. 360.7 crore for the quarter ended June 30, mainly on account of an increase in expenses. The company had posted a net loss of Rs. 99.8 crore a year earlier, Zomato Ltd. said in a regulatory filing. Consolidated revenue from operations rose to Rs. 844.4 crore from Rs. 266 crore. Total expenses climbed to Rs. 1,259.7 crorefrom Rs. 383.3 crore. Zomato made its debut on the bourses on July 23. On Tuesday, its shares dropped 4.22% to Rs. 124.95 on the BSE.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/zomato-loss-widens-on-rise-in-expenses/article35847819.ece
11 August 2021||CHENNAI,||Manali Petro turned Rs. 76 cr. net profit in Q1||Manali Petrochemicals Ltd. (MPL) reported standalone net profit for the first quarter was Rs. 76 crore. The firm had registered a loss of Rs. 1 crore in the year-earlier period. Revenue from operations more than quadrupled to Rs. 270 crore, MPL said in a statement, adding the operations were badly affected on account of the pandemic. The team’s constant efforts to focus on efficient and profitability- oriented growth despite external challenges are critical strengths that should continue in the coming times, said chairman Ashwin Muthiah.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/manali-petro-turned-rs-76-cr-net-profit-in-q1/article35847575.ece
11 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||Auto sector seeks clarity on digital levy||The automobile industry sought clarity from the Centre on the scope of the proposed 2% equalisation levy on payments made to foreign beneficiaries for digital services provided. The Society of Indian Automobile Manufacturers said on Tuesday it was concerned over the impact of amendments proposed under the Finance Bill 2021 on digital transactions in the sector. Director general Rajesh Menon added: “Actual commercial decisions are offline... The internal digital system for supply-chain management should not fall within the provisions of equalisation levy.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/auto-sector-seeks-clarity-on-digital-levy/article35847568.ece
11 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||Smartphone shipments rise 86% in Q2: IDC||The April-June quarter started on a low note for the Indian smartphone market amid the second wave, but quickly recovered, clocking 86% year-on-year growth to reach about 34 million units, research firm IDC said. Xiaomi led the market with 29.2% market share, followed by Samsung (16.3%), Vivo (14.8%), Realme (14.5%) and Oppo (11.6%) in the June 2021 quarter, IDC said. The second quarter witnessed accelerated growth of the online channel, led by e-tailers, resulting in a record share of 51% with 113% year-over-year growth.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/smartphone-shipments-rise-86-in-q2-idc/article35847571.ece
11 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||Country of origin: 183 notices sent||The Department of Consumer Affairs issued 183 notices in the last one year to e-commerce players for violation of provisions related to country of origin, Parliament was informed on Tuesday. In a written reply to the Lok Sabha, MoS for Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution Ashwini Kumar Choubey said the Legal Metrology (Packaged Commodities) Rules, 2011, provides, in the case of imported products, for mandatory declaration of country of origin, on the digital and electronic networks used for e-commerce transactions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/country-of-origin-183-notices-sent/article35847572.ece
11 August 2021||Chennai,||Indian Bank street vendors||As part of the PM Street Vendor's AtmaNirbhar Nidhi (PM SVANidhi) special campaign, Indian Bank’s Zonal Office (Chennai North) on Tuesday distributed cheques worth Rs. 33 lakh to 330 beneficiaries. The cheques were handed over by K.S. Sudhakar Rao, general manager, MSME.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/indian-bank-street-vendors/article35847574.ece
11 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||HP targets content creators; launches new portfolio 18||Technology major HP on Tuesday unveiled the Envy portfolio of laptops targeted at content creators, priced from Rs. 1,04,999. The company also announced a ‘HP Creators’ Garage’ to enable budding creators to learn from experts across India and to collaborate with other creators.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/hp-targets-content-creators-launches-new-portfolio-18/article35847569.ece
11 August 2021||Chennai,||Trichy Warriors enter the final||Left was just right at the M.A. Chidambaram Stadium in TNPL’s Qualifier-1 on Tuesday. Left-handers Nidhish Rajagopal (55, 45b, 2x4, 3x6) and Adithya Ganesh (66 not out, 45b, 5x4, 2x6), coming together at a worrying 44 for three, took Ruby Trichy Warriors, chasing 154, to the doorstep of victory over Chepauk Super Gillies. And with three needed off the last last two, Adithya smoked left-arm spinner M. Siddharth over mid-wicket for a game-finishing six. Another chance Underdog Trichy Warriors is in the final. Holder Super Gillies will receive another opportunity in Qualifier 2. S. Radhakrishnan, who had revived Super Gillies’s hopes with a 54-ball unbeaten 82 which contained seven fours and three sixes earlier in the night, scored a direct hit from covers, ending the 93-run fourth-wicket partnership. Six runs were required for the last over and Siddharth castled Antony Dhas with his first delivery, another impressive arm-ball. Then, Adithya closed out the game. The pull shot is Nidhish’s strength and he pulled them out for two sixes off paceman Rahul Dev. In an important face-off, Nidhish skipped down and lofted last-arm spinner Sai Kishore over long-on for a six. Like Nidhish, Adithya drove well through the off-side, between mid-off and covers. He also harnessed the pace on the ball well. And he held his nerve at the death to launch the killer blow. Radhakrishnan delights Super Gillies innings was built around Radhakrishnan’s unbeaten effort. The little batsman is light on his feet, times the ball well and is organised and compact and is balanced in both offence and defence. The ball hit the sweet spot of the bat and travelled through the gaps. His best moments came when he launched against rampant seamer Saravana Kumar with a pulled sixes and lofted stroke over covers for the maximum. And Radhakrishnan strung together half century partnerships with U. Sasidev (23), and the heavy-hitting R. Sathish (29 not out off 22) after the side had been jolted early. The impressive Saravana Kumar, finding his length, rocked Super Gillies at the start. He castled Kaushik Gandhi with a delivery that darted in. Then N. Jagadeesan, was done in by a ‘beauty’ that moved away slightly from him. These telling blows put Trichy Warriors on course.  The scores:   Chepuak Super Gillies 153/3 in 20 overs (S. Radhakrishnan 82 n.o., U. Sasidev 23, R. Sathish 29 n.o., P. Saravana Kumar 2/32) lost to Ruby Trichy Warriors 157/5 in 19.5 overs (Nidhish Rajagopal 55, Adithya Ganesh 66 n.o., M. Siddharth 2/23).   Ruby Trichy Warriors won by five wickets to enter the summit clash .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/warriors-win-a-thriller/article35847908.ece
11 August 2021||August 11 2021 00:00 IST,||Tokyo 2020: a stirring triumph of human spirit over adversity||The COVID-19 pandemic could have consigned the 2020 Tokyo Olympics to the fate of the three cancelled editions (1916, 1940, 1944) hit by the World Wars. That the mega games — with thousands in attendance, including athletes, support staff, officials and volunteers — passed without incident in such trying times is a huge credit to the organisers. On the field of play, every possible script — tales of inspiration, the underdog defying sporting logic, or just exceptional athletic prowess — was written. Sprinter Allyson Felix led the way, winning the women's 400m relay gold to overtake Carl Lewis as the most decorated U.S. track and field athlete of all time. Only three years ago, she had an emergency C-section at 32 weeks to deliver her daughter Camryn. The 35-year-old proved that motherhood was no barrier to realising grand dreams. Fellow American and gymnast Simone Biles inspired as well. She made a brave statement when she withdrew from five of the six final rounds she qualified for, citing a mental block. She made it clear that it was all right to prioritise overall well-being over everything else. Who says kids can do no more than play hooky and obsess over gaming consoles? At 12, Japan’s Kokona Hiraki became the youngest Olympic medallist in 85 years with a silver in women’s park skateboarding. Britain’s Sky Brown, just a couple of months her senior, took bronze in the same event. At the other end of the spectrum, equestrian Andrew Hoy became Australia’s oldest Olympic medallist at 62. His teammate Mary Hanna, the oldest competitor at Tokyo, is going strong at 66. The duo dispelled all stereotypes associated with lonely ‘senior citizens’ watching the world go by. With two record performances, the 400m hurdles laid claim to being the marquee track event. Norway’s Karsten Warholm and American Sydney McLaughlin both ran near perfect races to smash their own men’s and women’s world records. That both silver medallists — Rai Benjamin (son of former West Indies pacer Winston Benjamin) and 2016 Olympic champion Dalilah Muhammad — returned faster times than the previous world records showed the incredible quality in the fields. Showing courage Kimia Alizadeh jumped over higher obstacles in life to finish fourth in the women’s taekwondo tournament. Kimia, who at the 2016 Rio Games became the first Iranian woman to win an Olympic medal, fled the country last year. Citing severe oppression from the Iran regime, she chose to compete for the Refugee Olympic Team at Tokyo, and nearly won a maiden medal for the courageous group of displaced athletes. Just an hour after finishing a dismaying fifth in the 200m freestyle swimming event, Katie Ledecky returned to the pool to dominate the first-ever 1,500m event for women. With the 800m freestyle event also in the bag, her six individual gold medals across Games were the most for any female swimmer, and second only to all-time leader Michael Phelps (13 golds). Caeleb Dressel, meanwhile, became just the fourth male in history to win five golds at a single Olympics. Dressel may dislike comparisons with the legend Phelps, but he has earned his spot among the greats. Over to Paris 2024, and more indelible memories.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/tokyo-2020-a-stirring-triumph-of-human-spirit-over-adversity/article35847805.ece
11 August 2021||LONDON,||‘Bumrah has got amazing skills for all formats’||England batsman Jonny Bairstow on Tuesday lavished praised on Jasprit Bumrah, saying the India pacer possesses “amazing skills” for all three formats. “Well, I can’t tell you all the discussions (about Bumrah), look we know that Bumrah has got amazing skills, doesn’t he?” Bairstow said in a con-call arranged by broadcaster Sony ahead of the second Test. Strong comeback Bumrah, who remained wicket-less in the World Test championship final against New Zealand which India lost, made a strong comeback in the first Test with nine wickets. “With his action, he varies on the crease as to where his delivery points are, and we all know he (is) slightly different in his action with his run-up and action in general,” said Bairstow. “We also got to give him credit, he is a world class bowler, isn’t it, we have seen that in the IPL, we have seen that in white-ball cricket for India and also in red-ball cricket.” Approach According to the 31-year-old wicketkeeper batsman, his approach of the against the Indian pacers would depend on the pitches. “It depends on the pitch, if it is sunny or cloudy. We saw in that first Test when conditions changed with overheads and when the floodlights came or when it was sunny, they changed again. “I can’t see too much change in my approach from the last game. I have not played a lot of red ball cricket recently due to the scheduling and everything like that. If continue the process I did in the first Test, then that is the kind of approach I want to go with,” sad Bairstow.  Bairstow maintained that adaptability was the key in Test cricket. “It is quite an open-ended question. The strengths of the Indian bowling attack, whether or not you play in England, or in India, you look at a different type of ball. “When playing in India compared to England, you have different types of pitches, and need different skill-sets. So, look adaptability is the key when it comes to Test cricket in general in conditions and being adaptable is more important.” Bairstow also said that he expects a “fascinating battle” throughout the series between seasoned pacer James Anderson and Indian skipper Virat Kohli.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bumrah-has-got-amazing-skills-for-all-formats/article35847860.ece
11 August 2021||HYDERABAD,||The ground reality of hockey in the city||The debate is on after the Indian men’s hockey team won a bronze in the Tokyo Olympics. Some have emphasised the need for government and corporate support, grooming talent and giving exposure to players at the sub-junior and junior levels, and long-term plans to develop the sport in a State which boasts of world-class infrastructure. For instance, in Hyderabad, once the hub of hockey, things are far from ideal. Telangana Hockey Secretary N. Mukesh Kumar has to shell out Rs. 20,000 to Sports Authority of Telangana State (SATS) as rent for hiring the Gymkhana ground for four Sundays to conduct the Legends Hockey League during weekends. To organise the Mukesh Gold Cup, a one-day tournament commemorating National Sports Day at the RRC on astro-turf, maintenance charges of Rs. 20,000 have to be paid. Unfortunately, the two hockey astro-turf venues at Gachibowli stand as symbols of neglect. The first astro-turf hockey venue in the city — Begumpet Police Stadium — is now a Police Station. A senior SATS official reasoned that they have to collect a fee for letting out the grounds to meet maintenance costs. “If the Police Stadium was still available for hockey in the heart of the city, many sub-juniors and juniors would have got a feel of astro-turf at an early age. Going to Gachibowli is very costly and not easy,” Mukesh said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/the-ground-reality-of-hockey-in-the-city/article35848121.ece
11 August 2021||August 11 2021 00:00 IST,||How cricket helped a writer come to terms with grief||“Cricket didn’t talk back to me and it didn’t offer advice. It didn’t tell me what to do nor how to feel. Like a best friend, it was just there for me, willing to embrace me and allow me just to be, whatever mood I was in.” This is Ian Ridley on coping with the loss of his wife, Vikki Orvice, in The Breath of Sadness.  Ridley is a football writer and author of a dozen books; his wife, who succumbed to cancer at 56 was an athletics and football writer for The Sun, which was exceptional in an all-male field. Reading The Breath of Sadness feels a bit like peeping through the curtains into another man’s pain, but it is equally an assertion of the power of sport, cricket in particular, to make sense of grief, and help to come to terms with it. Where the writer is unflinching in describing his feelings and his relationship, the reader might sometimes flinch at the rawness of it all. Ridley writes with feeling on mourning a loved one in a book that finds companionship with two similar ones written by the surviving spouse: A Grief Observed by C.S. Lewis and the more recent The Year of Magical Thinking by Joan Didion. That word ‘magical’ is used by Didion as a synonym for ‘insanity’, where one believes (without any reason) that a particular action can lead to a wished-for result, however crazy that might sound to an outsider. In the postscript, Ridley writes about his recovery not from grief, but from the insanity of grief. The county game It was a remarkable year for English cricket, 2019, when they won the World Cup. It was also the year Ridley lost his wife. There had always been a thought at the back of his mind that in his old age he would spend a summer watching county cricket. Following the tragedy, his therapist recommended that he do exactly that now. So while the crowds sat through the World Cup and the Ashes series, Ridley spent his time at county grounds with the proverbial three spectators and a dog. Why county cricket? “You can’t really think about ideas as essential and deep as all of that at a football match,” writes Ridley, “especially with somebody berating the referee in your ear. In fact, the game probably exists to get away from it all. But at county cricket, with its less frenetic unfolding, a person could connect with what really mattered.” There is too, as he says, the appeal that he could “explore and experience as reflection of the ‘action’, the rhythm and cadences of my grief.” This is an unusual reading of a First Class match even if its pace and denouement allow a spectator to take from it what best suits him. Memorable times The exploration into the best and worst of himself and his relationship with Vikki is dealt with candidly; sometimes the past cheers him, sometimes, as with certain discoveries, it makes him intensely jealous. Some of the early visits for the cricket were to places Ridley and his wife had spent memorable times in – Hove (Sussex v Leicester), Isle of Wight (Hampshire v Notts), and Scarborough, Lord’s and The Oval… Watching Middlesex v Sussex at Lord’s following a therapy session marks a turning point of sorts, “a shift,” as he says, “a staging post.” At another point, during another match, he writes, “Suddenly, in the afternoon lull, the utter so-whattery of it all consumed me.” So-whattery can be a comfort without being an intrusion. Some people avoid him, others avoid the topic altogether, but such behaviour is to be expected. In A Grief Observed , Lewis wrote, “An odd by-product of my loss is that I’m aware of being an embarrassment to everyone I meet … Some funk it altogether. R. has been avoiding me for a week … Perhaps the bereaved ought to be isolated in special settlements like lepers.” No easy answers There are no easy answers, of course. A season of county cricket didn’t magically make Ridley a different person or push his feelings into the background. Nor did it prepare him totally for another inevitability – he himself is undergoing treatment for cancer and thinks he has five years left. But cricket served to give Ridley “a destination and an activity, a peaceful place where I could grieve in solitude with humanity still at hand. If I wanted I could be distracted by the game, by its subtleties unfolding, or I could retreat into my pain, to feel it, experience it, and work my way through it. Cricket rewarded sticking with it.” That last line is a marvellous reminder for all of us, whether grieving or not, or merely hoping to play the game at the highest level.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/how-cricket-helped-a-writer-come-to-terms-with-grief/article35847577.ece
11 August 2021||New Delhi,||Indian women to assemble for training camp||Members of the Indian women’s cricket team have started assembling in Bengaluru for the training camp ahead of the Australia tour in September-October. Though the squads for the full-fledged tour are yet to announced, around 30 cricketers have been asked to reach Bengaluru. The players will start training after a six-day quarantine. The players currently competing in the Hundred — Harmanpreet Kaur, Smriti Mandhana, Jemimah Rodrigues, Deepti Sharma, and Shafali Verma — have been asked to join the national team in Bengaluru no later than August 22 as they too will have to undergo a six-day quarantine before the squad leaves for Australia at the end of the month. The players will have to undergo a 14-day quarantine upon arrival in Australia before they take on the hosts in first ODI scheduled in Sydney. In total, India play three ODIs, a day night Test and three T20s Down Under. “The first week in Australia will be hard quarantine. After that, the team is likely to be given permission to train for the next seven days as they complete their quarantine,” a BCCI official said. After the tour of England, it is another important tour for India as it builds on its ODI World Cup preparations in New Zealand early next year. Biggest challenge Playing a pink ball Test at the WACA in Perth will be the biggest challenge of the tour for the team considering the women don't even play red ball cricket in domestic cricket. However, India staged a brilliant comeback to draw the one-off Test in England, its first red ball game in almost seven years. The hosts went on to beat India in both ODI and T20 series.  Players currently competing in the Hundred have been asked to join the team in Bengaluru no later than August 22||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/indian-women-to-assemble-for-training-camp/article35847858.ece
11 August 2021||MUMBAI,||ICC to push for cricket’s Olympic return||The International Cricket Council (ICC) has formed a working group to push for cricket’s inclusion in Olympic in the Los Angeles edition in 2028. The move is the first indication of the ICC’s seriousness in pushing for cricket — which was an Olympic sport in 1900 — to expand its horizon. According to an ICC statement, England and Wales Cricket Board Chair Ian Watmore will chair the ICC Olympic Working Group. Indra Nooyi, ICC Independent Director, Zimbabwe Cricket chief Tavengwa Mukuhlani, ICC Associate Member Director Mahinda Vallipuram and USA Cricket chairm Paraag Marathe will be part of the five-member group. “We believe cricket would be a great addition to the Olympic Games, but we know it won’t be easy to secure our inclusion as there are so many other great sports out there wanting to do the same,” ICC chairman Greg Barclay said in the statement. “But we feel now is the time to put our best foot forward and show what a great partnership cricket and the Olympics could be.” It is understood that with the 2028 and 2032 Olympics to be played in Los Angeles and Brisbane, respectively, the ICC hopes that riding on these two editions, it can get cricket included as a permanent Olympic discipline. Despite no BCCI representative being a part of the working group, it is understood that the BCCI is firmly in support of cricket joining the Olympic movement. With the Government of India’s recent thrust on winning more Olympic medals, the BCCI hierarchy is understood to have been supporting cricket as a prospective Olympic sport. The working group is set to propose a roadmap to the ICC for bidding the detailed structure — number of teams and format — that would be presented to the IOC.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/icc-to-push-for-crickets-olympics-return/article35847812.ece
11 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘We feel we have won a significant Olympic medal’||The Indian men’s hockey team gave an Olympic medal to the nation, while the women’s squad missed it by a whisker. But both felt the “love and respect” of the fans when they landed home from the Tokyo Games. “In my career spanning 12 to 13 years, I have never felt like this. Even after we lost, people are giving us so much love and respect. Now we definitely feel that we have done something good,” said Rani Rampal, captain of the women’s team. The skipper of the men’s squad, Manpreet Singh, said he could feel the fans’ joy after his side won the country’s first hockey Olympic medal after the gold in Moscow in 1980. “When we landed here, there was so much love and respect for us. We do feel that we have won a significant Olympic medal,” said Manpreet. He said that the boys were able to bounce back from the 1-7 defeat to Australia in its second league match as they had faith in their abilities and felt that they could win a medal. “It was a bad loss against Australia. We told ourselves that we should regain confidence. We could beat any team as we had done it in the past. The players were determined not to let go this opportunity,” recalled Manpreet. Even as she appreciated the whole team, Rani gave a lot of credit to goalkeeper Savita Punia for taking the team to the bronze medal playoff, calling her “the Wall of India.” Staying sharp India has had to endure heartbreaks in the final minutes during important matches over the last few years, but Manpreet said the current outfit was keen to stay sharp till the final whistle. “In the last 15 minutes of the bronze playoff, we reminded ourselves about our aim. We told ourselves that if we put all our energy in those 15 minutes, we can be happy all our life,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/we-feel-we-have-won-a-significant-olympic-medal/article35847816.ece
11 August 2021||MUMBAI,||TTFI yet to serve show-cause on Manika||Almost a week since announcing its decision to seek a formal explanation from paddler Manika Batra for her “serious act of indiscipline” during the Tokyo Olympics, the Table Tennis Federation of India (TTFI) is yet to despatch the show-cause notice. A senior TTFI official on Tuesday confirmed the same, saying it was due to “administrative issues and will be despatched in a day or two”. Manika remained unavailable for comment. On August 4, the TTFI Executive Committee had unanimously decided to act against Manika for her refusal to let National coach Soumyadeep Roy advice her during her singles matches in Olympic. “The Board members felt that if at all Manika wanted to show her displeasure, rejecting the services of the National coach for her singles matches was no way to do it,” TTFI secretary general Arun Kumar Banjerjee had told The Hindu then. The TTFI was expected to email the notice the next day.  Having exited in the round of 32, the most successful Olympic campaign for an Indian female paddler, Manika was unhappy that her personal coach, Sanmay Paranjape, was not allowed field of play access for individual events. No fall-out After her campaign came to an end, Manika had told The Hindu that she and Roy didn’t have a fall-out when she asked the Arjuna Award recipient to not sit for her singles matches. “He sat for our mixed doubles match. Later, he asked me and I told him I would play alone. He was fine with it,” she had told this publication minutes after losing to 10th seed Sofia Polcanova.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/manika-yet-to-be-served-show-cause/article35847956.ece
11 August 2021||Chennai,||Chennai Super Kings’ largesse to TN’s former players||Chennai Super Kings honoured four former Tamil Nadu cricketers and a groundsman with an one-time benefit of Rs. 7 lakh at a special function here on Tuesday. The set of five people were earlier identified by the Tamil Nadu Cricket Association for a one-time benefit of Rs. 5 lakh, which was also handed over at the same function. In a statement, CSK said, “Welcoming this initiative, CSK whose home base is Chennai, Tamil Nadu have come forward to show their love and respect to these veterans and will be contributing Rs. 7 lakh each to some of the veteran cricketers — the number synonymous with our much-loved captain.” The beneficiaries are K.R. Rajagopal, Najam Hussain, S.V.S. Mani, R. Prabhakar and K. Parthasarathy, former curator of the M.A. Chidambaram stadium.  This is an outstanding occasion for me because we are honouring stalwarts of Tamil Nadu. I think they have contributed more to Tamil Nadu than what we are doing today. It’s a privilege to be in their presence N. Srinivasan former BCCI and TNCA president||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/csks-largesse-to-players-curator/article35847912.ece
11 August 2021||Mumbai,||BCCI calls for applicants to NCA Head of Cricket post||The Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) has sought applications for appointment as Head of Cricket at the National Cricket Academy, a post held by former India captain Rahul Dravid for two years. In an advertisement on its website, the BCCI has specified that those who have played at least 25 Tests and coached for at least five years at international level or at India-A, India Under-19, India Women or the Indian Premier League are eligible. Applications may be sent in before August 15. The age limit of 60 years remains intact.  The Hindu understands that the advertisement has been issued since Dravid’s two-year stint that began in July 2019 has come to an end.  The timing of the advertisement, however, has raised a few eyebrows among the State associations. Since the tenure of head coach Ravi Shastri will come to an end after the T20 World Cup in November — and he will turn 60 next year — a section of the BCCI hierarchy is trying to convince Dravid to take over the mantle of the men’s team. Some of the BCCI affiliates hope that Dravid, who was the coach in Sri Lanka for last month’s limited-overs series that clashed with the England tour, agrees to take charge. However, sources at the National Cricket Academy (NCA) in Bengaluru, where Dravid has been based, indicated that he was keen on continuing his role in creating a strong feeder line for Indian cricket.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bcci-calls-for-applicants-to-nca-head-of-cricket-post/article35847807.ece
11 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||Aug. 7 will be National Javelin Day||August 7, the day Neeraj Chopra scripted history by winning the Olympic gold, will be celebrated as ‘National Javelin Day’ by the Athletics Federation of India (AFI). “To encourage javelin throw pan-India, from next year our affiliated units will hold javelin competitions in their respective States,” AFI’s planning commission chairman Lalit Bhanot said during a felicitation function of athletes, including Neeraj. Neeraj’s father Satish and mother Saroj Devi were also present at the felicitation. Asked about the ‘mischievous’ Neeraj in his childhood days, Satish said “ woh sahi hey magar Neeraj jo bhi kam karta hey, man laga ke karta hey” (That is correct but when Neeraj does something he does with dedication).  “Humko kya jane woh ek din aisa karega, desh ko roshan karega (How were we to know that one day he will make the country’s name proud).”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/aug-7-will-be-national-javelin-day/article35847809.ece
11 August 2021||New Delhi,||Chirag-Satwik duo keen to bounce back||Top Indian men’s doubles player Chirag Shetty on Tuesday admitted it was difficult to come to terms with the early exit from the Tokyo Games but said he and his partner would look to utilise the Olympic experience to win medals at the upcoming events, especially the World Championships in December. Chirag and Satwiksairaj Rankireddy, ranked World no. 10, won two of their three group matches but failed to qualify for the knockout stage after games won by each pair were considered to decide the two qualifiers following a three-way tie. “It was kind of good and sad experience for us as we had to go out early,” said Chirag, who is the Event Ambassador of Mumbai Ultra Run to be held on Aug. 15, during a virtual press conference.  “I thought we would go to quarterfinals after the win on the first day but unfortunately three pairs, including us, won two matches each and it was decided by games won, so it was unfortunate but overall it was a good experience.” The 24-year-old from Mumbai is now targeting the upcoming major events such as Sudirman Cup (September 26-October 03), Thomas Cup (October 9-17) and World Championships (December 12-19). “There are a lot of positives to take from the Olympics, we played well game-wise and there are a lot of tournaments coming up like the Sudirman Cup, Thomas Cup and World Championship in December. “So we will look to do well in these events and hopefully we can come back with a medal.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/chirag-satwik-duo-keen-to-bounce-back/article35847994.ece
11 August 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||University College, SNCW win titles||University College, Thiruvananthapuram and SN College for Women, Kollam won the titles in the Kerala University inter-collegiate weightlifting championships here on Tuesday. In the men’s section, University College Thiruvananthapuram came first with 20 points and pushed SD College, Alappuzha to second spot (19 points). Government Ars, College, Kulathoor finished third with 12 points. SN College Women dominated the women’s event and came first with 26 points. NSS College, Karamana and Government KNM College, Kanjiramkulam came joint second with five points. B.K. Sreenu (University College) and J.L. Jenifa (NSS College, Karamana) were chosen as the best lifers in the men’s and women’s categories respectively.  The results: 55kg: 1. B.K.Sreenu (University College, Tvpm) (175kg), 2. K.R. Arjun (SD College, Alappuzha) (102kg), 3. Vijo Vilas (National College, Tvm) (90 kg).   61kg: R. Anandakrishnan (SD College, Alappuzha (125kg), 2. V.S. Anu (Govt. College, Kulathoor) (116kg), 3. Anish Babu (Christian College, Chengannur) (95kg). 67kg: S. Jijo (Govt. Sanskrit College, Tvpm) (145kg), 2. W. Blessin (University College, Tvpm) (125kg), 3. A.R. Ajin Robi (Govt. College, Kulathoor) (105kg).   73kg: M.S.Abhilash (University College, Tvpm) (196kg), 2. Akhin Varghese (Govt. College, Kanjiramkulam) (179kg), 3. R. Nahasudheen (SD College, Alappuzha) (151kg).   81kg: Gokul David (VTMNSS, Dhanavachapuram) (202 kg), 2. M.K. Mridul (Govt. Arts College, Tvpm) (190kg), 3. S. Ajesh (University College, Tvpm) (165 kg).   Men: 89kg: 1. K.S.Anadhakrishna (SD College, Alappuzha) (156kg), 2. A. Anzar Ahammed (National College, Tvpm) (153kg) , 3. S. Ihsan Mohammed (National College, Tvpm) (140kg). 96kg; 1. Abhinbabu (Govt. College, Kulathoor) (167kg), 2. C. Bharath Chandran (University College, Tvpm) (120kg), 3. A.J. Arjun (Govt. College, Kariyavattom) (80kg).   102kg: 1. J.J. Jihith (KNM College, Kanijramkulam) (147kg), 2. R.S. Renjith Raman (Govt. College, Kulathoor)(142kg), 3. Abudev (MG College, Tvpm) (125kg).   109kg: 1. P.V. Durga Dath (S.D. College, Alappuzha) (128kg), 2. V.M. Vishnumohan (University College, Tvpm), (126kg), 3. Raison Renny Philip (Govt. College, Kariyavattom) (105kg).   Women: 49kg: 1. J.L. Jenifa (NSS College, Karamana) (80kg), 2. S. Sreelekshmi (SNCW, Kollam) (62kg), 3. M.S. Swapnamol (Govt. College, Kulathoor) (58kg).   55kg: 1. Sruthy M. Suku (GKNM, Kanjiramkulam) (60kg), 2. Anagha S.Nadh (SNCW, Kollam), (58kg), 3. A.S.Bhadra (NSS College, Nilamel) (40kg).   59kg: 1. . Vismitha (SNCW, Kollam) (67kg), 2. P. Pavithra (University Department) (58kg), 3. Divya Chandra (Govt. College, Kariyavattom) (48kg).   64kg: 1. B. Anupama (SNCW, Kollam) (72kg), 2. Hima Mohan (SNCW, Kollam) 3. B.S. Krishnapreeethi (Govt. College, Kariyavattom) (63kg).   76kg:1. S. Anushma (SNCW, Kollam) (64kg), 2. Areej Nazarudeen (Govt. College, Kulathoor) (56kg), 3. S. Ezabella (SNCW, Kollam) (44kg).   87kg: 1. Merlin Sabu (SNC, Kollam) (54kg), 2. P Jyothika (SNCW, Kollam) (50kg), 3. M.S. Nandana (SNC, Chempazanthy) (43kg) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/university-college-sncw-win-titles/article35848246.ece
11 August 2021||HYDERABAD,||Stanley Jones recalls meeting Neeraj Chopra||Neeraj Chopra, the toast of the millions of Indians after his historic gold medal winning performance in the Tokyo Olympics javelin, was just one of the 127 gold medallists when he set a javelin record in the 2014 National junior athletic championship (under-18) at Indira Gandhi Municipal Corporation Stadium, said B.E. Stanley Jones, chairman of Technical Committee of Athletics Federation of India. Stanley Jones, who hails from Hyderabad and was also the technical delegate in his capacity as chairman of State Athletic Association technical panel then, recalled in a chat with The Hindu that Neeraj Chopra was just like a normal athlete for all obvious reasons during that meet. “No one had even an inkling that he would be the pride of the entire nation as he is now. “For the simple reason, his record throw of 76.50 m in Vijayawada meet was not deemed sensational then,” the AFI official said. Spark “But, it is the AFI move to rope him in the national camp after his fifth-place performance in the 2015 National Games because it felt he had the spark in him that helped him go to places,” Stanley Jones said. The AFI official also said given the stunning improvement Neeraj Chopra had shown over the last couple of years, it imported equipment worth about $17,000 to help him in speed and strength training. “That equipment is available only with those from Germany, China and now India,” he added. “But, I am glad that such a humble and dedicated boy who is not interested in anything other than javelin is now the biggest sporting star in India and I am sure he has very bright chance of winning the World Championship too,” the AFI official concluded.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/stanley-jones-recalls-meeting-neeraj-chopra/article35848119.ece
11 August 2021||KOZHIKODE,||Cricket season to kick off this week||Kerala’s cricket season is all set to take off, finally. A series of under-19 practice matches will be held at Thiruvananthapuram from August 15 to be followed by two Twenty20 tournaments at Alappuzha — the inaugural Champions Trophy and the second edition of the KCA President’s Cup. There has been no cricket in the State for the last five months because of the coronavirus-induced lockdown — the restrictions were eased only recently. “We decided to conduct the under-19 event first because we have to select the Kerala team for the BCCI’s all-India tournament,” S. Ramesh, who heads the Kerala Cricket Association’s development and operations, told The Hindu on Tuesday. “We have already had a look at a pool of 90 players, from among whom 48 will play the tournament at Thiruvananthapuram.” As for the senior players, he said they would get plenty of opportunities at the two T20 tournaments. The Champions Trophy will commence on August 27. “It will have 10 top clubs from across Kerala,” Ramesh said. “The tournament will go on until September 14. Soon after that, the President’s Cup will commence.” He said the first edition of the President’s Cup had been a huge success and had unearthed fresh talent. “We hope to see more new talent coming through this season’s tournament too,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/cricket-season-to-kick-off-this-week/article35848243.ece
11 August 2021||KOCHI,||Blasters start pre-season training||Kerala Blasters has started its pre-season training for the Indian Super League, under head coach Ivan Vukomanovic, at the Panampilly Nagar Sports Academy ground here. The players have taken their COVID-19 vaccine and health checks and are now in a bio-bubble. Excited “We are excited to train this pre-season in God’s own country. All of us are thrilled and well set to let the flame rise. “We look forward to an enthusiastic and rigorous training this season,” said Vukomanovic. The first phase of the pre-season is mainly for Indian players. A few of the foreign players, including Adrian Nicolas and Enes Sipovic, are likely to join the team in the next few weeks after completing their quarantine and other formalities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/blasters-start-pre-season-training/article35848245.ece
11 August 2021||Chennai,||CFC signs up Borysiuk||Chennaiyin FC (CFC) has signed former Bundesliga midfielder Ariel Borysiuk on one-year deal ahead of 2021-22 Indian Super League (ISL) season, the Club announced on Tuesday. Poland’s Borysiuk, with 350 club appearances in his 14-year long professional career, will be joining CFC following a two-year spell at Polish outfit Jagiellonia Bialystok. In 2011-12, he made 12 Bundesliga appearances for FC Kaiserslautern. The arrival of Borysiuk is expected to bring in valuable experience and additional depth to CFC’s midfield alongside Rafael Crivellaro. “I am very excited about joining the club. It’s a new experience for me to play outside of Europe and I’m looking forward to it, “Borysiuk said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/cfc-signs-up-borysiuk/article35847955.ece
11 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||WFI ‘temporarily suspends’ Vinesh||The Wrestling Federation of India (WFI) on Tuesday “temporarily suspended” Vinesh Phogat for indiscipline during her forgettable Tokyo Olympics campaign and also issued notice to Sonam Malik for misconduct. It has been learnt that Vinesh, who lost in the quarterfinals, has been given time till August 16 to reply to the notice that mentioned indiscipline on three counts. Vinesh had refused to stay at the Games Village and train with other Indian team members. She also did not wear the name of the official sponsors of the Indian contingent, Shiv Naresh, and chose to wear a Nike singlet during her bouts. “This is gross indiscipline. She has been suspended temporarily and barred from all wrestling activities. She can’t compete in any national or other domestic event until she files a reply and WFI takes a final decision,” a WFI source said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/wfi-temporarily-suspends-vinesh/article35847579.ece
11 August 2021||Melbourne,||Ex-Kiwi all-rounder Cairns on life support||Former New Zealand all-rounder Chris Cairns is on life support at a hospital in Canberra after suddenly collapsing due to a major health issue. According to a report in the New Zealand Herald on Tuesday, Cairns “suffered a major medical emergency — an aortic dissection — in Canberra last week” and “will be transferred to a specialist hospital in Sydney soon.” Aortic dissection is a serious condition in which a tear happens in the inner layer of the body’s main artery. “He has reportedly undergone several operations while in hospital, but has not responded to treatment as hoped,” the report said. One of the best all-rounders of his time, Cairns played 62 Tests, 215 ODIs and two T20Is for New Zealand between 1989 and 2006. His father Lance Cairns also played for New Zealand. The 51-year-old, however, later faced allegations of match-fixing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ex-kiwi-all-rounder-cairns-on-life-support/article35847814.ece
11 August 2021||WROCLAW,||Indian cadet archers set two world records||Indian compound cadet archers broke two world records in the World youth archery here on Tuesday. The women’s team, comprising Priya Gurjar, Parneet Kaur and Ridhu Sethilkumar, gathered 2067 points to score 22 points more than the previous mark in the ranking round. India accumulated 44 points more than second-placed Turkey. The USA was third with 2027 points. Priya and Kushal Dalal combined to collect 1401 points to push Turkey (1396) and USA (1390) to second and third spots. Better than old mark All three teams scored more than the previous world record of 1387. The cadet men’s team totalled 2088 to be placed third after USA (2107) and Turkey (2097). Kushal (705) was third in the individual men’s category. Sahil Chaudhary (697) and Mihir Apar (686) were ninth and 20th respectively. In the women’s individual category, Priya (696) took the No.1 position, while Parneet (689) and Ridhu (682) placed third and fourth.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/cadet-archers-set-world-records/article35847856.ece
11 August 2021||Abidjan,||Drogba resigns as Ivorian players association VP||Former Ivory Coast star striker Didier Drogba on Tuesday said he was stepping down as vice-president of his country’s Footballers Association (AFI) accusing it of “inaction” on defending player interests. “I hereby announce I have decided to resign from my post as vice-president of the AFI and from its executive committee,” the former Chelsea attacker said in an open letter to the media. Instead of defending players’ rights and interests he said the AFI “does not respond to their needs and expectations”. Former national skipper Drogba had been widely expected to head the West African country’s football association FIF but last year saw his candidacy snubbed as the AFI alleged he has not been sufficiently involved with the players’ representative organisation. He still hopes nonetheless to win a November election to that post.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/drogba-resigns-as-ivorian-players-association-vp/article35847997.ece
11 August 2021||Auckland,||NZC clears players for IPL||New Zealand Cricket on Tuesday cleared its players’ participation in the Indian Premier League (IPL) from September 19. NZC also announced different squads for the sub-continent tour and T20 World Cup as part of its workload management in pandemic times. Most of the New Zealand players picked for the T20 World Cup will get to play in the preceding IPL.  The IPL and T20 World Cup have been moved out of India due to COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/nzc-clears-players-for-ipl/article35847811.ece
11 August 2021||August 11 2021 00:00 IST,||Good knock in vain||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/good-knock-in-vain/article35848031.ece
11 August 2021||London,||Moeen Ali recalled for second Test||England has recalled Moeen Ali for the second Test against India beginning on Thursday. The 34-year-old all-rounder has played only one Test in the last two years — against India in Chennai almost six months ago — but will link up with the team at Lord’s. England was outplayed for most of the drawn opener at Trent Bridge last week and is looking to re-balance the side in the absence of all-rounders Ben Stokes and Chris Woakes. Moeen has played only white-ball cricket since his last Test appearance when he took eight wickets and hit a second-innings 43.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/moeen-ali-recalled-for-second-test/article35847810.ece
11 August 2021||August 11 2021 00:00 IST,||Welcome ‘home’!||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/welcome-home/article35847818.ece
11 August 2021||ANANTAPUR:,||Prashanth to lead||D.B. Prashanth Kumar will lead Anantapur seniors in the ACA South Zone multi-day inter-district championship in Kadapa from Aug. 11 to 29.  The team:   D.B. Prashanth Kumar (capt.), S. Md. Shoiab Khan (vice-capt.), P. Girinath Reddy, G. Sampath Kumar (wk), M. Sai Kumar, S. Mahaboob Peera, Raju Kullayappa, R. Karthik, D. Khadar Vali, M. Bhargav, K. Naresh, B. Santhosh, H. Shivaraj, B. Vinay Kumar, P. Masthan Khan and V. Samba Siva .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/prashanth-to-lead/article35848343.ece
11 August 2021||New Delhi,||Vijayveer tops open event||Vijayveer Sidhu topped the 25-metre standard pistol open event for men and women, with a score of 576, in the shooting National selection trials at the Dr. Karni Singh Range, Tughlakabad, on Tuesday. Rhythm Sangwan shot the second best score of 568, but Harsh Gupta pipped her to the second place with a better score of inner-10s 16 to 10. It was a commendable fare from the 17-year-old Rhythm as she finished ahead of very good shooters like Udhayveer Sidhu, Amanpreet Singh and Anish Bhanwala among others.  The results:   25m standard pistol:   Open: 1. Vijayveer Sidhu 576; 2. Harsh Gupta 568; 3. Rhythm Sangwan 568 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/vijayveer-tops-open-event/article35847868.ece
11 August 2021||August 11 2021 00:00 IST,||The Super King is here!||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/the-super-king-is-here/article35847914.ece
11 August 2021||Cape town,||South Africa women to tour West Indies||Cricket South Africa on Tuesday announced that the women’s team will tour West Indies for three T20Is and five ODIs, beginning August 31. Both the T20I and ODIs will take place in Antigua with the Sir Viv Richards Cricket Ground the host venue for the T20 segment of the tour as well as the final two ODIs. Three ODIs will take place at the Coolidge Cricket Ground. Vital preparation  This important outbound tour will serve as vital preparation for the Proteas Women in the lead-up to next year’s Women’s Cricket World Cup in New Zealand. The Proteas have enjoyed great success in recent times and will be hoping to continue their rich form against a formidable West Indies side that has just come from a comfortable series win against their Pakistan counterparts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/south-africa-women-to-tour-west-indies/article35847996.ece
11 August 2021||August 11 2021 00:00 IST,||JK Tyre names Narain as brand ambassador||JK Tyre & Industries Ltd. on Tuesday announced that Padma Shri Awardee and India’s first Formula One driver Narain Karthikeyan will be its brand ambassador.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/jk-tyre-names-narain-as-brand-ambassador/article35847867.ece
11 August 2021||August 11 2021 00:00 IST,||Philosophical insights||While Krishna’s birth had all the elements of uniqueness, we also find insights into philosophy and our duties, even at the time of His birth, said V.S. Karunakarachariar in a discourse. Krishna tells Devaki why He has appeared with four hands and with His weapons and all manner of adornment. He reminds her of her prayer to Him in a previous birth. Devaki had then been known as Prisni and Vasudeva was her husband Sutapa. The two of them had done penance and when the Lord appeared before them, Devaki said that she wanted a son just like Him. The Lord promised to grant her wish. But where can one be found who is His equal? So, He had to take birth Himself, as her son. Krishna’s narration of this, is a reminder of the Upanishadic statement, Ekam eva adviteeyam . None is His equal, or superior to Him. There is only One unique One, and that is the Lord. This does not mean that nothing else exists. Alavandar explained this beautifully. If one says there is none but the one Chola king, it does not mean he exists as a lone individual, without queens, courtiers or subjects. It means that he alone is the king. Others are not his equals, but are subordinate to him. Likewise, the Supreme One’s status is unique, and none can lay claim to it. Krishna obeyed Devaki when she asked Him to hide His extra hands. Mothers have always been given importance in our tradition, and Apastambha has laid down rules about paying respects to one’s mother when performing ritual rites. Vasudeva, delighted about Krishna’s birth, mentally gave a daana of 10,000 cows. Later, when Kamsa was killed, he got back his property. He worked out how many cows would equal the number that he had given in his mind earlier and now made a real daana of cows.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/philosophical-insights/article35847641.ece
11 August 2021||August 11 2021 09:32 IST,||Sudoku — August 11, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-august-11-2021/article35848830.ece
11 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||Former BJP leader, 5 others held for hate slogans||Two days after inflammatory anti-Muslim slogans were raised at a ‘Bharat Jodo’ rally in Jantar Mantar, police have arrested six persons, including Supreme Court lawyer and former Delhi BJP spokesperson Ashwini Upadhyay. Deputy Commissioner of Police (New Delhi) Deepak Yadav said the other five accused have been identified as Preet Singh alias Sundar Pal, Deepak Singh, Deepak Kumar, Vinod Sharma, and Vinit Bajpai. It has been learnt that all the accused joined the investigation late Monday night and some of them were picked up from their residence after midnight. On August 8, a rally was called by Mr. Upadhyay to allegedly demand the end of ‘colonial-era laws’. It was allegedly attended by members of several right-wing organisations. Subsequently, several videos of the event went viral, including one showing a group of men — led by a man wearing a saffron-coloured T-shirt — raising anti-Muslim inflammatory slogans. Delhi Police lodged a case on charges of promoting enmity, flouting COVID-19 guidelines, and not seeking permission for the event. Profiles of the arrested Among the arrested is Preet Singh, founder of Save India Foundation. In a live video shared on the organisation’s Facebook page on Monday, Mr. Preet can be heard calling the man — whose objectionable video went viral — a child. “ Kisi bacche ne aise naare lagaye hain… hum use samjhaenge [A kid has raised those slogans… we’ll make him understand]”. Deepak Singh is the president of the Hindu Force — an organisation in which Ragini Tiwari is vice-president. Ms. Tiwari’s inflammatory and provocative videos about Muslims during the communal riots in Delhi in 2020 had gone viral. One of the latest videos shared by Mr. Deepak shows him speaking against building of mosques and mazars . In the video, he says that the structures “are planned because they will be used as centres during clashes in the future”. Deepak Kumar, another of the men arrested, is a member of the Hindu Raksha Dal – an organisation founded by Pinki Chaudhary alias Pinky Bhaiya, who claimed responsibility for the attack on Jawaharlal Nehru University campus in January 2020. Speaking to The Hindu , Mr. Chaudhary’s daughter Karuna said her father was picked up by the police on Monday night. “Why are the likes of Owaisi [Asaduddin] not arrested?” she asked while questioning Mr. Deepak’s arrest. In one of the recent videos shared by Mr. Preet, Mr. Chaudhary can be heard saying: “Muslims should go to Pakistan”. Mr. Sharma is a member of Sudarshan Vahini, a self-proclaimed religious outfit. In support of accused Protesting the arrest of the six men, over 30 people, including Ms. Ragini, blocked the road outside Connaught Place police station for at least 30 minutes and raised slogans against Delhi Police. “We have been here since early Tuesday and we are not being allowed to meet our brothers who have been arrested,” she said. As traffic grew and the outer circle started to get affected causing inconvenience to commuters, Station House Officer of the police station approached a male protester, held him by the back of his neck and dragged him to a waiting bus. Ms. Ragini and another protester laid down on the road. They were held by women officers and taken to the bus. They were all removed from the spot. Piyush Singh, a supporter of those who have been arrested, said: “These are the people who had helped police officers during the Delhi riots when they were being beaten up by rioters. They say these people didn’t have permission, have the farmers taken any permission? Shaheen Bagh was blocked for six months, where were the police? Why no action is taken for videos where Hindus are being maligned?” ‘Zero tolerance’ Meanwhile, student activists and civil society members gathered near Jantar Mantar on Tuesday to protest against the alleged inflammatory sloganeering. They carried placards saying “zero tolerance against hate mongers”. Around 100 of the protesters were detained by the police when they tried to proceed towards Jantar Mantar. Prashant Tondon, one of the protesters, said: “That speech was very dangerous and not in tune with the Constitution or Indian tradition.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/former-bjp-leader-5-others-held-for-hate-slogans/article35848014.ece
11 August 2021||Ghaziabad,||Brahmins, Dalits should unite: BSP||“The Samajwadi Party and the Bharatiya Janata Party are two faces of the same coin,” said Bahujan Samaj Party general secretary Satish Chandra Mishra while addressing meetings of Brahmins and Dalits in Ghaziabad and Meerut on Tuesday. ‘SP rule not different’ Described as the master of social engineering that brought the BSP to power in Uttar Pradesh in 2007, Mr. Mishra said, “Both Brahmins and Dalits are being targetted during the BJP rule,” he said. He cited numerous examples, particularly that of Khushi Dubey, the minor wife of the nephew of gangster Vikas Dubey, who was shot dead in a police encounter like his uncle. He reminded that the SP rule was not different as Brahmin leaders were humiliated during the Mulayam Singh Yadav’s regime. Highlighting the political importance of brotherhood between Brahmins and Dalits, Mr. Mishra said if the two could combine, the BSP could easily return to power. “The Brahmins constitute 16% of the population of U.P. while the Dalits are around 23%. If they could come together, the BSP could easily cross the 30% mark, with little help of OBCs and minorities.” He reminded the gathering of the heydays of the Brahmin-Dalit unity when in 2005 during a massive gathering, BSP chief Mayawati was presented with an idol of Ganesha and she had said: “ Haathi nahin Ganesh hai, Brahma, Vishnu Mahesh hai . (It is not an elephant (party symbol) but Lord Ganesh).” Unlike the BJP, Mr. Mishra added, “Behenji delivered what she promised to the community.” ‘In temple’s name’ Mr. Mishra has been addressing such meetings of “enlightened thought” across the State and has already covered 22 districts. Having started the campaign from Ayodhya, Mr. Mishra said he was shocked to see that the work for the construction of Ram temple was yet to start. “They have been collecting notes and votes in the name of the Ram temple since 1993. What was the need to collect money from the public for the construction of temple after the SC judgment? Is the money being diverted to the party and its allied organisations?” he wondered. He said the name of Sita has been deliberately dropped from the chant of Jai Shri Ram because they want to use it as a ‘war cry’. “For centuries, it is Jai Siya Ram and is said with humility,” said Mr. Mishra. Mr Mishra also raised the issue of the contentious farm laws and described them as a death knell for the farmer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/brahmins-dalits-should-unite-bsp/article35848007.ece
11 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||Tihar inmate death: murder case filed, 4 jail employees suspended||A week after a 28-year-old criminal was found dead inside Tihar Jail, police have registered a murder case into the incident and four jail staffers have been suspended. On August 4, Ankit Gujjar, a Baghpat based criminal, was found unconscious in his cell and two others – twin brothers – were injured. In her complaint to the police, Gujjar’s mother Geeta Devi alleged that a Deputy Superintendent (DS) was demanding Rs. 1 lakh as protection money and they had arranged Rs. 50,000 to pay him. The family made a PCR call on the night of August 3 stating that Ankit was beaten up by the jail staffers and is not being taken for treatment. Police claimed that an official went to Tihar and was informed that while searching Ankit’s cell, a phone, a data cable and a knife were found. Police said that they received another PCR call from the family on August 4 raising similar concerns. The official went again and was informed that Ankit and the two injured were to be shifted to different cells. But they refused to leave their cell and started manhandling the jail staffers, who allegedly told the police that “minimum force” was used to contain the three. However, a post-mortem report stated that the cause of death is “haemorrhage consequent upon only cumulative effect of multiple blunt force injuries sustained to the body”. A murder case was then registered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/tihar-inmate-death-murder-case-filed-4-jail-employees-suspended/article35848012.ece
11 August 2021||GUWAHATI,||NE border disputes have killed 157 people since 1979, says rights group||Data-mining by a New Delhi-based rights group has revealed 157 people have been killed in border disputes across the Northeast since 1979. The border conflicts till the Assam-Mizoram flare-up on July 26 have also injured 361 people and displaced another 65,729. The Assam-Nagaland border has been the most violent with 136 of the 157 reported deaths. The Assam-Arunachal Pradesh border conflicts claimed 10 lives followed by the Assam-Mizoram border dispute with seven and Assam-Meghalaya border dispute with four. Meghalaya, Mizoram and Nagaland were carved out of Assam between 1963 and 1972. Arunachal Pradesh, formerly known as North East Frontier Agency, was annexed to Assam until it became a Union Territory in 1972. Letter to Shah, CMs “All the victims are Indian citizens and the increasing human toll warrants permanent peace building measures,” Suhas Chakma of the Rights and Risks Analysis Group said outlining the data in a letter to Union Home Minister Amit Shah and the Chief Ministers of the States caught in the conflicts. “The States usually approach the Supreme Court to resolve the disputes, but the demarcation of boundaries is an executive task. The SC has usually recommended the formation of boundary commissions, but if the States do not accept the findings of the commissions, little progress can be made,” he said. Advising the State governments to maintain status quo till the disputes are resolved, the rights group suggested certain measures such as joint enforcement of law and order along the line of de facto control and biometric documentation of the residents living within the disputed areas for prohibiting settlement in new areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/ne-border-disputes-have-killed-157-people-since-1979-says-rights-group/article35848005.ece
11 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||IIT, AIIMS develop Telerobotic Ultrasound System||Researchers at IIT-Delhi and AIIMS have developed a Telerobotic Ultrasound System that allows remote ultrasound access through a robotic arm. The need for this innovation arose during the first nationwide lockdown in 2020 when COVID-19 cases and deaths were shooting up sharply. The researchers said the prevailing situation impacted regular healthcare services, especially those involving direct physical contact with patients like ultrasound scanning, and they got to work to ensure the safety of healthcare professionals by leveraging their expertise in robotic technology. The new system will allow doctors and radiologists to perform scans by maintaining stringent social distancing and not coming into contact with the patient, the researchers said. Multiple benefits In the routine ultrasound setting, the doctor (radiologist) stands in close contact with the patient for the entire scan duration. However, cross-sectional imaging is preferred in the current pandemic scenario with stringent social distancing requirements — a more expensive and less dynamic technique. Ultrasonography is a non-invasive, non-ionising, cost-effective, rapid, bedside, and readily available modality with immense use in point-of-care and follow-up examinations. Chandrashekhara from AIIMS in New Delhi, said that the system will promote healthcare and make our system more prepared for further pandemics. “Besides its role in the pandemic, it will allow a better outreach of ultrasound imaging to remote rural areas of India. The radiologist manipulates the ultrasound probe remotely from a remote location, acquires the ultrasonographs, and then transmits them to the monitors at the doctor’s end through a Wi-Fi network,” Dr. Chandrashekhara explained. He added that sitting at a remote location, the doctor can visualise all the images and assess the patient, similar to a clinical setting and that the facility can also be extended for global outreach.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/iit-aiims-develop-telerobotic-ultrasound-system/article35848017.ece
11 August 2021||JAIPUR,||‘Give COVID package benefits to needy’||Health rights groups in Rajasthan have sought extension of benefits of a financial assistance package for children and women who lost their parents and husbands, respectively, during the COVID-19 pandemic to all deserving cases through “verbal autopsies”. The benefits are at present being denied in the absence of RT-PCR test reports. A large number of families, especially in the rural and remote areas, are being denied the mandated benefits under the Chief Minister’s Corona Sahayata Yojana essentially because they do not have RT-PCR test reports to prove the cause of death. While the scheme was initiated to financially support women and children from the poorest and the most marginalised sections of society, they were being excluded from benefits because of the “rigid eligibility criteria”, said the activists here on Tuesday. The Jan Swasthya Abhiyan, which functions as the Rajasthan chapter of the People’s Health Movement, said most of these families dwelt in areas with poor availability and accessibility to healthcare information and services. “They often remain deprived of even basic healthcare, not to speak of COVID-19 tests and treatment,” Chhaya Pachauli, director of voluntary group Prayas, said. In a joint appeal submitted to Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot, the JSA and 64 other civil society groups said there were reports and local studies suggesting that the rural areas had witnessed an unusually high number of deaths during the second wave of the pandemic. “While some fatalities were officially confirmed as COVID-19 deaths, many who had COVID-like symptoms but could not avail of medical tests or care died at home without any RT-PCR reports,” said the memorandum. The groups said a process of verbal autopsies should be introduced to validate the claims of COVID-19 death by any family which applied for the scheme without the RT-PCR report. The civil society groups which joined the JSA in making the appeal included Mazdoor Kisan Shakti Sangathan, People's Union for Civil Liberties, Centre for Equity Studies, Mahila Punarvaas Samooh, Vividha, Adivasi Vikas Manch and Citizens for Social Action.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/give-covid-package-benefits-to-needy/article35848008.ece
11 August 2021||Kolkata,||Mamata visits flood-hit areas||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday visited flood-affected regions of south Bengal and directed the Ministers and public representatives to visit Delhi and impress on the Centre for implementation of mega flood control project in Ghatal Master Plan. The CM took an aeriel survey of the area. She later met the affected people and distributed relief material. “We have raised the issue of Ghatal Master Plan, but the Centre has not sanctioned funds,” Ms. Banerjee told journalists. The CM said Ministers Soumen Mahapatra and Manas Ranjan Bhuniya, Ghatal MP Dev and leader June Malia should meet Union Minister for Irrigation and press for Ghatal Master Plan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/mamata-visits-flood-hit-areas/article35848009.ece
11 August 2021||New Delhi,||Nod to policy for e-auction of CNG sites||The DDA on Tuesday gave its approval to a policy for e-auction of CNG station sites, seeking to bring greater transparency and increase efficiency in the process of allotment, officials said. The decision was taken during a meeting of the highest decison-making body of the Delhi Development Authority, chaired by L-G Anil Baijal. Under the new policy, the tenure of the licence is 10 years, renewable up to 30 years and increase in the licence fee is fixed, a senior official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/green-light-for-e-auction-of-cng-sites/article35848010.ece
11 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||DMRC to roll out e-feeder buses from tomorrow||The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) on Tuesday said feeder electric buses will be introduced for the first time in the city on a trial basis from August 12, under which 25 low-floor e-buses will ply on two routes. In a statement, the DMRC said that only metro passengers having a Delhi Metro smart card or metro DTC smart card will be allowed to avail the services. Entry will be permitted only from metro stations and the bus will stop only at the designated stops for dropping off passengers. The fare structure will be Rs. 10 for 0-4 km, Rs. 15 for 4-8 km, Rs. 20 for 8-12 km and Rs. 25 for beyond 12 km. The two routes are Shastri Park metro station to Gokulpuri metro station via Khajuri Chowk and Shastri park metro station to Mother Dairy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/dmrc-to-roll-out-e-feeder-buses-from-tomorrow/article35848015.ece
11 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Need to cater to well-being of children’||Preparing for the opening of Delhi government schools, Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia on Tuesday said that there was a need to bridge the loss of learning as well as cater to the mental and socio-emotional well-being of children. Addressing a meeting of heads of school, Mr. Sidodia said, “Our children and teachers have gone through a harrowing phase of COVID-19, we need to get them out of that phase.” He added that during the special PTM, most of the parents agreed that schools should reopen because, in the last 1.5 years, there has been a lot of damage to the education of children. Mr. Sisodia directed the school heads to strictly follow the SOP issued by the Directorate of Education after the opening of the schools. He also sought suggestion on how to make students reconnect with learning.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/need-to-cater-to-well-being-of-children/article35848016.ece
11 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||BSES warns against using metal-coated kite string||The BSES discom on Tuesday issued an advisory asking people not to fly kites near electrical installations, as metal coated kite string can lead to “trippings” and electrocutions. The discom said that while flying kite is an integral part of the Independence Day celebrations in Delhi, the activity can potentially be hazardous and even fatal. “The widespread use of metal coated manjha – being a good conductor of electricity – poses a great danger not only to the person flying the kite, but may also disrupt electricity supply. Each year, there are several instances on this count that disrupt power supply and cause damage to power equipment,” BSES said in a statement. A BSES spokesperson said: “People should enjoy kite flying, but they should do it responsibly. We advise residents not to fly kites near electrical installations, including overhead cables and certainly avoid using metal or metal coated manjha.” Tripping of just one 33/66 KV overhead line can disrupt power supply to over 10,000 residents.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/bses-warns-against-using-metal-coated-kite-string/article35848018.ece
11 August 2021||Bhopal,||M.P. Assembly passes excise amendment Bill||The Madhya Pradesh Assembly on Tuesday passed a Bill prescribing capital punishment and life imprisonment in cases related to deaths caused by consumption of spurious liquor. The Bill amending the State Excise Act to enhance punishment in spurious liquor cases was presented by Finance and Excise Minister Jagdish Devda. Speaker Girish Gautam declared it passed without any discussion amid sloganeering by the Congress legislators who were demanding the implementation of 27% quota for OBCs in jobs and education announced by the erstwhile Kamal Nath government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/mp-bill-on-death-penalty-in-illicit-liquor-cases-cleared/article35848004.ece
11 August 2021||August 11 2021 00:00 IST,||Prateek Sadhu: distilling India on a plate||It is a dark and stormy night. Traffic on Delhi’s pot-holed roads has been crawling for hours. In the quiet, tree-lined neighbourhood of Friend’s Colony, however, 35-odd diners at boutique hotel The Manor are getting ready for a treat: a 10-course menu featuring some of the bravest, most avant garde Indian cooking yet. Inside, chef Prateek Sadhu, 34, is readying to roll it all out. This is the first day of a three-day pop-up of Masque, his Mumbai restaurant. Tickets sold out within 48 hours of announcement. Pop-ups in four other cities are to follow — Bengaluru, Chennai, Kolkata and Leh, where Sadhu will keep adding elements to the dishes, building newer ones as he finds inspiration in local cuisines and ingredients.  Unique and universal  Before the pandemic hit, Sadhu had been doing precisely this at Masque — a restaurant sans a menu, where guests are encouraged to sit inside a ‘lab’ and experience how he puts together thoughts and flavours after trips to different regions and farms across the country. The restaurant, which turns five this September, recently made it to number 32 on Asia’s 50 Best Restaurants list of 2021 — the only Indian entry apart from Indian Accent in New Delhi (at number 18). But this is the first time that many gourmands in other Indian cities are getting to experience Sadhu’s distinctive cooking because even within our competitive, growing restaurantscape, Masque is more niche than popular, more experimental than mass. Which is a shame because it is perhaps the only one in the country that prizes pure experimentation over commerce. If Masque was cinema, it would have been Satyajit Ray’s. Like art house cinema, there is both the unique and the universal in Sadhu’s oeuvre. Take, for example, some of his dishes from the Delhi pop-up: course one was ‘Carrot k anji , b hekti ’ — brined and cured fish, pickled Kashmiri cherry, pickled lime, gongura greens, aam papad , and carrot kanji . Sour is perhaps the least accepted of tastes with the Indian palate. But Sadhu pushes that boundary with this study in sour. Fermented traditions from across India have been layered — northern Indian kanji , eastern aam papad , southern gongura , the pickled lime of the numerous pan-Indian achars , and the elusive Kashmiri cherry. In course two, Sadhu puts out ‘Corn pani puri , kalari kulcha , ghevar and chok charwan with tomato rasam ’. What could be the thread of thought running through his mind while putting together such disparate regional influences? A study in textures: of crusts and breads from several Indian regions. The Marwari ‘pure veg’ ghevar serves as a base for Kashmiri lamb liver, startling purists, but look closely and you’ll find a redefining of the idea of Indian bread.   Food that doesn’t pander  Sadhu seems to use his individual experiences — his Kashmiri roots, travels, and the innate internationalism that comes from his stints at top global restaurants such as Alinea, Le Bernardin and Noma — as the lens to look at more universal Indian culinary traditions. Kashmiri lamb neck yakhni meets morels miso in what turns out to be his most popular dish that evening; r ogan josh sausage and katlam , the Jammu bread, masquerade with NYC casual-chic; and Pondicherry chocolate gets combined with indigenous central Indian flower liqueur mahua that not many urban Indians have tasted before. “In a way what he does is the opposite of what I do because I do not mix different regional cuisines,” says chef Manish Mehrotra, one of Sadhu’s guests that evening, who came with his teenage daughter Adah. Mehrotra, widely regarded as the father of modern Indian cuisine, whose signature Indian Accent dishes continue to be copied and regurgitated by chefs in even small towns, finds Sadhu’s voice to be among the most unique in Indian kitchens. “He mixes cuisines and is not afraid to experiment even if diners here do not accept certain tastes or the importance of things like acidity, something that all Michelin-level dining pays attention to internationally,” he points out. Sadhu’s signature style is neither purist nor populist, and it is definitely not derivative.  The upcoming pop-ups will be priced Rs. 5,500 plus taxes. Bengaluru on August 20-21 and Chennai on August 27-28.  Continued on page 6||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/prateek-sadhu-distilling-india-on-a-plate/article35848219.ece
11 August 2021||New Delhi,||PWD to install three high-mast Tricolours by August 15 in Delhi||The Public Works Department will install high-mast Tricolours in East Kidwai Nagar, Rani Bagh and East Vinod Nagar by August 15 to mark the 75th Independence Day, officials said on Tuesday. The project is being executed under the Delhi government’s ‘Deshbhakti budget’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/pwd-to-install-three-high-mast-tricolours-by-august-15-in-delhi/article35848011.ece
