12 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Backchannel talk was on before Balakot’||National Security Adviser (NSA) Ajit Doval and the Research and Analysis Wing (RAW) exchanged messages with top Pakistani Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI) officials as part of a unique backchannel connection bet- ween the two countries that involved two foreign journalists, Adrian Levy and Cathy Scott-Clark, in 2018-19, even after the Pulwama attack, according to a new book by the journalists that quotes the NSA and other senior intelligence officials. According to the authors, the ISI officials disclaimed all knowledge of the Jaish-e-Mohammad attack in Pulwama within hours of the incident, which was apparently planned in Helmand in Afghanistan, and not Pakistan. Mr. Doval and Deputy NSA Rajinder Khanna disbelieved the Pakistani messages, however, and carried out the Balakot strikes to “humiliate the Pakistan military”, the book says. In another disclosure, the authors say that Indian investigators found that “corrupt local police officers” had helped four Jaish terrorists sneak into the Pathankot airbase to carry out an attack, in which seven security personnel were killed. In a surprise move, the Narendra Modi government had invited a team of Pakistani investigators to Pathankot to jointly investigate the terror attack, but relations broke down between the two countries shortly after, and the joint investigation plan went nowhere. The NIA chargesheet filed the same year against Jaish does not mention that the terrorists were helped by uniformed men. The authors also conclude that Kulbhushan Jadhav, the former naval commander accused of planning terror attacks and awaiting an appeal on a death sentence in Pakistan, was an “asset” but not an “officer” of the Indian intelligence agencies. He had been “trapped” by the ISI. India has flatly denied those charges, and said that Mr. Jadhav retired from service in 2001 and was kidnapped by Pakistani agencies in Iran. However, the book says many Indian intelligence agencies had shown interest in recruiting Mr. Jadhav due to his access from Iran to Pakistan, and that he was lured by the ISI to Karachi to meet a Baloch contact. “According to some of those we interviewed in IB (Intelligence Bureau), R&AW and Indian Navy as well as ISI and military intelligence in Pakistan, many agencies were suddenly interested in a man like [Jadhav] who had the wherewithal to travel with cover….There was already plenty of R&AW investment in terms of assets and officers in Iranian Baluchistan and at Chabahar, but to have Jadhav, who could travel widely, and even to get down to Karachi, would make him exceptional,” Mr. Levy said in an interview.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/backchannel-talk-was-on-before-balakot/article35868212.ece
12 August 2021||MANGALURU,||Schools, colleges will see a delay in reopening||Unlike in the other parts of the State, reopening of schools and colleges in Dakshina Kannada will be delayed as the average test positivity rate in the district continues to be around 5%, Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra said here on Wednesday. During a Meet-the-Press programme at the Press Club, Dr. Rajendra said that schools and colleges in Dakshina Kannada will not be reopened for physical classes on August 23. “The positivity rate is high and reopening institutions is likely to be delayed,” he said. With a series of festivals lined up, starting with Nagara Panchami and followed by Ganesh Chaturthi, Dr. Rajendra said that people should continue to celebrate them in their houses and avoid congregating at temples and other public places. No special sevas will be allowed and temples visits will be restricted only for darshans. There will be a bar on installing Ganesh idols in public places, he said. The Independence Day celebrations, he said, will also be a low-key affair and there will be no public congregation. The police will allow only those invited to the celebrations on Sunday, when the weekend curfew will be in force, he said. A series of festivals, including Onam, Dr. Rajendra said, make it challenging for the district administration to keep COVID-19 under control as more people travel between Dakshina Kannada and Kasargod in Kerala where positive cases are high. “It is difficult to keep a close watch on movement across borders. I urge people to rigorously follow COVID-19 appropriate behaviour and get tested upon having symptoms,” he said. Positive patients should make use of COVID Care Centres that have good facilities. While an average of over 8,000 RT-PCR tests are being done every day in 11 centres, Dr. Rajendra said that 90% of test results are given within 24 hours. There is no proposal to restart testing facility at Talapady and other border check-posts. Stating that test positivity rate of those landing without the latest RT-PCR test report at Mangaluru Central, Mangaluru Junction, Surathkal and Ullal railway stations was put at 0.6 %, he said that the tests at the railway stations are a small part of the overall RT-PCR tests done in the district to detect, treat and stop the spread of COVID-19 from Kerala. An average of about 15,000 persons have been vaccinated per day in the last few days, Dr. Rajendra said and added that the administration has sought about two lakh doses necessary to complete vaccination of vulnerable population in the border areas. Stating that the few cases of Delta and Eta variants of COVID-19 detected in Dakshina Kannada are not of concern, Dr. Rajendra said that the district is better placed to handle any likely complications to children. The Regional Advanced Paediatric Care Centre at the Government Wenlock Hospital is the nodal centre to handle cases involving children, while all three levels of health facilities in the district are capable of treating children.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/schools-colleges-will-see-a-delay-in-reopening/article35868660.ece
12 August 2021||KALABURAGI,||State govt. urged to shift vacant teacher posts to Kalyana Karnataka region||To improve the quality of teaching as well as to address the disparities in the pupil-teacher ratio in the six districts of the Kalyana Karnataka region, Additional Commissioner of Public Instructions, Kalaburagi Division, Nalin Atul, has written to the Principal Secretary for Department of Primary and Secondary Education stating that the sanctioned teachers posts lying vacant in other divisions be shifted to the Kalaburagi Division. As per sources Mr. Atul, who is not only keen on improving SSLC performance but also strengthening the education quality from the primary classes in the six districts, wrote to the department in January 2021 urging the government to ensure pupil-teacher ratio as well as optimum utilisation of the existing vacant posts of teachers in other divisions by shifting them to the Kalyana Karnataka region to remove disparities in pupil-teacher ratio. The data available with The Hindu shows that the average pupil-teacher ratio in primary government schools in the Kalyana Karnataka region is at 23.02, while the State average is 17.89. There is a glaring gap in the pupil-teacher ratio of Kalyana Karnataka region compared to that of other districts. The ratio of aspirational districts of Yadgir is 27.01 (10 less than the State average) and Raichur 22.87 (five less than the State average). As many as 34,959 posts have been filled against the total sanctioned 44,935 posts in primary schools in the region. The region requires at least 11,931 additional teachers to achieve the State pupil-teacher ratio average. As per the Student Achievement Tracking System (SATS) data of 2019-20 academic year, 20 educational districts reported low pupil-teacher ratio than the State average. Hassan district reported 8.91 pupil-teacher ratio, the lowest, followed by Chikkamangaluru at 9.24 and Kodagu at 9.94. Bidar district in the Kalyana Karnataka region recorded 14.69, which is lower than the State average. The proposal states that the department can address the inequality by shifting the vacant sanctioned posts from those districts having less ratio to the Kalyana Karnataka region, without making fresh recruitments. Meanwhile, the average ratio in government high schools in the Kalyana Karnataka region is 27.94, while the State average is 23.43. The ratio of high school in Hassan lies at around 12.20, the lowest, while Ballari district recorded the highest ratio of 34.22. As many as 16 educational districts recorded lesser ratio than the State average. As many as 11,733 teachers are teaching 3,27,822 students enrolled in Classes VIII, IX and X in the region during 2019-20. Considering one teacher for every 50 students, an additional 1,741 teachers are required. The region needs at least 960 additional appointments to record one teacher for every 60 students.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-govt-urged-to-shift-vacant-teacher-posts-to-kalyana-karnataka-region/article35868446.ece
12 August 2021||Thrissur,||16 officials suspended in coop. bank case||Officials of the Cooperation Department who failed to detect, report and take action against irregularities in the Karuvannur Service Cooperative Bank have been placed under suspension pending inquiry. In all, 16 officials, including Joint Registrar (General), Thrissur, Mohanmon P. Joseph; M.D. Raghu, Joint Director/concurrent auditor, Kerala State Cooperative Bank, Palakkad; and Assistant Registrar M.C. Ajit, are facing action. Preliminary report According to a preliminary report submitted to the government by the nine-member commission appointed by the Department of Cooperation, effective inspection of documents had not been done and no irregularities were reported from the bank, which falls under the Thrissur Joint Registrar. No urgent steps were taken on even the issues pointed out in the audit report. Joint Director (audit), Thrissur, had the responsibility of audit in the bank. There were serious lapses in administration and audit, the panel reported. One concurrent auditor post was allotted for the bank. But no special report was submitted on the irregularities in the bank. Auditors had not reported any serious financial irregularities, the panel noted. 2014-15 audit As irregularities had been noticed in the audit from 2014-15, officials who were in charge of the general and audit sections from 2014-15, who had failed to take action, were placed under suspension pending inquiry, according to the order. Two more arrested Two more accused in the case were arrested on Wednesday. The Crime Branch arrested second accused and former manager of the bank Biju Karim and third accused and bank accountant C.K. Jilse. Earlier, the court had rejected their anticipatory bail plea. First accused and former secretary of the bank T.R. Sunil Kumar was arrested on Monday. The Crime Branch has filed a petition at the Irinjalakuda Magistrate Court to get Sunil Kumar, who has been remanded in judicial custody, for integration. There are six accused in the case. The scam An alleged loan scam, to the tune of over Rs. 100 crore, had been reported in the bank, following which the police had registered a case against six bank officials and launched an investigation. After several people, including local customers, raised apprehensions about the bank’s functioning, an audit had been conducted recently, in which the charges were reportedly found to be true. During the inspection, it was also found that loans were sanctioned on the property pledged by local customers without their knowledge and the loan amount was credited multiple times to selected accounts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/16-officials-suspended-in-coop-bank-case/article35868532.ece
12 August 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,||Eaten by white ants, ‘dwajasthambam’ of a temple atop Simhachalam collapses||The ‘dwajasthambam’ of Sri Sitarama Swamy temple atop Simhachalam hill collapsed on Wednesday morning. The ‘dwajasthambam’ was erected about six decades ago and the wooden pole inside the outer hollow metal pillar, became weak after it was eaten by white ants over the years, and collapsed at 6.30 a.m. Executive Officer M.V. Suryakala and other officials examined the CCTV footage and confirmed that it had collapsed on its own. The EO said that the lower portion of the pillar and the supporting concrete platform were intact. The seepage of water through the hollow metal pillar into the wooden pole inside, and termite attack over the wood could have cause decay of the wood, she said. A temporary ‘dwajasthambam’ was erected, after ‘Samprokshana’ and chanting of Vedas. Ms. Suryakala said that a new permanent ‘dwajasthambam’ would be erected in 10 days. Meanwhile, temple Trust Board members expressed anger at the officials for the collapse of the ‘dwajasthambam’ and alleged that the incident had occurred due to their ‘negligence’. Inquiry ordered They sought an inquiry into the incident and also wanted the officials to look into the state of affairs at other sub temples, under the purview of Sri Simhachalam Devasthanam, and submit a report to them. They said that they if the authorities failed to submit a report, they would take the issue to the notice of the government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/eaten-by-white-ants-dwajasthambam-of-a-temple-atop-simhachalam-collapses/article35868207.ece
12 August 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||Less GPA: officials conduct inquiry||Officials of the School Education Department launched an inquiry into the allegations that less Grade Point Average (GPA) was given to Class X students of Nirmala High School, in the recent examination. Deputy District Educational Officer (Dy. DEO) L. Chandrakala and Assistant Commissioner (Examinations) G. Srinivasa Rao visited Nirmala High School, Patamata, in the city on Wednesday, and verified the records. More than 50 students of the school submitted a representation to the Commissioner of School Education Department on Wednesday alleging that less GPA was given and injustice was done to them. Parents demanded an inquiry and revision of GPA to their wards. Ms. Chandrakala verified the internal examination papers (conducted by school management), attendance registers, marks sheets of online tests, previous pass percentage of students and other documents. “In all, 16 students lodged a complaint with the School Education Department alleging poor GPA to them, and we are inquiring into the matter,” said Krishna District Educational Officer (DEO) Tahera Sultana.  “We followed the guidelines framed by the government in allotting marks to the students. Internal marks were given based on the student’s performance in their previous examinations,” said Nirmala High School headmistress Treasa Augustine. The school management has conducted the FA-1 and FA-2 tests twice for improvement of student’s performance. It was not correct that less marks were given to some students, said Sr. Augustine. Speaking to The Hindu , Commissioner, School Education Department, Vadrevu Chinna Veerabhadrudu said that a committee headed by DEO Tahera Sultana was inquiring into the allegations. Meanwhile, the students along with their parents staged a dharna demanding that the government revise the GPA given to them and allot fresh grades.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/less-gpa-officials-conduct-inquiry/article35868204.ece
12 August 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||Use small private hospitals for jabs: experts||With inequities in distribution and digital divide becoming major hurdles in getting COVID-19 vaccination, the State government should take proactive steps to improve the vaccine availability and pace of inoculation which will help reduce mortality and morbidity, say public health experts. In this context, Kerala’s committee of experts on COVID-19 has written to the government recommending that the government utilise the network of small and medium private hospitals as vaccination sites and that the vaccines purchased by the government or provided by the Centre be distributed free of cost through these hospitals. This will make more vaccination sites available and take more vaccines to rural areas. While distributing vaccines between districts, the government should allot more supplies to those where the seroprevalence is found to be low, so that more people without prior exposure to the virus can be vaccinated. Many major private hospitals are purchasing vaccines directly from manufacturers. But as these are paid services - Covishield is Rs. 780 per dose and Covaxin Rs. 1,410 - not many have been able to afford them. Now small private hospitals have been totally left out of the distribution network. This also created an urban-rural divide. “Tamil Nadu is already purchasing vaccines and distributing it free of cost through private hospitals, while Kerala’s vaccination drive is totally dependent on the vaccine supply from the Centre. The public has contributed crores of rupees to the Chief Minister’s relief fund as part of the ‘vaccine challenge’. The government should be utilising these funds to purchase vaccines from manufacturers,” says a senior public health expert. Govt. supply network Small private hospitals have been facing a major difficulty because they have to place a minimum order – over 6,000 minimum doses of Covishield and 2,800 plus minimum doses of Covaxin — for vaccine manufacturers to supply to them directly. However, the government has decided that these hospitals can be helped out by allowing them to place their orders through the government’s supply network. In an order issued on Tuesday, the State government has given sanction to the Kerala Medical Services Corporation to purchase 20 lakh doses of vaccines in two lots from M/s Serum Institute of India for distribution through private hospitals. The amount for the same will be collected from private hospitals and remitted to the Chief Minister’s Distress Relief fund.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/use-small-private-hospitals-for-jabs-experts/article35868534.ece
12 August 2021||MYSURU,||Carry out caste census, ex-CM tells Centre||Congress leader and former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah on Wednesday urged the Centre to carry out a caste census to identify the socially and educationally backward communities in the country while making out a case for increasing the ceiling on reservation from the present 50 per cent. Fielding queries from reporters on the passage of the 127th Constitutional Amendment Bill in the Lok Sabha restoring the power of the States to identify other backward classes (OBCs), Mr. Siddaramaiah said a caste survey would help the government clearly identify the disparities between different sections of society and help extend special attention to the needy sections in the form of reservation or preferential treatment. Mr. Siddaramaiah, who had already ordered a caste census to identity socially and educationally backward castes in Karnataka during his tenure as Chief Minister, recalled the questions raised by the court on the evidence for the claims made different communities on their population. “The courts would ask authentic evidence on population claims. So, I ordered the caste census in Karnataka,” he said. Though the report of the census was not ready by the time his term ended in 2018, Mr. Siddaramaiah said his successor governments had not accepted the report though it was ready. If the Congress returned to power, Mr. Siddaramaiah said the government would accept the report and discuss it in the legislature. The Congress leader, who favoured increasing the ceiling on reservation from the present 50 per cent, regretted that the Centre had not relaxed the cap on quota even though the courts had permitted the same “under special circumstances”. In view of the growing demand for reservation from various communities in different States, Mr. Siddaramaiah said the Centre should oblige. Asked about the continuing dissatisfaction in the BJP government over portfolio allocation, Mr. Siddaramaiah said dissidence was brewing in the party as several MLAs were not satisfied and added that the situation was symptomatic of a party that did not believe in Constitution and democratic principles. To another question on availability of candidates in the Assembly constituencies, where the party MLAs had switched over to the BJP, Mr. Siddaramaiah said the Congress was never short of candidates. “There are at least five to six candidates in each constituency,” he said. He said the Congress had not drawn up any programme for the upcoming elections to zilla and taluk panchayats in view of the COVID-19 situation. Though the party was waiting for the government to expedite the vaccination process, he regretted that the sufficient quantities of the doses had not been made available to government centres. To another question, he denied that there was any misunderstanding between him and former Minister B.Z. Zameer Ahmed Khan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/carry-out-caste-census-ex-cm-tells-centre/article35868689.ece
12 August 2021||Nigulsari,||10 killed, 60 missing in Himachal landslip||At least 10 persons were killed after some vehicles, including a Himachal Road Transport Corporation bus with at least 28 passengers on board, were hit by boulders and mud following a major landslip on National Highway-5 at Nigulsari in Kinnaur district of Himachal Pradesh on Wednesday. The landslip occurred around 12.30 p.m., close to Nigulsari village. The bus is feared to have rolled several feet down the gorge towards Sutlej river. The bus was on its way from Reckong Peo in Kinnaur to Haridwar in Uttarakhand, according to officials. “We have recovered one damaged car, but no one was found inside it. The HRTC bus and a sports utility vehicle and their passengers have not been found under the debris. They are still untraceable. It is possible that both vehicles rolled down with the debris,” Sudesh Kumar Mokhta, Director, State Disaster Management Force, told The Hindu . The State government, in a statement, said 10 bodies, including that of a child and five women, had been recovered. Thirteen persons had been rescued, and about 60 are feared to be buried under the debris, it added. Teams from the Army, the National Disaster Response Force, the Indo-Tibetan Border Police, the Central Industrial Security Force, the police and the district administration are involved in the rescue operations. Deputy Commissioner (Kinnaur) Abid Hussain Sadiq said the rescue operation was underway and would take a while. “Drone images show that debris is around 10-15 feet high and spread across 50-100 meters. And hence the rescue operation will take some time. The conductor who was rescued from the bus has stated that 28 people were inside the bus. It looks like that the operation will continue through the night,” Mr. Sadiq said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/10-killed-60-missing-in-himachal-landslip/article35868213.ece
12 August 2021||New Delhi,||CS assault case: court discharges Kejriwal, Dy. CM, 9 AAP leaders||A Delhi court on Wednesday discharged Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, his deputy Manish Sisodia and nine other Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leaders in a case of assault on the then Chief Secretary, Anshu Prakash, during a meeting on February 19, 2018. The court, however, ordered framing of charges against AAP MLAs Amanatullah Khan and Prakash Jarwal for offences including assault or use of criminal force to deter a public servant from discharge of his duty. Mr. Kejriwal, Mr. Sisodia and the nine leaders — Rajesh Rishi, Nitin Tyagi, Praveen Kumar, Ajay Dutt, Sanjeev Jha, Rituraj Govind, Rajesh Gupta, Madan Lal and Dinesh Mohaniya — were named in the present case on the basis of Mr. Prakash’s complaint that the meeting was called at midnight by the Chief Minister under a “pre-planned conspiracy”. Additional Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Sachin Gupta said, “From the conduct of A-3 (Mr. Kejriwal) and the surrounding circumstances, it cannot be inferred even remotely that he was part of any such conspiracy, much less to draw any inference of his complicity in the commission of offence.” Star witness The court relied on the statement given by star witness V.K. Jain, the then adviser to the Chief Minister, that Mr. Kejriwal asked the two MLAs — Mr. Khan and Mr. Jarwal — to refrain from any unruly behaviour. “Once the Chief Minister did so, there was no occasion for the Deputy Chief Minister and the other MLAs present there to do the same,” the court said. The court further rejected Mr. Prakash’s allegation that specific MLAs were chosen by the Chief Minister and the Deputy CM for the purpose of the meeting at midnight. Terming the allegation as “without any merits”, the court said, “... They had gathered there as per the directions of the Chief Minister to attend a meeting.” Mr. Jain, in his initial statement to police, had said that during the meeting he went to the washroom and could not say as to what happened during that time. However, he changed his stance while recording his statement before the magistrate. He said when he came back from the washroom, he saw Mr. Khan and Mr. Jarwal, by way of physically touching and pushing the Chief Secretary, were asking Mr. Prakash as to why he was not performing his duties. During that incident, Mr. Prakash’s spectacles fell down, he said. “Allegations levelled by the complainant against Amanatullah Khan and Prakash Jarwal find corroboration from the statement of star witness Mr. V. K. Jain recorded under Section 164 of CrPC, which is sufficient at this stage to prima facie show their complicity in the commission of the offence,” the court said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cs-assault-case-court-discharges-kejriwal-dy-cm-9-aap-leaders/article35868355.ece
12 August 2021||MEDAK,||One arrested in sensational Veldurthi murder case||Within 24 hours after the murder of Katike Srinivas, a realtor of Medak town, which took place at Mangalparthi village of Veldurthi mandal, the district police have arrested one person and search is on for two other suspects. Police said financial disputes are suspected to be the reason for the murder and they were also looking at other aspects, including extra-marital relationship. Srinivas was murdered, his body was kept in the dicky of his car and it was burnt down in the wee hours of Tuesday. This had created sensation across the district. Speaking to reporters here on Wednesday, Superintendent of Police Chandana Deepti said that during investigation they suspected the role of Shiva, Pavan and Nikhil, belonging to Medak town. While Shiva was arrested by the police, the other two suspects are at large and search is on for them. She said that Srinivas was stabbed at the throat with a knife repeatedly and the accused moved around with the body in the dicky for several hours before reaching Mangalparthi, doused diesel on the car and burnt it. She said that financial dealings in addition to land dealings were suspected to be the reasons for the murder. They are also looking at other angles. The SP congratulated the police officials for cracking the case within 24 hours of the incident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/one-arrested-in-medak-realtors-murder-case/article35868502.ece
12 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||Centre admits to oxygen deaths||The Union Health Ministry has for the first time admitted that some patients who were on ventilator support died while undergoing treatment for COVID-19 due to inadequate oxygen supply. Without specifying the exact number, Minister of State Bharati Pravin Pawar said in the Rajya Sabha on Tuesday that in May, Andhra Pradesh had reported that some patients had died after a drop in oxygen pressure at a hospital, as per the preliminary inquiry. The Ministry had maintained that “no State has so far specifically told the Ministry about deaths due to oxygen shortage”, and that only one State noted suspected deaths due to inadequate oxygen supply. The Minister said that as per a communication, dated August 9, 2021, by Andhra Pradesh, on May 10, some patients who were on ventilator support died while undergoing treatment for COVID-19 at Sri Venkateswara Ramnarain Ruia Hospital. Drop in pressure “As per the preliminary inquiry incident report, it appears that the interval between the levelling out of the 10 KL oxygen tank and the switching on of the backup manifold system of this hospital resulted in the drop in pressure in the oxygen lines. This led to insufficient oxygen being available for the patients mainly on ventilator support,” Ms. Pawar noted. Senior Health Ministry officials told The Hindu that each State had been specifically asked to report any death of COVID-19 and the reasons for the death.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/centre-admits-to-oxygen-deaths/article35868210.ece
12 August 2021||Mumbai,||Restaurants, malls allowed to stay open till 10 p.m.||The Maharashtra Cabinet on Wednesday decided to allow malls and restaurants to operate till 10 p.m. at 50% capacity with fully vaccinated staff from August 15. Shops were also allowed to operate till 10 p.m.. However, the State COVID-19 task force unanimously opposed the decision to reopen schools and colleges from August 17. The Chief Minister has now decided to take a final decision after holding a meeting with the officials of the Health Department and the task force. After the Cabinet meeting, State Health Minister Rajesh Tope said, “Only those who have taken both doses of the vaccine will be allowed to enter malls.” Non air-conditioned gyms, yoga centres, salons and spas will also be allowed to function till 10 p.m. at 50% capacity, but air-conditioned establishments must keep windows and exhaust fans running. Mr. Tope said weddings in open spaces will be allowed with 200 people, and events in closed halls with 100 people or at 50% capacity, whichever is less. “Theatres, multiplexes, and religious places have not been allowed to reopen,” he said. Private offices with fully vaccinated staff have been allowed to reopen, but have to stagger work hours to avoid crowding. All playgrounds, gardens, and beaches will be allowed open as per the orders of the local civic body. Reservation for orphans The Cabinet also increased the scope of 1% reservation for orphans and rectified the earlier decision by dividing the category into three sub-categories. Orphans will get benefits applicable to students of the Scheduled Caste category, including concession in age limit, exam fee, and scholarship and fee reimbursement. As per the new move, two of the three categories of orphans will also get reservation in jobs. Principal Secretary of the Health Department warned of the third wave. Cases may be 1.5 times more than that of the second wave, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/restaurants-malls-allowed-to-stay-open-till-10-pm/article35868686.ece
12 August 2021||Bengaluru,||Entry to temples on weekends, holidays banned||Bengaluru (Urban) Deputy Commissioner on Wednesday issued an order restricting entry of devotees to temples on weekends and general holidays in the month of Shravana (August 9 to September 7), a period marked by a string of festivals. J. Manjunath, Bengaluru Urban DC, in his order stated that to contain the spread of COVID-19, entry of general public and devotees to temples on Saturdays, Sundays and general holidays during the month of Shravana has been banned, and the ban applies to private temples and those coming under the Endowment Department. However, there are no restrictions on religious rituals performed during the month at the temples. On other days, devotees should be allowed to enter the temples following protocols. Speaking to The Hindu , BBMP Chief Commissioner Gaurav Gupta said the civic body would see if the order could be applicable to all religious places, including those in the city limits, or if a separate order has to be issued by the civic body.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/entry-to-temples-on-weekends-holidays-banned/article35868248.ece
12 August 2021||Salem,||State has sufficient stock of oxygen: Health Minister||The State has sufficient stock of medical oxygen to deal with COVID-19 third wave, Minister for Health and Family Welfare Ma. Subramanian said here on Wednesday. After inaugurating 6 KL liquid medical oxygen plant installed at the Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College and Hospital at Rs. 72 lakh, the Minister told presspersons that during the first wave, only beds in Covid Care Centres (CCC) were needed, whereas during the second wave, oxygen-supported beds were needed and shortage of oxygen prevailed. “When the DMK came to power on May 7, the daily stock of medical oxygen was 230 tonnes. But the daily requirement was 500 tonnes when COVID-19 cases were peaking in the second and third week of May”, he said, and added that the State now had 1,000 tonnes as daily stock. Mr. Subramanian said that when the State reported its maximum number of cases of 36,184 on May 21, medical experts said the daily case count would cross one lakh. “But, effective steps taken by the Chief Minister have led to a drop in cases now”, he said. Asked whether the State faced vaccine shortage, the Minister said there was no shortage from August 1 and that so far, 2,53,57,300 people were vaccinated. The Minister said the Centre allotted 72 lakh vaccine doses for the State in July and based on the performance, the State was allotted additional 19 lakh doses. He said the State was receiving nine lakh doses every day from the Centre now. Outsourcing system The State government was abolishing the outsourcing system in the Health Department and was recruiting health workers directly. “If there is any delay in payment to contract workers, it is only because of the contractors”, he said. He said that all the 1,462 beds at the Salem GH had oxygen support. So far, a third wave had not begun in the State. “But the Chief Minister is requesting all the people to follow the norms to control the spread of COVID-19”, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-has-sufficient-stock-of-oxygen-says-health-minister/article35868350.ece
12 August 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||BJD demands caste-based Census||The Biju Janata Dal (BJD) on Wednesday demanded a caste-based Census be conducted for identifying and enumerating Socially and Educationally Backward Communities and Other Backward Classes, and increasing reservation beyond the 50% ceiling by enacting a Central legislation. A BJD delegation of MPs from both the Lok Sabha and the Rajya Sabha led by Pinaki Mishra met Home Minister Amit Shah at his Parliament chamber and apprised him of the need for a caste-based Census. Two BJP allies, the Janata Dal (United) and Apnl Dal, have also raised similar demands in the recent past.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bjd-demands-caste-based-census/article35868360.ece
12 August 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||MANSAS Trust: HC quashes Sanchaita’s plea||The hopes of Sanchaita Gajapathi Raju to take back control of the MANSAS Trust from P. Ashok Gajapathi Raju were dashed when the Division Bench of the AP High Court, comprising Chief Justice Arup Kumar Goswami and Justice N. Jayasurya, rejected the writ appeals she filed against the order of Justice M. Venkata Ramana that the senior TDP leader should be restored as the trust chairman. With this, Mr. Ashok had the line cleared for him to continue as chairman of the historic trust. According to reliable sources, the court refused to grant an interim relief of suspension of the single-Judge order on the ground that Mr. Ashok had already taken charge after the judgment. The court also dismissed a petition filed by Urmila Gajapathi Raju, daughter of Mr. Ashok ’s brother Ananda Gajapathi Raju, wherein she staked claim to be appointed chairperson of the MANSAS Trust. In June this year, Mr. Justice Ramana had struck down G.O. Ms. Nos 72 and 74, through which Ms. Sanchaita was appointed hereditary trustee/chairperson of the Trust and Sri Varaha Lakshmi Narasimha Vari Devasthanam at Simhachalam, and ordered that Mr. Ashok be reinstated as chairman of both the trusts. Mr. Ashok had argued in his petitions that the established practice in the Simhachalam Devasthanam had been for the “eldest male lineal descendant” of the Pusapati family of the princely State of Vizianagaram to be the hereditary trustee and it was in vogue for more than three centuries and continued even after the temple came under the purview of the Madras Endowment Act of 1951 and subsequently Acts 17 of 1966 and 30 of 1987 of Andhra Pradesh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/mansas-trust-ap-hc-rejects-sanchaitas-plea/article35868162.ece
12 August 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||Health Dept. seeks Rs. 1,925 cr. immediately||Paucity of funds seems to be haunting the Medical and Health Department that has been grappling with the COVID-19 management. The department had been left with a mere Rs. 29.03 crore two month ago, which was insufficient to buy even oxygen. Facing a similar situation, the department has made an appeal to the Finance Department to release about Rs. 1,925 crore immediately to tide over the crisis. According to information, the officials concerned have taken the issue to the notice of Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy and sought his intervention. The officials say that they need Rs. 17 crore towards disbursement of aid to the children orphaned by the pandemic and at least Rs. 428 crore at the earliest to take up COVID-19 management activities. The officials also want the Finance Department to release Rs. 1,497.66 crore considering it as “an emergency.” “Due to paucity of funds, issues of urgent nature could not be taken up. So, we have made an appeal to the Finance Department,” says a senior official on condition of anonymity. Orphaned children Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy had announced that the government would make a fixed deposit for Rs. 10 lakh in the name of the children who lost their parents due to the pandemic. The idea behind the move was to help the guardians meet the expenses of the children with the interest that would accrue. After spending Rs. 2,517.18 crore, the Medical and Health Department was left with about Rs. 29 crore in June. Pending bills It was clueless as to how to foot the 579 bills pending clearance, for which it required Rs. 500 crore. It was the first time it sought the Chief Minister’s intervention, following which funds were released.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/health-dept-seeks-rs-1925-cr-immediately/article35868205.ece
12 August 2021||New Delhi,||India Inc should increase its appetite for risk: Modi||Calling on India Inc to strengthen its partnership with the government to build “Brand India”, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday asked industry to increase its risk-taking appetite and step up investments, especially in research and development. “A vehicle cannot run only on one wheel... Hence, industry needs to increase its natural tendency to take risks,” Mr. Modi said, addressing the annual session of the Confederation of Indian Industry. “To achieve Atmanirbhar Bharat, we need to adopt new and difficult routes. The country has lots of expectations from industry to increase the rate of investment and employment,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/india-inc-should-increase-its-appetite-for-risk-modi/article35868214.ece
12 August 2021||Kolkata,||FIR filed against TMC leaders in Tripura||The Trinamool Congress (TMC) has reacted sharply to the FIR registered against party leaders, including general secretary Abhishek Banerjee, describing it as “politically motivated” and that it would not be deterred by such developments On Tuesday evening, the Tripura police filed the FIR against six people, including four TMC leaders — Mr. Banerjee, Minister Bratya Basu, Rajya Sabha MP Dola Sen, and spokesperson Kunal Ghosh. Two leaders from Tripura, Subal Bhowmik and Prakash Das, have also been named in the FIR filed suo motu on a complaint by the officer in-charge of Khowai police station. “The FIR named APs [above persons] placed their illegal demand before the police authority i.e. to release the arrested person from the PS, to change Sections of law put in the FIR which was drawn against them… Thereafter the FIR named persons misbehaved with Addl SP Khowai and SDPO, Khowai started shouting in the chamber of the O/C and also said all police personnel are broker of the BJP party,” the FIR stated. The TMC leaders had visited Tripura after 14 party leaders were arrested there. The six leaders have been charged under Section 186/34 of the Indian Penal Code, which deals with punishment for voluntary obstructing any public servant in the discharge of his public duties. “Whether it is attacks on our supporters or police complaints against us won’t deter us. The incident at the police station was telecast live by several channels,” Mr. Ghosh said. Mr. Basu and Ms. Sen said the FIR indicates that the BJP is scared of the party’s presence in Tripura. “The FIR is entirely politically motivated,” Mr. Basu said. The TMC is looking to extend its political footprint in Tripura. The party over the past few weeks has sent several political delegations. There has been high political activity from the beginning of this month in the northeastern State, where elections are due in 2023. The TMC leaders, including Mr. Banerjee, alleged they were attacked by the BJP supporters in Tripura.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/fir-filed-against-tmc-leaders-in-tripura/article35868608.ece
12 August 2021||New Delhi,||SC grants bail to Vinay Kulkarni in murder case||The Supreme Court on Wednesday granted bail to the former Minister Vinay Kulkarni, who was arrested by the CBI in November last year for his alleged involvement in the murder of BJP worker and zilla panchayat member Yogeeshgouda Goudar. A Bench of justices U.U. Lalit and Ajay Rastogi said that Mr. Kulkarni be produced before the trial court concerned within three days and bail be granted to him subject to conditions to be imposed by the court. Counsel appearing for the CBI, which is investigating the case, opposed Mr. Kulkarni’s plea seeking bail. Goudar, a BJP zilla panchayat member, was killed in his gym in June 2016 in Dharwad district. In September 2019, the State government handed over investigation of the case to the CBI. In November last year, the CBI arrested Mr. Kulkarni, a former Congress MLA for Dharwad, after questioning him in connection with the case. Mr. Kulkarni, who has denied the allegations levelled against him, won the Dharwad seat in 2013 but could not repeat the victory in 2018 when the BJP candidate defeated him in the Assembly polls. The CBI had earlier filed charge-sheets against several accused in the case.  A Bench of justices U.U. Lalit and Ajay Rastogi said that Kulkarni be produced before trial court within three days and bail be granted to him subject to conditions to be imposed||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sc-grants-bail-to-vinay-kulkarni-in-murder-case/article35868264.ece
12 August 2021||GUNTUR,||Govt. postpones YSR Lifetime Achievement Awards function||The State government has postponed the YSR Lifetime Achievement, YSR Achievement Awards Ceremony, scheduled for August 13, indefinitely, in view of COVID-19 protocol and the Medical and Health Department’s directives that there should be no gathering exceeding 150. As some of the awardees are elderly persons, the government postponed the event, keeping their age and COVID-19 protocol in view. The awards function is likely to be held in October or November.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ysr-awards-function-put-off/article35868200.ece
12 August 2021||August 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Season’s colour||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/seasons-colour/article35868536.ece
12 August 2021||August 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Season’s colour||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/seasons-colour/article35868561.ece
12 August 2021||August 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Readying for the I-Day||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/readying-for-the-i-day/article35868209.ece
12 August 2021||August 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Hungry for knowledge||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hungry-for-knowledge/article35868606.ece
12 August 2021||Kolkata,||Kolkata Metro to run eight more trains||With a steady increase in passenger traffic over the past few weeks, the Metro Railway has decided to run trains at an interval of five minutes during peak hours from Monday to Friday. A Kolkata Metro spokesperson said on Wednesday that eight more trains will be added to the daily fleet from Friday for the convenience of commuters. “Metro will now run 228 (114 Up and 114 Down) services from Monday to Friday, instead of 220 so that passengers can travel comfortably. Trains will run at an interval of five minutes during the morning and evening peak hours,” the spokesperson said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/kolkata-metro-to-run-eight-more-trains/article35868609.ece
12 August 2021||Mumbai,||17,759 train passes issued on first day||As many as 17,759 monthly passes for travel by local trains were issued on Wednesday after verification, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation said. A total of 18,324 passengers underwent the verification process from 7 a.m. to 3 p.m., and 17,758 passengers were issued the passes, the civic body said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/17759-train-passes-issued-on-first-day/article35868685.ece
12 August 2021||Pune,||Delta Plus cases surge to 65 in State||With 20 more cases of the Delta Plus variant emerging in Maharashtra in genome sequencing tests, the tally of the latest virus mutation rose to 65, said authorities on Wednesday. As per the State Health Department, seven cases emerged from Mumbai, three from Pune and two each from Nanded, Raigad, Palghar, and Gondia. Of the 65 cases, 32 samples are of men and the remaining 33 of women, while the majority of them (33) are in the 19 to 45 age group. “Apart from the death of an octogenarian woman in Ratnagiri a month ago, all the other cases are mild. More than 80% of the samples tested thus far are of the Delta variant,” said State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate. The State on Wednesday reported 6,944 recoveries as against 5,560 COVID-19 cases, which saw the active case tally dip to 64,570. The total toll saw a sharp spike with 163 deaths. Pune reported nearly 1,100 cases, while Mumbai recorded 285 new cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/delta-plus-cases-surge-to-65-in-state/article35868687.ece
12 August 2021||Belagavi,||Probe into charge against Shashikala Jolle ruled out||“The State government will not conduct any inquiry into the allegations against Minister for Muzrai, Haj and Waqf Shashikala Jolle,’’ Rural Development and Panchayat Raj Minister K.S. Eshwarappa said in Belagavi on Wednesday. He was responding to questions from journalists about the allegations that Ms. Jolle had demanded and received valuable consideration for award of contract to supply food items to anganwadis. “We cannot order investigations and inquiries against Ministers, just because someone says something against someone. Some people make baseless allegations against leaders in responsible positions. They are not to be taken seriously. Ms. Jolle is like my sister. I have 100% confidence in her integrity. There is no need to order any inquiry into the allegations made against her,’’ the senior BJP leader said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/probe-ruled-out-into-charge-against-shashikala-jolle/article35868444.ece
12 August 2021||Belagavi,||Govt. not withdrawing all cases: Eshwarappa||“The State government is withdrawing only false cases against BJP/Sangh Parivar leaders. It is not withdrawing all cases against them,” Minister K.S. Eshwarappa said here on Wednesday. He said that the Siddaramaiah government had filed false cases against several BJP workers and Sangh Parivar activists. Only such cases are being withdrawn, he said. He maintained that this was not against the principles of natural justice. The Minister also said that the Congress cadre had attacked and assaulted several BJP leaders and workers, when that party was in power in the State. He said that a large section of Muslims are in favour of the BJP and only a few were left with the Congress. In a short time, even they will desert the Congress and start supporting the BJP. The Congress will be decimated in the coming elections, he said. “Mr. Siddaramaiah has a serious problem. He dreams of becoming the Chief Minister one day. But he suffers from horrifying nightmares every night and they have increased since he lost power. That is why he keeps making meaningless statements,” Mr. Eshwarappa said. “Now that there is competition between him and State Congress president D.K. Shivakumar, the problems have intensified in that party. The Congress will never come to power in the State. The Congress leaders should understand this,” the Minister added. Probe ruled out “The State government will not conduct any inquiry into the allegations against Minister for Muzrai, Haj and Waqf Shashikala Jolle,’’ Mr. Eshwarappa said in Belagavi. He was responding to questions from journalists about the allegations that Ms. Jolle had demanded and received valuable consideration for award of contract to supply food items to anganwadis. “We cannot order investigations and inquiries against Ministers, just because someone says something against someone. Some people make baseless allegations against leaders in responsible positions. They are not to be taken seriously,’’ the senior BJP leader said.  Minister maintains that withdrawal of false cases not against the principles of natural justice||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/govt-not-withdrawing-all-cases-eshwarappa/article35868448.ece
12 August 2021||August 12 2021 00:00 IST,||A patient wait||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/a-patient-wait/article35868662.ece
12 August 2021||GUWAHATI,||Guards at Kaziranga get satellite phones||Kaziranga has become the first national park in India to have guards equipped with satellite phones, officials said on Wednesday. The move to provide the phones for boosting anti-poaching measures was taken at a meeting chaired by Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma on May 27.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/guards-at-kaziranga-get-satellite-phones/article35868607.ece
12 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||Govt. schools to get world-class education||The newly formed Delhi Board of School Education on Wednesday signed an agreement with the International Baccalaureate to adopt global practices in the field of curriculum, pedagogy and assessment at 30 government schools during the session 2021-22. The Delhi government said that students will be able to access the highest international standards of education.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/govt-schools-to-get-world-class-education/article35868357.ece
12 August 2021||MANGALURU,||Varsity undergraduate, PG exams postponed||In the light of communication from Dakshina Kannada district administration about disruption of public transport on August 14 and 28 due to weekend curfew, Mangalore University has postponed the undergraduate and postgraduate examination scheduled on those two days. Registrar (Evaluation) P.L. Dharma said that disruption of public transport will make it difficult for students to reach the examination centre on these two days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/varsity-undergraduate-pg-exams-postponed/article35868657.ece
12 August 2021||Patna,||Bihar teacher sacked for selling gunny bags||A schoolteacher in Bihar’s Katihar district was suspended after a video went viral on social media showing him selling gunny bags used to supply mid-day meals in schools. The Bihar Primary School Teachers Association has condemned the suspension calling it “too stringent a measure”. The teacher, Mohd. Tamijuddin, was posted at Government Primary School, Kantadih.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bihar-teacher-sacked-for-selling-gunny-bags/article35868710.ece
12 August 2021||New Delhi,||Amarinder meets Modi, seeks repeal of farm laws||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh called on Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday and urged him to repeal the farm reform laws and amend the relevant law to make farmers eligible for free legal aid. The CM argued that the agitation was not only impacting economic activities in Punjab but also had the potential to affect the social fabric.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/amarinder-meets-modi-seeks-repeal-of-farm-laws/article35868359.ece
12 August 2021||Belagavi,||ACB officers search jail chief’s residence||Anti Corruption Bureau (ACB) officers searched the official residence of Superintendent of Hindalaga Prison in Belagavi Krishna Kumar on Wednesday. Sources said that this was in connection with a report filed by IPS officer D. Roopa stating that some prison officers had provided unlawful amenities to Shashikala Natarajan, an inmate in the Bengaluru Central Jail a few years ago. Mr. Kumar was an officer in the Bengaluru Central Jail when the leader from Tamil Nadu was an inmate in 2018. He was transferred to Belagavi a few years ago.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/acb-officers-search-jail-chiefs-residence/article35868442.ece
12 August 2021||Mysuru,||Inter-district travellers to be monitored||The district administration in Chamarajanagar will revive monitoring at the inter-district checkposts as a precautionary measure. The innoculation drive in villages along the district border with the neighbouring States will also be ramped up to ensure full vaccination.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/inter-district-travellers-to-be-monitored/article35868690.ece
12 August 2021||Bengaluru,||SIFA to protest today against ban on garlands||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai’s ban on presenting garlands, bouquets, shawls, and fruits at official programmes has ruffled the feathers of flower growers and florists who were badly hit by the pandemic. SIFA has demanded that the ban order be revoked.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sifa-to-protest-today-against-ban-on-garlands/article35868691.ece
12 August 2021||BENGALURU,||CM takes to firefighting to pacify Anand Singh||Amidst high drama, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai had to take up a two-hour firefighting mission on Wednesday after Tourism Minister Anand Singh, who is upset over not getting a plum portfolio, hinted at resigning.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cm-takes-to-firefighting-to-pacify-anand-singh/article35868692.ece
12 August 2021||CHENNAI,||T.N. records 1,964 new cases of COVID-19||Tamil Nadu on Wednesday recorded 1,964 new cases of COVID-19. Five districts, including Chennai and Chengalpattu, accounted for nearly 45% of the infections.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tn-records-1964-new-cases-of-covid-19/article35868392.ece
12 August 2021||NIGULSARI,||It all happened in a split second, survivors say||His clothes mud-stained and leg slightly bruised, Prashant, 28, is in a state of shock and disbelief after he and one of his friends, Varun, narrowly escaped being buried under the debris triggered by a major landslip near Nigulsari in Kinnaur district of Himachal Pradesh on Wednesday. It’s around 3.30 p.m. The landslip took place close to noon. Sitting by the side of the road, both men say that they have been praying for the well-being of their missing friend and co-traveller. Boulders and loose soil fell upon the car in which the three were travelling. “All three of us were on our way home in Una district after a holiday in Sangla. As soon as we reached here, we stopped the car as some stones were falling. A bus and a utility vehicle were in front of us while a truck was coming from the other side. We stepped out of the car to assess the situation. As we were watching, suddenly, rocks and a huge chunk of mud started to fall. It happened in a split second. Varun and I ran to one side, our friend Balram ran towards the other side of the vehicle,” Mr. Prashant told The Hindu . “While both of us are safe, we are trying to talk to Balram. His phone is ringing but he’s not picking it up. We are just praying that he is all right,” he added. Visibly jolted, Mr. Varun was short of words about the incident. “I can’t talk right now as I am not in any state of mind beyond [thinking about] my friend,” he said. As the Army, the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) and the Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) reached the incident site for rescue operations, hundreds of people gathered at the spot, many of them relatives and friends of people trapped under the debris. Someone was seen informing the police and rescue team members that he had received a call from a trapped friend crying for help. Several others passed on similar information. In the past two days, several landslips have been reported across the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/it-all-happened-in-a-split-second-survivors-say/article35867964.ece
12 August 2021||New Delhi,||LS adjourned two days ahead of schedule, sees 22% productivity||As the Lok Sabha was adjourned sine die on Wednesday, Speaker Om Birla expressed pain over the repeated disruptions that allowed only 21 hours of functioning and 22% productivity of the House in the monsoon session. The session that got under way on July 19 was adjourned two days ahead of its scheduled date of August 13, as the Opposition protested over the Pegasus snooping controversy, farm laws and other issues. Zero Hour — time allotted to individuals members to raise important issues — was most affected and Question Hour, too, witnessed disruptions on most of the days. The House managed to pass 20 Bills, mostly without debate or participation from the Opposition. However, the exception was the Constitution (One Hundred and Twenty-Seventh Amendment) Bill, 2021 to restore the power of the States to make their Other Backward Class (OBC) lists that was passed after an extensive debate from all the parties. Prime Minister Narendra Modi as well as Congress president Sonia Gandhi were present in the House when it was adjourned sine die . Soon after adjourning the House, Mr. Birla hosted a tea party for all senior leaders, including Mr. Modi, Ms. Gandhi, Home Minister Amit Shah, the Congress’s Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury and K. Suresh, the Trinamool Congress’s Sudeep Bandopadhya and the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam’s (DMK) T.R. Baalu. A source said Mr. Birla urged all the leaders to cooperate to ensure the better functioning of the House. Later, addressing presspersons, he expressed anguish over the repeated disruptions of the House that had 17 sittings. Of the 96 hours allotted for business, only 21 hours and 14 minutes could be utilised. “The House was not able to function for 74 hours and 46 minutes. The total productivity was 22%… I am hurt by the fact that the proceedings of the House did not take place as per expectations in this session. I always make an effort to see that maximum business takes place in the House and discussions are held over issues related to the public,” Mr. Birla told presspersons. Previous sessions had seen good productivity, he added. Members holding placards and raising slogans in the well of the House was not in accordance with rich parliamentary traditions. “I always expect the MPs to maintain the dignity of the House. There have been debates, agreements and disagreements in the House, but its dignity was never lowered,” he noted. Mr. Birla also informed that the construction of the new Parliament building was expected to be completed before August 15 next year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ls-adjourned-two-days-ahead-of-schedule-sees-22-productivity/article35867973.ece
12 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||Deaths due to lack of oxygen not taken lightly, says Ministry||The Union Health Ministry on Tuesday told the Rajya Sabha that some patients who were on ventilator support died while undergoing treatment for COVID-19 at Sri Venkateswara Ramnarain Ruia Government Hospital in Andhra Pradesh. Senior Health Ministry officials told The Hindu that each State had been specifically asked to report any death of COVID-19 and the reasons for the death. Minister of State for Health Bharati Pravin Pawar stated, “This isn’t data that we take lightly. Data gathered is the guide for the Ministry [State and Central] to ensure that we are able to bridge any gaps and catch any trends early on. Several and immediate measures were brought in to ensure adequate oxygen and other medical supplies to the States during the COVID-19 waves,” she asserted. In the Rajya Sabha, in response to a question by Kanakamedala Ravindra Kumar on deaths due to inadequate oxygen supply in Andhra Pradesh, the Health Ministry noted that the Centre had been providing the required technical support and supported the States through logistic and financial support to further strengthen the existing health infrastructure to tackle the pandemic. The Ministry said the daily liquid medical oxygen (LMO) supply, which was about 1,292 MTs a day in February 2021 increased to 8,593 MTs in April 2021. “On May 28, 2021, a total of 10,250 MTs of LMO was allocated to the States. This was done by enhancement of LMO production in steel plants as well as in other LMO plants. Restrictions were imposed on industrial use of oxygen. A dynamic and transparent framework for allocation of medical oxygen in consultation with all the stakeholders has been prepared,” it stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/deaths-due-to-lack-of-oxygen-are-not-taken-lightly-says-minister/article35867991.ece
12 August 2021||Lucknow,||Floods hit over 600 U.P. villages||Over 600 villages are affected by floods, including 110 cut off from all connectivity, as heavy rain lashes several districts in Uttar Pradesh and major rivers such as the Ganga and the Yamuna flowing above the danger mark in many areas, officials said on Wednesday. The State recorded 13.1 mm of average rainfall over the past 24 hours, which was 154% of the the normal rainfall (8.5 mm). Eleven out of the 75 districts in U.P., including Lucknow, Prayagraj, Chitrakoot and Kaushambi, recorded more than 22 mm rainfall, the U.P. Relief Commissioner’s Office said . The department said 605 villages were hit by floods in 24 districts, with Prayagraj, Ghazipur and Hamirpur the most affected in terms of flooded areas in six, five, and four tehsils, respectively. While 20 villages faced embankment issues, floods in 239 villages hit farming, while in 107 villages only residents were affected. In 129 villages, both farming and residents have been affected, said the Relief Department.  Hamirpur badly hit The worst affected were Hamirpur with 75 flooded villages, followed by Banda (71), and Etawah and Jalaun (both 67). According to the State Irrigation Department, the Ganga was flowing above the danger mark in Budaun, Prayagraj, Mirzapur, Varanasi, Ghazipur and Ballia districts; the Yamuna was flowing over the danger mark in Auraiya, Banda, Jalaun, Prayagraj and Hamirpur, while the Betwa in Hamirpur, Sharda river in Kheri, and the Chambal were also above the danger mark. The State Relief Department said that, so far, it had rescued 536 persons from flooded areas. National Disaster Response Force teams were deployed in nine districts, while 11 districts were served by the State Disaster Response Force and 39 by the Provincial Armed Constabulary.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/floods-hit-over-600-up-villages/article35867959.ece
12 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||Parliament passes Bill on OBC lists||Parliament on Wednesday passed a constitutional amendment aimed at restoring the rights of the States and the Union Territories to maintain their own list of Socially and Economically  Backward Classes (SEBCs), commonly known as Other Backward Classes (OBCs). The Constitution (One Hundred and Twenty-Seventh Amendment) Bill, 2021 was passed unanimously by the Rajya Sabha, a day after the Lok Sabha passed it. In a break from its protests on the Pegasus issue and farm laws, the Opposition joined the discussion and supported the Bill. While the Bill received support from across party lines, at least 10 parties, including the National Democratic Alliance’s (NDA) Janata Dal (United), called for a caste-based census and 12 parties demanded the removal of the 50% cap on reservation. On May 5, the Supreme Court held that the Maratha reservation granted by the Maharashtra government was unconstitutional and that the President alone was empowered to identify SEBCs. In his response to the discussion on the Bill, Social Justice and Empowerment Minister Virendra Kumar said the government understood the concerns over the 50% cap and that it should be revisited as it was decided 30 years ago. Congress leader Abhishek Manu Singhvi said the government was congratulating itself for correcting a mistake it made in 2018, referring to the 102 Constitutional Amendment that said the President, in consultation with the Governor, would notify SEBCs. This Bill was an empty promise since there was a cap of 50% on reservation and this cap couldn’t be changed till the caste census was done to reveal the actual numbers, he stated. The Samajwadi Party’s (SP) Ramgopal Yadav argued for a caste census. He said there was speculation that the Uttar Pradesh government would delist Yadav, Gujarat and Kurmi from the backward list. The BJP government, he said, was not bringing in the caste census only so that it could amend the backward list as per its wishes. There was need to raise the 50% cap on reservation, he observed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/parliament-passes-bill-on-obc-lists/article35867968.ece
12 August 2021||New Delhi,||The aim is to make Brand India strong, says Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday said economic growth in the country is picking up pace again and the domestic industry should should take advantage of the environment that has been created for development. “The government is with you, with your every effort,” Mr. Modi said. The Prime Minister was addressing the annual session of the Confederation of Indian Industries (CII) that was attended by Tata Sons Chairman N. Chandrasekaran, Kotak Mahindra Bank MD & CEO Uday Kotak, Larsen & Toubro MD & CEO S.N. Subramaniam, and Bharat Forge CMD Baba Kalyani, among others. He added that for a self-reliant India, investments in R&D need to increase manifold, which is not possible with government efforts alone. “For the success of Atmanirbhar Bharat, a big responsibility rests on Indian industries... There is a need for partnership with industry for this. Our aim is to make Brand India strong... and for that we need to strengthen our partnership,” he said. Domestic manufacture He said there was a time when everything foreign was considered better, but this psychology has changed and citizens today prefer products that are made in India. “It is not necessary that the company is Indian, but today every Indian wants to adopt products made in India,” he said, adding that industry has to align its policy and strategy to this. Speaking at the same session, Mr. Kalyani suggested a five-pronged approach, including augmenting design and innovation capability, establishing end-to-end value chains, participation in global agendas for climate action, reducing cost of doing business, and focus on indigenous research, innovation and IPR (intellectual property rights), while Mr. Kotak said there is a need to increase financing capabilities to realise the dream of high growth. “An atmanirbhar (self-reliant) Bharat needs an atmanirbhar financial sector. The markets should be well-regulated but free to operate,” Mr. Kotak said. Mr. Chandrasekaran called for making India a $5 trillion economy by 2031, and working towards enhancing technological capabilities in areas such as electronics and 5G, developing a skill ecosystem and creating protocols and partnerships with countries for cooperation in technology, “so that the decade belongs to India in the technological sectors”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/the-aim-is-to-make-brand-india-strong-says-modi/article35867993.ece
12 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||Amid ruckus, RS clears insurance Bill||The contentious General Insurance Business (Nationalisation) Amendment Bill, 2021 was passed amidst shocking scenes in the Rajya Sabha on Wednesday despite the Opposition’s demand to send the legislation to a select committee. The Rajya Sabha passed the Bill that would allow the government to cut its share in public sector insurance companies, paving the way for more private sector participation, amid protests by the Opposition. The Bill had been passed by the Lok Sabha on August 2. The entire Opposition was united in their call to send the Bill to a select committee. YSR Congress MP Vijaysai Reddy said it must go to a select committee to understand the greater ramifications of this law. Congress MP Syed Naseer Hussain and TDP MP K. Ravindra Kumar also urged the government to send the Bill to a select committee. RJD MP Manoj K. Jha said the entire nation is watching the murder of democracy here. “I ask the Chair too how can you sit and let this happen,” Mr. Jha said. When the government forced through a discussion amid the din, CPI MP Binoy Viswam tried to climb on to the reporter’s table. BJD MP Sasmit Patra, who was in the Chair, immediately adjourned the House. Within minutes, more than 10 women marshals and nearly 50 men formed a human chain around the reporter’s table. They also blocked the way for the Opposition members to get into the well. Tussle with marshals When the House reconvened, Ripun Bora and Syed Naseer Hussain (Congress), Binoy Viswam (CPI) and CPI(M)’s Elamaram Kareem had a tussle with the marshals as they tried to push their way to the reporter’s table. Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut, who was in the second row, clambered on to the seats and leapt at the marshals. Even as the speeches were going on, the parliamentarians had an intense tussle with the marshals. Mr. Bora at one point stood up on a platform where the TV screen is kept. TMC MP Mausum Noor stood with a noose around her neck. The Congress MPs walked out in protest against what Leader of the Opposition Mallikarjun Kharge called an “insult to democracy”. “We are all peace-loving people. So many male and female marshals created a shield… Lady members are insulted here. Marshals are pushing. We are not safe and our lady members are not safe,” said TMC MP Sukhendu Sekhar Ray. Inside the House, the government introduced the National Commission for Homoeopathy (Amendment) Bill, 2021 and the National Commission for Indian System of Medicine (Amendment) Bill, 2021. Both Bills were passed after brief discussions, before the Rajya Sabha was adjourned sine die.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rajya-sabha-clears-insurance-bill/article35867988.ece
12 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||Restore Statehood to J&K, Rashtra Manch urges PM||Rashtra Manch, a political action group started by former BJP leader Yashwant Sinha, on Wednesday said Prime Minister Narendra Modi must announce the restoration of full Statehood to Jammu and Kashmir in his Independence Day speech. In a statement, the group urged the Opposition parties also to demand full Statehood for J&K, followed by free and fair elections. The Centre’s decision to revoke J&K’s special status under Article 370 and split the State into two Union Territories on August 5, 2019, was taken “without any consultation with the people, who are the principal stakeholders in a democracy, and with their elected representatives”, it stated. People of J&K were still unable to exercise their right of holding meetings and expressing their opinions openly. “Far from fulfilling the promise of attracting new investments and accelerating development, the Modi government’s actions have caused losses worth tens of thousands of crores to the economy of J&K. Lakhs of youth have lost employment and there has been a worrisome increase in suicides,” it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/restore-statehood-to-jk-rashtra-manch-urges-pm/article35867955.ece
12 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||Justice Rohinton Nariman retires today||Justice Rohinton Fali Nariman, the Supreme Court’s “Renaissance Man”, retires on Thursday. He was sui generis on the Bench, sharp, brusque, fearless and armed with repartees. He did not suffer incompetence and frivolous cases in court, dismissing both without mercy. In 1993, then Chief Justice of India M.N. Venkatachaliah amended the court’s rules to designate him senior advocate at the age of 37. He was appointed Solicitor-General in 2011. He became only the fifth lawyer in the nation’s history to be directly appointed as judge of the Supreme Court in 2014. A Parsi priest, a scholar of classical western music and theology and a published author are some of his many caps. Penguin, which is releasing his new work, Discordant Notes — The Voice of Dissent in the Last Court of Resort , in two volumes, introduces the author as “an institution in himself”. Justice Nariman almost single-handedly steered the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code in its teething years. Of the 164 Supreme Court judgments on the code, 81 were authored by him. Justice Nariman’s judgments in his seven-year tenure tap the myriad nerves of our social and legal fabric. The Supreme Court amended its rules following his judgment that review petitions filed by condemned prisoners should be heard in open court and not within the judges’ chambers. He struck down Section 66A of the Information Technology Act which armed the State with power to send people to prison for “uncomfortable” social media messages. In his judgment in the Shreya Singhal case, Justice Nariman said, “The freedom of speech and the Press is the Ark of the Covenant of Democracy because public criticism is essential to the working of its institutions.” He cleansed a colonial smear from the Indian Penal Code by decriminalising homosexuality. He was part of the majority on the Bench which held that women aged between 10 and 50 years cannot be barred from the Sabarimala temple on the biological ground of menstruation. Later, when the case came up for review, his dissent shone as much as his earlier majority opinion. His absence on the Ayodhya Bench was stark. His judgment on instant talaq found the Muslim man’s “capricious and whimsical” right “manifestly arbitrary”. He held political parties accountable for the ‘criminal’ candidates they field in elections. His last judgment on August 10 chastised the lawmakers. He urged Parliament to take away the Speaker’s power to decide disqualification under the Tenth Schedule. He said an independent tribunal should be formed for this function.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/justice-rohinton-nariman-retires-today/article35867957.ece
12 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||Debate on OBC Bill shows new avatar of Mandal politics||The debate on the Constitution (One Hundred and Twenty-Seventh Amendment) Bill, 2021 in both Houses of Parliament during the monsoon session saw growing demands by political parties across the board, including National Democratic Alliance (NDA) allies, that a caste-based census be undertaken. Such an exercise, revealing the true extent of the Other Backward Classes (OBC) population, will lead to raising the 50% cap on reservations currently in place. The two demands made with more strength than before are significant in the way they point to the fulcrum around which Mandal politics, in its third avatar, is likely to revolve. Regional parties, especially those that came up following the implementation of the Mandal Commission recommendations in the 1990s, are at the forefront of these demands. In the past few elections, especially in Uttar Pradesh and Bihar, these parties have seen a successful campaign by the BJP, headed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, in parsing the non-dominant sections of the OBC from the dominant communities belonging to that category, reaching out to them to build a powerful coalition of upper castes and non-dominant communities among the OBCs and among the Scheduled Castes (SC) as well. In ticket distribution and in terms of Ministry berths and in certain legislative interventions, the BJP has managed to make its version of Mandal work for it, along with a powerful Hindutva rhetoric. The Union government under Mr. Modi, however, has not revealed the findings of the Socio-Economic Caste Census (SECC) done in 2011, and the Justice G. Rohini Commission set up to look into sub-categorisation of OBCs for reservations in jobs and educational institutions is yet to submit its report and is currently on its 11th extension since being set up in October 2017. Demands by regional parties such as the Samajwadi Party (SP), the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) and the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) for the BJP to empirically establish the correct number of OBCs and take the matter to its logical conclusion of raising the 50% cap on reservations are, therefore, seen as ways to call the BJP’s bluff on its commitment to OBCs and seize the political momentum as well. Coupled with this demand, the Mandal parties especially point to the 10% sub-categorisation within the general category reservation for Economically Weaker Sections (EWS) among the upper castes. The message being conveyed by regional parties is clear — that the BJP’s actions over the OBCs is to be balanced out by imperatives to keep upper castes on its side. For the BJP, despite having the largest number of OBC MPs, it is important to balance the upper caste sentiments, especially in Uttar Pradesh where they make up nearly 18-20% of voters. Delicate situation It puts the government led by the BJP at the Centre in a delicate situation. A situation that party MPs say could be ameliorated by finally pushing through a sub-categorisation plan for reservations in jobs. “It is an inevitable development and it would be better if the party pushes for it and seizes the initiative,” a former Union Minister and current MP from the BJP told The Hindu . There is speculation that a fresh SECC may be undertaken after the 2021 census is concluded. The forces of social and political mobility unleashed by the Mandal Commission recommendations are unfurling in each decade in a different way. For political parties, especially the BJP, it may be time to draft plans to re-engineer their social engineering formula, this time to accommodate the third coming of Mandal politics.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/debate-on-obc-bill-a-new-avatar-of-mandal-politics/article35867977.ece
12 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||Fill consumer disputes panel vacancies in eight weeks: SC||The Supreme Court on Wednesday gave the Centre and the States eight weeks to fill the vacancies in the consumer disputes redressal commissions. “Is there some muhurrat required for taking steps? States are defeating the purpose for which the consumer protection laws have been made... they have been made for the benefit of people,” Justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul, heading a Bench, including Justice Hrishikesh Roy, said. The Bench asked the Centre to conduct a comprehensive “legislative impact study” on the Consumer Protection Act, 2019. “We want to know the impact of this legislation on litigation,” Justice Kaul said. The court gave the government four weeks to complete the study. When the government complained about the paucity of time, Justice Kaul said, “You make legislation instantly. You rush through so many things, you can rush through this too...” ‘Is it deliberate?’ The court asked if the governments, both at the Centre and in the States, had deliberately kept the vacancies pending to dissuade people from filing complaints. “You don’t want complaints to be processed, for citizens to get justice? There is no manpower, there is no infrastructure.... People get fed up. You say ‘we will get this thing done’ or ‘we will get that thing done’, and then nothing happens. You seem to have only vacancies and not appointments,” Justice Kaul slammed the governments. The legislative intent behind the Consumer Protection Act was to empower ordinary citizens, he noted. “However, the ground reality is different. There is little attempt made to translate the legislative intent to administrative infrastructure, facilities, staff, members in order for the functioning of the consumer disputes commissions,” the Bench stated. The Centre had dilly-dallied over the appointments of members in the National Commission. Additional Solicitor-General Aman Lekhi, for the Centre, said there was litigation in the court regarding the tenure of tribunal members. The Centre was waiting for its outcome. Mr. Lekhi also referred to the recent passing of the Tribunal Reforms Bill of 2021, which had the same provisions regarding tenure and so on as the Tribunals Reforms (Rationalisation and Conditions of Service) Ordinance, 2021 that was struck down by the court in the recent verdict in the Madras Bar Association case. The to and fro of litigation and legislation had caused “confusion”, delaying appointments. Justice Kaul addressed the law officer, “Somebody will keep challenging. Now, somebody will challenge this law too... That does not mean you stop appointments. Mr. Lekhi, when you want to do something, there is no ‘confusion’. My question is simple. You have appointed four persons, when are you appointing the remaining three people? You need to have the requisite number of people to deal with the cases filed”. The court said if it could ask the States to comply with a eight-week deadline, it could “jolly well” ask the Centre to do the same thing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/fill-consumer-disputes-panel-vacancies-in-eight-weeks-sc/article35867985.ece
12 August 2021||Patna,||Bihar teacher sacked for selling gunny bags||A schoolteacher in Bihar’s Katihar district was suspended after his video went viral on social media recently in which he was seen selling gunny bags used to supply mid-day meals (MDM) in schools. The Bihar Primary School Teachers Association (BPSTA) has condemned the suspension calling it “too stringent a measure”. Mohd. Tamijuddin, posted at the Government Primary School, Kantadih in Katihar district, was seen selling empty and torn gunny bags at a market crossroad urging people to buy “strong gunny bags of Bihar government for Rs. 10 each”. The video is said to have gone viral on social media a few days back. Mohd. Tamijuddin was suspended on August 8 and departmental proceedings were initiated against him. Later, he appealed to Chief Minister Nitish Kumar to revoke his suspension as he was only “obeying government’s order”. “I tried to sell used gunny bags first in the school. But no takers turned up there as the government has fixed the price of Rs. 10 for each bag. So I decided to sell them in the market just to obey the order of the department,” the teacher said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bihar-teacher-sacked-for-selling-gunny-bags/article35868362.ece
12 August 2021||New Delhi,||New Cong. whips for RS||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi has appointed Rajya Sabha members Syed Naseer Hussain and Chaya Verma as the party’s whips in the Upper House. With Mr. Hussain, Chief Whip Jairam Ramesh and Leader of the Opposition Mallikarjun Kharge representing Karnataka, certain sections are wondering why both the whips were not appointed from Hindi heartland States. However, Ms. Verma is from Chhattisgarh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/new-cong-whips-for-rs/article35868361.ece
12 August 2021||New Delhi,||Rahul’s offending tweet removed, Twitter tells HC||Twitter on Wednesday informed the Delhi High Court that it had removed an offending tweet posted by Congress leader Rahul Gandhi sharing a picture of himself with the parents of a nine-year-old alleged rape and murder victim in the capital. Twitter further said his account had also been blocked as his August 5 tweet was in breach of its policy. Following Twitter’s submission, a Bench of Chief Justice D.N. Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh posted the hearing on a petition seeking the initiation of legal action against Mr. Gandhi for September 27. During the brief hearing, the Bench got miffed by advocate for petitioner Makarand Suresh Mhadlekar, who disputed the submission made by Twitter’s counsel before the court. “The counsel for respondent number 4 [Twitter] says they have removed [the tweet] even without order from the court. There is no reason to disbelieve it. If this is your attitude, we are not issuing notice. We will see on next date,” the Bench remarked. Senior advocate Sajan Poovayya, for the social media platform, said, “We have locked that account and the tweet is no longer available. It violates our policy as well. This is the status as on date”. In his petition, Mr. Mhadlekar, who says he is a social activist, claimed that Mr. Gandhi posted a photo of himself with the victim's family members on Twitter on August 5.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rahuls-offending-tweet-removed-twitter-tells-hc/article35867950.ece
12 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||Wreckage of Army copter located in J&K reservoir||The wreckage of the Advanced Light helicopter (ALH) that crashed into the Ranjit Sagar reservoir at Kathua in Jammu and Kashmir last week has been located, the Chandimandir-based Western Command of the Army said on Wednesday.A search is on for its two pilots. “The wreckage of the Army helicopter that had crashed into the Ranjit Sagar reservoir has been identified at a depth of approximately 80 m from the surface of the reservoir. Heavy duty remotely operated vehicles are being flown in to assist the recovery operations,” the Western Command said on Twitter. Special equipment The weaponised ALH had taken off from Pathankot on a routine sortie and crashed into the reservoir on August 3. Special sonar equipment flown in from Kochi was being employed for the search. Equipment from Israel was also being pressed into service, an official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/wreckage-of-army-copter-located-in-jk-reservoir/article35867953.ece
12 August 2021||August 12 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Backchannel talk was on before Balakot’||The authors also conclude that Kulbhushan Jadhav, the former naval commander accused of planning terror attacks and awaiting an appeal on a death sentence in Pakistan, was an “asset” but not an “officer” of the Indian intelligence agencies. He had been “trapped” by the ISI. India has flatly denied those charges, and said that Mr. Jadhav retired from service in 2001 and was kidnapped by Pakistani agencies in Iran. However, the book says many Indian intelligence agencies had shown interest in recruiting Mr. Jadhav due to his access from Iran to Pakistan, and that he was lured by the ISI to Karachi to meet a Baloch contact. “According to some of those we interviewed in IB [Intelligence Bureau], R&AW and Indian Navy as well as ISI and military intelligence in Pakistan, many agencies were suddenly interested in a man like [Jadhav] who had the wherewithal to travel with cover… There was already plenty of R&AW investment in terms of assets and officers in Iranian Baluchistan and at Chabahar, but to have Jadhav, who could travel widely, and even to get down to Karachi, would make him exceptional,” Mr. Levy said in an interview. “Not as an officer, trained, deployed and backed up by an institution — but as an asset, we were told, a person who reported back to handlers and supervisors, with [his] insights,” he added. In the book, the authors, who had rare and unprecedented access to India’s national security establishment, refer to themselves as a “Gavrilov channel”, akin to a telephone hotline set up between the U.S. and Russian spy agencies, the CIA and the KGB respectively, during the Cold War. While Indian officials were hesitant to provide access at first, the authors said they yielded to the possibility of receiving near real-time information from Pakistani intelligence, given the almost frozen lines of communication at the time. ‘Doval called us back’ “Doval called us back,” write the authors about gaining clearance for the project, quoting the NSA as saying, “There is no detail that is too small when it comes to the ISI. I need to study every scintilla. They are our forever enemy and we can never, ever know enough.” On the Pakistani side, the authors say they got similar clearances from unnamed military and intelligence officials. The book, Spy Stories: Inside the Secret World of The R.A.W. (R&AW) and I.S.I. , which is releasing this week, traces the career of Mr. Doval through the past few decades, especially from the 1999 Indian Airlines’ flight IC 814 hijack, which the NSA describes as a “diplomatic failure”, to the 2000 Parliament attack, and more recent events in Kashmir, including the 2016 Pathankot and 2019 Pulwama attacks in which 40 personnel were killed, as well as the retaliatory Balakot strikes by the Indian Air Force. Mr. Levy and Ms. Scott-Clark quote from interviews given by Mr. Doval, Mr. Khanna, as well as former Defence Intelligence chief Lt. Gen Vinod Khandare and former IB chief Asif Ibrahim, who were members of the National Security Council Secretariat (NSCS).  The Hindu attempted to reach each of the officials named, but none of them agreed to comment. This is the first such book to have been released after the government’s new civil service rules amendment was passed in June this year that gags officials from speaking or writing about their operations, without the publications being cleared. When asked, Mr. Levy said “nothing” had been cleared by the government however, and the book contains details from taped conversations with the senior officials as well as access to intelligence and analysis reports in both countries. Travel involved In particular, Mr. Levy and Ms. Scott-Clark describe their travels between Rawalpindi and Delhi in the immediate aftermath of the Pulwama bombing on February 14, 2019. Within a few hours of the bombing, they were contacted by former ISI counterterrorism wing (C-wing) chief Lt. Gen. Nusrat Naeem, who wanted to distance Pakistani agencies from the attack, believed to be carried out by Jaish bombers connected closely to Masood Azhar. The authors say Pakistani officials said they were worried about Financial Action Task Force (FATF) sanctions, and delicate negotiations between the U.S. and the Taliban, and would not have risked a conflagration with India at that point. The authors also said that reports by the military, the Border Security Force, the Defence Intelligence Agency (DIA) and the R&AW had concluded that the Pulwama attacks had been organised by Jaish in order to provoke a “regional war”, and that Jaish leaders had planned the attack from their “new base” in Helmand, Afghanistan, and not Pakistan. “The data was not what Delhi projected, after Pulwama, instead preferring to humiliate the Pakistan military,” the book says, adding that in response to the Pakistani messages, Mr. Doval had said that a soon-to-be-released report on Pulwama would “lay bare the ISI’s involvement”, with the justification for the Balakot strikes. On another occasion, the authors describe Mr. Doval meeting a Saudi delegation in his office on a bilateral visit, adding that the “Saudis continued their role as intermediary, bringing news from Rawalpindi”. India’s official policy has been that India-Pakistan issues can only be resolved bilaterally, and there is no role for “third parties” in talks. The authors travelled between Rawalpindi and Delhi on the same day on occasion, collecting and disseminating information on both sides, the book says. They describe being ushered in to a “darkened situation room” in Mr. Doval’s offices in Sardar Patel Bhawan, to pitch their idea of writing a book that pits the working styles of the R&AW against the ISI, drawing parallels to books and films brought out in the U.S. and Israel that offer some insight into the world of spying and intelligence.  Saudis continued their role as intermediary, bringing news from Rawalpindi||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/backchannel-talk-was-on-before-balakot/article35867965.ece
12 August 2021||August 12 2021 00:00 IST,||10 killed, 60 missing after Himachal landslip||Teams from the Army, the National Disaster Response Force, the Indo-Tibetan Border Police, the Central Industrial Security Force, the police and the district administration are involved in the rescue and relief operations. Deputy Commissioner (Kinnaur) Abid Hussain Sadiq said the rescue operation was under way and would take a while.  Rescue operation “Drone images show that debris is around 10-15 feet high and spread across 50-100 metres. So the rescue operation will take some time. The conductor who was rescued from the bus has stated that 28 people were inside the bus. It looks like that the operation will continue through the night,” Kinnaur Deputy Commissioner Abid Hussain Sadiq said. Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur said rescue and relief operations were in progress on a war footing. “A few persons, including the bus driver and conductor, have been rescued, and efforts are on to evacuate the remaining people buried under the debris.” Arrangements have been made for providing medical treatment to the injured and all possible help will be given and the district administration had been directed to provide all possible help to the injured,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/10-killed-60-missing-after-himachal-landslip/article35867966.ece
12 August 2021||New Delhi,||Cong. announces panel for U.P. Assembly poll||Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Wednesday announced its election committee for the Uttar Pradesh Assembly poll next year. The 38-member panel includes U.P. unit chief Ajay Kumar Lallu; and former Union Ministers Salman Khurshid, Rajeev Shukla and R.P.N. Singh. The national presidents or chairpersons of the All India Congress Committee (AICC) organisations from U.P.; State heads of the party’s frontal organisations; and vice-presidents and general secretaries of the Uttar Pradesh Congress Committee (UPCC) will be its ex officio members.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cong-announces-panel-for-up-assembly-poll/article35867969.ece
12 August 2021||New Delhi,||Opposition leaders to march from Parliament||A government that did not allow the elected members of the Opposition benches to raise issues of public importance is not good for democracy, the Congress said on Wednesday. Addressing presspersons after the Lok Sabha adjourned sine die , Congress leader in the House Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury criticised the government for curtailing the monsoon session of Parliament. Opposition members were not allowed to speak on issues such as the hike in fuel prices, farmers agitation and farm laws, and other issues that pertained to the common man, he noted. K. Suresh, Congress chief whip in the Lok Sabha, said Opposition leaders, including former Congress president Rahul Gandhi, will march from Parliament to Vijay Chowk on Thursday morning to tell people that “the Modi government isn’t ready to discuss burning issues of this country and curtailed the session”. Sudden adjournment Mr. Chowdhury said, “It is not the task of the government to say who is right or wrong... Such a government that focuses on its whims and fancies is not good for the country and is dangerous for democracy. First, we were told the House will run till August 13, but the government today suddenly decided ‘no need to run the house further’ and the House was suddenly adjourned.” The Lok Sabha, which got under way on July 19, was adjourned two days ahead of schedule because of repeated disruptions from the Opposition. Mr. Chowdhury claimed that the government and the ruling BJP spared no opportunity to portray the Opposition in a bad light and “deflect the truth”. “We sought discussions on COVID-19, unbridled price rise, fuel price rise, farmers issues. We wanted a repeal of the farm laws and when the Pegasus issue came up, we repeatedly tried to tell the government the issue is not small. It has put a question mark on national security... It kept escaping a discussion and till the end did not allow a debate on Pegasus,” he stated. Objecting to the manner in which Bills were being passed, he said, “We have seen that every Bill is passed within five to seven minutes and the government has created a new record on this front.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/congress-criticises-govt-for-curtailing-ls-session/article35867971.ece
12 August 2021||New Delhi,||RS members’ protest an act of sacrilege: Naidu||In a voice choked with emotion, Rajya Sabha Chairman M. Venkaiah Naidu on Wednesday castigated House members for Tuesday’s events that saw some members protesting and standing on the table of the Secretary-General and reporters. Mr. Naidu called the protests an “act of sacrilege”. “As I spent a sleepless night last night, I struggled to find the provocation or reason for forcing this august House to hit such a low yesterday,” he said. The table area constituted the sanctum sanctorum of the House and anything said or done destroying the sacredness of such a place amounted to sacrilege, he stated. “In our temples, devotees are allowed only up to the sanctum sanctorum and not beyond. Entering this sanctum sanctorum of the House in itself is an act of sacrilege and it has been happening as routine over the years. I am distressed by the way this sacredness has been destroyed yesterday,” he observed. Such acts were “propelled by a sense of competition among some sections of the House, since the commencement of this monsoon session, he added. Mr. Naidu appealed to the collective conscious of the House to “seriously reflect on what happened yesterday and explore remedies”. “Failure to do so would certainly render our parliamentary democracy irrelevant,” he noted. Each member had to make a choice to be either the best parliamentarian or the worst disruptor, he added. Mr. Naidu adjourned the House after reading out his statement for an hour.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rs-members-protest-an-act-of-sacrilege-naidu/article35867975.ece
12 August 2021||GUWAHATI,||Kaziranga guards get satellite phones||Kaziranga has become the first national park in India to have been equipped with satellite phones, officials said on Wednesday. The decision to provide satellite phones for boosting anti-poaching measures was taken at a meeting chaired by Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma on May 27. The State’s Chief Secretary, Jishnu Barua, handed over 10 such phones to the Kaziranga forest personnel. The satellite phones will be used in pockets of the park’s six ranges with no wireless or mobile connectivity. “Kaziranga has become the first in the country to use satellite phones, which are generally used by the law-enforcing agencies. The satellite phones will give an edge to the forest personnel over the poachers and also during emergencies like floods,” Forest Minister Parimal Suklabaidya said. The public is barred from using satellite phones in India. The Assam State Disaster Management Authority had procured the 10 satellite phones for Kaziranga at an estimated cost of Rs. 16 lakh. The park authorities will bear the monthly expenses for the service provided by Bharat Sanchar Nigam Ltd.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/kaziranga-guards-get-satellite-phones/article35867983.ece
12 August 2021||New Delhi,||New Congress whips chosen for Rajya Sabha||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi has appointed Rajya Sabha members Syed Naseer Hussain and Chaya Verma as the party’s whips in the Upper House. With Mr. Hussain, Chief Whip Jairam Ramesh and Leader of the Opposition Mallikarjun Kharge representing Karnataka, certain sections are wondering why both the whips were not appointed from Hindi heartland States. However, Ms. Verma is from Chhattisgarh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/new-congress-whips-chosen-for-rajya-sabha/article35868197.ece
12 August 2021||August 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Worship, made simple||Bringing one’s palms together and doing an anjali to Lord Narayana is the easiest way to worship Him, said Akkarakkani Srinidhi in a discourse. This simple act is enough to please Him. Alavandar, in his Stotra Ratnam, says that whoever offers an anjali to the Lord, at whatever time of the day, and even if he were to do this only once, it is enough to wipe out all his sorrows, and to contribute to his welfare. Alavandar, addressing the Lord, says that an anjali offered to Him will never be in vain. As Alavandar points out, the beauty of anjali is that anyone can do it. There are no rules about when to do it. No special rituals are to be followed to do an anjali. And yet, there are those who do not even do this simple act. Nammazhvar says that it is their fate that keeps them from doing that which is good for them. In the Yuddha Kanda of Valmiki Ramayana, Rama tells Sugreeva that should a man approach one with folded palms (anjali), then regardless of whether that man is an enemy, or a beggar, or one seeking refuge, he should not be killed. Anjali is saranagati (surrender) through the body. Valmiki’s use of the word ‘deena,’ indicates surrender through the manas, and the poet’s use of the word ‘yaacantam’ indicates surrender through one’s words. Vedanta Desika, in his Anjali Vaibhavam, says that if the Lord were about to punish us for our sins, we must direct towards Him the weapon known as anjali! The Lord will melt with compassion and drop the idea of punishing us. Every act has a purpose, but once we achieve our target, we no longer continue the same task. But when you do anjali, you get moksha, and in Sri Vaikuntha, what does one do, but offer anjali to the Lord? So anjali is something that continues even after the goal (moksha) is attained.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/worship-made-simple/article35867982.ece
12 August 2021||Patna,||Body of journalist found||The police on Tuesday recovered the body of a missing journalist in a village in East Champaran district of Bihar. Manish Kumar Singh, who worked for a private news channel, went missing on Sunday. The police said the body was recovered from a pond at Mathlohiyar-Gadditola under the Harsidhi police station. “Two persons have been arrested in the case in which 10 others too have been named accused,” Santosh Kumar, sub-divisional police officer, Areraj, said. Manish’s father Sanjay Kumar Singh, who is associated with a vernacular newspaper, had filed a police complaint.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/body-of-journalist-found/article35867960.ece
12 August 2021||New Delhi,||Birla meets officials after complaint||Taking cognisance of a complaint filed by Congress leader and Chairman of the Standing Committee on Information Technology (IT) Shashi Tharoor, Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla is learnt to have met Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla, IT Secretary Ajay Sawhney and Telecom Secretary Anshu Prakash over the last few days. Mr. Tharoor wrote to Mr. Birla on July 29, a day after the three Secretaries did not appear before the committee. They were called to depose on “Citizens Data Security and Privacy”, which would have also entailed deliberations on the alleged Pegasus cyberattack. Sought exemption The three Secretaries, sought exemption from appearance at the very last minute, citing a variety of reasons. As per the rules, officials can skip the meeting only if permitted by the committee chairperson. “It is important to share that as Chairperson, I did not excuse these witnesses from attendance,” Mr. Tharoor wrote. The meeting had to be cancelled after the BJP members boycotted it, accusing Mr. Tharoor of using the committee for “forwarding the Congress agenda”. The BJP MPs, though present, refused to sign on the attendance register.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/birla-meets-officials-after-complaint/article35867976.ece
12 August 2021||New Delhi,||Mandaviya counters Sisodia’s claim||Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya on Wednesday countered the Delhi government’s claim that the Centre had not made any enquiries regarding the number of deaths due to oxygen shortage during the second wave of COVID-19. Delhi’s Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia had said no letter had been received from the Centre on the matter. Mr. Mandaviya tweeted, “Dear Sisodia, Here is the copy of the mail sent by my ministry to the Delhi government on 26th July. It’s not too late yet! By August 13 you can send the data so that we can answer the question to Parliament. After reviewing with your officers, please send the necessary data as soon as possible.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mandaviya-counters-sisodias-claim/article35867981.ece
12 August 2021||Geneva,||WHO decision on Covaxin EUA in Sept.||A top vaccines official at the World Health Organization says the agency expects to make a decision in September on an emergency use authorisation for the Indian-made COVID-19 vaccine made by Bharat Biotech, a shot that has yet to be authorised by any Western regulatory authorities. Mariangela Simao, a WHO Assistant Director-General for vaccines, says the UN health agency’s assessment of the Bharat Biotech vaccine was “quite advanced” and officials hoped for a decision by mid-September. Few studies have been published on the shot. Indian researchers have yet to share any advanced research about the vaccine, which has been authorised and used in India. Scientists in India say the vaccine is about 78% effective, but there are questions about how it performs in the real world, including against variants. There are many vaccines in the final stages of the pipeline, Dr. Simao said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/who-decision-on-covaxin-eua-in-sept/article35867986.ece
12 August 2021||New Delhi,||Google rolls out features for child safety||To give kids and teens a safer experience online, Google has announced a host of changes in its policies and products to limit their exposure to explicit content, including blocking advertising targeted at the under-18 age group. In the “coming weeks and months”, the technology giant will roll out a new policy that will enable anyone under 18, or their parent or guardian, to request the removal of their images from Google Image results. “Of course, removing an image from Search doesn’t remove it from the web, but we believe this change will help give young people more control of their images online,” the company said in a blog. It would expand safeguards to prevent age-sensitive ad categories from being shown to teens, and block ad targeting based on the age, gender or interests of people under 18. “We’ll start rolling out these updates across our products globally over the coming months. Our goal is to ensure we’re providing additional protections and delivering age-appropriate experiences for ads on Google,” it stated. The company would also roll out changes for YouTube, Search, and Play Store.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/google-rolls-out-features-for-child-safety/article35867989.ece
12 August 2021||Jaipur,||7 workers feared dead in Rajasthan mine collapse||Seven labourers, including three women, were feared dead when an illegal quartz mine in Bhilwara district of Rajasthan caved in on Wednesday. Two bodies were pulled out. Five persons were missing under the rubble till late evening, and rescue operations are on. Though the Mines Department seized the quarry and its equipment about three months ago, the owners restarted operations after their release from jail last week.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/7-workers-feared-dead-in-rajasthan-mine-collapse/article35868193.ece
12 August 2021||Mumbai,||Maharashtra announces Rajiv Gandhi Award for excellence in IT||Days after Prime Minister Narendra Modi renamed the Rajiv Gandhi Khel Ratna Award as Major Dhyan Chand Khel Ratna Award, the Maharashtra government on Tuesday announced Rajiv Gandhi Award for Excellence in Information Technology. Minister of State for Information and Technology Satej Patil said the award would be announced on August 20, the birth anniversary of the former Prime Minister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/maharashtra-announces-rajiv-gandhi-award-for-excellence-in-it/article35867949.ece
12 August 2021||New Delhi,||Court allows confiscation of assets in drug trafficking case||A special court in Mohali has allowed confiscation of assets worth about Rs. 10 crore in a drug trafficking case involving former Arjuna awardee wrestler Jagdish Singh Bhola, who had also served as a Deputy Superin- tendent of Police in Punjab. Bhola was dismissed from the Punjab police after his role in drug trafficking surfaced.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/court-allows-confiscation-of-assets-in-drug-trafficking-case/article35867952.ece
12 August 2021||New Delhi,||19 Bills passed in Rajya Sabha||A total of 19 Bills were passed in the Rajya Sabha in the monsoon session. About 76 hours were lost due to disruptions. The BJP sought the creation of a special panel to look into the incidents of the last two days, when the Opposition protests turned violent.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/19-bills-passed-in-rajya-sabha/article35868195.ece
12 August 2021||Mumbai,||HC to hear Kangana’s plea to quash FIR against her on Sept. 13||The Bombay High Court on Wednesday said it will hear actor Kangana Ranaut’s plea seeking to quash the FIR against her for “promoting enmity between groups on grounds of religion” through her tweets on September 13. The petitioner said Ms. Ranaut’s tweets on Islam was a big insult to the religion. He said her tweets were communal, malicious, biased and a deliberate attempt to create disturbance in the society at large.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hc-to-hear-kanganas-plea-to-quash-fir-against-her-on-sept-13/article35867961.ece
12 August 2021||Aruppukottai,TAMIL NADU||86 dogs vaccinated||A day after a stray dog went on a biting-spree injuring 29 persons on Tuesday, Aruppukottai municipal officials administered anti-rabies vaccine to 86 dogs, including pet ones on Wednesday, on instructions of Collector, J. Meghanath Reddy. The municipal officials conducted a camp where pet animals and stray dogs were vaccinated. The Collector has also instructed the Municipal Commissioner to train municipal workers on catching dogs and safely handling them||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/86-dogs-vaccinated/article35868415.ece
12 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19 cluster emerges in Kilpauk||Twenty persons have tested positive for COVID-19 in and around Varadhammal Garden Street in the Kilpauk area, following a religious function organised in the locality earlier this month. More 300 people reportedly took part in the function. The Greater Chennai Corporation, which identified the cluster a few days ago, has initiated containment measures, including tracking and testing of all the people and their contacts who took part in the function. Sharanya Ari, Regional Deputy Commissioner (Central) of the GCC, who visited the area on Wednesday, said that around 320 samples had been collected so far for RT-PCR tests. She said that the GCC became alert when one of the organisers of the function tested positive a few days ago. “We immediately began tracing and testing all the people who took part in the function and their contacts,” she said. Testing of the same group would be done again in two or three days to detect any persons getting infected after a delay. Although the condition of all the 20 was stable, she said they had been taken to hospitals and not allowed to quarantine at home to avoid the risk of further infection to others. Barricades had been kept in the area with banners showing the prevalence of COVID-19 in the locality. However, officials said that stringent restriction of movement had not been enforced as a large number of people who were not found to be contacts during tracing had to commute to work and other essential needs. Highlighting that none of the 20 persons who tested positive had taken a single dose of vaccine, Ms. Ari said that many in the area were found to be unvaccinated. She said a special vaccination camp would be organised in the locality shortly. Meanwhile, the GCC on Wednesday said that stringent action under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code and the Disaster Management Act would be taken against those violating COVID-19 restrictions. A statement issued by the civic body said that an explanation had been sought from those who organised the function in Varadhammal Garden Street. Reiterating that organising religious or other functions in public places were prohibited, the release stressed that only 50 people were allowed for marriages. Masking, sanitising and other COVID-19 appropriate behaviour must be followed. Inspection of halls The GCC officials have inspected 2,812 wedding halls and restaurants and violations were found in 60 places and a fine of Rs. 2.29 lakh had been imposed. Since May 2021, a fine of Rs. 3.7 crore had been imposed on individuals and organisations violating the COVID-19 lockdown restrictions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/covid-19-cluster-emerges-in-kilpauk/article35868288.ece
12 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Traffic diversion for I-Day rehearsal||The city traffic police has announced traffic diversions in view of the rehearsal for Independence Day celebrations, which will be held at Fort St. George on Thursday. In this connection, the following modifications in the movement of traffic will be given effect on Thursday from 7 a.m. till the end of the rehearsal at 10 a.m. The stretch on Kamarajar Salai from Napier Bridge up to RBI Subway on Rajaji Salai and Flag Staff Road will be closed. Vehicles heading towards Parry’s Corner on Kamarajar Salai should take Swami Sivananda Salai, Anna Salai, Muthusamy Bridge, Muthusamy Road, R.A. Mandram and NFS Road. Vehicles proceeding towards Kamarajar Salai from Rajaji Salai should take NFS Road, R.A. Mandram, Muthusamy Road, Muthusamy Bridge, Anna Salai and Wallajah Road. Vehicles proceeding from Anna Salai towards Parry’s Corner and Kamarajar Salai via Flag Staff Road should take Muthusamy Bridge, Muthusamy Road, R.A. Mandram and NFS Road to reach Parry’s Corner, and Anna Salai and Wallajah Road to reach Kamarajar Salai respectively.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/traffic-diversion-for-i-day-rehearsal/article35868308.ece
12 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Daily case count stands at 1,964 in T.N.||On a day when fresh COVID-19 cases stood at 1,964 in Tamil Nadu, five districts, including Chennai and the neighbouring districts of Chengalpattu and Tiruvallur, accounted for nearly 45% of the infections. The State recorded a marginal rise in cases, a day after the number of persons who tested positive fell below 1,900 after 11 days. Chennai, Chengalpattu and Tiruvallur recorded more cases than the previous day. While 243 persons tested positive in Chennai, compared with 209 on Tuesday, there were 140 cases in Chengalpattu, as against 105 the previous day. Tiruvallur’s tally rose from 79 to 98. In Coimbatore, 229 persons tested positive, while Erode reported 167 cases. Cases dipped in districts such as Salem and Thanjavur. There were 85 cases in Salem, 78 in Tiruchi, 77 in Thanjavur, 75 in Cuddalore and 73 in Tiruppur. The fresh cases took the State’s overall tally to 25,81,094. There were 20,382 active cases. These included 2,259 patients in Coimbatore and 2,048 patients in Chennai. A total of 1,917 persons were discharged after treatment. The total number of recovered patients has gone up to 25,26,317. Another 28 persons succumbed to the infection, taking the toll to 34,395. There were three deaths each in Chennai, Nagapattinam, Salem and Tiruchi. A total of 1,62,791 samples were tested. A total of 3,91,65,548 samples have so far been tested. Another private laboratory — Swarna Kamalam Multi Specialty Hospitals Pvt. Ltd., Madurai — was approved for testing. The total number of testing facilities in the private sector has gone up to 216.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/daily-case-count-stands-at-1964-in-tn/article35868300.ece
12 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Anna varsity V-C meets Higher Education Minister||Anna University’s newly appointed Vice-Chancellor R. Velraj met Higher Education Minister K. Ponmudi in the Secretariat on Wednesday before taking charge. The Minister said the V-C had discussed the plans he had for the University. The V-C had discussed about changing syllabus to increase job opportunities. Towards this, he said he would be designing a syllabus that would help students to be practically prepared for industry. Students pursuing professional courses also need to be oriented towards social service.Students will be trained in industries. The syllabus will also be designed in such a way that students would be able to take up research. “I have confidence that he will carry out the wishes of the Chief Minister who wants to see the University achieve global status. The department will work along with the V-C to help him achieve it,” the Minister told mediapersons. Mr. Velraj said that the aim of the University is to evolve programmes and develop infrastructure so that in 20 years’ time a student of the University would win the Nobel Prize. Soon after assuming charge, he told mediapersons that the institution would lend an ear to the government’s suggestions and function accordingly. “The Minister has given three suggestions to upgrade the University. Primary among them is the teaching-learning process. Blended learning is needed (for the students). The government has said it would implement blended learning first in technical education,” he said. The V-C said the University’s syllabus would be divided into two parts, keeping in mind that some students may be interested in research while others may want to be socially involved in industries. “For 20% students who are oriented towards design and research, the syllabus would be designed in such a way that they may pursue research. The second type of syllabus would be for students who wish to enter the industry. The courses would be structured to enable their seamless entry into the industry,” he said. The government had also assured him that the University would be supported to develop infrastructure, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/anna-varsity-v-c-meets-minister-ponmudi/article35868323.ece
12 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||150 families facing eviction in R.K. Nagar to get houses||The issuance of tokens to allot houses for a majority of the remaining families to be evicted from along the banks of the Cooum in Dr. Radhakrishnan Nagar in Arumbakkam commenced on Wednesday. According to government estimates, 243 families in informal settlements in the locality had to be evicted as part of the Cooum River Restoration Project. Although the eviction process began by the end of July, it was subsequently halted temporarily following opposition from a section of people and political parties. Ninety-three families were evicted and allotted houses at the apartments constructed by the Tamil Nadu Slum Clearance Board’s (TNSCB) at Kesava Pillai Park in Pulianthope. Others in the locality had agreed to vacate, provided they were allotted houses at the same place. The Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC), the TNSCB and the Public Works Department put up a notice on Tuesday in the locality that issuance of tokens for allotment of houses for the remaining 150 beneficiaries would commence on Wednesday. A senior official from the Corporation said they were not expecting to complete the exercise in one day as they wanted to be thorough in identifying all the eligible beneficiaries. Accordingly, a considerable number of beneficiaries were identified and tokens were issued by officials who camped in the locality on Wednesday. While the process is expected to continue, many families expressed dissatisfaction that they were not on the list of beneficiaries as they did not meet the conditions stipulated by the government or lacked the documents demanded by the officials. One of the persons, speaking on anonymity, said his family had been living there for decades. “Naturally, our family has expanded. I have three siblings and each of us is living in separate settlements. However, the government is allocating only one to us,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/150-families-facing-eviction-in-rk-nagar-to-get-houses/article35868290.ece
12 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Ophthalmologists flag sharp rise in myopia among children||Ophthalmologists have reported a sharp rise in myopia in children in the past year. Some doctors report as much as 25% rise in onset and 100% progression in children with myopia. Myopia is a condition where objects at a distance are not clearly visible and a person must wear corrective spectacles. Manjula Jayakumar, senior consultant paediatric ophthalmologist at Dr. Agarwal’s Eye Hospital, says, “We have seen 25% in onset and 100% in progression of myopia during the pandemic. Myopia can lead to complications during adolescence or adulthood like early onset of cataract, retinal detachment, glaucoma, myopic maculopathy, and myopic strabismus fixus,” she says. She attributes the progression and early onset of myopia to an overdose of exposure to mobile phones, lack of physical activity and sunlight. Dr. Manjula says she has been seeing more children with acute onset of esotropia (cross eye) as well. “Usually, we see two or three in a year but now we see at least 10 children. There is a five-fold increase,” she says. Sankara Nethrayala has also seen a sharp increase. T.S. Surendran, director of paediatric ophthalmology, says he has seen “a big jump in their numbers”. He attributes it to “watching too much of screen monitors”. Mohan Rajan, medical director of Rajan Eye Care Hospital, recalled that in 2015, the prevalence of myopia was 15% but now one in four children is affected. He attributes it to online classes, and calls for reopening of schools. “An average child spends around 8 to 10 hours on a laptop or desktop. In most of our patients, the power of glasses has gone up by 25% to 50%,” he said. An alarming increase in myopia in Singapore had led ophthalmologists there to administer eye drops to slow its progression, he says. Eye safety month With August being observed as Eye Safety Month for Children, Dr. Manjula calls for immediate attention to their well-being. She suggests limiting the time with devices and a balanced diet. “We need a lot of changes, such as restriction on watching devices,” she says. Meanwhile, doctors suggest a diet that includes carrots, greens, fish and eggs. They must be taught to do yoga and listen to music. Children must be allowed to play so that they can absorb sunlight. Also, if possible, children should be encouraged to use larger gadgets such as the desktop or the TV instead of the mobile phone.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ophthalmologists-flag-sharp-rise-in-myopia-among-children/article35868312.ece
12 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Four arrested for cheating job aspirants||The Job Racket Wing of the Central Crime Branch (CCB) here arrested a gang of four men hailing from Dindigul and Virudhnagar districts who cheated many job aspirant. They took money from the aspirants after promising them jobs in government departments, and gave them fake appointment orders. The gang members – A. Jebaraj, 58, of Bathlagundu, M. Venkatesan, 34, of Virudhunagar, B. Nirmal Kumar, 26, of Dindigul and K. Ayyasamy of Sathur – were nabbed by police following a complaint from the city limits. The police said Jebaraj and Venkatesan told P. Murali, a resident of Kovilpathagai, Avadi, that they were highly influential among bureaucrats and politicians. The two men also claimed that they got jobs in the police department and Tangedco for several persons on payment of certain amount of money. Trusting their words, Murali gave them Rs. 56.60 lakh as they promised a job at the MSME (Micro Small Medium Enterprises) Department in Guindy. Fake order Then the duo gave him a fake appointment order and cheated him. Following a complaint, the police registered a case and took up the investigation. A special team of police arrested Jebaraj and his associates. The accused had promised a director’s job in the MSME department, the investigation revealed. The police recovered records relating to bank transactions and a high-end car. City Police Commissioner Shankar Jiwal said the public should not believe the statements of brokers who might claim that they were highly influential among politicians and bureaucrats by showing photographs taken with them. The Police Commissioneralso said they should not make any payment to such fraudsters for jobs in government departments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/four-arrested-for-cheating-job-aspirants/article35868649.ece
12 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||White Paper highlights a possible shift in State government’s line on subsidies||The White Paper on Tamil Nadu’s finances points to a shift in the government’s thinking on subsidies. Successive governments have extended the benefits of subsidies to all, at least in such crucial sectors as electricity, water and public distribution system. But the main message from the White Paper is that the government is mulling over a targeted approach towards the subsidy regime. As of now, there is no immediate change in the policy as Finance Minister Palanivel Thiaga Rajan himself made it clear on Monday. He added that reforms, including the idea of taxing the rich more and using the money for the welfare of the middle class and the poor, had to be discussed first with Chief Minister M.K. Stalin and his Cabinet colleagues. Immediately after assuming charge, the DMK gave Rs. 4,000 each in cash assistance to all rice card-holders without making any distinction on the basis of the economic status. But what is significant now is that in a State where freebies and competitive populism are the norm, a government document emphasises the need for re-orientation or rationalisation of subsidies, and for “urgent course correction measures”. In the area of electricity, the document brings out the government’s discomfort. Though it does not hint at severing the free power supply to farmers, the White Paper reads “NIL” for the recovery from the farm sector for 18% of the energy supplied by the Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation. The document has highlighted the fact in bold letters that the Corporation “does not get fully subsidised” for the cost of supply to farmers, which works out to Rs. 8,225 crore a year. As for the domestic consumers who enjoy 100 units free bi-monthly, the White Paper not only puts the value of under-recovery at Rs. 18,735 crore during 2020-21 but also states bluntly that “those who consume more electricity are receiving greater subsidies”. The White Paper calls the unmetered or flat water supply charge, being adopted in Chennai, an “inherently unfair and regressive system”, which favours those living “in large houses and bungalows”. A veteran economist says the White Paper has brought to the fore all the major problems. However, there is nothing new about the solution suggested, as the key lies in implementation. For example, Chennai Metrowater’s tariff for the domestic consumers has been designed to take care of metered supply too. But, owing to historical reasons, including the frequent droughts, the installation of meters has never been taken seriously. Also, in respect of the public distribution system, the AIADMK government issued an order in July 2017, specifying guidelines for inclusion and exclusion of beneficiaries under the National Food Security Act, but it had no impact in view of the policy of universal PDS, the economist explains.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/white-paper-highlights-a-possible-shift-in-state-governments-line-on-subsidies/article35868305.ece
12 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Begin Pollachi sexual abuse trial in Sept., HC directs CBI||Observing that speedy trial would infuse a semblance of safety among women, the Madras High Court has directed the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) to make earnest efforts to arrest all the accused in the 2019 Pollachi sexual abuse case and commence the trial by the first week of September. Justice M. Dhandapani issued the direction while dismissing a bail petition filed by the eighth accused, K. Arulanantham, arrested in January this year. The judge ordered that the Mahila court in Coimbatore must conduct the trial on a day-to-day basis and complete it within six months. Since there was every possibility of the witnesses turning hostile due to threats, the judge directed the State police to render necessary assistance to the CBI and provide protection to the victims as well as witnesses under the Witness Protection Scheme framed in accordance with Supreme Court orders. The identity of the witnesses could be concealed to prevent harm to them either during or post trial. The State government should also take steps to provide live link for the victims to depose before the trial court. Further, the judge directed the trial court to conduct in-camera proceedings wherever necessary. Departmental action Justice M. Dhandapani directed the government to initiate departmental action against one Superintendent of Police and other police personnel who had divulged the identity of victims to the media. He took note that one of the victims, whose identity was made public, had already been paid compensation of Rs. 25 lakh as per court orders. The judge recorded the submission of State Public Prosecutor Hasan Mohammed Jinnah that Superintendent of Police J. Mutharasi of the Crime Branch-Criminal Investigation Department (CB-CID) would be nominated to assist the CBI in prosecuting the case. The prosecutor before the trial court was directed to utilise the experience of CBI special public prosecutor K. Srinivasan in conducting the trial.  The identity of the witnesses could be concealed to prevent harm to them either during or post trial||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/start-pollachi-sexual-abuse-trial-in-september-hc-directs-cbi/article35868325.ece
12 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Woman surrenders six weeks after husband’s murder||A woman, who allegedly murdered her husband on June 28, surrendered at a police station in Kancheepuram. The police said the victim, Thangavel, 35, from Salem was working in a private manufacturing unit in Oragadam in Kancheepuram district for the past seven years. Thangavel stayed in a rented house at Padappai along with his wife Vimalarani, 31, and their six-year-old son. Thangavel’s brother Sakthivel from Salem called him several times between June 30 and August 2 but the phone calls went unanswered. He came and found his brother and his family members missing from the house where they were staying. Hence, he lodged a complaint with the Manimangalam police on August 3. While the case was under investigation, Vimalarani reached the police station with her son and surrendered. She told the police that she and Raja were in a relationship in Salem before marriage and they continued after she shifted to Kancheepuram. Frequent quarrels erupted between the couple as Thangavel knew about her relationship. On June 28, Vimalarani and Raja allegedly murdered Thangavel and buried his body near a lake. Then they escaped. The police have launched a search for Raja.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/woman-surrenders-six-weeks-after-husbands-murder/article35868310.ece
12 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Vasan Health Care insolvency process cannot be started afresh’||The National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT), Chennai, has said the entire corporate insolvency resolution process for Vasan Health Care Private Limited cannot be started afresh from the stage of issuance of expression of interest because it will upset the timelines prescribed under the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016. The NCLT’s observation came on a petition for extension of the time frame under the insolvency process. In 2017, the NCLT ordered the start of insolvency proceedings against Vasan Health Care on a petition filed by Alcon Laboratories (India) Pvt. Ltd., one of its suppliers. However, the proceedings were stayed by a single judge of the Madras High Court. In October 2019, a Division Bench vacated the stay, and the case was back at the NCLT. S. Rajendran, the resolution professional for Vasan Health Care, filed a plea for extension, citing the lockdown imposed in May 2021 and other factors like the change in the resolution professional. ‘Keen interest ‘ The petition also said the prospective bidders had expressed concerns over non-closure of the company’s accounts from 2018-19, licences and trade mark renewals. It said they had showed a keen interest in participating in the second round of expression of interest when floated. The NCLT noted that the maximum time of 330 days allowed under the process was over and extension had already been allowed twice. Including the exclusions provided, more than 650 days had elapsed, it said. Extension till August 22 It granted an extension only till August 22 to finalise the accounts of Vasan Health Care. After August 22, the NCLT said, the resolution professional could file a liquidation application based on its direction issued on February 26, 2021. It said that even during the liquidation process, the committee of creditors could explore the opportunity to sell the company through a scheme contemplated under Section 230 of the Companies Act, 2013. Creditors, including Andhra Bank, Edelweiss Asset Reconstruction, Kotak Mahindra Bank and HDFC Bank, have a claim totalling Rs. 1,268 crore against the company.  The maximum time of 330 days is over and extension has already been allowed twice. Including the exclusions provided, more than 650 days have elapsed||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vasan-health-care-insolvency-process-cannot-be-started-afresh/article35868319.ece
12 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK condemns DVAC searches at office of party organ||The AIADMK on Wednesday condemned the Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption’s searches on the premises of its organ, ‘Namadhu Puratchi Thalavi Amma’, in Alwarpet here, as part of wider searches on premises linked to former Minister S.P. Velumani In a statement, O. Panneerselvam, coordinator, and Edappadi K.Palaniswami, co-coordinator, said the action, aimed at “threatening the freedom of press,” was an “illegal move”. Chief Minister M.K. Stalin, also in charge of the Home portfolio, should initiate necessary action against the officials concerned. Party discussions At the party headquarters, the two leaders commenced a two-day-long discussion with functionaries of nine districts, which are expected to have local bodies’ polls next month. At the beginning of the meeting, participants condoled the death of their colleague and chairperson of the presidium, E. Madhusudhanan. In a release, the party said it paid about Rs. 26.74 lakh to Apollo towards hospitalisation of the departed leader. The AIADMK legislators’ meeting will take place on Friday evening. In a separate statement, Mr. Panneerselvam criticised the reported statement of Agriculture Minister M.R.K. Panneerselvam for announcing the date of presentation of the agriculture budget days ahead of the Business Advisory Committee of the Assembly finalising the schedule.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aiadmk-condemns-dvac-searches-at-office-of-party-organ/article35868303.ece
12 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Follow court order on fee collection, says School Education Department||The School Education Commissioner has reiterated that all unaided private schools scrupulously follow the recent directions of the Madras High Court on fee collection for the current academic year. In a circular to all Chief Educational Officers (CEOs) and District Educational Officers (DEOs), K. Nandhakumar asked them to act according to the court directions that the DEOs take an appropriate decision in case of any dispute between parents/students and the school management over fee concession. The DEOs and the CEOs have also been asked to ensure that students do not drop out and are not removed. Students who face difficulties have been asked to approach the educational officials in keeping with the court directions, and the officials can accommodate them in a nearby government, corporation, municipal or panchayat school. Fee collection The circular has asked all officials to instruct all unaided private schools again about fee collection for the 2021-22 academic year, and inform them that any violation will lead to contempt of court and call forth severe action from the School Education Department. The court has said private schools should collect only 85% of the fees in six instalments from parents who have not suffered any income loss during the COVID-19 pandemic. The parents who have lost their income can apply to the school management for the payment of 75% of the fees in six instalments. The fee should be what was fixed for the 2019-20 academic year. Unaided private schools have also been told that they can collect the fee arrears for 2020-21 in instalments. The pleas of parents for a further concession on account of unemployment or closure of business can be considered sympathetically on a case-by-case basis.  The DEOs and the CEOs have also been asked to ensure that students do not drop out and are not removed||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/follow-court-order-on-fee-collection-says-school-education-department/article35868301.ece
12 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Ready to reopen schools for Classes IX to XII on September 1: Minister||School Education Minister Anbil Mahesh Poyyamozhi said on Wednesday that the department was ready to reopen schools for classes IX to XII on September 1, depending on the pandemic situation. “Chief Minister M.K. Stalin had said that based on the opinion of health experts, we can plan to reopen schools for classes IX to XII in Tamil Nadu. Preliminary work for the same is being carried out and we are prepared to reopen schools from September 1 depending on the situation then,” the Minister said. He also said that they were looking at having 50% of the student strength for senior classes come in shifts, and that Standard Operating Procedures(SoPs) would be drawn up soon. The Minister also said that most teachers have been vaccinated and that the department was working with the district level officials to ensure that all teachers are vaccinated.  Most teachers have been vaccinated, and the department is working with the district level officials to ensure all are vaccinated||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ready-to-reopen-schools-for-classes-ix-to-xii-on-september-1-minister/article35868304.ece
12 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||More MRTS trains from Friday||The Chennai Division of Southern Railway has announced an increase in the Mass Rapid Transit System (MRTS) schedules between Velachery and Chennai Beach by 26 services on weekdays and 20 services on Sundays. The additional workmen special trains would be operational from Friday. The Chennai Division, which operated 630 services, would be operating 656 services during weekdays (from Monday to Saturday) and 471 services (earlier 451) on Sundays.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/more-mrts-trains-from-friday/article35868309.ece
12 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Manhunt launched for rape accused||The all-women police in Sembium booked a 51-year-old man on the charge of raping a woman and a minor at a home run by a reputed social service organisation in Peravallur. Police sources said the accused was identified as Bennet, who came here last June from Puducherry and was given accommodation at the home by his sister Isabel, who held an important post in the organisation. He lured a 20-year-old girl who was also staying there and raped her. He also allegedly raped a 15-year-old girl. CWC member’s plaint Based on a complaint from a Child Welfare Committee member, the police registered a case against him under the provisions of the Indian Penal Code and the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. A senior police officer said a manhunt had been launched to nab the accused. Meanwhile, Ms. Isabel, also a member of the Child Welfare Committee, said she had resigned from her post as the director of the social service organisation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/manhunt-launched-for-rape-accused/article35868317.ece
12 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Thirumavalavan wants 50% ceiling on quota removed||VCK president Thol. Thirumavalavan, in a speech in the Lok Sabha on Tuesday, demanded that the 50% reservation ceiling limit set by the Supreme Court be removed. He also wanted reservation for the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes to be increased to 26% as per their current population. Dalits who converted to Christianity should also be made eligible for reservation and included in the SC list, he said. “If this government truly cares about social justice, it must bring a Constitutional amendment that shatters the 50% ceiling on reservations imposed by the Supreme Court of India. This is my first demand. Secondly, this government, which is privatising everything, must bring about laws to implement reservation in the private sector. I am duty bound to place this demand. Likewise, the Constitutional guarantee of reservation for SC/ST people on the basis of their population must be respected by increasing the SC/ST reservation to 26%. I want to emphasise the need for bringing legislation in this regard,” he said. He said: “Today (August 10) is being observed as a black day all over the nation by Dalit Christians. The reason for their protest is because of the Presidential Order that came (into effect) on August 10, 1950. All Dalits who have embraced other religions should get reservation. There are several crores of Dalit Christians all over India, and they alone are cheated out of reservation. They must also be included in the SC list, and they should also be given reservation. An amendment must be brought forth in this regard.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/thirumavalavan-wants-50-ceiling-on-quota-removed/article35868755.ece
12 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Film and television institute renamed||The DMK government has renamed the M.G.R. Government Film and Television Institute at Taramani in Chennai as the Tamil Nadu Government M.G.R. Film and Television Institute. An order to this effect was issued a few days ago. “These days, there are quite a few educational institutions that are named after the former Chief Minister. The intention was that it should be clear that the institute is being run by the Tamil Nadu government," a senior official told The Hindu , when asked about the reason behind the renaming of the institute. Denying any other reason behind the decision, the official pointed out: “The name of the former Chief Minister has not been removed but the words ‘Tamil Nadu Government’ would appear before his name. This was intended only to avoid confusion.” The film institute, under the Department of Information and Public Relations, was started in 1945 as a part of the Central Polytechnic. In 1959, it became a specialised institute and was named the Institute of Film Technology. It was also known as Adyar Film Institute and Film and Television Institute of Tamil Nadu. The institute was later renamed as the M.G.R. Government Film and Television Institute in honour of late AIADMK founder and former Chief Minister M.G. Ramachandran. The prospectus of the institute for the academic year 2020-21 had stated: “As salutation to the greatest movie icon of Tamil cinema Thiru. M.G.R., this Institute is proud of its present name M.G.R. Government Film and Television Institute.” Affiliation to varsity Incidentally, the film institute is affiliated to the university named after another late AIADMK leader and former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa — The Tamil Nadu Dr. J. Jayalalithaa Music and Fine Arts University. The institute, spread over 15.25 acres, is among the three major film institutes in the country. The others are the Film and Television Institute of India, Pune and Satyajit Ray Film and Television Institute in Kolkata.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/film-and-television-institute-renamed/article35868322.ece
12 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||AIR quiz from today||To commemorate the 75th year of Independence, the All India Radio is organising a year-long quiz programme on India’s freedom movement, starting August 12. In the 6.45 a.m. news bulletins every Tuesday and Thursday, a question on the freedom movement will be asked. Listeners can email their answers toairnewsquiz@gmail.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/air-quiz-from-today/article35868315.ece
12 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Rare tumour removed from 38-year-old||Doctors at Venkateswara Hospitals here have treated a woman, 38, who had glomus tumour for more than three years. A release from the hospital said the woman developed agonising pain on her right ring finger that worsened over time. When the patient approached Venkateswara Hospitals, the condition was diagnosed to be rare condition of benign tumour. Su. Thillaivallal, medical director of the hospital, said the tumour was excised and the patient discharged in three days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rare-tumour-removed-from-38-year-old/article35868316.ece
12 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Constitutional amendment a victory for federalism’||Hailing the passing of a Constitutional amendment in Parliament that restores the rights of the States to maintain their own list of Other Backward Classes (OBCs), Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Wednesday said it was a victory for the principle of federalism. In a tweet, he said this had come as a medicine to the wounds inflicted over centuries, and had formed a strong base for social justice.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/constitutional-amendment-a-victory-for-federalism/article35868318.ece
12 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Sand dumped in Ennore waterbodies being removed||In a small victory of sorts for the fishermen of Ennore, Tangedco has started removing dredged mud and ash dumped inside Kosasthalai river and backwaters in the area. A. Desingu of Kattukuppam said after several protests against the dumping, they had no other go but to go to court seeking a direction to Tangedco to remove the sand and flyash dumped over the last six months. “By completely blocking the flow of water, they have spoilt our livelihoods. They are constructing the coal belt conveyor across the river. They have built piles inside the river in locations where they have not obtained permission,” he said. Around 8,000 families from eight villages including Mugadhwarakuppam, Nettukuppam, Ennorekuppam, Thalangkuppam and Sivanpadaiveedukuppam depend on fishing in the waterbodies. “It took them six months to dump the stuff and they would need more time to clear it,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/a-small-victory-for-ennore-fishers/article35868283.ece
12 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||KVB donates Rs. 10 lakh for free jabs||Karur Vysya Bank (KVB) has donated Rs. 10 lakh to Karur district authorities for COVID-19 vaccination camps. In a press release, the bank said it made the contribution out of its Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) funds in response to the district administration’s call to support free vaccination in private hospitals. Minister for Health and Family Welfare Ma. Subramanian received the cheque from bank officials at a function held on Wednesday. Electricity Minister V. Senthilbalaji and Karur Collector Prabhushankar were present. KVB has donated Rs. 3.12 crore for COVID-19 measures during the financial year 2020-21.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kvb-donates-rs-10-lakh-for-free-jabs/article35868751.ece
12 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Indian Bank partners with Paralympic Committee||Indian Bank has signed an MoU and partnered with the Paralympic Committee of India (PCI) as one of the banking partners ahead of the Paralympic Games, Tokyo 2020, scheduled to commence from August 24. The bank will provide financial aid to help the paralympic athletes prepare for the coveted sporting events in domestic as well as global platforms for a year. Though the paralympic movement is at a nascent stage, several young and talented athletes have been training rigorously to represent India in the international arena. “It is our belief that this initiative will empower many to take up sports as a career without experiencing dearth of resources,” said Padmaja Chunduru, MD& CEO, Indian Bank.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/indian-bank-partners-with-paralympic-committee/article35868752.ece
12 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Police summon Meera Mitun||The Cyber Crime Wing in Chennai has summoned model and actor Meera Mitun for an inquiry in connection with a case booked against her for her alleged derogatory remarks against the Scheduled Castes in a video circulated on social media. Recently, she participated in a talk show in a YouTube channel and accused them of indulging in wrongful deeds. She blamed directors and others belonging to the Scheduled Castes for whatever wrong had been happening in the film industry. Following complaints from Untouchablity Eradication Front and Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi, the Cyber Crime Wing booked her under seven provisions of the Indian Penal Code and the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act. Taking up the case for investigation, the police issued summons to her.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-summon-meera-mitun/article35868286.ece
12 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CCB unearths job racket, arrests four||The Job Racket Wing of the Central Crime Branch (CCB) has arrested four persons hailing from Dindigul and Virudhnagar districts who cheated many job aspirants after taking money from them and issuing fake appointment orders for government jobs. The names of the arrested were given as A. Jebaraj, 58, of Bathlagundu, M. Venkatesan, 34, of Virudhunagar, B. Nirmal Kumar, 26, of Dindigul and K. Ayyasamy of Sathur. The police said Jebaraj and Venkatesan told P. Murali of Kovilpathagai, Avadi, that they were highly influential among bureaucrats and politicians. They claimed to have secured jobs in police and Tangedco for several persons. Trusting their words, Mr. Murali paid Rs. 56.60 lakh to them for getting the Director’s job in MSME (Micro Small and Medium Enterprises) department in Guindy. The duo him gave a fake appointment order. Mr. Murali then lodged a complaint with the police, who took up investigation. A special team arrested Jebaraj and his associates. The police recovered records relating to bank transactions and a high end car. Commissioner of Police Shankar Jiwal has urged the public not to believe the words of brokers claiming to be influential among politicians and bureaucrats by showing photographs taken with them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ccb-unearths-job-racket-arrests-four/article35868291.ece
12 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Government to celebrate birth anniversary of Rajendra Chola||The government on Wednesday announced that the birth anniversary of ancient Tamil king Rajendra Chola I would be celebrated every year from next year. “In view of the prevailing pandemic, Chief Minister M.K. Stalin has ordered celebrations on behalf of the State government from the coming year,” an official release said.  The Hindu had last week reported that the government was planning to observe the birth anniversary of Rajendra Chola I on ‘Aadi Thiruvathirai’. District-level function The birth anniversary of Rajendra Chola I is presently being observed at a district-level function in Ariyalur. The government’s decision followed representations from locals, historians and others in this regard. Gangaikonda Cholapuram, housing the Brihadeeswarar temple, was the capital of the Chola Empire, led by Rajendra Chola I. Various inscriptions suggest the birth star of Rajendra Chola I to be ‘Thiruvathirai’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/govt-to-mark-rajendra-chola-is-birth-anniversary/article35868295.ece
12 August 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||10 MLAs booked for assembling in front of Velumani’s house||The police have registered cases against 10 MLAs and three former MLAs of the AIADMK who assembled in front of the residence of former Minister S.P. Velumani at Sugunapuram here on Tuesday in protest against the searches conducted by the Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption. They are among 200-odd persons who were booked by the Kuniyamuthur police in three cases on various charges, including unlawful assembly and violation of COVID-19 safety norms. MLAs Amman K. Arjunan, A.K. Selvaraj, P.R.G. Arun Kumar, S. Damodaran, Pollachi V. Jayaraman, C. Mahendran, Amul Kandasamy, K.R. Jayaram, M.S.M. Anandan and V.P. Kandasamy, and former MLAs O.K. Chinnaraj, Ettimadai A. Shanmugam and V. Kasthuri Vasu were booked along with 187 party workers in one case. They were accused of offences under Sections 143 (punishment for unlawful assembly), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 341 (punishment for wrongful restraint) of the IPC. The second case was registered against 10 AIADMK workers under Sections 143, 269 and 353 (assault or criminal force to deter a public servant from discharge of his duty) of the IPC. They had removed barricades placed by the police. The third case was registered against two persons who blocked the road at Sugunapuram Junction on the busy Coimbatore-Palakkad Road. DMK workers booked The Race Course police have registered a case against 29 persons, including Pazha Selvakumar of the DMK environment wing, for bursting crackers, allegedly celebrating the raids. The police said the accused staged a demonstration on Arts College Road in front of the fourth gate of the combined court complex and burst crackers. They demanded the arrest of Mr. Velumani.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/10-mlas-booked-for-assembling-in-front-of-velumanis-house/article35868297.ece
12 August 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Minister inspects flyover works||Almost 50 % of the pillars for the Avinashi Road flyover, which is scheduled to be thrown open in May 2024, have been constructed, according to officials in the State Highways Department. Minister for Public Works, Highways, and Minor Ports E.V. Velu inspected the Rs. 1,157 crore flyover works on Tuesday. A press release said the project involves construction of five sub-ways, widening of bridges in three locations, and up and down ramps at four locations. Of the 306 pillars planned, foundation works are over for 166 and 147 pillars have been constructed fully. Of the 3656 segments of the flyover, 45 works are over. The 10.10 km flyover from Uppilipalayam to Goldwins will be a four-lane one (17.25 metres wide) with 10.5 metres wide service road on either side and 1.5 metre wide storm water drain and footpath. Officials in the department said the sub-ways were part of the original plan. Works are going on for the main carriageway and the land acquisition proposed is minimum. K. Kathirmathiyon, secretary of Coimbatore Consumer Cause, said land acquisition works should go on simultaneously so that the project is completed on time. Further, there should be no modifications in the existing plan for the project so that it benefits the road users.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/minister-inspects-flyover-works/article35868339.ece
12 August 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Wait for additional building plan approval continues in added areas||It has been a 10-year-long wait for residents in added areas for the Coimbatore Corporation to resolve the problems in giving additional building plan approval. The residents from 40 wards continue to knock on the Corporation’s door but there is no solution yet. The residents in Vadavalli, Thudiyalur, Kavundampalayam, Kalapatti or Kurchi cannot get plan approval from the Corporation if they have to take up additional construction, say a first floor. For, the Corporation does not treat as legit the approval they had obtained from the then local body for constructing the existing building. This is because of the difference in the procedures and rules that existed then for giving building plan approval, says consumer activist K. Kathirmathiyon, who has taken up the issue. As a result, the residents who want to construct an additional house or another building will not get approval and in the absence of approval, they cannot avail of bank loan. And, if the residents still go ahead and construct a building and even if that is a replica of the existing building, the Corporation considers it an illegal construction. This problem is unique to Coimbatore Corporation as it the only local body in the State that followed an automated plan approval process using ‘auto DCR’ software, Mr. Kathirmathiyon says in his letter to the Corporation Commissioner and adds that the only way an added area resident can get plan approval for a building is by making a false claim of demolishing the existing building to suit the new rules and then get the plan approval. That makes the existing building and new building unauthorised as no demolition is carried out. The existing set of procedures the Corporation adopts punishes the added area residents for no fault of theirs, he argues and has sought a change in plan approval procedure. The plan approval problem in added area became so much of an issue during the just-concluded Assembly election that political parties included it in their manifesto and promised solution. Corporation Commissioner Raja Gopal Sunkara says it is seized of the issue. He has asked the town planning wing officials to check what is the procedure adopted in Madurai or Tiruchi corporation and with the Commissioner of Municipal Administration office so as to provide a solution at the earliest. As an extension of this, the Corporation is also having a look at the ‘auto DCR’ software to see if it can continue with it or use the software the other municipal corporations use.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/wait-for-additional-building-plan-approval-continues-in-added-areas/article35868334.ece
12 August 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Expedite infrastructure projects, says industry||The industry associations in Coimbatore demanded at a meeting with Public Works Minister E.V. Velu here on Tuesday more flyovers and efforts to expedite infrastructure projects in the district. The Indian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Coimbatore, said flyovers are needed at Singanallur junction on Trichy Road, at Saravanampatti on Sathyamangalam Road, and at Lawley Road junction. The Avinashi Road flyover should be redesigned and extended till Chinniyampalayam. Efforts should be taken to expedite the western bypass project. Similarly, the Coimbatore-Karur Expressway is a long pending demand. Coimbatore also needs a Greater Coimbatore Development Authority, said the Chamber president C. Balasubramanian. The Coimbatore District Small Industries Association (CODISSIA) said formation of Greater Coimbatore Development Authority will ensure faster development of the city. The State government should fast track all flyover works in the district and modernise the goods terminals. The Kochi Frontier Road - Palladam to Madukkarai Road needs to be widened into a four-lane road. Similarly, the Palladam to Chinthamanipudur Road should also be widened into a four-lane one. A bus port project should be initiated to reduce traffic within the Corporation limits. A train network using the existing stations at Irugur, Podanur and Coimbatore junction should be initiated. Since the use of e-vehicles will increase in the coming days, more charging ports should be set up, said association president M.V. Ramesh Babu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/expedite-infrastructure-projects-says-industry/article35868337.ece
12 August 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Health Dept. disposes of 90% of complaints related to treatment cost||The Health Department has disposed of 90% of complaints related to charging of exorbitant rate for the treatment of COVID-19 patients in Coimbatore district. Joint Director of Health Services Chandra said that 90% of the complaints received by the department have been successfully disposed of and the remaining are under processing. The complaints were examined by a committee of doctors. The department had launched an inquiry against some private hospitals after family members of patients complained that they charged in excess of the treatment charges fixed by the government. Many complainants were refunded what was charged in violation of the treatment cost fixed by the government. Sources said that the department received more than 30 complaints against different private hospitals. A. Jabarullah from G.N. Mills had complained that a private hospital near Sungam charged Rs. 6.5 lakh for the COVID-19 treatment of his father for seven days. His father died of the disease on May 14. “We were given a refund of Rs. 4.47 lakh by the hospital based on the direction of the Health Department,” he said. Similarly, the district administration received complaints of exorbitant charging of fees against three more private hospitals. The committee found that a few hospitals misinterpreted the treatment cost fixed by the State government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/health-dept-disposes-of-90-of-complaints-related-to-treatment-cost/article35868344.ece
12 August 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||‘Funds for acquiring land for airport expansion to be allocated soon’||Minister for Public Works, Highways and Minor Ports E.V. Velu told industry representatives here on Tuesday that the State government will soon announce allocation of funds for acquiring land to expand the Coimbatore International Airport, according to Ravi Sam, chairman, CSR and Affirmative Action Sub-Committee, CII Southern Region. The Minister, who interacted with trade and industry representatives, said the Government will allocate Rs. 1,300 crore for the airport expansion project and it will be announced shortly. The Minister also said that negotiations are over with a majority of the private land holders, said Mr. Sam. The Chamber sought speedy completion of acquisition of lands so that the land needed can be handed over to the Airport Authority of India. According to CODISSIA, Coimbatore is among the top 20 busiest airports in India as on March 2020. Coimbatore requires about 650 acres for airport expansion. “We request the Tamil Nadu Government to speed up the land acquisition and expansion process on a war-footing.” Several airlines are ready to operate to various international destinations, if the runway is widened.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/funds-for-acquiring-land-for-airport-expansion-to-be-allocated-soon/article35868348.ece
12 August 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Missed call facility for new Indane LPG connection||The Indian Oil Corporation announced that it has extended its missed call facility to avail new Indane liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) connection to all domestic customers. A press release said that prospective customers can give a missed call to 84549 55555 to avail a new LPG connection. Earlier, the missed call facility for LPG refill booking was introduced for Indane customers in January this year. IOC Chairman S.M. Vaidya launched the nationwide scheme on August 9, according to the press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/missed-call-facility-for-new-indane-lpg-connection/article35868329.ece
12 August 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Pay wages to conservancy workers on time: trade union||All India Central Council of Trade Unions has urged the Coimbatore Corporation to ensure that the conservancy workers engaged on contract are paid wages on time. In a representation, the trade union said though the rule stipulated that the workers should be paid before the 10th of every month, it had been two months since the workers were paid wages. The contractors who had engaged the workers on the Corporation’s behalf had not paid wages for June and so far for July. In the absence of wages the workers found it difficult to make their ends meet, the trade union said and reminded the Corporation of the assurance it made in June, this year. Around 4,000 conservancy workers were on contract and none had received wages, it added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pay-wages-to-conservancy-workers-on-time-trade-union/article35868335.ece
12 August 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Bihar native found dead||A 21-year-old man from Bihar was found dead in suspicious circumstances at Seerapalayam, near Coimbatore, on Wednesday. Private land The police said that Ashi Kumar, who hailed from Purnia district in Bihar, was found dead in a private land at Seerapalayam. According to the police sources, Kumar had been working in a footwear company at Seerapalayam coming under the limits of the Madukkarai police station. Kumar, who had left for his native during the lockdown in March this year, returned to Coimbatore last month. The police added that he was found dead around 8 a.m. The police shifted the body to the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital for post-mortem. Further investigation is on into the death of the guest worker.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bihar-native-found-dead-near-city/article35868347.ece
12 August 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Rs. 21.57 cr. spent on 1,874 persons for COVID-19 treatment||The State Government has spent Rs. 21.57 crore towards treatment of 1,874 persons in the district who took treatment in private hospitals, said a release quoting Monitoring Officer and Principal Secretary M.A. Siddique, who for the second day on Wednesday inspected various places in the district to review preparedness to tackle the infection spread. The release said the administration had approved 48 hospitals to provide COVID-19 treatment. Now, under the Chief Minister’s Comprehensive Health Insurance scheme, it had approved another 64 hospitals taking the total hospitals approved for COVID-19 treatment to 112. During his visit in and around Mettupalayam, Mr. Siddique visited the Government Hospital, potato market and Jadayampalayam vegetable market to check adherence to COVID-19 norms. It said the State Government had directed hospitals to reserve 10% of the beds reserved for COVID-19 treatment for patients admitted under the health scheme and added that in case of difficulty, members of the public could dial the toll-free number 1800 425 3993.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rs-2157-cr-spent-on-1874-persons-for-covid-19-treatment/article35868336.ece
12 August 2021||CUDDALORE,TAMIL NADU||Tension prevails as three trucks set ablaze following accident||Tension prevailed in Melakuppam, near Neyveli, on Wednesday, after three tipper trucks carrying fly ash were set ablaze by a group of people in the evening, after a motorist was killed in an accident. According to the police, the incident occurred around 5.30 p.m. A tipper truck carrying fly ash from a yard in mines II of NLC India Ltd. (NLCIL) was on the way to Melakuppam, when it hit Govindan, 48, a contract worker of NLCIL, who was returning home. While Govindan died, his wife Thilagavathy, who was riding pillion sustained injuries, and was rushed to the NLCIL General Hospital. The truck driver fled the spot immediately. Tension prevailed after irate locals intercepted the vehicle and two other trucks and torched them and damaged the windscreens of around 20 vehicles. Police deployment On information, Fire and Rescue Services personnel rushed to the spot and doused the fire. A huge posse of police personnel has been deployed in Neyveli to prevent any untoward incident. Personnel attached to the Neyveli Thermal police station are investigating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tension-prevails-as-three-trucks-set-ablaze-following-accident/article35868754.ece
12 August 2021||Dharmapuri,TAMIL NADU||Traders Welfare Board registrations set to begin||The State government has announced registrations for traders to the Traders Welfare Board. Under this , traders with an annual turnover not exceeding Rs. 40 lakh are eligible to be registered with the Board. Registrations without any entry fee will be open to traders registering between August 15 and October 14, according to an administration release. Membership with the Board provides an array of welfare protection to the trader and their family. The member’s family shall receive a compensation of Rs. 1 lakh upon the death of the member; medical cover of upto Rs. 50,000 for surgeries; upto Rs. 20,000 for hysrectomy for women members, upto Rs. 15,000 for chemotherapy, radiotherapy, angioplasty; education allowance of upto Rs. 10,000 to the children of the members; upto Rs. 10,000 as financial assistance for purchase of two-wheeler; reward of upto Rs. 25,000 for sports accomplishments of the children of the members; compensation upto Rs. 5,000 for fire accidents. Membership shall only require trade license and GST number is not required for membership , according to the administration. Traders may download the form throughhttp://www.tn.gov.in/tntwb. Helplines have been set up under the Joint Director(Commercial Taxes), Salem in the following areas: Deputy director, Collectorate, Dharmapuri (04343-230112); Dharmapuri helpline-87789 55535; Palacodde helpline(94424 78977), Harur helpline (93601 34300)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/traders-welfare-board-registrations-set-to-begin/article35868430.ece
12 August 2021||DINDIGUL,TAMIL NADU||Officials remove statue installed sans permission||In a swift operation, the police, revenue and highways authorities removed a Tiruvalluvar statue installed on Dindigul-Madurai Road here on Wednesday. For many years, a group of persons functioning under the banner ‘Paavendar Kalvi Solai’ had appealed to the district administration and the civic authorities to permit them to have a statue of Tiruvalluvar. The Tamil lovers and enthusiasts in Dindigul town had made the statue in bronze and chose a place close to the compound wall of St. Lourdes Girls Higher Secondary School. As the previous government did not respond, the representatives were optimistic of a favourable response following the change of rule at Fort St George. However, fresh appeals too did not accord permission. Hence, the people went ahead by unveiling the statue two days ago. As the news spread, the authorities arrived at the spot on Wednesday and insisted that the statue be removed at once. When the group of people threatened to resort to agitation and picked up a wordy altercation, tension prevailed for some time near Begumpur. The police explained to them about the procedure and suggested they approach the authorities and seek permission. "A Government Order is mandatory for installation of statues in public places," an officer said and after prolonged persuasion, they dispersed. Immediately, the statue was lifted from the spot with the help of a crane.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/officials-remove-statue-installed-sans-permission/article35868424.ece
12 August 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Erode Corporation seeks public opinion on additional bus stand||The Erode Corporation has sought the opinion of the public for establishing an additional bus stand at Solar Punjai Lakkapuram on the Karur Bypass Road after which the proposal would be finalised and sent to the State government for approval. The Corporation’s bus terminus is spread over 12 acre at the heart of the city and is located on Mettur Road and VCTV Main Road from where inter-city, intra-city services and mini-buses were operated. Smart City project Established in 1973, the bus stand is busy round the clock and the civic body, under the Smart City project, is all set to carry out development works at a total cost of Rs. 39.5 crore from September 1. During the works, buses would be diverted to two new temporary bus stands that would be established at Solar and a college ground at Veerappanchatiram from the first week of September. Since the bus stand is congested and the city witnessing frequent traffic congestion due to movement of long distance buses, it was decided to establish an additional bus stand at Solar from where south-bound buses, including Karur, Tiruchi, Madurai and Dindigul, would be operated. The civic body plans to establish the bus stand at Solar with 46 bus bays, four parallel bays, 39 shops of different sizes, six showrooms, 12 stalls and two restaurants, offices, toilets, taxi stand and an auto stand. Corporation Commissioner M. Elangovan told The Hindu that the additional bus stand would come up at Rs. 75 crore and the civic body is receiving opinions from the public over establishing the additional bus stand. “Most of them wanted the south-bound buses to be operated from Solar so that the existing bus stand is de-congested”, he added. He said that initially it will be an additional bus stand and based on the development of the city, the bus stand would be extended. Opinion over phone Public are asked to give their opinion over phone to the number 94890-92000 or email tocommr.erode@tn.gov.inby August 15. “Proposal would be finalised based on the opinion received from the public”, the Commissioner added. Banners carrying the proposed design of the additional bus stand were placed at the corporation’s office at Panneerselvam Park and at the vacant land at Solar where the bus stand would come up.  The additional bus stand will come up at Rs. 75 crore M. Elangovan Corporation Commissioner||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/erode-corporation-seeks-public-opinion-on-additional-bus-stand/article35868434.ece
12 August 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Offline Aadhaar enrolment for school students in Erode||In the absence of internet connectivity at Gundri Panchayat in Kadambur hills, enrolment of Aadhaar for school children is carried out offline and the details are uploaded later where connectivity is available. Aadhaar card is mandatory for students of government-run schools in the State and officials were stressing for Aadhaar enrolment of students across the district. Since biometric data inputs such as fingerprint and iris need to be uploaded online, enrolment is a major challenge in hill areas of Talavadi, Bargur and Kadambur where many habitations lack internet connectivity. There are 15 habitations in Gundri that has a population of over 6,200. But Aadhaar enrolment is a challenge for them as they have to visit either Kadambur or Sathyamangalam for enrolment. Children who will be admitted to the school in this academic year need an Aadhaar card and hence special camps were organised at Gundri from August 5. Biometric data were captured and stored in the laptop and the staff travel two km on forest road and reach a spot where minimum mobile connectivity is available. Data was uploaded on the website and the children were given the acknowledge card. Staff members involved in the process said that collected data should be uploaded within two days after which details cannot be uploaded. They said that they travel to Sathyamangalam, located about 35 km from Gundri, and upload the biometric data inputs. Villagers said that they have to reach Sathyamangalam for enrolment and are happy that offline enrolment is done for their children.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/offline-aadhaar-enrolment-for-school-students-in-erode/article35868432.ece
12 August 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Salem reports 85 COVID-19 cases||Salem district on Wednesday reported 85 COVID-19 cases taking the overall tally to 94,328. While 87 persons were discharged, 843 persons continue to be under treatment. Three persons died rising the toll to 1,597. Erode reported 167 cases, taking the tally to 95,559 and 174 persons getting discharged. One person died, taking the toll in the district to 641. Namakkal district reported 37 cases taking the tally to 47,771.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/salem-reports-85-covid-19-cases/article35868435.ece
12 August 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Check dams across River Bhavani will not serve any purpose: MP||Stating that constructing eight check dams at a height of four feet each across River Bhavani will not serve any purpose, Tiruppur MP K. Subbarayan has urged the district administration to conduct a full-fledged study before executing the project. In a petition to District Collector H. Krishnanunni, the MP said that each check dam was proposed to be constructed at four feet height through which only a minimum quantity of water could be stored. “The check dams, all to be constructed at over Rs. 80 crore, will not serve any purpose to farmers and a detailed study should be conducted”, he urged. The MP told the Collector that gravels in water bodies at Nambiyur Taluk were illegally mined and demanded action against the persons involved in such acts. He said that minimum wage for the workers in various government departments for 2021-22 is yet to be fixed by the district administration and wanted it to be fixed at the earliest. He also said that 200 non-medical workers at the Government Erode Medical College and Hospital were not paid their salary for June and July.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/check-dams-across-river-bhavani-will-not-serve-any-purpose-mp/article35868440.ece
12 August 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||International mail service resumes||The Postal Department that temporarily stopped its international mail service due to COVID-19 lockdown has resumed it. A release from Stefan Simon Tobias, Senior Superintendent of Posts, Erode Division, said that International Speed Post, registered letter and registered parcel services have been resumed now. Customers can avail these services to send medicines, groceries, dress materials and documents to more than 60 countries, the release added.   A total of 3,443 smuggled liquor that were seized by the police were destroyed at Anthiyur here on Wednesday. During the total lockdown in the State, liquor that were smuggled from Karnataka were seized at Bargur, Anthiyur, Vellithiruppur and Ammapettai police station limits and a total of 30 cases were registered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/international-mail-service-resumes/article35868439.ece
12 August 2021||Hospet,TAMIL NADU||Karnataka Minister hints at resignation||Sulking over the portfolio allocation, Karnataka Minister Anand Singh on Wednesday dropped a hint that he would resign his position a week after assuming charge. Mr. Singh assumed charge as Minister for Tourism, Ecology and Environment a week ago. Sources close to the Minister said he was keen on getting the Forest Department, which he held in the previous B.S. Yediyurappa government, along with Energy portfolio. “Against his wish, he was given the Tourism, Ecology and Environment portfolio,” they added. As he expressed his displeasure, he also shut down his MLA office here. Talking to reporters after offering prayers, Mr. Singh said, “My political life started from this Venu Gopalakrishna Temple. I would like to tell you that I don’t know whether my political life may also end here. If I have the blessings of Gopalakrishna, there may be a new beginning as well.” He was talking to reporters after offering special prayers at the temple, which was built by his grandfather Shankar Singh 60 years ago. “However, if God says that your political life ends here then I will seek the blessings of Krishna and will start a new innings in my life,” Mr. Singh said. “I never behaved in a way to embarrass the party and our leaders. If I have behaved like that then pardon me. I am saying this because I am not a big politician of the State,” the Minister said. Earlier, speaking to reporters in Bengaluru, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai said he was aware of Mr. Singh’s sentiments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/karnataka-minister-hints-at-resignation/article35868178.ece
12 August 2021||Krishnagiri,TAMIL NADU||Rally to mark World Breastfeeding Week held||The World Breastfeeding Week was observed here and a rally to mark the week was flagged off by Collector V. Jayachandra Bhanu Reddy here on Tuesday. Flagging off a campaign van to spread awareness on breastfeeding, Dr. Reddy underlined the significance of colostrum or the first breastmilk for the child. The first breastmilk provided to the child within the first hour of birth is of critical value as it is also a form of vaccination against diseases for the child, said the Collector. Breastmilk is the only and ideal nutrition for the first 6 months of the infant’s life, since it prevents against dwarfism, malnutrition, anemia among others, according to the Collector. Underlining the importance of breastfeeding by mother infected and recovered from COVID-19, the Collector said the breastmilk worked as an antibody against infection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rally-to-mark-world-breastfeeding-week-held/article35868429.ece
12 August 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Vedanta seeks HC nod to remove raw materials||Natural resources company Vedanta moved the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Wednesday seeking a direction to the State government to permit it to remove certain raw materials and scrap from its Sterlite Copper premises in Thoothukudi. Vedanta said during the second wave of COVID-19 pandemic, the entire country faced a shortage of medical oxygen which was a critical life support. The company was willing to manufacture medical oxygen for supply to hospitals. The Supreme Court allowed the company to operate its oxygen production unit on Sterlite Copper premises. The company said it manufactured and supplied 2,132.64 tonnes of liquid medical oxygen and 7,833 cubic metres of gaseous medical oxygen. The company said the cost for the same amounted to Rs. 38 crore and it was borne entirely by Vedanta. The company said it proposed to evacuate certain raw materials and scrap from Sterlite Copper premises and sell them so that it could cover a part of the cost incurred for production of oxygen. Some of these materials had a specific shelf life, and if they were not utilised within the time they would lose their value, the company said. Vedanta said it had sent a representation to the State government seeking permission to remove the raw materials and scrap. But, there was no response. Therefore, a petition was filed seeking a direction to the government to consider the representation. A Division Bench of Justices M. Duraiswamy and S. Ananthi sought a response from the government, and adjourned the hearing till September 2.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vedanta-seeks-hc-nod-to-remove-raw-materials/article35868333.ece
12 August 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||MPs for resumption of passenger train services||Lok Sabha members Su. Venkatesan and Kalanidhi Veersamy have appealed to Railway Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw to resume operation of ordinary passenger trains that were cancelled following the COVID-19 lockdown in March last. In a memorandum submitted to the Minister, the MPs from Tamil Nadu said that 3,715 ordinary passenger trains were operated during 2019-2020. However, along with these ordinary passenger trains, 4,058 mail and express trains and 5,396 EMUs were cancelled. Besides, 500 passenger trains that were running beyond 200 km were converted into express trains. “Though many express trains and even EMUs in suburban areas were restored for workmen and essential staff after the lockdown, ordinary passenger trains catering largely to rural people have not been restored,” Mr. Venkatesan said. The ordinary passenger trains stopped at all small stations and helped carry a large number of rural people to towns to sell their agri products and also for education and employment purposes. They benefitted by the season tickets. Now, all of them travel by the local bus service, resulting in crowding and lack of social distancing. If only the ordinary passenger trains are operated, commuters will be distributed between two modes of transport, which will help in maintenance of social distancing. Though many express trains are operated, they do not provide concessions such as those to senior citizens. Unreserved general compartments are not attached. “A doubt arises as to whether the Railway Ministry has decided to run only profit-making services bereft of social obligation due to which ordinary passenger trains are also not operated,” the memorandum said. The ordinary passenger services catered to 1,851 million passengers in 2019-2020, which is 22.89% of total passengers. Though the revenue is only 6.03%, the volume of passengers is from rural India. The passenger volume is high in terms of passenger km, but it is only12.24% due to the trains being operated in short distances. Mr. Venkatesan wondered whether the government was discriminating against rural people and appealed to the Minister to restore ordinary passenger trains and restore unreserved compartments in express/mail trains.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mps-for-resumption-of-ordinary-passenger-train-services/article35868414.ece
12 August 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||‘Railways denying the disabled right to mobility’||Southern Railway is denying the right to mobility to differently abled persons by not extending concession in train fare, according to S. Namburajan, general secretary, Tamil Nadu Association for the Rights of All Types of Differently Abled and Caregivers (Taratdac). Participating in a protest in front of Madurai railway junction, held as part of a State-wide programme, Mr. Namburajan said trains were being operated as ‘specials’with the fares increased exorbitantly. “And the disabled persons are denied concession on the grounds that they are special trains,” he said. Besides operating a limited number of trains under the pretext of COVID-19 pandemic, officials removed coaches specially designed for the disabled. In some trains, the coaches were kept locked and the disabled were put to a lot of hardship, he said. Stating that such moves were against the right to mobility of disabled persons, he said Southern Railway was acting in violation of the United Nations Partnership on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016. Also, railway officials were subjecting the disabled, aged, children and women to avoidable difficulties by not operating lifts and elevators on platforms. “People with heavy luggage have to lug them with great dificulty,” he said. “Our right to mobility is further restricted due to the high fuel price. We demand that the Centre extend the 50% price concession for 25 litres of petrol a month that is being given by t Puducherry and Chandigarh,” Mr. Namburajan added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/railways-denying-the-disabled-right-to-mobility/article35868653.ece
12 August 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||GRH doctors remove 7-kg ovarian tumour||A team of three gynaecologists and two anaesthetists at Government Rajaji Hospital have successfully removed a ovarian tumour weighing seven kg from the abdomen of a 29-year-old woman. The woman was kept under observation for 10 days and has now been discharged. Led by N. Sumathi, head of gynaecology department, the team completed the surgery in 1.5 hours and removed the benign tumour measuring 30x30 cm without any rupture. “We had to take special care and make a longer incision as the tumour was occupying the entire abdomen with some adhesion to other organs,” she told The Hindu . Luckily the tumour was not malignant in histopathology or else it could have created further complications, she added. The patient had reported acute pain and distension in her abdomen and a constant feeling of heaviness. Dr. Sumathi said there was unusual delay in reaching out for diagnosis and medical help. The cyst must have grown to this size over a period of six months. She has done similar surgeries in the past to remove a six-kg uterine tumour. She said the patient was kept for 10 days of post-operative care because follow-up was necessary for her to stabilise and regain health. Associate professor M Sudha and Josephine from gynaecology department and HOD Anaesthesia Selvakumar and anaesthetist Sudharshan were part of team that was congratulated by the Dean A. Rathinavel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/grh-doctors-remove-7-kg-ovarian-tumour/article35868418.ece
12 August 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Jayaraj’s daughter deposes in court||J. Persis, daughter of Jayaraj and sister of Benicks, who died of alleged custodial torture by Sattankulam police last year, on Wednesday deposed before the additional district and sessions judge I, Madurai. The accused were produced before the trial court. Ms. Persis, a witness, was examined and cross-examined during the course of the trial proceedings. Earlier, J. Selvarani, mother of Persis, had deposed before the sessions judge. The case was adjourned till August 16.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/women-depose-in-court/article35868419.ece
12 August 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Hear Railway’s appeal, Commissioner of Land Administration told||Considering the plea of Southern Railway, the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has directed the Commissioner of Land Administration to hear the appeal of the railway against the order of the Commissioner of Land Survey and Settlement who declared a portion of the land in possession of the railway in Kottapattu village, Tiruchi district, as government land. Southern Railway said that buildings and other structures were constructed on the land that was in its possession for many years. The land measuring 570.26 acres was used for workshop and other allied purposes. Under these circumstances, one S.I. Basheer Ahamed claimed possession of a portion of the land measuring 22.30 acres. While deciding the claim made, the Commissioner of Land Survey and Settlement declared the land as a Tamil Nadu government land and rejected the claim made by Basheer Ahamed. Subsequently, the Tiruchi East Tahsildar directed Southern Railway to remove the superstructure from the land measuring 22.30 acres. The Railway complained that the order was passed before they could prefer an appeal. A Division Bench of Justices N. Kirubakaran and M. Duraiswamy took into consideration the plea of Southern Railway and directed the Commissioner of Land Administration to hear the appeal in four weeks. The court said till such time the order passed shall not be enforced and disposed of the petition.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hear-railways-appeal-commissioner-of-land-administration-told/article35868395.ece
12 August 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Disability rights body stages stir||The Southern Railway has been denying the right to mobility to persons with disabilities by not extending concession in train fares, activists said on Wednesday. “Besides operating only a limited number of trains citing the COVID-19 pandemic, officials have removed coaches specially designed for disabled persons. In some trains, these coaches are kept locked and the disabled are put to hardship,” said S. Namburajan, general secretary, Tamil Nadu Association for the Rights of All Types of Differently Abled and Caregivers. Participating in a protest in front of Madurai railway junction, Mr. Namburajan said trains that were being operated were named ‘special trains’ and their fares were increased exorbitantly. “In the name of special trains, the disabled are not given concessions,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/disability-rights-body-stages-stir/article35868314.ece
12 August 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Rice seized||Civil Supplies–CID sleuths on Wednesday seized 1,800 kg of ration rice from a house in Tirumangalam and arrested one person. Acting on a tip-off, the sleuths found 60 bags, each weighing 30 kg, stocked in front of the house of N. Ganesan, 50. He collected the rice distributed through ration shops from family card holders. and sold it to hotels and for cow feeding.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rice-seized/article35868651.ece
12 August 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Water level||Water level in Periyar dam stood at 136.35 feet (maximum permissible level is 142 ft.) with an inflow of 911 cusecs and a discharge of 900 cusecs. In Vaigai dam, the level was 67.96 ft. (71 ft.) with an inflow of 598 cusecs and a discharge of 69 cusecs. Combined storage in Periyar credit was 10,292 mcft.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level/article35868421.ece
12 August 2021||Nagapattinam,TAMIL NADU||42 micro units to take up fish processing||Start of 42 new micro enterprises exclusively for fish processing has been planned in Nagapattinam under One District One Product (ODOP) tagline of the Pradhan Mantri Formalisation of Micro food processing Enterprises (PMFME) scheme. The scheme, meant to enhance competitiveness of individual micro-enterprises in the unorganised segment of the food processing industry, promote formalisation of the sector and provide support to Farmer Producer Organisations, Self Help Groups and Producers Cooperatives along their entire value chain, entails a subsidy benefit of 35 % of the project cost to a maximum of Rs. 10 lakh. The district administration has put in place measures to implement the scheme through the Department of Agricultural Marketing and Agricultural Business. Assistant Agricultural Officers of Vedaranyam, Keelaiyur, Nagapattinam, Thalaignayiru, Kilvelur, Tirumarugal have been entrusted with the task of identifying prospective entrepreneurs. The administration has also assigned the task of streamlining bank loans to the beneficiaries through the District Industries Centre. Under the Capacity Building component of the PMFME Scheme, the National Institute of Food Technology Entrepreneurship and Management (NIFTEM) and the Indian Institute of Food Processing Technology (IIFPT) have been performing a key role in providing training and research support to selected enterprises/ groups/ clusters in partnership with the State level technical institutions. With an outlay of Rs. 10,000 crore over a period of five years from 2020-21 to 2024-25, the scheme envisions to directly assist 2,00,000 micro food processing units nation-wide for providing financial, technical and business support for upgradation of existing micro food processing enterprises. Proponents of economic acceleration in Nagapattinam district have been emphasising for long the start of fish processing units to ensure better prices for fish catches. At present, the fishermen find themselves necessitated to sell their produce soon after landing on the shores in the absence of storage and processing facilities. The bulk of the procured fish loads are transported to destinations in Kerala and the rest to Tuticorin for processing and export business.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/42-micro-units-to-take-up-fish-processing/article35868404.ece
12 August 2021||NAGERCOIL,TAMIL NADU||Over 5 lakh receive first dose of vaccine in Kanniyakumari||Even as over 5 lakh persons have received their first dose of COVID-19 vaccine and 1.14 lakh had taken both the doses in Kanniyakumari district, the district administration has intensified surveillance on the district’s border with neighbouring Kerala where the number of fresh cases is on the rise. Collector M. Aravind, while addressing a review meeting held here on Tuesday, said 9,60,605 samples had been tested for COVID and a total of 5,10,835 persons had received the first dose while 1,14,999 had taken both the doses. Even though the number of fresh cases had come down in the district, the vaccination drive had been intensified as 30% of the total population of the district had been vaccinated so far. On the anticipated ‘third wave’, Mr. Aravind said the children were likely to be affected in the third wave and hence due precautionary measures had been put in place. While the children’s home in the district had been instructed to take all preventive steps, events were being organised to create awareness among the public, especially among the young parents, on protecting their children from the viral infection. The Kanniyakumari District Medical College Hospital at Aasaripallam with 1,110 beds had been equipped with oxygen generator capable of generating 1,000 litres of medical oxygen per minute, 125 oxygen concentrators and an oxygen tank with 24,000 litre capacity. The Collector said the private hospitals across the district had also been instructed to create adequate facilities to neutralize the anticipated ‘third wave’. One more major step taken by the district administration is the intensified surveillance on the Kanniyakumari – Kerala border where persons entering the district from Kerala are asked to produce the vaccination certificates and swab tests are being conducted for the Kerala passengers in the railway station. “We’ve intensified surveillance at Kaliyakkavilai, Kaakkavilai, Choozhal and Nettaa check-posts on the border, where everyone entering the district are asked to produce the vaccination certificates before being allowed to enter the district,” said Mr. Aravind.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/over-5-lakh-receive-first-dose-of-vaccine-in-kanniyakumari/article35868807.ece
12 August 2021||NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||Gandhian offers to pay up his share of State debt||T. Ramesh wrote a cheque for Rs. 2.63 lakh, a precise amount targeted at ensuring that his component of Tamil Nadu’s debt burden was at least repaid. The 41-year-old Namakkal resident, who claims he is a Gandhian, came forward to hand over a cheque for the amount to government authorities here, on the heels of Finance Minister Palanivel Thiaga Rajan’s statement after releasing the White Paper on the State’s finances. Computing each family’s share of the public debt burden of Tamil Nadu, the Finance Minister put it at Rs. 2.63 lakh per family. When he landed up at the office of the Revenue Divisional Officer here on Monday with a huge replica of a cheque for the amount, he, naturally, attracted the attention of media persons. Mr. Ramesh, who is from Bommaikuttaimedu, said his cheque was from a nationalised bank and that it was for the precise amount that Mr. Thiaga Rajan indicated as the debt burden component of each family. He believed that all citizens should help the government by paying back the debt. Ironically though, the government did not seem to want his money. The RDO refused to accept the cheque saying he did not have the powers to do so. He advised Mr. Ramesh to hand it over to other senior officials. Mr. Ramesh told presspersons that everyone should come forward to pay the debt burden and that he would meet senior officials to hand over the cheque.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gandhian-offers-to-pay-up-his-share-of-state-debt/article35868331.ece
12 August 2021||PERAMBALUR,TAMIL NADU||e-beat system to ensure safety of elders||The police have introduced an e-beat system at the field level using technology to ensure safety of senior citizens staying alone with no support at remote places. A case of murder of an elderly couple who stayed alone at Allinagaram a couple of months ago had prompted the police to take the initiative, say the police. They identified 53 houses of senior citizens residing alone in Perambalur district which has eight law and order police stations in Perambalur and Mangalamedu sub divisions besides an all women police station. The e-beat system has been introduced with an app which the field-level beat constables have downloaded in their respective mobile phones and QR code stickers in the size of a A-4 paper having been pasted at the 53 houses, says the Superintendent of Police, Perambalur, S. Mani adding that the system was introduced a week ago. Upon reaching the houses of senior citizens residing alone, the beat constables would open the app and scan the QR code which would provide details of the person including their name and the village besides the jurisdictional police station. The beat constables would interact with the elderly persons for some time to build a sense of security among them and try to address their immediate needs that could be done by them. The e-beat system would enable the superior officers to easily monitor whether the beat constables had made periodic visits to such houses as the information under this initiative would land to the technical team. Information relating to the name of the beat constable, the time at which he had visited the house, the name of the village and the date would automatically land to the system of the technical team working at the district headquarters. The beat constables serving at the police stations would make a visit once in three weeks to the houses of senior citizens residing alone, says Mr. Mani. Although the system of marching beats is already in place at the field level, it has been extended making use of technology to houses where senior citizens resided alone. The e-beat system would be monitored and the gaps and lacunae would be addressed wherever found, says Mr. Mani.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/e-beat-system-to-ensure-safety-of-elders/article35868409.ece
12 August 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Lieutenant Governor calls on Union Home Minister||Lieutenant Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan on Wednesday called on Union Home Minister Amit Shah at his residence in New Delhi. A release from Raj Nivas said the Lt. Governor sought the support of the Union Home Minister for the development of Telangana and the Union Territory. The Union Minister assured Ms. Soundararajan of all support for the development of Puducherry and Telangana. She also handed over a sapling to the Home Minister, as part of a movement started by her to plant around 75,000 saplings to mark the 75th anniversary of India’s Independence.  Ms. Soundararajan also met Union Minister of State L. Murugan.  The Lt. Governor had started a movement to plant 75,000 saplings to mark the 75th anniversary of India’s Independence||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/lieutenant-governor-calls-on-union-home-minister/article35868761.ece
12 August 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Youth pitch in with digital tools and more||In the best traditions of volunteerism, several youth have joined the collective to fight COVID-19, helping turn a grim situation around during the second wave. And though all of them were affected by the pandemic one way or another, whether it was getting infected themselves or even losing a dear one, they navigated through their personal woes to sustain their contributions to containing the COVID-19 pandemic. Hailing from diverse backgrounds, they intervened in a range of ways, from being involved in grassroots-level works to distributing essentials and even using digital tools to reinforce COVID-19-appropriate behaviour. As early as April, when cases began to rise, several youth banded together to form the Pondicherry COVID Response, Health Information and Community Help Group on Facebook. “At the beginning of the second wave around April, a few of us had the idea of creating a group to help residents, and collaborate with other volunteer networks across the States,” said Christina Joseph, the group’s admin. Over the past months, the group has been consolidating and posting updates on official information regarding hospital bed availability, oxygen and ventilator support, and medicine and drug availability on the page. The group now has over 250 members, with people sharing support and information, both across India and overseas. Special care is taken when sharing verified, scientifically backed COVID-19-related information or news updates for the people in both the vernacular (Tamil) and in French for the Francophone community, said Ms. Joseph, who was among the featured nominees in the “Dettol Salutes” campaign. Meanwhile, a series of tweets that collated COVID-19 data, mapped trends and offered analytical cues from a Twitter handle caught the eye of the health administrators in the recent days. “I do not have a background in statistical modelling, but connecting the dots from the available information and transforming them into comprehensible easy-to-use data is interesting, and is possible with the right tools,” says S. Sri Hari, an electrical engineering student from St Joseph’s College (Anna University) in Chennai. Initially, he started making charts only for Chennai, the Nilgiris and Puducherry. When cases started to rise in the western parts of Tamil Nadu, he started posting daily updates for Coimbatore, Tiruppur, and Erode. As more people began to track his updates, he started covering the COVID-19 footprint across south India and the northeast. Mr. Hari is due to join the Arizona State University shortly, and has himself been infected with the virus. Since May 20, when he put up his first graph on social media, appreciation has poured in from unexpected people and places. “I got a sense that I was doing something worthy when government officials who directly manage the pandemic appreciated my charts and analysis,” said the youngster. The Trust for Youth and Child Leadership (TYCL), which has a consultative status of the United Nations Economic and Social Council, has also mobilised youth to undertake a host of measures, from helping with mental health counselling and delivering essentials and food packets to patients in isolation across the city and suburbs. “Many of our volunteers too were down with the virus. But as soon as it was safe to be back on the job, they did,” said R. Suresh Krishna, TYCL administrator.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/youth-pitch-in-with-digital-tools-and-more/article35868768.ece
12 August 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||State election body identifies reserved seats for local body polls||Of the 1,159 seats going for local body polls in the Union Territory, 931 will be reserved at various levels in municipalities and commune panchayats. The State Election Commission, in a release on Tuesday night, said of the 931 reserved seats, 250 would be reserved for the Scheduled Castes (of which 93 will be reserved for women from the Scheduled Castes). Similarly, 331 seats will be reserved for women from the general category. The total number of seats reserved for women in the upcoming local body polls will be 424, the release said. The Commission said 348 seats would be reserved for the Backward Classes, and 196 for the open category. The number of seats reserved with respect to OBCs and the Scheduled Tribes will be decided by a draw of lots. It will be done on August 13 in the presence of representatives from parties at the SEC office. After 10 years, elections will be held in the five municipalities and 10 commune panchayats.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/state-election-body-identifies-reserved-seats-for-local-body-polls/article35868756.ece
12 August 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK seeks probe into land grab||The AIADMK on Wednesday demanded a probe into alleged land grab in Karaikal. Addressing a press conference, AIADMK secretary (East) A. Anbalagan said a case had been registered against a DMK functionary in Karaikal for grabbing the property of a professor. He created fake documents with the help of officials in the Revenue Department to grab the property on 1.5 acres of land, he said. A party functionary cannot commit a crime of such magnitude alone, he said, adding that some big leaders and officials were involved in it. The property was worth around Rs. 75 crore, he said. The government should constitute a committee to investigate the crime, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aiadmk-seeks-probe-into-land-grab/article35868763.ece
12 August 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Narikuravas seek inclusion in ST list||The Narikuravar Sangam on Wednesday submitted a memorandum to Adi Dravidar Welfare Minister Chandira Priyanga, seeking inclusion of the community in the list of the Scheduled Tribes (STs). The memorandum stated that the community was at present classified as MBC, even though it had the cultural traits to be notified as a Scheduled Tribe. It also stated that though members of the community were long-time residents of Puducherry, they faced several issues and delays in getting community certificates, and as a result, were being denied social justice. The community was included in the ST list in States such as Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh, while the process was in its final stage in Tamil Nadu, the memorandum stated. “We are aware that a survey is under way to revise the ST list to include the tribal population in Puducherry. At this juncture, we request that our community’s claim is examined and a recommendation is made for notifying it in the ST list in the report being prepared for submission to the Centre,” the memorandum added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/narikuravas-seek-inclusion-in-st-list/article35868765.ece
12 August 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Man imprisoned for sexual assault||Principal district and POCSO special judge Selvanathan on Tuesday sentenced a 27-year-old man to 10 years’ rigorous imprisonment in a sexual assault case. The judge also slapped a fine of Rs. 15,000 on the accused. In case of default in payment, the judge said the man would have to undergo one year of simple imprisonment. Mr. Selvanathan pronounced the judgment in a case registered against Ranjith Kumar for sexually assaulting a minor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-imprisoned-for-sexual-assault/article35868759.ece
12 August 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Expedite works on bypass: DMK||The DMK has urged the government to complete works on the Arumparthapuram bypass at the earliest. In a memorandum to Chief Minister N. Rangasamy, Leader of the Opposition and DMK convener (south) R. Siva on Wednesday urged the government to complete the project at the earliest. The construction of the bypass was aimed at easing traffic congestion on the Puducherry-Villupuram Road. Once the bypass materialises, vehicles coming from the 100 ft Road will be able to take the bypass to travel to Villupuram, without entering the town, he said. Land has been acquired in several parts to construct the road. Anti-social elements are now using the vacant land for illegal activities, including parking of expired vehicles, he said. The government should expedite the construction of the bypass, he said. Party legislator Sampath was also present when the memorandum was submitted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/expedite-works-on-bypass-dmk/article35868762.ece
12 August 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Cases cross 100 for 2nd day in a row||The Union Territory on Wednesday recorded one death due to COVID-19, while fresh cases crossed the 100-mark for the second day in a row. Puducherry recorded the only fatality, taking the Union Territory’s toll to 1,801. Puducherry recorded 70 of the 114 fresh cases. As many as 5,924 samples were tested there. This was followed by Karaikal (22), Mahe (20) and Yanam (2). The test positivity rate stood at 1.92%, case fatality rate at 1.48% and recovery rate at 97.81%. With 98 patients being discharged after treatment, the total figure stood at 1,19,213. Active cases touched 866. The Union Territory has recorded a total of 1,21,880 cases so far. As many as 4,114 people took the jabs on Wednesday. Cuddalore district reported no deaths, even as 75 people tested positive, taking the tally to 61,220.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cases-cross-100-for-2nd-day-in-a-row/article35868766.ece
12 August 2021||Salem,TAMIL NADU||‘Restore train fare concessions’||Members of the Tamil Nadu Association for the Rights of All Types of Differently Abled and Caregivers staged a demonstration near the railway junction here on Wednesday demanding restoration of train fare concessions. Led by its State treasurer K.R. Chakravarthy and district president S. Ammasi, members said that concession in train ticket fares helped them to travel to destinations without facing difficulties in boarding buses. But in the pretext of COVID-19 pandemic, only special trains were operated and the specially designed coaches for disabled persons were removed and concession in fares was not given to them. They said that they have to pay additional fare to travel in special trains even during emergencies and wanted the concessions to be restored. Also, they urged the railways to withdraw the hike in platform ticket price from Rs. 50. They said that lifts and escalators were not functioning in junctions causing hardship to the elderly and the differently-abled. Hence, steps should be taken to ensure that lifts and escalators function regularly. The protest was held in front of the junction.  Special Correspondent adds from Dharmapuri:  Staging a demonstration in Dharmapuri, the members of the Tamil Nadu Association for the Rights of All Types of Differently-abled (TARATDAC) protested against the withdrawal of special allowances by the Union government in trains citing the pandemic. According to the protesters, the special coaches meant for the persons with disabilities were since been locked up. This has put persons with disabilities to a great degree of suffering. TARATDAC has also demanded that elevators and escalators be restarted for the use of the differently-abled. Further, they have called for emulating the example of Puducherry and Chandigarh, where 25 litres of petrol is given at half the price for the persons with disabilities. The protesters also slammed the Union government for hiking the fuel prices making it unaffordable for the differently-abled, who are dependent on their three-wheelers for their commute. The protesters gathered here outside the railway station and raised slogans against the Union Government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/restore-train-fare-concessions/article35868437.ece
12 August 2021||salem,TAMIL NADU||Salem Collector inspects Panamarathupatti lake||District Collector S. Karmegham inspected Panamarathupatti lake along with Corporation Commissioner T. Christuraj here on Tuesday. The Panamarathupatti lake receives inflow from rain in Jaragumalai, Bodhamalai, Varattaru and Kuttaru here. The lake is covered with semaikaruvellam trees and Mr. Karmegham advised Corporation officials to take necessary measures for removing the semaikaruvellam trees and desilt the lake thereby improving the storage capacity of the lake. Mr. Karmegham also reviewed the progress of construction of a sewage tank near Ammapalayam lake at a cost of Rs. 6.45 lakhs and reviewed development of plant saplings near Vaniyampadi. The Collector also reviewed the progress of construction works at Kumaragiri Dhandayuthapani Swami Temple.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/salem-collector-inspects-panamarathupatti-lake/article35868441.ece
12 August 2021||Sattur,TAMIL NADU||One injured in fire accident||One worker, K. Arokiyaraj (35) sustained minor injuries in a fire accident at a fireworks unit at Banthuwarpatti under Sattur Taluk police station limits on Wednesday. The police said that the accident occurred while Arokiyaraj was trying to handle finished goods in one of the rooms. However, sensing trouble on seeing sparks, he ran to safety. Only the crackers stocked in the room went up in flames. The police said Guru Star Fireworks was found violating the safety norms and its licence was suspended on July 20. When the owner, Sahadevan of Achchankulam got an order to reopen the unit, the accident occurred at around 8.30 a.m. Sattur Taluk police are investigating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/one-injured-in-fire-accident/article35868422.ece
12 August 2021||Srivilliputtur,TAMIL NADU||‘Aadi Pooram’ celebrated on Andal temple premises||The grand 'Aadi Pooram' car festival that attracts thousands of devotees from across the State was held at a simple function with the presiding deities brought on a golden chariot within Andal temple premises, on Wednesday. The star 'Pooram' of Tamil month 'Aadi' marks the birthstar of Goddess Andal and it is celebrated with the car-pulling on the four Car Streets around the temple. The car-pulling event is the highlight of the 10-day festival. With the COVID-19 restrictions put in place, the car festival was called off for the second consecutive year. After special pujas and abishekam, idols of Lord Rengamannar and Goddess Andal were placed on the golden chariot which was pulled on the temple premises with limited people in attendance to maintain social distancing. Virudhunagar Collector J. Meghanath Reddy, District Revenue Officer R. Mangalaramasubramanian, Assistant Collector M. Birathiviraj, Temple Fitperson Ravichandran and Executive Officer A. Elangovan were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/scaled-down-celebrations/article35868321.ece
12 August 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Deploy portable paddy dryers at DPCs, say delta farmers||With the problem of harvested `kuruvai’ paddy getting exposed to the vagaries of nature cropping up, farmers in the delta region farmers have pleaded for use of portable paddy dryers at the direct purchase centres. As the ‘kuruvai’ season is coming to a close with the harvesting of paddy picking up in the areas where the crop had been cultivated and the produce being brought to the DPCs, the farmers are being bogged down by the problem of the moisture content percentage in the paddy shooting up due to sporadic rain or the overnight chill weather conditions. At the same time, farmers alleged, the delay in the opening of DPCs at some of the revenue villages, where such a facility was offered during last season, had also compounded the problem. While the allegation of non-opening of DPCs was outrightly denied by the officials who pointed out that the DPCs were being opened in the revenue villages on the request from farmers, the latter have pleaded that deployment of tractor-operated portable paddy dryers at the DPCs would help them measure the paddy at the prescribed moisture content percentage. Claiming that deployment of tractor-operated portable dryers at some of the DPCs during the fag end of the last paddy season in Thanjavur district at the prompting of some progressive farmers resulted in the paddy measured at the prescribed moisture content level, the general secretary, Federation of Farmers Associations in Delta Districts, Arupathi P.Kalyanam exhorted the government to deploy adequate numbers of portable dryers in the delta districts during this season either through the Tamil Nadu Civil Supplies Corporation or through the Agriculture Engineering Department. In case if that was not feasible, the government could ensure the availability of such machines in the delta districts by encouraging the farmers or farmer producer organisations (FPO) to buy these machines by extending 50 per cent of the purchase cost as subsidy, he added. Meanwhile, a progressive farmer, G.Srinivasan of Ganapathi Agraharam in Thanjavur district who played a key role in testing the advantages of deploying portable paddy dryers at the DPCs in the district last season, has suggested that restoration or setting up of permanent paddy dryer and silos facilities at the permanent DPCs of the Corporation and deployment of portable dryers at the temporary DPCs would be of much help to both the Corporation and the farmers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/deploy-portable-paddy-dryers-at-dpcs-say-delta-farmers/article35868398.ece
12 August 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Award for corporation welcomed||The Chief Minister’s award for the best performing Corporation to Thanjavur by the Municipal Administration and Water Supply Department has been welcomed. The civic body staff and the non-governmental organisations working for the cleanliness and betterment of the town viewed the decision as a shot in their arm for the dedicated efforts put in by them during the pandemic situation. Despite the constraints that have cropped up due to the novel coronavirus, the routine sanitary and health care services were made available without fail to the public through the Corporation Public Health Care centres and the Thanjavur Corporation played a key role in setting the benchmark for the functioning of COVID Care Centres set up by the civic bodies in the district, said Radhika Michael, president, Green Thanjavur Movement. The positive attitude of the officials in taking the NGOs along with them in the fight against the novel coronavirus has resulted in the town managing to ward off disastrous developments during the second wave of COVID-19 pandemic like it had kept the pandemic situation under control during the initial outbreak, Dr.Radhika Michael pointed out. R.Ravichandran, director, ‘Azhagiya Thanjai – 2005,’ also welcomed it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/award-for-corporation-welcomed/article35868397.ece
12 August 2021||THENI,TAMIL NADU||Water released from Vaigai dam for irrigation||Cooperation Minister I. Periasami released water for irrigation from Vaigai dam in the district on Wednesday. Flanked by Ministers K.R. Periakaruppan and P. Moorthi, Collectors K.V. Muralidharan (Theni), S Visagan (Dindigul), S. Aneesh Shekhar (Madurai) and P. Madhusudan Reddy (Sivaganga), Mr Periasami said that the government, after taking over on May 7 under the leadership of M.K. Stalin, had for the first time in 14 years, released water from the Mulla Periyar dam on June 1 for the farmers’ benefit. Likewise, the Vaigai dam would release 1,130 cusecs of water for the next 120 days, which would benefit 53 acres in Nilakottai in Dindigul district, Vadipatti (5697 acres), Madurai North (24,811) and Melur (48,963) in Madurai district, Tirupattur (478) and Sivaganga (5561) in Sivaganga district. Apart from this, water released on the Thirumangalam Main Canal would benefit 19,439 acres of land covering Vadipatti, Usilampatti, Thirumangalam and Peraiyur in Madurai district, thus totalling 1.05 lakh acres of land. The Minister said that fertiliser stocks were sufficiently available at all the approved and designated shops. Farmers should judiciously use the water, he appealed. MLAs, including A. Maharajan, K.S. Saravanakumar, A. Venkatesan and M. Boominathan, PWD executive engineers M. Sugumar and V. Sugumaran and officials were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-released-from-vaigai-dam/article35868417.ece
12 August 2021||Theni,TAMIL NADU||Honeybees target them||Even as the three Ministers and senior officers from the four districts arrived at Vaigai dam and were about to open the sluices, honeybees from the groove in the vicinity started targeting them. Many among them ran away or attempted to chase the honeybees. However, for some, hands, faces and necks had turned red. The VVIPs could not leave swiftly as the exit point was narrow. However, they left. Officials said two Collectors and a few police officers had painful moments. The remaining sluices were lifted later by PWD engineers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/honeybees-target-them/article35868425.ece
12 August 2021||Theni,TAMIL NADU||Targeted by bees||Even as the three Ministers and senior officers from the four districts arrived at Vaigai dam and were about to open the sluices, honeybees from the groove in the vicinity were in the air and started targeting the guests. Many among them ran away or attempted to chase the honeybees. Within about a few seconds, the honeybees stung many persons assembled there. For some, the hands and other parts around their faces and necks had turned red or swelling and itching. Realising the emergency, when the VVIPs also managed to leave in a huff, they could not leave swiftly as the exit point was narrow. The personal security officers of the Ministers were also helpless for some time. In the bee-hit, officials said that two Collectors and a few police officers had painful moments. As the Ministers left the venue abruptly, the remaining sluices were lifted after an hour by the PWD engineers, the officials added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/targeted-by-bees/article35868654.ece
12 August 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,TAMIL NADU||Central team pinpoints flaws in Kerala’s COVID-19 protocol||The multidisciplinary team deputed by the Centre to study Kerala’s COVID-19 situation has pinpointed inadequacies in the home care and isolation of patients, poor contact tracing efforts and lack of active surveillance to be the primary reasons for the rise in cases in the State over the past one month. It also reported that the A,B,C,D classification based on test positivity rate (TPR ) has had limited impact on disease transmission. One observation of the team was that there was no active disease surveillance in the community and that case detection was mostly by testing those reporting in hospitals with influenza-like illnesses. They also pointed out that contact tracing was “abysmally low,” with no more than two contacts per case being traced. In districts such as Malappuram and Kozhikode, where the family size is huge and joint families are the norm, transmission was spreading within families leading to a high TPR. Norms violated It was noted that 85% to 90% of those who tested positive for COVID are in home isolation and that there seemed to be low acceptance of isolation facilities created by the government. But home isolation did not seem to be working well and quarantine norms were being violated, leading to increased transmission within homes and formation of case clusters. The Central team has recommended better and close monitoring of patients in home isolation as many home care patients were being admitted to hospitals in symptomatic phase. The State needed to have adequate infrastructure as well as a monitoring framework for the same. Number of deaths “Deeper analysis needs to be undertaken regarding the number of deaths in home isolation as well as the number of people referred in serious condition to hospitals,” the report said. It was also recommended that the State improve contact tracing by including not just household contacts, but those in workplaces and close community contacts too. The field-level Rapid Response Teams need to be trained again on surveillance and contact tracing and the case-contact ratio has to be at least 10-15 contacts for every case. The strategy of categorisation needed to be re-examined. It suggested that the monitoring of containment activities in panchayats where the test positivity rate (TPR) is high (above 10%) should be done in consultation with medical college hospitals and the State’s expert committee on COVID-19. They have also recommended that the option of strict lockdown for 14 days should be explored in wards where the TPR remained high for a long time. The six-member team had visited eight districts — Alappuzha, Kollam, Pathanamthitta, Thiruvananthapuram, Malappurum, Kozhikode, Kannur, and Kasaragod — in the first week of August.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/central-team-pinpoints-flaws-in-keralas-covid-19-protocol/article35868170.ece
12 August 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Minister appears before court||Minister for Fisheries and Animal Husbandry Anita R. Radhakrishnan appeared before a court here on Wednesday in connection with an attempt-to-murder case in which he has been cited as an accused along with a few others. Arumuganeri town secretary of the DMK K.M. Suresh filed a complaint with Arumuganeri police in March 2011 alleging that a few persons attempted to murder him at the instigation of Mr. Radhakrishnan, who was cited as the seventh accused in the case. As the trial court had ordered for his personal appearance before the court on August 11, Mr. Radhakrishnan appeared on Wednesday before Principal Sessions Judge Thangamariappan, who adjourned the case till August 19. One more case on damaging public property also came up for hearing on Wednesday, in which Mr. Radhakrishnan appeared before the court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/minister-appears-before-court/article35868326.ece
12 August 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Books supplied to all new students||The School Education Department has ensured supply of textbooks to newly-enrolled students in government schools who had shifted from private institutions this year, by exhausting its surplus stock. “The books for the first term have been provided to all the newly enrolled students. The extra textbooks that had been supplied for the last two years were sourced from neighbouring districts,” Chief Educational Officer R. Arivazhagan said. For the next term, the books will be supplied by the Tamil Nadu Textbook and Educational Services Corporation based on the updated particulars in the EMIS (Educational Management Information System), he said. The department has started supplying free textbooks. All other freebies like uniforms and footwear will be provided based on the new data uploaded in the EMIS portal, it is learnt. As for adequacy of infrastructure for the newly-enrolled students, there would not be any shortcoming since additional buildings have been constructed in most of the schools over the years with Central-government funding under Sarva Siksha Abhiyan and Rastriya Madhyamik Shiksha Abhiyan, according to school heads. Additional requirement of furniture, however, will have to be met with contributions from philanthropists. At present, the availability of books is what is helping students to follow the portions being covered through Kalvi telvision channel. “Possession of textbooks by children is helping us considerably since we are able to give the students writing assignments in substantial measure,” a teacher of a government school in Tiruverumbur Panchayat Union said. The teachers, however, observe that parents of children in government schools, in very many cases, have not been extending the desired extent of cooperation for deriving the utility of online interface. For instance, there have been instances of parents hesitating to permit their wards to utilise their smartphones. There have also been cases of elders in families preferring to watch entertainment channels in television at home, thereby eliminating scope for the children to follow the teachings through the Kalvi channel, a senior teacher lamented.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/books-supplied-to-all-new-students/article35868403.ece
12 August 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Plea to create Yembal taluk||Residents of Yembal in Pudukottai district have urged the State government to create a new taluk with their village as the headquarters for ensuring better accessibility for government services. Situated at the border of Sivaganga district, the remote panchayats of Yembal, Madhagam, Kurungalur, Irumbanadu and Thiruvakudi panchayat have hardly witnessed any development over the past several decades, the villagers contend. “We think people in these five panchayats are the ones facing the most administrative problems in Tamil Nadu. With the district, taluk, panchayat union and other government offices located far away in different directions, people of these villages face much hardship and have to travel and spend much time to avail government services,” said P. Perinbanathan, Lead Coordinator, Yembal Development Group and Government Higher Secondary School Former Students Association, which has been lobbying for the cause.  No major development project in terms of infrastructure, education, health sectors or to improve their livelihood has been initiated over the past three decades, the villages said in a recent representation to Chief Minister M.K.Stalin. “Since most of the government offices are situated far away, government officials hardly visit our villages,” they said. “We have to visit neighbouring towns for various purposes. For instance, the taluk office is situated at Avudayarkovil, about 16 km away. The Panchayat Union Office is at Arimalam, which is 32 km away. The district headquarters is 51 km away at Pudukottai,” said Mr. Perinbanathan. The sub-registrar office is 20 km away at Pudupatti and the civil courts are at Thirumayam and Aranthangi, situated at a distance of 38 km from Yembal. While the MLA office is located at Aranthangi, about 32 km away, people have to travel 92 km to reach the MP office at Ramathanapuram, he added. The villagers suggest the creation of a new Yembal taluk by bringing Yembal, Madhagam, Kurungalur, Irumbanadu, Thiruvakudi, Valaramani, Konkudi, Thunjanur, Okkur, Karur, Sathiyakudi, Thachamalli, Veeramangalam, Dharmarajan Vayal, Kambankadu and Kalathur village panchayats under it. The village panchayats are currently under Avudayarkovil, Thirumayam and Aranthangi taluks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/plea-to-create-yembal-taluk/article35868393.ece
12 August 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Too many speed-breakers irk motorists||Speed breakers that are meant to control reckless driving at heavily populated or congested areas have seemingly become a headache to the motorists at Anandam Avenue, an upcoming residential locality on East Boulevard Road in the city. Residents complain the speed-breakers have not been designed in accordance with the guidelines and standards of the Indian Road Congress (IRC). Besides a few apartment complexes, a number of individual houses have sprung up at Anandam Avenue in the recent past. It has a few schools and an arts and science college, and roads were laid in the newly developed layout a few years ago. All streets have been connected well with black-topped road. It was with the aim of ensuring the safety of the residents that speed breakers were erected at various spots. What has caused concern is the presence of too many speed breakers. Each and every main road and cross road has at least two speed breakers. They have been formed both at the start and end points of all roads. What is irritating for the motorists is the formation of speed breakers within short gaps. There are about 15 roads in the locality. But it has more than 30 speed breakers, causing inconvenience to the motorists. They have to move at less than 10 km per hour speed. None of the road seems to have been laid as per the standards of the Indian road Congress. All of them were unscientific in nature. The speed breakers are supposed to have rounded bump structures with 0.10 meter in height and 3.7 m in width as per IRC to reduce the crossing speed of vehicles to 25 km per hours. But residents complain that all speed breakers deviate from the specifications. The road marking to indicate the upcoming speed breakers is also missing. All vehicles, mainly two-wheelers are susceptible to face danger due to the uneven and steep in height pattern of the speed breakers. “I understand the good intention behind the formation of speed breakers. One or two speed breakers at vulnerable points are understandable. But 25 to 30 in a small residential locality is unacceptable. The Tiruchi Corporation should take steps to reduce the number of speed breakers,” says a regular commuter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/too-many-speed-breakers-irk-motorists/article35868406.ece
12 August 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||IIIT-Tiruchi may secure high rating from Green Building Council||Having chosen construction based on Prefab technology, Indian Institute of Information Technology, Tiruchi, will be in a position to secure high rating from the Indian Green Building Council (IGBC) for its permanent campus in Sethurapatti. The Central Public Works Department (CPWD), which is carrying out the construction work, has been adopting the eco-friendly and innovative technology developed by CSIR-Central Building Research Institute, Roorkee, in recent years, for construction of such institutions of national importance. An example was set last year by the National Institute of Technology - Andhra Pradesh, where buildings constructed using Prefabrication technology paved way for the institution to receive Platinum Rating by the IGBC. Prefab or precast construction is carried out at factory or off site in the yard where structural components are cast, transported at site and assembled with or without any cast in situ construction. They are made of lighter materials, and use recycled waste materials like flyash bricks, AAC (Autoclaved Aerated Concrete) blocks and C&D (Construction and Demolotion Debris) waste blocks are used for masonry works. The pre-cast materials for IIIT-Tiruchi are readied at a factory site in Tiruppur and transported to the construction site. Though the technology is relatively more expensive when compared to the conventional in situ construction of buildings, the work gets completed on a faster pace. The Board of the IIIT-Tiruchi had readily approved this construction method since conventional construction practices are still largely labour and material intensive, often leading to time and cost overruns. The faster pace of construction has made it possible for IIIT-Tiruchi to move to its own campus before the start of 2021-22 session. The work on construction of an academic block, a hostel building and a mess building will be completed within two months, official sources said. The IIIT-Tiruchi had to function out of a rented building of an engineering college at Pirattiyur during 2020-21, after vacating from National Institute of Technology - Tiruchi, which had a larger requirement of buildings after it began implementing EWS (Economically Weaker Section) quota in admissions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/iiit-tiruchi-may-secure-high-rating-from-green-building-council/article35868405.ece
12 August 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Makkal Adhikaram demands repeal of UAPA and NIA Act||Makkal Adhikaram will lay siege at the Tiruchi Railway Junction on Independence Day to demand repeal of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, National Investigation Agency Act. Its representatives told reporters here on Wednesday that the plan was to draw attention of the citizens to the ‘fascist’ policies of central government. ‘The government is working for big corporates and ignoring the needs of the people. The anti-democratic acts are condemnable,’ said C. Raju, state coordinator. He said that the UAPA, NIA were archaic, draconian laws that need to be condemned. The organization demanded the release of the people arrested in the Bhima Koregaon case. ‘Following the expose on the spyware Pegasus, we have seen that the evidence is all false. We demand that they be released immediately,’ he said. ‘We must ask those who are celebrating this Independence Day the reason for their celebration. Many journalists have been arrested in the last year alone. We demand justice first, then we can celebrate,’ he said. Farmers have been protesting the three farm laws. ‘They have been protesting for months but there has been no solution to their demands. We are protesting to support their cause too,’ he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/makkal-adhikaram-demands-repeal-of-uapa-and-nia-act/article35868407.ece
12 August 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Central districts report 350 fresh cases||The central region reported 350 fresh cases of COVID-19 on Wednesday. The number of patients reporting COVID-19 positive in the district continued to be within the same range over the last few days without a major spike or dip. Ten deaths were reported in the region, an increase compared to recent days. Three deaths each were reported in Tiruchi and Nagapattinam, two in Thanjavur and one in Tiruvarur district. Tiruchi overtook Thanjavur as the district where the highest number of COVID-19 cases were reported in the region. Tiruchi reported 78 fresh cases of COVID-19, while Thanjavur reported 77. Tiruvarur and Nagapattinam both reported 40 fresh cases each, reflecting a spike in the number of cases. Pudukottai reported 39, while 23 fresh cases each were reported in Karur and Mayiladuthurai. Ariyalur recorded 22 fresh COVID-19 cases, and Perambalur continued to retain its spot as the district with the least number of fresh cases with only eight cases reported on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/central-districts-report-350-fresh-cases/article35868401.ece
12 August 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Persons with disabilities stage protest||Members of the Tamil Nadu Association for the Rights of All Types of Differently Abled and Caregivers (TARATDAC) staged a protest in front of the office of the Divisional Railway Manager on Wednesday. Led by P. Jeeva, State Secretary, they sought the Indian Railways’ intervention to bring about fare subsidies announced for Persons with Disabilities(PwDs). They sought a separate coach in all trains to be reserved for PwDs and escalators at all railway stations. The charging of Rs. 50 as a platform ticket is unfair and needs to be revoked, they said. Thanjavur The TNRATDAC has demanded that petrol and diesel be supplied to the differently-abled persons at a subsidized price like in Puducherry and Chandigarh. Its members organised demonstrations at Thanjavur and Pattukottai where they raised slogans in support of their demands such as petrol at a subsidized price for the vehicles owned by them and revival of the concessional fare to travel in the trains withdrawn in view of pandemic situation. While the CPI (Marxist), Thanjavur Town Secretary, N.Gurusamy and the association district secretary P.M.Illangovan led the demonstration in Thanjavur, the demonstration was led by the local leaders of the CPI(M) and the association at Pattukottai, says a press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/persons-with-disabilities-stage-protest/article35868399.ece
12 August 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||S.P. Velumani offers prayers at temple||Former Minister for Municipal Administration S.P. Velumani paid a lightning visit to Thoothukudi district to offer prayers at a temple on Wednesday and left for Chennai in the evening. Mr. Velumani landed at Thoothukudi airport in the morning and left for his friend’s farmhouse at Naalumoolaikinaru, near Tiruchendur, by car. After spending nearly an hour in the farmhouse, he left for an undisclosed destination in Tirunelveli district. Mr. Velumani entered the Thoothukudi airport 30 minutes before boarding a flight to Chennai in the afternoon. There, he told reporters that he would soon meet the media after getting permission from the AIADMK leadership. He said he had scheduled a visit to a temple here on Tuesday (August 10), but had to postpone the pilgrimage because of “some circumstances”. He was accompanied by his son Vikas.  Mr. Velumani said he had scheduled a visit to a temple here on Tuesday, but had to postpone it because of some circumstances||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sp-velumani-offers-prayers-at-temple/article35868307.ece
12 August 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Differently abled persons stage demonstration||Seeking differently abled-friendly facilities in the railway stations across the country, the physically challenged persons staged a demonstration in front of Tirunelveli railway junction on Wednesday. The protesters said the specially designed railway coaches, which are easily accessible for the differently-abled, should be operated again. Lifts and the escalators should be installed in all major railway stations to ensure hassle-free movement of the physically challenged inside the railway stations. The platform ticket fare of Rs. 50 should be withdrawn, they said. The fuel subsidy being given in the union territories of Puducherry and Chandigarh should be extended in Tamil Nadu also, they said. Similar agitation, led by district secretary of the association R. Murugan, was organised in Thoothukudi Railway Station also.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/differently-abled-persons-stage-demonstration/article35868810.ece
12 August 2021||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||Water level||Water level in Papanasam dam on Wednesday stood at 102 feet (maximum permissible level is 143 ft.) with an inflow of 832.99 cusecs and a discharge of 1,304.75 cusecs. The level in Manimuthar dam was 69.40 ft. (118 ft.) with an inflow of 16 cusecs and a discharge of 150 cusecs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level/article35868812.ece
12 August 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Special vaccination camp for tribal settlements held||The Health Department along with World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF)-India on Tuesday organised a special COVID-19 vaccination camp for the residents of tribal settlements in Anamalai Tiger Reserve (ATR), near Udumalpet. Health officials said that 100 residents of Kodanthur and Porupparu settlements were vaccinated during the special drive. With around 4,000 residents living in 17 tribal settlements in ATR (Tiruppur district), around 767 residents have been vaccinated so far, including some residents who have received their second dose, according to the officials. A statement from WWF-India said that the special camp was arranged to mark the International Day of the World's Indigenous Peoples and that awareness programmes on the importance of vaccination were held for the residents of the tribal settlements.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/special-vaccination-camp-for-tribal-settlements-held/article35868343.ece
12 August 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Inscription throws new light on hero stone||A group of archaeological enthusiasts recently deciphered an inscription near a hero stone, which was worshipped by the residents of a village near Kundadam in Tiruppur district, revealing that the stone was being worshipped at least since 17th Century. The members of Virarajendran Archaeological and Historical Research Centre - S. Ravikumar, K. Ponnusamy and C.M. Rameshkumar – located the hero stone at Periyamolarapatti, near Kundadam. Mr. Ravikumar, the centre director, said the team first visited the hero stone on July 15. The stone, which was around 95 cm high and 195 cm wide, features two men and a woman in between them. The hero on the left side is seen attacking a boar with a spear and carrying a bow on his left shoulder, while the hero on the right side of the stone is seen attacking a tiger with a spear. The woman in the middle is seen with a raised right hand with a flower and the hero stone also has two triangular cavities on either side, presumably to place earthen lamps for worship, Mr. Ravikumar said. “The locals have been worshipping this hero stone as ‘Vettaikaransami’,” he added. One of the structures supporting the hero stone had Tamil inscriptions on it, which the team managed to decipher on August 8. The inscription read that a woman named Andiammal and her children erected the four stone structures and worshipped the hero stone. As per the inscription, the village was earlier called as ‘Molarapatti’ and mentions the name of Gurusamy, who was ruling the village when the inscription was prepared on the 18th day of the Tamil month Aadi during the Tamil year of Sukla, according to Mr. Ravikumar. Based on the style of the Tamil inscription, the team estimated that the hero stone might have been sculpted in the 17th Century, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/inscription-throws-new-light-on-hero-stone/article35868341.ece
12 August 2021||TIRUPPUR,TAMIL NADU||White Paper and searches not linked, says Minister||Minister for Information and Publicity M.P. Saminathan rejected the charge linking the release of the White Paper on the State’s finances and Tuesday’s searches at properties linked to former Minister S.P. Velumani. ‘Law took its course’ Speaking to journalists at Palladam in Tiruppur district, he said the law took its course against the former AIADMK Minister. Chief Minister M.K. Stalin had assured the electors during his campaign that his government would identify the irregularities and register cases against those had committed them, he said. The searches conducted by the Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption marked the fulfilment of this assurance, he said. “If justice is on his side and if he has faith in the rule of law, Mr. Velumani can find a solution,” he said. Mr. Saminathan said the DMK government of 1996-2001, led by M. Karunanidhi, had taken steps to improve the State’s finances after the AIADMK government’s “mismanagement” from 1991 to 1996. He said Mr. Stalin would take similar steps.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/white-paper-and-searches-not-linked-says-minister/article35868294.ece
12 August 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||45 people test positive in Vellore||Vellore district’s COVID-19 case tally reached 48,356, with 45 people testing positive on Wednesday. While 46,951 people have been discharged after treatment, active cases in the district touched 308. The district’s toll stood at 1,097. In Ranipet district, 20 cases were reported and its tally stood at 42,169. In Tirupathur, 12 people tested positive and the total figure touched 28,410. In Tiruvannamalai, 48 fresh infections were recorded, taking the total figure to 52,586.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/45-people-test-positive-in-vellore/article35868814.ece
12 August 2021||VILLUPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Temple that flouted norms faces probe||The Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments (HR&CE) Department has ordered an inquiry into the issue of the Melmalayanur Angalamman temple near Gingee allowing devotees to enter the premises, violating COVID-19 lockdown norms. A video showing the same had surfaced on social media. The district administration had banned the entry of devotees to all temples till Aadipooram (August 11) and during the weekends, as a measure to prevent the spread of the coronavirus infection. Viral video In the video that went viral on social media platforms, staff at the temple are seen allowing devotees to enter the closed premises for worship. A few others are seen waiting outside the entrance of the temple. When contacted, an official from the HR&CE Department said an enquiry had been ordered. The temple is located in a rural area, and people from the surrounding villages visit the temple. “The temple has four gates and devotees may have accidentally entered the premises. The temple was closed for devotees in view of Aadipooram ,” he said.  In the video that surfaced on social media, staff at the temple are seen allowing devotees to enter the closed premises||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/temple-that-flouted-norms-faces-probe/article35868758.ece
12 August 2021||August 12 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||229 new cases, three deaths in Coimbatore||A total of 229 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Coimbatore district on Wednesday, registering a slight increase from Tuesday's 224 cases. The Health Department said that the district had 2,259 active cases of the disease on Wednesday and 203 persons recovered. Three more persons from the district died of COVID-19 on Monday, taking the death toll to 2,201. Tiruppur district reported two new deaths and 73 fresh cases on Wednesday, taking the overall tally to 88,754. The two deaths reported by the Health Department took the overall toll up to 876. A total of 857 patients were active cases and 67 patients were reported to have recovered from the disease. In the Nilgiris, 46 persons tested positive. With the latest infections, the total number of confirmed cases in the district stands at 31,048. The number of deaths stood at 186 on Wednesday while 493 persons are undergoing treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/229-new-cases-three-deaths-in-coimbatore/article35868346.ece
12 August 2021||August 12 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||DVAC searches continue for 2nd day||The searches were going on till late on Wednesday. KCP Engineers and its managing director K. Chandraprakash are the third and fourth accused in the case registered by the DVAC against former AIADMK Minister S.P. Velumani and 16 others on Monday. DVAC sources said the office of KCP Engineers at Peelamedu was raided on Tuesday, and the raid lasted till late at night. It continued on Wednesday morning. The construction company’s office is spread over three floors of a building. The case relates to the alleged favouritism Mr. Velumani had shown in the award of contracts to certain companies, which are believed to be owned by his close associates, when he was the Minister for Municipal Administration. Mr. Chandraprakash was admitted to a private hospital in the city as he complained of chest pain on Tuesday after the DVAC started simultaneous searches at 42 locations, including the homes of Mr. Velumani and the businessman.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dvac-searches-continue-for-2nd-day/article35868413.ece
12 August 2021||August 12 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||A small victory for Ennore fishers||A. Desingu of Kattukuppam said that after several protests against the dumping, they had no option but to move court. “By completely blocking the water flow, they have spoilt our livelihoods. They are constructing the coal belt conveyor across the river. They have built piles inside the river in locations where they have not obtained permission,” he said. Around 8,000 families from eight villages, including Mugadhwarakuppam, Nettukuppam, Ennorekuppam, Thalangkuppam and Sivanpadaiveedukuppam, depend on fishing in the waterbodies. “It took them six months to dump the stuff and they would need more time to clear it,” he said. A senior official of Tangedco said the sand dumped for developing a temporary road for constructing bridges to carry the coal conveyor belt was being removed, as Electricity Minister V. Senthilbalaji had directed officials to study the possibility of utilising bridges of the coal conveyor belt already under operation for the north Chennai thermal power stations. All construction activities under the two projects, including Ennore SEZ and NCTPS Stage 3, have been stopped temporarily.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/a-small-victory-for-ennore-fishers/article35868313.ece
12 August 2021||August 12 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||engagements||ERODE   Bannari Amman Institute of Technology, Sathyamangalam: School of Management Studies, three day national level workshop on Data Analytics using R Programming through virtual mode, R. Dinesh Babu, Chairman, Brainswig Edutech Private Limited, Chennai, resource person, 9.30 a.m.  RD National College of Arts and Science: International Youth Day celebrations, competitions, virtual mode, 10.30 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/engagements/article35868438.ece
12 August 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||State stands first in works to conserve water: Minister||“The State has won the first prize in the country for taking up water conservation works,” Rural Development and Panchayat Raj Minister K.S. Eshwarappa said in Belagavi on Wednesday. The Jal Shakti Abhiyan focuses on conservation of water in water-stressed taluks across the country. The State has utilised several techniques such as rainwater harvesting, renovation of traditional and other water bodies and tanks and borewell recharge structures. “We have taken up construction of over 72,000 farm ponds and 90,000 boulder checks. We have taken up recharge and rejuvenation of 4,000 open wells, 14,000 borewells and 286 temple kalyanis. The Centre has appreciated the State’s efforts in taking up Jal Shakti Abhiyan works through MGNREGA,” he said. He was addressing gram panchayat workers at a conference organised by the Rural Development Department. The State has completed work on 2.38 lakh of the 4.97 lakh water conservation projects since March this year. Over 40 lakh MGNREGA workers have made this possible. “I call them MGNREGA warriors,” he said. “We are working towards the goal of Catch the Rain set by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. We are following the guidelines that 65% of cost under MGNREGA should be utilised to conserve natural resources,’’ he said. The department has spent around Rs. 2,900 crore on MGNREGA. Of this, 82% has been spent on Jal Shakti Abhiyan, the Minister said. As many as 704 water harvesting structures and works on developing 55,000 tanks, removing silt and construction of lakes and cattle-animal holes are under progress. Over 1.12 afforestation works and 464 multi-arch check-dams and 1,262 other water percolation works have been taken up. The Union government has taken note of this, he said. Such works have been taken up mainly in Tumakuru, Ramnagaram, Kalaburagi, Raichur and Belagavi districts. Similar works are also being taken up in other districts. The department is organising training sessions for newly-elected gram panchayat members. “We have completed sessions in three districts already,” he said. He spoke at length about the duties of rural local body members and how their work in rural areas can help them develop a career in public life later. Member of Legislative Council Mahantesh Kavatagimath, BJP district president Sanjay Patil, Principal Secretary Rural Development and Panchayat Raj Uma Mahadevan and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/state-stands-first-in-works-to-conserve-water-minister/article35868454.ece
12 August 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Traders urge admn. not to impose weekend curfew||Traders in Belagavi have opposed the weekend curfew saying that it was harming their business and affecting the economy. A delegation of the Belgaum Traders Forum met Deputy Commissioner M.G. Hiremath and submitted a memorandum asking him not to reimpose curfew during the next weekend. They said that traders were already suffering from several problems due to the prolonged COVID-19 lockdown in the last two years. This has been worsened by the weekend curfew, they said. All classes of traders, businessmen and industrialists have suffered. The case positivity rate is low in Belagavi district and there is no need for curfew and lockdowns, they said. They favoured the sealing of borders, though. They were also willing to accept a few more hours of night curfew, instead of a weekend curfew, they said. Satish Tendulkar, Sevantilal Shah, Vishal Kulkarni, Raju Khoda, Vikas Kalghatgi, Deepak Aversekar, Ramesh Pawale and others were present.  The case positivity rate is low in Belagavi district and there is no need for curfew and lockdowns, they say||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/traders-urge-admn-not-to-impose-weekend-curfew/article35868449.ece
12 August 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Belagavi City Corporation council polls on Sept. 3||The State Election Commission has announced that elections to the Belagavi City Corporation Council will be held on September 3. The elections were delayed for nearly two years due to pending cases in the High Court of Karnataka over delimitation and other issues. The election notification will be issued on August 16. The last date for filing nomination papers is August 23. Scrutiny of nomination papers will be held on August 24. And, August 26 is the last date for withdrawal of candidature. Votes will be counted on September 6.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/belagavi-city-corporation-council-polls-on-sept-3/article35868451.ece
12 August 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Eshwarappa surprised by poll announcement||Rural Development and Panchayat Raj Minister K.S. Eshwarappa has expressed surprise over the State Election Commission announcing polls to urban local bodies as COVID-19 cases are on the rise in the State. “COVID-19 cases are rising in the State, especially in border districts, including Belagavi and Kalaburagi. I don’t know if it is necessary to conduct polls at such a time,’’ he said. “I am surprised. I don’t want to comment about it, however,’’ he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/eshwarappa-surprised-by-poll-announcement/article35868452.ece
12 August 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Biofuel Day observed||World Biofuel Day was observed at KLE Engineering College in Chikkodi on Wednesday. Resource person P.R. Chitragar delivered a lecture on “Future Performance Analysis of CI Engine by using Karanja and Jatropa bio diesels’’. Prasad Rampure, principal, and others planted Honge ( Pongemia pinnata ) saplings on the college campus. Mr. Rampure said that the college had set up hi-tech equipment to analyse fuel efficiency of biofuels. Faculty members Kumar Chougala, Mahantayya Mathpati and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/biofuel-day-observed/article35868450.ece
12 August 2021||belagavi,KARNATAKA||Career guidance||Nippani-based VSMS RKIT College will organise career guidance programmes for youth. Chandrakant Kothiwale, college committee working president said that IAS officers will be invited to speak to students preparing for competitive examinations. Resource persons of Deshpande Foundation will be invited to speak to BBA, BCA, and degree students. Special provisions are being made to give admission to students of COVID-19 and flood-affected families, he said. Engineering students have done well in campus interviews. As many as 48 have got offer letters from corporate companies, principal Ramagonda Patil said. The society has started Orchid English medium school with CBSE certification.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/career-guidance/article35868464.ece
12 August 2021||belagavi,KARNATAKA||New layout||The Belagavi Urban Development Authority will start work on a new residential layout in Kanabaragi village on August 15. Ghulappa Hosmani, BUDA chairman, will lay the foundation stone. It will come up between Kanbargi and Basvan Kudachi villages. BUDA’s new residential building plan has also been approved, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/new-layout/article35868465.ece
12 August 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Winners||Sanjana Bagewadi and Yash Patil won the open CKA Champion of Champions Karate Trophy in the girls and boys categories, respectively. The competition was conducted at the Gangadhar Shanbag Hall in Belagavi on Wednesday. Around 150 Students participated. Industrialist Ajit Shanbag presented the prizes. Karate master and coach Jeetendra B. Kakatikar, referees Ramesh Alagudekar, Akshay Parmoji, Sachin Barmaynnaver, Neel Dhanawade and Vinayak Kamble were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/winners/article35868455.ece
12 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||CCC contractors demand immediate payment of dues||The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) has started preparing for the predicted third wave of COVID-19, by increasing the number of physical triage centres (PTCs), quarantine centres and COVID-19 Care Centres (CCCs). However, preparations have already hit a roadblock with a section of contractors and vendors who helped the civic body set up CCCs during the first and second waves claiming that they are yet to be paid. They have demanded immediate payment of pending bills, amounting to upwards of Rs. 17 crore. Contractors have warned that even if they are approached to help set up CCCs ahead of the third wave, they would not be able to do so owing to severe financial distress. Some haven’t been paid since 2020. Nagarjun K., from Elaan Infra, told The Hindu that during the first wave, contractors and vendors stepped in to help with setting up CCCs across the city, including a massive centre at the Bengaluru International Exhibition Centre (BIEC). The CCC at BIEC, touted as being the largest facility in the country, was mired in controversy and closed soon after the first wave ebbed. “For a package deal, we provided nearly 30 different items to the civic body. Of these some items such as cots, mattresses, pedestal fans, etc. were purchased, while others were provided on rental basis. The BBMP, on government’s order, even distributed many of the materials to various government hostels and reutilised some for facilities set up during the second wave. However, we are being made to run from pillar to post seeking payment from June 2020,” he remarked. Vasudev Udupa, another service provider, said that most of the vendors are event-based businesses. “We are under severe financial distress, forced to borrow heavily to even pay salaries to our workers. We are unable to continue with our business, as none of the vendors are ready to give us any material since we have huge outstanding bills with them as well,” he said. According to Mr. Udupa, a meeting with the then Chief Minister B.S. Yeddiyurappa did not help. “Though Mr. Yeddiyurappa had directed the BBMP to make at least one-third of the payment, but the bills were not cleared,” he alleged. BBMP chief commissioner Gaurav Gupta, however, said that some part payment was made to the service providers. “There was some controversy that warranted a higher level of scrutiny of bills. We had sought some additional information from the service providers,” he said and added that he would look into the issue.  We are under severe financial distress, forced to borrow heavily to pay our workers. We are unable to continue with our business, as none of the vendors are ready to give us any material since we have huge outstanding bills with them as well. Vasudev Udupa service provider   We are being made to run from pillar to post seeking payment from June 2020. Nagarjun K. Elaan Infra||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ccc-contractors-demand-immediate-payment-of-dues/article35868259.ece
12 August 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Bommai takes to firefighting to pacify miffed Anand Singh||Amidst high drama, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai had to take up a two-hour firefighting mission on Wednesday after Tourism Minister Anand Singh, who is upset over not getting a plum portfolio, hinted at resigning. Though the Chief Minister finally succeeded in convincing Mr. Singh to continue as Minister with the portfolios allocated to him, the episode brought to light the undercurrent of dissatisfaction, which is brewing among a section of Ministers and legislators after the ministerial expansion and allocation of portfolios. Earlier, Mr. Singh, who offered special puja at a temple in Hospet, had said: “I began my political career from this temple in 2008 after offering puja. Now, I have offered puja but I do not know whether my political career will end or re-start.” He had also expressed dissatisfaction over the BJP leadership. “I had a strong belief that political stalwarts will come to my support. But now I have realised that I was living under an illusion,” he said. Mr. Singh was quickly summoned to Bengaluru by the party leadership. Mr. Singh, who arrived in a helicopter, had consultations with former Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa. After this, Mr. Bommai had nearly two-hour consultations with him in an undisclosed place along with Revenue Minister R. Ashok and Raju Gowda, MLA. After the meeting, the Chief Minister told mediapersons that it was true that Mr. Singh felt he hadn’t got a portfolio that would suit his potential. “I understand his feelings as I have a nearly three-decade-old association with him. But I explained to him the circumstances under which the Ministry was formed. I have also told him that I would discuss the issue with the party high command,” Mr. Bommai said. On his part, Mr. Singh said he was satisfied as the Chief Minister had assured him of taking up the issue with the high command on priority. He denied speculations that he wanted to resign. Mr. Singh had earlier resorted to pressure tactics as he had abruptly closed down his MLA office in Hospet and even removed the nameplate on Tuesday, triggering speculations that he may quit if his demand for a change in portfolio was not met.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bommai-takes-to-firefighting-to-pacify-miffed-anand-singh/article35868271.ece
12 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||OBC list: Activity picks up in Karnataka after amendment Bill restores power||The passage of a Constitutional Amendment Bill to restore powers of States to draw their list of backward classes on Tuesday comes at a time when Karnataka is witnessing a churn among in the midst of politics over the Socio Economic Survey of Castes (Caste Census) report. The State, which had been grappling with several issues of reclassification, addition and deletion of castes from the list, now gets a free hand to redraw the caste matrix with 50% reservation cap, though experts believe there will not be any immediate fallout in the State, unlike in a few others. A day after the passage of the Bill, Backward Classes Commission chairman K. Jayaprakash Hegde met Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai briefly. “There was a hitch till now as the State government did not have powers. Our work had slowed down. We have to start working on matters that are before the commission,” Mr. Hegde told The Hindu . Addition of about four to five small castes, and reclassification of certain semi-nomadic and nomadic tribes are before the commission along with the demand for reclassification of Panchamasalis, he added. “The caste census report also has to be looked into,” he added. The caste census conducted by the commission at a cost of over Rs. 160 crore is in the cold storage now. Meanwhile, the high court is expected to start hearing a writ petition that seeks a direction to the Backward Commission to submit its socio economic survey report and the government to seek a report. In the recent times, the State witnessed Panchamasalis, a sub-sect of Lingayats, demanding their reclassification to category 2A from 3B, Kurubas seeking Scheduled Tribes Status, the Scheduled Tribes asking for a larger share in the reservation matrix besides a host of most backward classes seeking recast of the matrix to secure greater share in reservation. “Caste matters should be regional since OBCs are not uniform across the country. Since 2014, the Centre has tried to take up the OBC matter and prevented the States from drawing the list. The Bill only sets right the earlier problem created by the Constitution 102 amendment,” said former chairman of the Karnataka Backward Classes Commission C.S. Dwarkanath. “The commission will now play an important role in recommending any addition, deletion or reclassification,” said Mr. Dwarkanath, who met Social Welfare Minister Srinivas Poojary to discuss the issue. However, Mr. Dwarkanath said any departure from the current matrix should be based on caste census. Citing an example, he said: “Of the 95 communities in Category 1, 76 communities have not received reservation benefits while in Category 2A, of the total 102 communities, 73 communities have not benefited. These anomalies have to be set right.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/obc-list-activity-picks-up-in-karnataka-after-amendment-bill-restores-power/article35868273.ece
12 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||DPAR nudges three depts. to implement reforms recommended by commission||The Department of Personnel and Administrative Reforms (DPAR), nodal department responsible for improving governance, has written to three key departments – Revenue, Food and Civil Supplies and Consumer Affairs, and Transport – to take swift actions to implement the key reforms recommended by Karnataka Administrative Reforms Commission-2 (KARC-2), headed by former Chief Secretary T.M. Vijay Bhaskar. Mr. Bhaskar on Wednesday called on Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai and discussed recommendations made in the interim report and sought the latter’s suggestions on improving the quality of administration from the public perspective. In the interim report, which was submitted to the government on July 3 when B.S. Yediyurappa was the Chief Minister, the commission strongly recommended e-delivery of nearly 800 citizen-centric services for improving ease of living for citizens by adopting technology.   Study recommendations Sources told The Hindu that DPAR has asked heads of Revenue, Food and Civil Supplies and Consumer Affairs, and Transport Departments to study recommendations and commence the process of implementing them. The commission has recommended transformation of Atalji Jana Snehi Kendras (AJSKs) as the single-window agency for citizens for providing online services of all departments, abolition of offices of four Regional Commissioners, and option for citizens to go to any RTO office in Bengaluru city for availing the services, as in the case of registration of documents in sub-registrar offices. In total, the commission has made 856 recommendations in three key departments, which accounted for nearly 80% of all applications for citizen-centric services. Mr. Bhaskar said the commission has taken up seven more departments for study and made recommendations for the government on improving delivery of services. The departments are: Urban Development, Rural Development, Home, Energy, Social Welfare, Backward Classes, and Minorities. Efficiency in delivery Reforms in these departments would bring in efficiency in the delivery of services in more than 225 urban local bodies, nearly 6,000 rural local bodies, and ensure proper selection of beneficiaries for scholarships, housing, and other subsidy schemes being implemented by these departments. Mr. Bhaskar said the commission is expected to submit a comprehensive report on all major departments by November end.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/dpar-nudges-three-depts-to-implement-reforms-recommended-by-commission/article35868275.ece
12 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||SIFA to protest today against ban on garlands at govt. events||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai’s ban on presenting garlands, bouquets, shawls, and fruits at official programmes has ruffled the feathers of flower growers and florists who were badly hit by the pandemic. The South India Floriculture Association (SIFA) has demanded that the ban order be revoked, as it has direct impact on hundreds of flower growers, horticulturists, and farmers in the State. SIFA, on Wednesday, said it would stage a protest on Thursday. Protesters intend to bring with them banned items such as flower garlands, bouquets, and fruit baskets. Farmers’ organisations and flower growers’ associations are likely to participate in the protest, a release said. The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP), too, has decided to enforce a similar ban. On Wednesday, civic chief Gaurav Gupta issued a circular directing all officials to stop the custom of giving bouquets, garlands etc. with immediate effect. Officials have been directed to present Kannada books, which is the administrative language, the circular read. Stringent action will be initiated against officials found violating this directive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/sifa-to-protest-today-against-ban-on-garlands-at-govt-events/article35868279.ece
12 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Four held in another inter-State arms racket||The Ashok Nagar police unearthed yet another inter-State arms trafficking racket and arrested four men while they were waiting for their customers. The police recovered two country-made pistols, five rounds of ammunition, one magazine, two bikes and five mobile phones from the gang. After receiving a tip-off, a team went to the location near a cemetery on Hosur Road and nabbed the accused, who have been identified as Sonu Kumar, 32, Sunil Kumar, 32, Irfan Imtiyaz, 26 and Murali Vinod, 47. The accused allegedly confessed to the police that they sourced the weapons from their contact, one Lutan Singh, who operates out of Sultanganj in Bihar. “All four accused have been booked under the Arms Act, 1959, and have been taken into custody. We are investigating their trade network,” said a police officer. This is the second weapons racket that the police have uncovered in less than a week. On Saturday, the Central Crime Branch police arrested three inter-State gun runners and recovered seven weapons and 19 rounds of ammunition from them. The accused, Ayazulla, 30, Syed Siraj, 42, and Arun Kumar, 26, reportedly sourced the firearms from Amristsar and Shirdi. “They were selling it to gangsters and habitual offenders here,” said another police official, noting that cases of arms trafficking are on the rise. Since January this year, the Benglauru police have registered as many as six cases of people selling firearms, ammunition, etc, illegally. After a series of murders happened in broad daylight, including that of former councillor Rekha Kadiresh in Cottonpet, the city police cracked the whip on gangsters and rowdy elements. Simultaneous raids were carried out on the houses of rowdies and also at Central Jail, Parappana Agrahara. “Despite such strict action, the sale of guns continues, and is a matter of concern for the Police Department,” said the police official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/four-arrested-in-another-inter-state-arms-racket/article35868260.ece
12 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||SSLC: Students of THiS institutions score high||Many students from schools that are part of The Hindu in School (THiS) programme scored well in the Secondary School Leaving Certificate (SSLC) examination, the results for which were declared on Monday. For the 20th consecutive year, Pavan English School, Devaiah Park, achieved 100% pass results. This year, two of its 19 students got an A grade. J.N. Uday Kiran, who scored 512 marks, was the topper. For the eighth consecutive year, Premier High School, Srirampuram, achieved 100% pass results and two of 49 students were awarded A+. Akash N. Murthy, with 96.48%, was the topper. And for the fifth year in a row, Sri Anupama Vidya Mandir, Peenya, achieved 100% pass with eight of its 53 students securing an A+. Shashank S., who got 96%, was the school topper. Lewa English High School, Sri Mahaganapathi Nagar, achieved 100% pass for the second consecutive year. Of the 31 students, seven were awarded an A+. Karthik G., with 97%, was the topper. In Madonna School, Udayanagar, all 118 students passed and 40 students got A+ grade. Charitha S, who scored 97.28%, was the topper. All 115 students at Jubilee English High School, Vijinapura, passed and 15 students got A+ grade. Someesvaar V., with 97.92% emerged school topper. Amara Jyothi English High School, K.R. Puram, achieved 100% pass with 17 of 139 students securing A+ grade. Prathima Kamath with 98.72% stood first. For the 15th consecutive year, Achala Vidya Mandira High School, Rajajinagar, achieved 100% pass with five of 22 students getting an A+ grade. Lakshitha P. with 98.4% was the topper. For the sixth year in a row, SBIOA Public School, Basaveshwara Nagar, achieved 100% pass with four of 31 students getting an A+ grade. Hemanth R., by securing 95.52% was the topper. In its 26th year, Assumption English High School, Rajajinagar, achieved 100% pass for the 18th time. In all, 20 of 123 students got A+ grade. Paavana B.V., who scored 621 marks stood first. Kids Global School, Marathahalli, achieved 100% pass with two of six students securing A+ grade. Varsha R., with 92%, was the topper.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/sslc-students-of-this-institutions-score-high/article35868253.ece
12 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||City gets SWAT teams||The city police on Wednesday inducted two Special Weapons and Tactics (SWAT) teams into the force. Their primary task will be to thwart and tackle threat perceptions, said officials. “The SWAT teams will be deployed at the strategic locations to provide security cover. They are trained to handle any given situation, use modern weapons and have also been trained in unarmed combat. They will respond to any eventuality and perform special tasks during emergencies,” said Joint Commissioner of Police (Crime) Sandeep Patil. He added that unlike other elite forces, the SWAT teams are exclusively for Bengaluru. Two more teams are currently undergoing a training session. Once they are inducted, the city will have four SWAT teams. A group of 120 personnel from the City Armed Reserve Were handpicked and divided into four teams. Personnel undergo an eight-week rigorous training programme overseen by officials from Centre for Counter Terrorism (CCT) of the Internal Security Division. The selected personnel were trained in counter terrorism and Naxal issues, providing safety and security cover to State and Central resources and international events.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/city-gets-swat-teams/article35868257.ece
12 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Govt. keen to expand power of human capital, entrepreneurship across State, says Bommai||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Wednesday said his government was very keen to expand the power of entrepreneurship and the power of human capital to the entire State to unleash Karnataka’s growth in its full capacity. “I strongly believe that my people should be wealthy rather than systems or government being wealthy. Empowerment of people through education and entrepreneurship is critical to achieve this,” he said at the CII annual meeting held virtually. Karnataka was the pre-independent leader in industrialisation and manufacturing in the areas of defence, machine tools, agriculture machinery, ink, paper, cement, steel, and electrical segments. During the 1950s and 1970s, the State laid a strong foundation for skill development and R&D. Bengaluru has 180 R&D firms of international repute, in addition to ISRO, HAL, NAL, BEL, and a host of pharma companies, Mr. Bommai said. However, Mr. Bommai said Karnataka’s entrepreneurship skills have to be improved, and the government would conduct a special drive to improve. “We also lack regional balance in industrial development, which is critical to increasing entrepreneurship quality. I want industries to spread across the State and not just concentrate in certain areas,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/govt-keen-to-expand-power-of-human-capital-entrepreneurship-across-state-says-bommai/article35868268.ece
12 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Rural areas in 15 districts get less than 5 hours of power during day||As rural areas in 15 districts have been receiving less than five hours of electricity during the day and villages in another 15 districts have been provided power for seven hours, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai directed officials of the Energy Department to prepare a blueprint to avoid disparity in electricity supply. Mr. Bommai reviewed the power situation in the State and asked officials to ensure high voltage power to all parts of the State. Power generation, distribution, and transmission need to be managed efficiently to ensure self-reliance in the power sector, he said.  Cost of electrification About 18,569 pumpsets would be provided electricity connections under the Ganga Kalyan scheme during this fiscal and the department was considering an increase in the cost for electrification of each pumpset from Rs. 50,000 to Rs. 1.2 lakh. Mr. Bommai also directed officials to ensure round-the-clock supply og electricity to hospitals during the COVID-19 period and provide electricity to borewells drilled under the Ganga Kalyan scheme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rural-areas-in-15-districts-get-less-than-5-hours-of-power-during-day/article35868274.ece
12 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||KFCC demand for full occupancy in cinemas rejected||The State government on Wednesday rejected the Karnataka Film Chambers and Commerce’s (KFCC) demand to allow cinemas to operate at 100% capacity. A delegation of the KFCC called on Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai and urged him to relax guidelines to allow cinemas to operate at full capacity across the State. Sources said Mr. Bommai, however, rejected their demand and said their plea would be considered after some days after consultation with experts in the health sector. Currently, citing COVID-19 cases, the government has permitted cinemas to run shows at 50% seating capacity in the State. On the demand to provide concessions in power tariff and other subsidies, Mr. Bommai, who also holds the finance portfolio, told the delegation to submit a memorandum and he would examine it. Film producer Sa. Ra. Govindu, actor Anuradha (Tara), and other representatives held discussions with the Chief Minister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kfcc-demand-for-full-occupancy-in-cinemas-rejected/article35868276.ece
12 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||No entry to temples on weekends and holidays||To contain the spread of COVID-19 in Bengaluru, the district administration has banned the entry of the general public and devotees to temples on Saturdays, Sundays, and general holidays during the month of ‘Shravan’. The ban applies to both private temples and those coming under the Endowment Department of the Karnataka government. On other days, devotees will be allowed to enter the temples following all rules of the Karnataka government and the Central government to contain the spread of COVID-19 pandemic. Bengaluru Urban Deputy Commissioner J. Manjunath issued the order on August 11, as per provisions of COVID-19 Regulations Rules 2020 and Disaster Management Act 2005.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/no-entry-to-temples-on-weekends-and-holidays/article35868467.ece
12 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Software engineer files plaint against hackers||A 45-year-old software engineer has filed a complaint with the Whitefield cyber crime police after his email accounts were allegedly hacked. The victim, Santosh C. S., a resident of Chanasandra who works as a program manager in a reputed IT firm, claimed that the unknown hackers, after gaining access to his accounts, manipulated data and used his personal records and IDs for their own purposes. “They have also been harassing him by manipulating his daily activities online. For instance, in his statement he said that recently he had ordered two pairs of shoes online from a branded store. The hacker however changes the size of his shoes from 8 to 6,” said a police officer. According to Mr. Santosh, he has been experiencing such anomalies from December 2019 till August this year. In his statement, he said that two of his accounts had been hacked, and his activities were being monitored online. After gaining access to his accounts, the hackers applied for a job as a nurse and gave the victim’s details. They also verified his bank transactions. “They were able to do this by using spyware and keystroke trackers,” said the police. Based on the complaint, the police on Monday registered a case charging the accused under various sections of the IT Act, 2000. They have also sought more details to corroborate his claims as part of the investigation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/software-engineer-files-plaint-against-hackers/article35868468.ece
12 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Centre yet to act on proposal to hand over BGML land for township||The central government is yet to act on Karnataka government’s proposal on development of an Industrial Township on 3,200 acres belonging to the defunct Bharat Gold Mines Ltd. (BGML) at KGF in Kolar district. On August 28, 2020, Union Coals and Mines Minister Pralhad Joshi said the Centre would hand over the 3,200 acres to the State government for developing an industrial park if no minerals are found for exploration on lands during the survey. On Wednesday, Major and Medium Industry Minister Murugesh R. Nirani met Mr. Joshi in New Delhi and discussed the development of the Industrial Township at KGF. Mr. Nirani tweeted, “Met @JoshiPralhad Avaru in New Delhi and discussed the development of an Industrial Township at KGF in Kolar district by utilising unused vacant land at Bharat Gold Mines and other issues”. The proposal was mooted when Jagadish Shettar was the Minister for Major and Medium Industries. The land is strategically located at 90 km from Bengaluru airport, 260 km from Chennai Port, and 314 km from Krishnapatnam port. BGML, which operated KGF and was closed in 2001, has about 12,000 acres of land.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/centre-yet-to-act-on-proposal-to-hand-over-bgml-land-for-township/article35868269.ece
12 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||How a garden transformed Gangammagudi police station||Bengaluru Police Commissioner Kamal Pant on Wednesday announced that Gangammagudi police station was the best station in the city. The transformation began with a garden. A few months ago, Inspector Sidde Gowda, attached to Gangammagudi police station, hit upon the idea of developing a garden around the station. The project was taken up by staff who sourced plants from nurseries and sought tips from experts on how to maintain them. Over the weeks, the once-drab ground was transformed into a vibrant garden. As word spread, people and corporate houses pitched in to help. Inspector Gowda was surprised to see that as the garden blossomed, personnel started taking more interest in maintaining the premises. A few friends of the inspector from Chitrakala Parishad also contributed artwork and painted murals on the walls.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/how-a-garden-transformed-gangammagudi-police-station/article35868262.ece
12 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||New DRM takes charge||Shyam Singh, officer of Indian Railway Services of Engineers 1999 batch, has taken over as Divisional Railway Manager, Bengaluru, of South Western Railways (SWR). Prior to this, Mr. Singh was in Mumbai with the Dedicated Freight Corridor Corporation. Mr. Singh did B.Tech in civil engineering from IIT-Delhi. Ashok Kumar Verma, who held the DRM post for two years, said he had an “enriching experience” working in the city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/new-drm-takes-charge/article35868277.ece
12 August 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||183 fresh cases in Hassan, 51 in Shivamogga||Hassan reported 183 fresh cases of COVID-19 and three deaths on Wednesday. With that, the number of cases increased to 1,07,803 and the death toll rose to 1,295. As many as 1,104 people are under treatment in the district. Among them, 48 are in the intensive care unit. Of the fresh cases, 10 are from Alur, 13 in Arkalgud, 12 from Arsikere, 22 from Belur, 13 from Channarayapatna, 90 from Hassan, 12 in Holenaraipur, 10 in Sakleshpur and one from outside the district. Shivamogga district reported 51 fresh cases of COVID-19 and one death on the day. With that, the total number of deaths in the district increased to 1,048. Among the fresh cases, 14 are from Shivamogga, 14 in Bhadravati, six in Tirthahalli, five in Shikaripur, two in Sagar and 10 in Hosanagar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/183-fresh-cases-in-hassan-51-in-shivamogga/article35868698.ece
12 August 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Students told to choose stream of their choice, serve society||Deputy Commissioner of Dharwad Nitesh Patil has urged students who have just cleared SSLC examinations to choose a stream of their choice, gain knowledge in that stream with focus on becoming job-givers rather than being job-seekers. He was addressing meritorious students from the district who had scored high marks in the examinations, the results of which were announced recently, after having breakfast with them and felicitating them at his official residence in Dharwad on Wednesday. Mr. Patil told the students to make efforts towards gaining knowledge in all fields so that it would help them in succeeding in Civil Services examinations and serve the country. “Apart from studies, there should be a healthy mix of extra curricular activities and good hobbies. There are opportunities both in government and private sectors. But your focus should be on generating employment rather than seeking jobs,” he said. Dharwad Zilla Panchayat Chief Executive Officer B. Susheela said that there is nothing impossible if continuous and focussed efforts are made. “Make use of the facilities and opportunities available to achieve success in the course of your choice,” she told the students. Managing Director of Karnataka Urban Infrastructure Development Corporation Gurudatta Hegde and IAS Probationary Officer Madhukar Gitte addressed the students and advised them on what to focus on during their further studies. Deputy Director of Public Instruction M.L. Hanchate gave details about the district performance in SSLC. State topper Nagalakshmi Agadi, student of Presentation Girls High School, Dharwad, is the State topper with 625 (out of 625) marks. Of the 25,539 regular students of Dharwad district, 4,463 students have secured A+, 9,787 A, 9,978 B and 2,311 C grades. Responding to the honour, Nagalakshmi Agadi said that she was honoured to receive the felicitations from the Deputy Commissioner. She said that her ambition is to serve the people by pursuing up medical sciences as there is scarcity of medical professionals in the country. Preeti Kotabagi from Madanbhavi Government High School, who scored 623 marks, said that her ambition is to become a Deputy Commissioner like Mr. Patil. She said that she will start preparing for the same taking inspiration from the Deputy Commissioner and the Chief Executive Officer. The State topper and all the district toppers were felicitated and certificates were issued to them. After the programme, the students visited the room in the Deputy Commissioner’s official residence, in which Kittur Queen Chennamma was imprisoned by the British. Sadiya Mujawar of Anjuman High School, Dharwad, Sourav Nayak of Benaka Vidya Mandir, Hubballi, and Chaitanya Shetty of Chetan Public School, Hubballi, have shared the second place at the district level, with 623 marks. With 621 marks out of 625, Ankita Bavukar, Vishal Bhovi, Siddarth Gaikwad of Devikoppa Government High School, Pooja Myagade of Betadur Government Kittur Rani Chennamma High School, Bhagyashree Jogin of G.V. Joshi English Medium High School, Hubballi, Rani Kamat of Rotary High School, Navanagar, Priya Kuduvakkal, Spandana Channaveeragoudar, Nagaveni Desai, Sneha Patil of Presentation High School, Dharwad, and Deepak Shenoy of JSS High School, Dharwad, have shared the third place in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/students-told-to-choose-stream-of-their-choice-serve-society/article35868463.ece
12 August 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Byadgi police solve case of murder, arrest woman||The Byadgi police have solved the case of an unidentified body found near Motebennur in Haveri district and arrested a woman from Dharwad on the charge of murder. The name of the accused was given as Shobha Hosalli, a resident of Hebballi Agasi in Dharwad. The dead man was identified as Nagaraj Manniker, 28, a resident of Dharwad. The Byadgi police found the body of Nagaraj Mannikeri near Motebennur on August 8. Initially, it looked like a case of accident. The police took up investigation using a chit containing a mobile phone number found in the trouser pocket. As the police further investigated the case, it came to light that the accused, a divorcee, had an affair with Nagaraj, who was working as a sweeper like her at an apartment in Dharwad. As the accused was elder to him and also a divorcee, the family members of Nagaraj had objected to their relationship and had convinced Nagaraj that he should marry another girl. The accused, Shobha, who was upset over the development, reportedly fought with Nagaraj on the issue. When it became evident that Nagaraj will marry another girl, Shobha took him out of Dharwad on the pretext of a trip and then stranguled him. Later, she threw the body near Motebennur to destroy the evidence, the police said. A team led by Byadgi Police Inspector Basavaraj, Sub-Inspector Mahanthesh M.M. and Assistant Sub-Inspector Basavaraj Anchatagi arrested the accused and produced her before court. Further investigation is on.  The Byadgi police found the body of Nagaraj Mannikeri near Motebennur on August 8. Initially, it looked like a case of accident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/byadgi-police-solve-case-of-murder-arrest-woman/article35868471.ece
12 August 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Treasury officer caught||The sleuths of Anti Corruption Bureau (ACB) have caught an official and staff of the Department of Treasury in connection with a bribery case in Hubballi. The ACB sleuths have given the names of the arrested as Assistant Director of Department of Treasury (Treasury Office) Prakash S. Halapet and First Division Assistant Abhilash Alur. The arrests were made on Tuesday based on a complaint by retired Assistant Sub-Inspector of Police Mallanna Desai. Mr. Mallanna Desai had approached the accused several times with regard to the delay in sanctioning his pension benefits and each time, he was sent back citing different reasons. Subsequently, the two had sought a bribe of Rs. 10,000 for sanctioning the pension benefits and ultimately agreed for Rs. 3,000. However, as Mr. Mallanna Desai did not pay the bribe amount, the two were harassing him by not giving him his pension book. Fed up with them, Mr. Mallanna Desai complained to the ACB and the sleuths caught Abhilash Alur at his office while he was accepting Rs. 3,000 from Mr. Mallanna Desai. Mr. Prakash was caught subsequently. Led by Deputy Superintendent of Police (ACB) Venugopal, Inspectors Virbadrappa Kadi and Ali Sheikh carried out the operation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/treasury-officer-and-staff-caught/article35868447.ece
12 August 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Boy who passed SSLC in First Class found dead||A student who passed the SSLC examination in the First Class was found dead on his family farmland at Malachapur village in Bhalki taluk, Bidar district, on Tuesday evening. Preliminary investigation revealed that the boy killed himself. As per information provided by Dhannur Police, the boy had gone to the field in the morning with a rope for tying fodder and later, hanged himself to death from a tree in the field. The police suspected that depression might have been the reason for the boy to take the extreme step. “The engagement of the boy’s elder sister was recently cancelled for some reason. Their father is an alcoholic and their mother is the breadwinner in the family. The family condition must have pushed the boy into depression,” Police Sub-Inspector of Dhannur Police Station Chidanand Savadi told The Hindu . Mr. Savadi said that the preliminary investigation did not indicate any foul play. “The parents have, however, in their complaint, suspected foul play. But, our investigation so far did not suggest anything of that sort. It appears to be a clear case of depression-driven suicide. But, investigation is still on,” Mr. Savadi said. ( Those in distress or having suicidal tendencies can call Arogya Sahayavani on Ph: 104 for help. )||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/boy-who-passed-sslc-in-first-class-found-dead/article35868456.ece
12 August 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Exam cancelled after mass cheating||Dayanand Agsar, Vice-Chancellor of Gulbarga University, paid surprise visits to a few examination centres in Bidar district on Wednesday and caught some of the students red-handed while they were copying. After finding mass copying at the M.S Institute of Technology and Management, Mr. Agsar ordered the cancellation of the examination and asked the authorities to re-conduct the examination on Friday at Basaveshwara College on the BVB College campus. Mr. Asgar found exam malpractices in Kaviratna Kalidasa Degree College as well. He warned the college exam supervisors of stringent action and asked them to submit a written explanation. In Chandrashekhar Degree College at Mannaekhelli, Mr. Asgar found that the senior external invigilator of the examination was absent and directed the authorities to relieve him from his assignment with immediate effect. In the Government First Grade Degree College in Humnabad, Mr. Asgar caught two students who were copying the answers from their mobile phones and debarred them on the spot.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/exam-cancelled-after-mass-cheating/article35868469.ece
12 August 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||B.Y. Vijayendra visits Dattatreya temple||B.Y. Vijayendra, son of the former Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa, visited the famous Dattatreya temple at Deval Ganagapur in Afzalpur taluk of Kalaburagi and performed a special puja in the sanctum sanctorum on Wednesday. Sources in the party said that it was his personal visit to the temple during the auspicious month of Shravana. Mr. Vijayendra and his family performed the puja and stayed on the temple premises for some time. He also refused to speak with the media and remained tight-lipped about speculation that he might be inducted into the State Cabinet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/by-vijayendra-visits-dattatreya-temple/article35868458.ece
12 August 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Mangalore varsity postpones undergraduate, PG exams||In the light of communication from Dakshina Kannada district administration about disruption of public transport on August 14 and 28 due to weekend curfew, Mangalore University has postponed the undergraduate and postgraduate examination scheduled on those two days. Registrar (Evaluation) P.L. Dharma said that disruption of public transport will make it difficult for students of the university to reach the examination centre on these two days. Hence, the university has decided to postpone the examination. In a release, Mr. Dharma said that the revised timetable of the examination will be sent to students by email on Thursday. It will also be available on the university’s website,www.mangalore- university.co.in. As many as 41,989 undergraduate and 5,676 post-graduate students wrote the examination held on Wednesday. A total of 1,876 undergraduate students and 56 postgraduate students remained absent. It was following directions from the district administration to prevent the spread of COVID-19 that the university re-scheduled the odd semester examinations, which began on Wednesday. In the morning, 24,937 undergraduate students and 3,868 post-graduate students wrote the examination, while 1,324 undergraduate students and 14 postgraduate students remained absent. In the afternoon, 17,052 undergraduate students and 1,808 post-graduate students wrote the examination, while 551 undergraduate students and 42 postgraduate students remained absent. Earlier, talking to reporters, Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra said that deemed to be universities and autonomous institutions in the district have been asked to take prior concurrence of the district administration before announcing holding of examinations. The Joint Director of Collegiate Education, Dakshina Kannada, has been appointed the nodal officer to review arrangements at these institutions, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mangalore-varsity-postpones-undergraduate-pg-exams/article35868683.ece
12 August 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Coast Guard conducts walkathon to mark 75 years of Independence||Coast Guard District Headquarters (Karnataka) on Monday conducted a walkathon to commemorate 75 years of Independence with the theme, Azadi Ka Amrut Mahotsav, here. Flagging off the event, Commissioner of Customs and CGST Imamuddin Ahmad said that the walkathon was a great way to get everyone on their feet and active by promoting a healthy lifestyle. He stressed on the need for people to achieve a target of 75 thousand steps for Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav. The festival of 75 years of Independence should be one such event in which the spirit of freedom struggle and tribute to martyrs and their pledge to create India can be experienced. To enhance cooperation between the two services, another area of thrust, in which both agencies have been successful, is maintaining synergy with Indian Coast Guard and Indian Customs with regard to operations and other maritime activities, said a release from the Coast Guard. The significance of the event is to emphasise on India’s glorious history and showcase its development since Independence and to encourage people to remain healthy and fit by including physical activities and sports in their daily lives, it said. A total of 100 people participated in the event near Custom Road, New Mangaluru, covering 7.5 km. Indian Coast Guard said that it has planned a special community interaction drive for fishermen in the coming days and it will be hoisting the National Flag at various islands and lighthouses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/coast-guard-conducts-walkathon-to-mark-75-years-of-independence/article35868671.ece
12 August 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Three arrested for pilferage of petroleum products||The Bantwal Rural Police arrested three men said to be involved in pilferage of petroleum products pumped through Petronet MHB (PMHB) Ltd.’s pipeline from Mangaluru to Bengaluru. The police gave the names of the arrested persons as Ivan Charles Pinto (43) of Arala village of Bantwal, Ajit of Pachhanady and Joel Pretam D’Souza of Kannur. Loss of pressure Officials of PMHB observed loss of pressure during pumping of petroleum products through pipeline on July 11 and following a survey, zeroed in on the farmland of Pinto in Arala village. Upon digging of earth at the spot, officials found tampering with of the pipeline and arrangements made to siphon off petroleum products. Complaint In a complaint filed with the Bantwal Rural Police, a PMHB official, G. Rajan, put the worth of pilfered petroleum products at Rs. 40 lakh. The police arrested Pinto for allowing pilferage of petroleum products from the pipeline passing through his land. Ajit and Joel were accused of drilling a hole into the pipeline and installing a pipe for pilferage of petroleum products. The police seized the pilfered diesel, vehicle used by the arrested persons and also the containers used to store pilfered diesel. The police are on the lookout for six more me associated with the arrested persons. The accused have been booked under the provisions of Petroleum and Minerals Pipeline Act and Prevention of Damage to Public Property Act. The team involved in tracing the accused included Police Sub-Inspector Prasanna, Head Constables Janardhan, Gonibasappa and Suresh and Police Constables Manoj and Puneet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/three-arrested-for-pilferage-of-petroleum-products/article35868681.ece
12 August 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||MAHE gears up to welcome students on its campus||Manipal Academy of Higher Education (MAHE) on Wednesday announced its plans on “back to college campus” by making preparations for smooth transition from online classrooms mode for its students. Speaking to reporters at Manipal, Pro-Chancellor H.S. Ballal said that the university too has paved the way for its students to make the transition further to the announcement by the State government that students of higher and professional education may return to campus. MAHE will function as per protocol to ensure students are safe and continue learning, under the shadow of the pandemic. Following the announcement of National Education Policy 2020, MAHE too is aligning all its courses across its colleges in line with the Union government guidelines. Dr. Ballal said that the university wants the best for its students, starting from providing COVID-19 vaccination to financial aid to pandemic-impacted students. MAHE is resilient and providing all support to students. With students slowly returning to campus, MAHE will ensure that COVID-19 protocols are followed with utmost sincerity. Vice Chancellor M.D. Venkatesh said that colleges and universities are trying to build a future-ready and pandemic-proof environment in view of the changes, while MAHE has achieved significant progress. MAHE’s vaccination drive for all students made the university better prepared for a smooth transition from online to classroom mode, he said. Registrar Narayana Sabhahit said that all the exams, tests and courses were conducted smoothly during 2020, while MAHE was receiving overwhelming response from students for new admissions. With the implementation of new NEP, MAHE aims to build a stronger and value-based higher education system, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mahe-gears-up-to-welcome-students-on-its-campus/article35868668.ece
12 August 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Leopard rescued, released in Sullia||A team of forest officials, led by Assistant Conservator of Forests V. Kariappa, on Wednesday tranquillised a leopard trapped in the fringes of the forest in Sullia and later, released it safely in the Bisle Ghat forests. The leopard was found trapped in a snare in the forest plantation area abutting a farm land in Kanavu of Peruvaje village of Sullia taluk in the morning. Those working in the farm land heard the roar of the leopard trapped in the snare and informed the Forest Department personnel. At around noon, the team led by Mr. Kariappa came to the spot along with personnel trained in giving tranquilliser shots. After administering the tranquilliser, the forest personnel removed the snare and found no injury on the leopard’s body. The leopard was taken in a vehicle to the Bisle Ghat forests where it gained consciousness. After finding the leopard normal, the personnel released it into the forest, Mr. Kariappa said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/leopard-rescued-released-in-sullia/article35868680.ece
12 August 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Mangaluru-Madgaon Passenger reintroduced as reserved special||The Railways has reintroduced the Mangaluru Central-Madgaon-Mangaluru Central Passenger Train with effect from Monday as a fully reserved special. Press releases from Konkan Railway and Southern Railway’s Palakkad Division here said that the services will run under the monsoon timetable till October 31. Train No 06602 Mangaluru Central-Madgaon Jn. Daily Reserved Special will leave Mangaluru Central at 5.30 a.m. to reach Madgaon at 2 p.m. until further advice. From November 1, the train will arrive at Madgaon at 1.10 p.m. In the return journey, Train No 06601 Madgaon-Mangaluru Central Daily Reserved Special will leave Madgaon at 2.30 p.m. and arrive at Mangaluru Central at 9.40 p.m. until further advice. From November 1, the train will leave Madgaon at 2 p.m. to reach Mangaluru at 9.05 p.m. The trains will have commercial halts at Mangaluru Junction, Thokur, Surathkal, Mulki, Nandikoor, Padubidri, Innanje, Udupi, Barkur, Kundapur, Senapura, Bijoor, Byndoor, Shiroor, Bhatkal, Chitrapur, Murudeshwar, Manki, Honnavar, Kumta, Mirjan, Gokarna Road, Ankola, Harwada, Karwar, Asnoti, Loliem, Canacona and Balli. They will have 10 second class sitting coaches and two luggage-cum-brake vans. Passengers have to make advance reservation for their travel and follow all COVID-19 protocol.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mangaluru-madgaon-passenger-reintroduced-as-reserved-special/article35868675.ece
12 August 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||VHP activists taken into custody||The police took Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) Mangaluru divisional secretary Sharan Pumpwell and other activists into custody after they made an attempt to stage a protest outside the house of the former MLA and poet late B.M. Idinabba in Ullal on Wednesday. Mr. Pumpwell and other VHP activists had come to Ullal to display placards condemning the support shown by Mr. Idinabba’s relatives to the activities of Islamic State (IS). The activists sat outside the gate of the house and raised slogans. The police then took away the protestors. The National Investigation Agency (NIA) recently went to Idinabba’s house as part of a probe into an IS module in Kerala. They questioned some family members. Later, the NIA arrested four persons from various parts of the country, including one from Ullal and another from Bengaluru.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/vhp-activists-taken-into-custody/article35868677.ece
12 August 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Srinivas University opts for early adoption of NEP||Srinivas University, Mangaluru, has decided to opt for early adoption of National Education Policy 2020 from the next academic year as announced by the Higher Education Minister. The university approved the proposal in its board meeting chaired by Chancellor A. Raghavendra Rao on Monday. The board said that the NEP was futuristic, innovative, student-centered and faculty-focused, a release said. The university has, after analysing the positive features of NEP 2020 and with certain progressive modifications, decided to implement it at all undergraduate, postgraduate and research course levels. Accordingly, all its BA, B.Sc, BBA, BMS, BCA students have the option to pursue three years pass degree course or four years honours degree course, or five years integrated master’s degree course after 12th standard. Students can also exit after one year of undergraduate study with a certificate and with a diploma after two years of undergraduate study. Two-year master’s degree programme for graduates will continue and a one-year master’s degree course for honours degree holders will be available. Honours degree holders can pursue a Ph.D programme directly if they pass NET/ SLET/ University admission test. The university will also offer freeship and scholarship to meritorious students. However, MBA and MCA will be of two years duration due to their broad entry backgrounds and the objectives of creating strategic entrepreneurs as business/technology leaders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/srinivas-university-opts-for-early-adoption-of-nep/article35868669.ece
12 August 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||CM visiting coastal areas||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai will be in Dakshina Kannada and Udupi districts on Thursday and Friday, chairing meetings and attending programmes. Arriving at the international airport here from Bengaluru on Thursday morning, Mr. Bommai will chair a meeting on COVID-19 containment measures at the Netravathi Auditorium on the Zilla Panchayat premises at 11.30 a.m. He will leave here for Udupi thereafter and lay the foundation stone for a 250-bed District Government Hospital at 3.30 p.m. Thereafter, Mr. Bommai will hold a COVID-19 review meeting in Udupi district at the District Office Complex, Rajatadri, Manipal, at 4 p.m. The Chief Minister will return to Mangaluru for an overnight stay. On Friday morning, Mr. Bommai will visit areas on the Karnataka-Kerala border to check containment measures. Minister for Health and Medical Education K. Sudhakar too will be travelling with Mr. Bommai during the two-day programme. The Chief Minister will leave for Bengaluru at 11.30 a.m. on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cm-visiting-coastal-areas/article35868666.ece
12 August 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||SKF Group founder bereaved||Bhavani Achar, mother of G. Ramakrishna Achar, a pioneering entrepreneur who founded the SKF Group of Companies in Moodbidri, passed away in Kundapur on Wednesday. She was 92. A communique here said that Ms. Achar passed away at her residence. She is survived by her four sons and three daughters. Mr. Ramakrishna Achar, born to Sheena Achar and Ms. Bhavani Achar, established the Sri Kalikamba Fabricators (SKF) in Bannadka village near Moodbidri in 1993 with just Rs. 10,000. The concern has grown manifolds producing boilers and dryers for paddy processing and water purifiers under the names, SKF Boilers and Dryers and SKF Elixer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/skf-group-founder-bereaved/article35868674.ece
12 August 2021||Mumbai,KARNATAKA||Ajit Pawar seeks Modi’s intervention in border row with Karnataka||Maharashtra Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, seeking his intervention to resolve the State’s long-pending boundary dispute with Karnataka. In a letter dated August 9, Mr. Pawar appealed to Mr. Modi to take the lead in stopping the Karnataka government’s “atrocities” on Marathi-speaking people and include the disputed areas in Maharashtra. Maharashtra claims certain areas, including Belagavi, Karwar, and Nippani which are part of Karnataka, contending the majority of population in these areas is Marathi-speaking. The dispute between the two States over Belagavi and other border areas has been pending before the Supreme Court for many years. Mr. Pawar said it has been more than 60 years since the formation of Maharashtra, with Mumbai as its capital, but Belagavi, Karwar, Bidar, Bhalki, Nippani, and other Marathi-speaking areas of Karnataka are still not in Maharashtra. “People of Maharashtra and those living in the Marathi-speaking areas of Karnataka bordering Maharashtra regret that the issue hasn’t been resolved yet,” the NCP leader said. Maharashtra will not rest till the dream of a “Sanyukta Maharashtra”, including Marathi-speaking areas along the border, is realised, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ajit-pawar-seeks-modis-intervention-in-border-row-with-karnataka/article35868470.ece
12 August 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Two paediatric COVID-19 care centres coming up in Mysuru||Amidst the fears of a possible impact of the third wave of COVID-19 among children, the paediatric healthcare infrastructure in the city is being hurriedly ramped up with two exclusive children COVID-19 hospitals being readied. Besides Cheluvamba Hospital, a hospital for women and children attached to the Mysuru Medical College and Research Institute (MMCRI), the super-speciality hospital on the PKTB campus on KRS Road is being scaled up for tackling any surge in cases. Two 450 LPM and 500 LPM capacity medical oxygen generators are being installed at the two hospitals under CSR initiatives. MMCRI Dean and Director C.P. Nanjaraj told The Hindu that the work on ramping up the paediatric facilities is expected to be over soon. A COVID-19 wing with 20 paediatric ventilators, 15 high dependency unit (HDU) beds and 100 oxygenated beds are getting ready for the treatment of paediatric cases, including MIS-C (Multi Inflammatory Syndrome), whose cases had gone up in the second wave. The super-speciality hospital under MMCRI, which was converted into a COVID-19 hospital in the last wave when cases surged to deal with the shortage of beds, is also being turned into a COVID-19 Children’s Hospital. It is equipped with 30 paediatric ventilators, 20 HDUs and 100 oxygenated beds. The ICU beds at the super speciality hospital were managed under PPP model with a private hospital joining hands with the district administration in dealing with the pandemic situation in the second wave. “If there is a need for more beds and facilities, we could again reopen the trauma care centre and the stone building in K.R. Hospital for handling the cases. The old Jayadeva Block in K.R. Hospital that treated seriously ill COVID-19 patients is equipped with 220 beds, including 60 ventilator beds, 20 HDUs,” Dr. Nanjaraj said. The MMCRI has also submitted a list of healthcare essentials to the State government for the requirement of the hospitals to combat the third wave. “Many corporate companies are coming forward to help the MMCRI’s hospitals combat the pandemic. They too had sought the list of requirements which had been sent to them. We have sought paediatric ventilators under the CSR initiative for critical care.” With a threat of children developing post-COVID-19 complications like MIS-C (Multi Inflammatory Syndrome), drugs need to be stocked up and the same is being done. Intravenous immune globulin needs to be inoculated into the patients post-infection.  The DRDO is installing a 1,000 LPM capacity oxygen generator whose work is also nearing completion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/two-paediatric-covid-19-care-centres-coming-up-in-mysuru/article35868696.ece
12 August 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Successful conservation of jumbos hinges on habitat management||The long-term successful conservation of elephants hinges on habitat management and a project to uproot weeds, including lantana and eupatorium, has been launched at Nagarahole. About 250 hectares of forests will be cleared of both weeds through uprooting on the Mysuru side of the national park which has some of the highest elephant density in the country. Besides, grassland development is also being taken up in both Nagarahole and Bandipur. Though this is a small portion of Nagarahole, which is spread over 843.93 sqkm, a beginning has been made as habitat management is a continuous and a long term process, according to Mahesh Kumar, Director, Nagarahole Tiger Reserve. The invasion of the weeds will have a negative bearing on fodder availability in the long run and hence its removal was being taken up through MNEREGA. But this is not a one-time work and the weeds have to be uprooted on a continuous basis for atleast three years to ensure that the seeds do not flower, he added. The All-India Synchronised Elephant Census, which is held once every five years and was last conducted in 2017, indicated that the elephant density in Nagarahole was the highest among all the tiger reserves in the country. It had 1.54 elephants per sqkm as per the 2017 census, which translates to nearly 1,300 elephants or a range of 1,300 to 1,600 elephants in the national park. The elephant population across Karnataka was pegged at 6,049 spread over 8,976 sqkm and Bandipur with 1.13 elephants per sqkm. Mr. Mahesh Kumar said the park and habitat management has ensured a decline in conflict situation around Nagarahole. In Antharsanthe and Metikuppe range rail track fencing has been erected for 8 km to 10 km and where the conflicts are almost nil, he added. The conflict is under control compared to what it was 10 years ago as there is a 30% reduction in conflicts as the buffer zone has augmented the protected area of Nagarahole. Bandipur Park Director S.R. Natesh said there are long-term monitoring of the elephants and the habitat and the major challenges pertain to conflict situation. But given the elephant population of Bandipur and Nagarahole the human casualty was on the decline. The human casualty around Bandipur was just two in the last year which underlines the monitoring of the habitat, according to the official. “We are working hard to reduce the conflict situation through intensive patrolling, solar fencing, rail track fence etc.,” said Mr. Natesh. However, conflict is high in Kodagu and Hassan due to the presence of elephants in the estates and this is an area which needs to be addressed on a priority basis, according to officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/successful-conservation-of-jumbos-hinges-on-habitat-management/article35868476.ece
12 August 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Midday meal workers seek better deal||Personnel engaged in preparation of midday meals for schoolchildren staged a demonstration in the city on Wednesday for timely release of pending wages besides demanding regularisation of their services. This was part of a State-wide agitation by Karnataka State Federation of Midday Meal Workers affiliated to All India Trade Union Congress (AITUC). The workers said their wages for the months of June and July were pending. As per the scheme, the head cooks were supposed to receive Rs. 2,700 and the assistant cooks, Rs. 2,600 per month. This was a honorarium and not regular wages and was impossible for the mid-day meal workers to make their ends meet in present times, said the workers. Hence they urged the government to clear the dues and ensure that wages are released within 5th of every month. Calling for higher monthly wages the federation members also sought a one-time release of Rs. 5,000 as COVID-19 relief and said this should be on the lines of relief approved for workers in the unorganised sector. The federation also flayed the practice of terminating the services of workers on attaining the age of 60 and said it should be continued and demanded that two cooks be appointed in each school. Questioning the practice of centralised cooking and distribution of mid-day meals to schools, the federation also criticised the practice of outsourcing mid-day meals preparation to private entities. Apart from calling for regularising the services of l workers, the federation demanded implementation of pension scheme.  They seek a one-time release of Rs. 5,000 as COVID-19 relief and oppose practice of terminating the services of workers on attaining the age of 60||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/midday-meal-workers-seek-better-deal/article35868701.ece
12 August 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Inter-district travellers to be monitored at checkposts||The district administration in Chamarajanagar will revive monitoring at the inter-district checkposts as a precautionary measure to curb the possible surge in COVID-19. The innoculation drive in villages along the district border with the neighbouring States will also be ramped up to ensure full vaccination of the targeted population by August 15. There are 170 villages sharing border with neighbouring States and 100 per cent vaccination coverage has been targeted by then. Deputy Commissioner M.R. Ravi said during a review meeting that prevention should be the priority and hence monitoring should be introduced at the earliest in the 5 check posts at different locations in Chamarajanagar leading to neighbouring districts. The inter-district checkposts are at Tagarupura, Sattegala, Banalli, near Kavalande, and Beguru. They will be manned jointly by the police, revenue and health department officials. The focus will be on monitoring travellers from the adjoining districts who enter Chamarajanagar to visit places of tourist interest or on pilgrimage with special attention to people above 60 years of age. Anyone displaying symptoms of any illness should be subjected to Rapid Antigen Test (RAT) on the spot, Mr. Ravi said. The KSRTC was also instructed not to accommodate passengers beyond the seating capacity in a bus and the onus was on the KSRTC officers and the RTO inspectors to implement it, he added. The bus driver and conductor will have an additional responsibility to ensure that all passengers wear masks. The Department of Health and Family Welfare was also directed to take up more pro-active measures to contain the surge of the pandemic and this included declaring micro containment zones where the active cases are on the rise. The Tibetan settlement at Hanur was declared as a micro containment zone and entry to and exit from the camp is prohibited and the district administration has decided to continue with the same measures for some more time. Besides, testing will be increased so as to ensure that those testing positive could be tracked and isolated before the pandemic spreads to other areas. Similarly, another micro containment zone has been declared near Bedaguli Estate in the district and stringent measures are in place to restrict the movement of people. Additional DC Kathyayani Devi, Additional SP K.S. Sundar Raj, District Health and Family Welfare Officer M.C. Ravi, Surveillance Officer Nagaraju and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/inter-district-travellers-to-be-monitored-at-checkposts/article35868699.ece
12 August 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||When was Siddaramaiah born?||Though a large number of followers and fans gathered to convey their birthday greetings to Congress leader and former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah, he confessed today that he did not know his exact date of birth though it was August 3, 1947 as per the school records. Speaking to reporters in Mysuru, Mr. Siddaramaiah said the date of birth in his academic records was entered by the teacher of the school to which he was taken by his father for admission in the fifth standard in 1957. “My father and mother were unlettered so they did not write down my date of birth. When my father told the teacher that he did not know my date of birth, he entered it as August 3, 1947 in the school records”, Mr. Siddaramaiah said. However, he said his followers and friends convey him birthday greetings on August 12 every year. “As I am in Mysuru a day earlier, they have come to greet me here.” He said he has completed 74 years and is entering his 75th year now. Though how long a person lived was not important, Mr. Siddaramaiah said it was necessary to lead a healthy and active life.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/when-was-siddaramaiah-born/article35868705.ece
12 August 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Nominations to ward committees questioned||Jagrutha Nagarikara Vedike on Wednesday urged the Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) to constitute the Ward Committees and Area Sabhas (WCAS) in a fair and transparent manner and bring in accountability in local administration. It said the MCC Commissioner should not nominate members to WCAS as supposedly recommended by the councillors since a procedure has to be followed in the selection of members, as done in the Mangaluru City Corporation by its Commissioner. The same model can be replicated here too. The objectives of WCAS will become purposeful if the list of members said to have been given by the councillors was not chosen for the ward committees, whose main aims were the participation of the public to ensure the funds are spent for meeting the priority needs and also to monitor the contracts, and corruption was eliminated or at least minimised, the Vedike argued. “It is the prime duty of every citizen to rise to the occasion and assert their right for a fair and transparent selection/nomination to the committees,” said the members of the newly-constituted Vedike. Applications Addressing presspersons here, Vedike Convener Malavika Gubbivani said the Commissioner has to invite applications from citizens through newspapers, the MCC website and other channels. Though the MCC had approved the formation of WCAS, it came to know that the Commissioner was planning to approve and notify the list of members selected by the councillors. “We rushed to meet the Commissioner asking him to reconsider his decision. He said that if he had not accepted the list given by them, the Council would not have approved the resolution. Disappointed by his reply, we decided to hold a protest in front of MCC on Saturday but the police denied us permission. Being law abiding citizens, we gave up on the idea of a protest and are holding a press conference here to explain our stand. The responsibility on WCAS formation rests with the Commissioner,” a release signed by the Vedike conveners said. Violation They contended that the MCC Council has no say in this matter. If the MCC goes ahead with the list, it will be clearly a violation of the spirit and objects of the 74th Constitutional Amendment and also of the KMC Act of 1976 since the authority to nominate to the ward committee rests with the Commissioner. The KMC (Amdt.) Act of 2011 puts the onus of selecting the members to the ward committee on the Commissioner and not on the MCC Council or councillors. The Commissioner cannot delegate his powers to councillors, the Vedike said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/nominations-to-ward-committees-questioned/article35868707.ece
12 August 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Pratap Simha meets Nitin Gadkari, seeks service road to Maddur||The discontinuity in the construction of a service road between K. Koddihalli and Maddur town along the Bengaluru-Mysuru National Highway–275, which is undergoing widening into a six-lane access control highway, has caused inconvenience to the residents of several villages. The locals had staged protests on the issue. The issue has now reached the Ministry of Road Transport, Highways and Shipping with Mysuru MP Pratap Simha meeting Union Minister Nitin Gadkari and urging him to direct the NHAI officials to construct the service road for ensuring continuity across Shimsha river and underpass requirement at T.M. Hosur junction. In a memorandum to the Minister, the MP said the six-lane work of the highway with service road on both sides from Bengaluru to Mysuru is under progress. Seek solution But the residents were facing the problem of discontinuity of the service road and therefore the villagers needed to use the existing road for 7 km to join the under-construction service road. If the service road was continued for 300 metres more, it would avoid inconvenience caused to villagers, who had interrupted the construction work seeking a solution to their problem. Many representations had been submitted by the villagers of T.M Hosur, Kalenahalli, Nelanakoppalu, Kalenahalli Gate, Allapatna, Srirampura, Chennakere, Subbannakuppe, Mallegowda Koppal, and Channenahalli and other villages of Srirangapatna taluk for not considering the underpass provision at T.M. Hosur junction. The villagers had to travel 7.1 km towards Bengaluru side and 2.6 km to Mysuru side for reaching the other side of the village.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/pratap-simha-meets-nitin-gadkari-seeks-service-road-to-maddur/article35868694.ece
12 August 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Spouses, party workers nominated?||A citizen’s group in Mysuru has questioned the rationality behind allowing the councillors to nominate members to the ward committees, arguing that this would be counter-productive since the committees are expected to monitor the functioning of the councillor at the ward level. In a letter to MCC Commissioner Lakshmikanth Reddy, the Jagruta Nagarikara Vedike said it is perturbed over reports that the list of members to 10 ward committees had been reportedly prepared by the councillors and was going to be announced soon. “We wish to register our objection to the procedureas it defeats the purpose of having the committees whose job is to make the councillors accountable. This procedure will lead to nepotism and favouritism since their spouses, relatives and political party workers were said to have been nominated as members to the committees,” claimed the Vedike, in its memorandum. The participatory, transparent and democratic process adopted in the formation of ward committees by the city corporations in Mangaluru, Hubballi-Dharwad and Davangere can be taken note of, it said. Affidavit In Mangaluru, the applicants had been asked to submit an affidavit stating that they have no criminal cases against them and are not affiliated to any political party. A selection committee has also been set up to verify and finalise the names. Also, objections have been sought from the citizens to any undesirable names. With this, a system free of nepotism and favouritism can be adopted, the Vedike maintained.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/spouses-party-workers-nominated/article35868697.ece
12 August 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||‘BJP’s attitude towards reservation has softened’||Former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah has claimed that the attitude of BJP towards reservation has softened after extending 10% reservation to ‘upper castes’ under the criterion of economic backwardness. Speaking to reporters here on Wednesday, the Congress leader pointed out that the BJP was never in favour of reservation and recalled the reported statements by leaders of the saffron party and the RSS against the Constitution, which stood by social justice, equality of religion, and communal harmony. Even when political reservation was extended to Backward Classes, women, and Dalits in Panchayat Raj institutions, their late party leader Rama Jois had moved the court against it. However, he said he had observed that their attitude towards reservation had softened after 10% reservation was extended to ‘upper castes’ under the criteria of economic backwardness. But, Mr. Siddaramaiah argued that the 10% quota was “anti-constitutional”. For, Article 15 and 16 of the Constitution say that reservation can be extended only to those who are socially and educationally backward. “Reservation cannot be given on criteria of economic backwardness,” the Congress leader argued.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bjps-attitude-towards-reservation-has-softened/article35868474.ece
12 August 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||K-SET: MP seeks probe into ‘discrepancies’||Pratap Simha, MP, has written to the Vice-Chancellor of the University of Mysore to probe into alleged “discrepancies” in answer keys of the Karnataka State Eligibility Test (K-SET). The K-SET qualifies applicants to hold posts of lecturers in colleges and universities and the answer keys were released recently. In a letter to the V-C G. Hemantha Kumar, Mr. Simha questioned the university for overlooking such alleged lapses in the conduct of K-SET. Listing out the questions and answer keys released by the university in the letter, he maintained that the keys to about 17 questions were “incorrect”. The university had earlier constituted an expert committee to prepare the question paper for the test. However, it had come to light that such a committee did not exist and this could be one of the reasons for such alleged “discrepancies”, he argued. “What does it indicate when such inaccuracies creep into the test,” he asked. The “discrepancies” were brought to his notice by candidates who appeared for the K-SET. With hefty fees for submitting objections to the answer keys, no candidate will come forward to question the “discrepancies” and the university will deem the answers correct, he felt. The alleged lapses need to be looked into and a re-exam should be conducted in the papers in which the “discrepancies” had been noticed, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/k-set-mp-seeks-probe-into-discrepancies/article35868472.ece
12 August 2021||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Complete crop damage survey expeditiously, officials told||Deputy Commissioner R. Ragapriya has directed Revenue Department officials to complete the survey on crop damage in rain and floods expeditiously and also display details of farmers who have received compensation and crop insurance on notice boards of every gram panchayat compulsorily. She was chairing a review meeting in Yadgir on Wednesday. “Farmers in the district have faced crop losses owing to heavy rain and floods. Crops such as green gram, cotton and red gram in the fields located on the banks of the Krishna remained inundated for several days. Following this, most of the crops perished. Therefore, a proper survey is required,” she said. While replying to the Deputy Commissioner, the Revenue Department officials said that crop losses have been assessed. It was estimated that 1,178 hectares were damaged in Surpur taluk as survey in 19 villages has been completed. And, survey on 1,076 hectares of agriculture fields in Wadagera, Hunsagi and Shahapur taluk has been completed. The remaining area will be covered soon. The officials further said that 220 houses were damaged in the district. Of them, 35 were in Yadgir, 29 in Shahapur, 41 in Surpur, 29 in Hunsagi, 51 in Wadagera and 35 houses were in Gurmitkal. A proposal has been sent to State government to convert Basavasagar and Hosur villages as revenue villages, they said. Dr. Ragapriya specifically reviewed the status of illegal occupancy. The officials said that a case was registered against 128 persons for occupying 190.20 acres of land out of the 230 acres in Yadgir. Also, another case was registered against 71 persons for occupying 125.19 cares of land out of the 305 acres in Surpur taluk. The revenue officials told the Deputy Commissioner that public graveyards have been established in 324 villages out of the 509 villages. Government land has been identified in 57 villages for the purpose, while private land will be acquired in four villages to construct graveyards, they added. Additional Deputy Commissioner Shankargowda Somanal, Assistant Commissioner of Yadgir sub-division Prashant Hanagandi and tahsildars of all taluks were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/complete-crop-damage-survey-expeditiously-officials-told/article35868461.ece
12 August 2021||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Two arrested on rape charge||Shahapur Police on Tuesday arrested two men on the charge of raping a married woman near Hattigudur in Shahapur taluk of Yadgir district. The police gave the names of the accused as Raju and Veeresh. The incident is said to have occurred when the woman was travelling on a motorcycle with a person known to her towards Gabbur village in Raichur. When the motorcycle came near Deodurg Cross near Hattigudur, the accused, who arrived there in an autorickshaw, stopped the two-wheeler and attacked the rider and forcibly dragged the woman into an isolated area and raped her, the complaint said. The complaint also said that the woman was returning to Gabbur village from Gattaraga village in Afzalpur taluk of Kalaburagi district after darshan of Bhagyavanthi Devi. A case has been registered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/two-arrested-on-rape-charge/article35868459.ece
12 August 2021||August 12 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Withdrawal of cases against MLAs, MPs not valid: HC||The apex court had on August 10, 2021, said: “No prosecution against a sitting or former MP or MLA shall be withdrawn without the leave of the High Court in the respective suo motu writ petitions registered in pursuance of our order dated September 16, 2020. The High Courts are requested to examine the withdrawals, whether pending or disposed of since September 16, 2020, in the light of guidelines laid down by this court.” Speedy trial The High Court had on September 23, 2020, initiated the petition and issued several directions for speedy progress in the trial of cases against MPs and MLAs. Stating that the State government is bound by the apex court’s directions on withdrawal of criminal cases against MPs or MLAs, the Bench directed the government to submit details of criminal cases withdrawn against such elected representatives after September 16, 2020, when the High Court takes up further hearing of the petition initiated suo motu based on the apex court’s directions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/withdrawal-of-cases-against-mlas-mps-not-valid-hc/article35868267.ece
12 August 2021||August 12 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Safety first||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/safety-first/article35868255.ece
12 August 2021||August 12 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Admission time||photo||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/admission-time/article35868703.ece
12 August 2021||August 12 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Hard at work||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hard-at-work/article35868479.ece
12 August 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Anti-Left alliance in the State tottering: Vijayaraghavan||Aadharavu-2021, an award instituted by the Kerala State Chethu Thozhilali Federation (AITUC) in memory of Communist Party of India (CPI) leader and trade unionist K.P. Prabhakaran, was presented to CPI State secretary Kanam Rajendran by CPI(M) acting State secretary A. Vijayaraghavan here on Wednesday. Inaugurating the ceremony, Mr. Vijayaraghavan said the anti-Left alliance in the State had started to tremble. “The Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) was at the forefront to resolve issues in the United Democratic Front (UDF). But, they themselves are now facing issues and there is no one to help sort out the matter. Other UDF constituents are also facing similar problems,” he said. He said the parliamentary system in the country had been detached from the people. The Union government had taken a stand not to discuss issues pertaining to people in the Parliament. Speaking at the function, Mr. Rajendran said that attempts were being made to destroy Left politics in the country. Federation president K.P. Rajendran presided.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/anti-left-alliance-in-the-state-tottering-vijayaraghavan/article35868637.ece
12 August 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||Onam market to miss Kanthallur vegetables||There will only be a sparse supply of vegetables from Kanthallur to the Onam market this time. Onam is considered the main vegetable cropping season at Vattavada and Kanthallur, the two cool season vegetable centres in Idukki. Farmers at Kanthallur have en masse shifted to garlic cultivation with vegetables such as potato, cabbage, beetroot, beans, and carrot limited to less than 20% of the total area. Kanthallur agriculture officer Satheesh T. says in the three harvesting seasons beginning with Onam, the area of cultivation is 300 ha in the first, 110 ha in the second, and 180 ha in the third. He says nearly 720 tonnes of garlic is expected this season, with harvesting already under way. Though garlic is not on the list of vegetables farmed in the village, farmers are cultivating it due to the failure to market vegetables last year following the COVID-19-induced lockdown and related issues. Desiyan, a farmer at Puthoor in Kanthallur, says he is cultivating garlic on four acres. Last year, he cultivated all vegetables but no proper procurement was done. Of the 3,000 kg of carrot, nearly 1,000 kg went waste as there were no buyers. “Garlic has a shelf life of a year and you will get ready cash when it is sold,” he says. He says many farmers suffered losses last year as there were no takers for their produce and tonnes of vegetables were left to decay. Kanthallur garlic is purchased by Ayurveda companies for its high oil content, with prices ranging between Rs. 100 and Rs. 150 a kg. Murugan, another farmer, says they can sell garlic even if prices come down. “We can keep it in godowns for a year. Besides, there is a sure market for garlic in Tamil Nadu,” he adds. Concerns Earlier, traders from Tamil Nadu reached Kanthallur to procure vegetables. However, during the lockdown, they did not come and there was no regular procurement by State agencies such as Horticorp and the Vegetable and Fruit Promotion Council Keralam (VFPCK). Mr. Satheesh says a proper marketing system and timely payment of prices are the main concerns of farmers. Farmers en masse cultivating a particular crop will also have reprisals with a drop in prices. Sojan P.G., secretary, Kanthallur Cool Season Vegetable Farmers Marketing Society that procures vegetables for Horticorp, says the society does not procure vegetables as nearly Rs. 12 lakh was pending from Horticorp. The VFPCK has to pay for vegetables procured for a year-and-a-half.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/onam-market-to-miss-kanthallur-vegetables/article35868587.ece
12 August 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||Excise to register cases against 25 licensees||The Excise Department will register cases against 25 toddy shop licensees and managers under the Thodupuzha excise range after it was found that cannabinoids had been mixed in toddy and supplied to customers. Chemical sample tests found that the shop owners illegally mixed cannabinoids in toddy for more intoxication for customers and to create addiction. Idukki Excise Commissioner V.A. Salim said the samples were tested between October and November 2020. In 25 shops The tests confirmed the presence of cannabinoids in the toddy distributed in 25 shops. A report would be submitted to the Excise Commissioner, he said. Mixing cannabinoids in toddy is a serious offence. Cannabinoids contain chemical elements hazardous to health, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/excise-to-register-cases-against-25-licensees/article35868639.ece
12 August 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||47 Onam markets to be opened in Wayanad||The Agriculture Department will open as many as 47 Onam markets in Wayanad district from August 17 to August 20 to supply pesticide-free vegetables at subsided prices. While the department will open 37 markets, the Vegetable and Fruit Promotion Council Keralam (VFPCK) and the Horticultural Products Development Corporation (Horticorp) will open five markets each. Vegetables will be procured directly from farmers through the markets by paying 10% above the market price. People can buy vegetables from Onam outlets at prices 30% less than the market rate, department sources said. Organic vegetables will be procured by offering 20% margin to farmers, and they will be sold at a price 10% lower than the market prices, sources said. Locally available vegetables will be collected directly from farmers in each market, while others will be procured from Horticorp and sold in the markets.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/47-onam-markets-to-be-opened-in-wayanad/article35868537.ece
12 August 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||Equivalency test at four centres in Wayanad||The X Standard equivalency examination to be conducted by the State Literacy Mission from August 16 to September 1 will be held at four centres in the district. 241 candidates As many as 241 people, 132 of them women, will attend the examination. Of these, 53 learners are from Scheduled Tribe and eight learns from Scheduled Caste categories. The classes, evaluation and for the learners were conducted online. The examination will be held at the Government Sarvajana High School, Sulthan Bathery; Government High School, Panamaram; Government High School, Mananthavady; and S.K.M.J. High School here.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/equivalency-test-at-four-centres-in-wayanad/article35868544.ece
12 August 2021||KANNUR,KERALA||POCSO accused sexually active: medical board||A medical board on Wednesday submitted a report to the court that says U.K. Sharafuddin, a known businessman in Thalassery, who has been accused under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, is sexually active and has no dysfunction. The 68-year-old businessman, residing at Goods Shed Road in Thalassery, was arrested under the POCSO Act for allegedly sexually abusing a 15-year-old girl in June this year. However, he claimed that he was sexually inactive and submitted a sexual fitness certificate obtained from the Thalassery General Hospital. The certificate said he suffered from diabetes and high blood pressure and was unlikely to be sexually active. However, Thalassery First Additional District Sessions Court Judge, A.V. Mrudula, ordered a re-examination of the sexual fitness certificate and ordered the formation of a medical board for the examination of the accused. The results were submitted to the court on Tuesday. The investigation was conducted considering the request from the prosecution. Special Prosecutor Beena Kaliyath said action would be recommended against the doctor at the general hospital who reported that Mr. Sharafuddin had sexual dysfunction. Sharafuddin, the third accused, is currently out on bail.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pocso-accused-sexually-active-medical-board/article35868559.ece
12 August 2021||KANNUR,KERALA||Bank appraiser found dead||The body of a bank appraiser accused in the bank fraud case was found in a well near his house on Wednesday. Taliparamba Punjab National Bank branch appraiser P.N. Ramesan (58) had been missing since Monday. He was accused of swindling over Rs. 50 lakh by pledging spurious gold. The issue came to light on August 5. However, the bank tried to settle the issue without filing a police case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bank-appraiser-found-dead/article35868540.ece
12 August 2021||KASARAGOD,KERALA||Jewellery investment scam accused surrenders||The managing director (MD) of Fashion Gold Jewellery, Pookoya Thangal, who had been absconding for 10 months after being accused in the jewellery investment fraud case, surrendered before the Hosdurg First Class Judicial Magistrate Court in Kasaragod, on Wednesday. Former Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) MLA, M.C. Kamaruddin, was arrested and later granted bail in the case. However, Mr. Thangal went absconding soon after many investors alleged that they were cheated by the company after they had invested money and gold with a promise for good returns. Mr. Thangal arrived at the court accompanied by his lawyer. The Kerala Crime Branch is investigating the Rs. 13-crore investment scam. More than 150 cases have been registered in connection with the fraud.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/jewellery-investment-scam-accused-surrenders/article35868539.ece
12 August 2021||Kochi,KERALA||7 dog feeding points to come up in Thrikkakara||The Thrikkakara Municipality should put up signposts at the seven identified locations marking them as feeding points for community dogs, ordered the Kerala High Court on Wednesday. The dog feeding points will be at Vanachira near Kollamkudimugal in wards 5 and 6, near Vanitha Vyavasaya Park at Thengode (ward 8), near IMG Junction, Kakkanad (ward 12), near Motor Vehicle Driving Test Ground, behind Thrikkakara Police Station or behind Collectorate near North Gate (ward 14), at Thanapadam-Palachuvadu (wards 9 and 20), near Morarji Ground, Vazhakkala (ward 26) and near NGO Quarters (wards 27, 28 and 35). The signposts can also indicate that the area is a no-plastic zone. The civic body should provide details of these locations to the Station House Officers of the respective police stations to ensure that those who are feeding dogs are not harassed, the court instructed. The court asked Dhyan Foundation and the Daya Foundation to depute their trained dog handlers for catching community dogs for neutering and vaccinating them. After the birth control procedures, vaccination and the rest period, the dogs should be taken back and freed at the same location from where they were picked up. The municipality should assist the two agencies for the exercise, the court ordered. Directive to corpn. The court also directed the Secretary of the Kochi Corporation to immediately open the animal shelter facility at Brahmapuram for use by the Dhyan and Daya Foundations for the purposes of the birth control programme. The court also asked all the six corporations in the State to immediately introduce a licensing system for pet animals, including dogs. Additional Advocate General Asok M. Cherian submitted to the court that the State Animal Welfare Board would be reconstituted within a fortnight.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/7-dog-feeding-points-to-come-up-in-thrikkakara/article35868567.ece
12 August 2021||Kochi,KERALA||A local marigold harvest for Onam||More than a hundred farmers under the aegis of various women’s self-help groups and Punchiri Balasabha (a commune of young children) in Kottuvally panchayat in the district have begun harvesting marigold flowers meant for Onam festivities. This is the first time that attempts are being made in the district to cultivate flowers that are used to make floral carpets and other ceremonial decorations during the Onam season, Agriculture Department sources said. The initiative comes under the Kottuvally Krishi Bhavan. Eighteen groups of farmers are cultivating marigold flowers in areas ranging from 25 cents to 50 cents. Besides, young boys at the St. Joseph’s Boys’ Home in Koonammavu have taken up marigold cultivation in more than 50 cents. The flowers are meant for the Onam season sales as bulk of the flowers used for decorations during the festival season is imported from Karnataka and Tamil Nadu. The Agriculture Department says that while cultivation of flowers for the Onam season locally will help increase income of farmers, efforts are also being made to inculcate the idea of farming in young people. The Krishi office in Kottuvally panchayat has also encouraged students at the Koonammavu Chavara Darshan CMI Public School to take up upland paddy cultivation. Students have taken up paddy cultivation in 50 cents in front of the school. Students are also engaged in cultivating vegetables in about 500 growbags in the school compound. Fish culture is also part of the activities and students have opened a ‘Haritha’ (green) market in the school compound to sell produce from their farm. The Kottuvally panchayat has also opened a weekly street vending facility in Paravoor, close to the civil station, to sell local farm produce. The market is open on Fridays between 2 p.m. and 5 p.m. The produce include those from the farm being operated by St. Joseph’s Boys’ Home residents.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-local-marigold-harvest-for-onam/article35868564.ece
12 August 2021||Kochi,KERALA||High voter turnout in by-polls||High voter turnout marked the by-elections to one municipal division and three panchayat wards in the district on Wednesday. While the by-election to division 5 in Piravom Municipality registered 79.88%, election to ward 6 in Marady panchayat, ward 11 in Vengoor panchayat, and ward 13 in Varapetty panchayat posted 81.26%, 89.02%, and 84.55% respectively. The outcome of the by-elections may impact the power equations in at least two local bodies. Elections were held to Karakkod, a division reserved for women in Piravom Municipality; North Marady, a ward reserved for Scheduled Castes in Marady panchayat; Choorathodu in Vengoor panchayat; and Kozhipilli, a ward reserved for women in Varapetty panchayat. Counting will be held in the local body offices concerned on Thursday. The by-election in the municipal division was held after the elected LDF councillor, Mini Sajan of JD (S), resigned on getting a government job. The division witnessed a direct fight between Anju Manu of the LDF and Sini Joy of the UDF. Wafer-thin majority With division 14 of the municipality also falling vacant following the death of its councillor, George Narekkadan, LDF, which wields power in the 27-member municipality, now has the majority of a single seat. A UDF victory in the by-election may bring about a tie of 13 seats each, kicking off a scramble for power. Going into the by-election, both the LDF and the UDF are tied at seven seats each in the 15-member Vengoor panchayat. The by-election had to be held following the death of the elected LDF councillor in ward 11. The LDF will have to retain the ward to retain power as well. The ward is witnessing a four-cornered contest between Leena Joy of the UDF, Peter P.V. of the LDF, Eldhose Abraham of the BJP, and an independent candidate, Veghesekutty V.K. Little impact The by-election in the sixth ward of Marady panchayat, necessitated by the elected LDF candidate's resignation on getting a government job, will have little impact on the UDF’s grip on the local body. In the 13-member panchayat, the UDF has eight members to the LDF's five. While an LDF victory will maintain status quo, a victory of the UDF will further consolidate its position. The by-election was contested by Ratheesh Changalimattom of the UDF, LDF-backed Independent Binil Thankappan, and BJP candidate Ajeesh A. The outcome of the by-election to ward 13 in the 13-member Varapetty panchayat will also have little impact on the power equations as the UDF holds comfortable majority with 8 ward members. One of the four LDF ward members resigned on receiving government job, leading to the by-election. The by-election was contested by Shaji Blessy of the UDF, Rini Biju Vattaparambil, LDF-backed independent, Usha Murukan of the BJP and independent candidate, Reena.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/high-voter-turnout-in-by-polls/article35868573.ece
12 August 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Unlit Container Road a nightmare for motorists||A couple of years ago, a working woman returning home after the day’s work was tailed by a motorcyclist along the pitch-dark Container Terminal Road. She couldn’t shake him off who appeared to follow her ominously till a few fellow motorists came along. The ‘stalker’ then sped off. Things haven’t changed much about the 16-km-long road linking Bolghatty with Kalamassery yet as it continues to be as dark as it used to be since it was commissioned, thanks to lack of street lights. “We have approached the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) countless times on the issue. We have sponsors willing to fund the lighting of the service road but NHAI hasn’t yet given permission for that. We are planning to meet the new District Collector shortly in this regard,” said Akbar V.S., Mulavukad panchayat president. The NHAI had agreed almost two years ago to install street lights, possibly powered by solar power, along the road following widespread demand from local residents, motorists, and the police in the wake of fatal accidents and crimes committed under the cover of darkness. But nothing has happened as yet. Usually, installing street lights is considered the responsibility of the local bodies through which the highway passes. However, NHAI had decided to buck the precedent and agreed to install street lights as an exception in view of the demand from various quarters. The agency was even supposed to conduct a feasibility study almost a year ago. NHAI sources could not be reached despite repeated attempts to know the status of the project. “Every time we approach the NHAI on the matter, they keep repeating that the tender is ready. But nothing seems to be happening even as the road remains a safe haven for dumping waste and even criminal activities,” said A.D. Sujil, Chairperson, Eloor Municipality, another local body through which the highway passes. There have been instances where even toilet waste was dumped along the largely deserted and unlit road in the night. In one instance, the irate public even caught a lorry found dumping toilet waste along the road and burnt it in protest. “For unfamiliar motorists, the vehicle breaking down while riding along the Container Terminal Road during the night could be a nightmare. Getting stranded in a completely unlit road could be really scary,” said Pramod, a resident of Mulavukad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/unlit-container-road-a-nightmare-for-motorists/article35868571.ece
12 August 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Kochi vulnerable to extreme climate events, say experts||The chances of multiple extreme climate events overlapping were high for cities such as Kochi as the sixth assessment report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) has warned that the coastline will face significant threats from rising seas, according to experts. “This is particularly important for Kochi because the Arabian Sea temperatures are warming at the fastest rate. We are already seeing its impacts in terms of cyclones, heavy rains, and sea level rise,” said Roxy Mathew Koll, climate scientist at the Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology, Pune, and contributor to the recent IPCC reports. Dr. Koll said that the sea level along the coast of Kochi was increasing on par with the global sea level rates, at above 3 cm per decade. “A 3 cm per decade of sea level rise is equivalent to a disproportionate 17 metres of land carved away from the coast every decade, considering the slope along the coastal zone,” he said. Suggesting that any further planning of the city should be done only after analysing the risks from such extreme weather events, Dr. Koll said that increased temperatures and moisture together with urbanisation might increase the heat stress and humidity even though Kochi was not yet a hotspot for heatwaves. “Urbanisation also increases the chances of floods since the flood plains and natural defences are decreasing,” he said. Ajil Kottayil, scientist at the Advanced Centre for Atmospheric Radar Research at the Cochin University of Science and Technology, said that the climate report presents an accelerated climate change scenario, signalling the need to embark on strategies that would help people adapt to extreme weather conditions. “The carbon dioxide concentration will double that of pre-industrial times in a span of 50 years at the current rate of increase in C02 concentration. In such a case, the expected regional mean sea level could exceed 3 mm/year. Kerala would then be forced to face two calamities simultaneously, the rise in sea levels accompanied by extreme rainfall as a consequence of intensified hydrological cycle,” he said. Dr. Kottayil said that the sixth assessment report called for regional preparedness and long-term sustainable measures that could equip Kerala in the wake of climate catastrophes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kochi-vulnerable-to-extreme-climate-events-say-experts/article35868577.ece
12 August 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Govt withdraws order on Cusat appointments||The Kerala government has withdrawn the order that stated that it would not bear the financial burden arising out of the appointment of nearly 102 faculty members and 67 non-teaching staffers at the School of Engineering of the Cochin University of Science and Technology (Cusat). An order issued by the Department of Higher Education on August 9 said that it had withdrawn the order with immediate effect. The status quo earlier to the order shall prevail, it said. The order issued on February 4 said that all financial commitments (including salary and pension) should be met from the internal revenue of the School of Engineering. Self-financing schools The order had ratified the university Registrar's decision to open self-financing schools without the State's concurrence and create 102 teaching and 67 non-teaching posts. Since the School of Engineering remains a self-financing institution (a separate entity), staff selection has to be done separately. Periodic hikes in fee should be effected as it is done in other self-financing engineering colleges. The present practice of maintaining separate accounts for these schools should continue, it said. Vice Chancellor K. N. Madhusoodanan welcomed the government decision to withdraw the order issued on February 4. “We will submit a request again before the government to give concurrence to the appointments. The varsity hopes that the government will provide non-plan grant to meet the financial requirements arising out of the appointments,” he said. The faculty members, who had approached the Kerala High Court against the February 4 order, pointed out that their appointments were made exactly in the same manner as in the case of other teaching posts at the university. The promotion of teachers was also effected in accordance with the guidelines of the University Grants Commission (UGC) and the All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE). The teachers said that the School of Engineering was started under the Cusat Act, 1986, as a constituent organisation of the varsity and not as a self-financing institution. The appointments were made from the common pool of teachers and by adhering to the communal rotation register for appointment of permanent/regular teachers, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/order-on-cusat-appointments-withdrawn/article35868578.ece
12 August 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||2,856 new cases in Ernakulam; test positivity rate at 13.08%||Around 2,856 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Ernakulam on Wednesday. Nearly 2,760 persons got infected through local contact in the district. The source of infection in 74 cases has not been ascertained. The test positivity rate was 13.08%. The regions in which the positive cases were higher than 40 included Thripunithura (98), Kizhakkambalam (81), Thrikkakara (75), Chittatukara (70), Vengola (67), Koovapadi (65), Kalamassery (62), Sreemoolanagaram (51), Payipra (48), Kunnathunadu (47), Kavalangad (46), Keezhmad (45), Elankunnapuzha (43), Edathala (42), Chellanam, and Nayaramabalam (41). Some of the regions that reported fewer than five cases were Thevara, Ayappankavu, Kuttampuzha, Perumpadapu, Maneed, Mukkannoor, Karuvelipadi, Chalikavattom, Thuravoor, Panayappilli, Puthrika, Chakkaraparambu, Panampilly Nagar, Poonithura, and Ramamangalam, according to an official release. Around 21,836 COVID-19 tests were conducted on Wednesday. Around 24,497 persons are under treatment for the disease in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/2856-new-cases-in-ernakulam-test-positivity-rate-at-1308/article35868575.ece
12 August 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Social media adventure lands youth in soup||An attempt to show off on social media had unexpected consequences for a youngster when the police came knocking at his door on Wednesday. Reichel Sebastian, 19, was picked up from his home at Cherai by the Munambam police for posting a video on Instagram showing him riding a motorcycle without mask, helmet and even a shirt. He was arrested and then released on bail. The motorcycle, which belonged to his friend, however, was confiscated and produced in the court. That its handle and silencer were found illegally altered didn’t help, and draw the relevant provisions of the Motor Vehicle Act governing such offences. Whether the video impressed the social media crowd or not, District Police Chief (Ernakulam Rural) K. Karthik who happened to see it was definitely not impressed. He sent that video to the Munambam police with an order to take action. The police booked him with relevant provisions of the Kerala Epidemic Diseases Ordinance for not wearing mask, sections of the Motor Vehicle Act for not wearing helmet and IPC sections.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/social-media-adventure-lands-youth-in-soup/article35868579.ece
12 August 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Reshuffle of revenue staff on the cards||The district administration has finalised plans to bring about a reshuffle of staff in the more than 160 Revenue Department offices in Ernakulam district even as a squad of department officials constituted by District Collector Jafar Malik continued the scrutiny of files relating to land conversion applications at the Fort Kochi RDO office on Wednesday. The reshuffle of staff is expected to be implemented after the Onam celebrations and will cover all of the Revenue Department that comprise village offices, seven taluk offices, offices in the district collectorate, RDO offices in Muvattupuzha and Fort Kochi, special tehsildars’ offices, revenue recovery and land acquisition sections. The district administration is learnt to have drawn up a list of more than a hundred staff, who have worked in a particular office for five years or have been in the same post for three years in the same office. The decision to reshuffle the staff comes in the wake of complaints of anomalies in which a large number of applicants flagged delay in considering their applications. Some have also complained of demand for money for processing their applications. The scrutiny of more than 3,000 files is expected to continue over the coming days and a report will be submitted to the District Collector. A total of 27 staff members have been transferred out of the Fort Kochi RDO office following the complaints. A new RDO is expected to be appointed soon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/reshuffle-of-revenue-staff-on-the-cards/article35868562.ece
12 August 2021||Kochi,KERALA||When brick kilns turn organic farming beds||The dust bowls of brick kilns give way to the lush green of organic farming for four months since May every year at Kanjoor near Kalady. This is the fourth year that the brick kilns have been playing host to organic farming though the acreage involved was considerably less this year. “The farming undertaken by brick kiln workers was limited to a single kiln spread over three acres alone for fear of forecasts of potential floods this year,” said M.B. Sasidharan, president of Kanjoor Service Cooperative Bank, which has been powering the initiative. The bank gives seeds, fertilisers, and technical advice to the workers, besides facilitating the sale of crops through its outlets. Seeds are sown during May, and the harvesting is done in August. Nearly 900 kg of assortment of vegetables are likely to be harvested this month. The farming is expected to generate revenue in the range of Rs. 3 lakh to Rs. 3.50 lakh by the end of the season. “The crops are much sought after and get sold in no time. We hope to bring in more people and more kilns next year,” said Mr. Sasidharan. In its four years of operation, the farming initiative suffered a major set back only in 2018 when the deluge completely washed away the crops.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/when-brick-kilns-turn-organic-farming-beds/article35868569.ece
12 August 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||High Court rejects bail plea of defrocked priest||The anticipatory bail plea of Chunkath C. C. Johnson, a defrocked priest, who has been accused in Aloor sexual harassment case, was rejected by the Kerala High Court. Justice V. Shircy directed the accused to surrender before the police. Petition closed The High Court on Wednesday closed the petition filed by the survivor after considering the submission of the State that a special investigation team was probing the alleged incident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/high-court-rejects-bail-plea-of-defrocked-priest/article35868572.ece
12 August 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Youngster booked under POCSO Act at Edathala||The Edathala police have arrested a 21-year-old man on charge of sexually abusing a 14-year-old girl. The girl was found to be eight months pregnant. The pregnancy came to light when she was taken to Government Medical College, Kalamassery, following sustained stomach ache. The accused was the son of a friend of the victim’s mother. The accused and his mother used to come and stay at the victim’s house whenever they had a fight back at home with his father. The accused was booked under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/youngster-booked-under-pocso-act-at-edathala/article35868580.ece
12 August 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Govt. employees asked to file ‘no dowry’ declarations||Government employees have been asked to submit declarations within one month of their marriage stating that they have not taken any dowry, according to an affidavit submitted by the Director of Women and Child Development. T.V. Anupama, Director, submitted the affidavit before the Kerala High Court on Wednesday in a writ petition filed by educationalist Indira Rajan. The petitioner submitted that the dowry prohibition rules were not being effectively implemented in the State. The affidavit filed by the Director stated that three Regional Dowry Prohibition Officers were appointed in State besides Chief Dowry Prohibition Officer. All students in high schools, vocational higher secondary and higher secondary schools, colleges and all other educational institutions have been asked to take the pledge not to give or take dowry in the general assembly on November 26, Dowry Prohibition Day, she submitted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/govt-employees-asked-to-file-no-dowry-declarations/article35868582.ece
12 August 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Two judges appointed to High Court||Two more judges were appointed to the Kerala High Court on Wednesday. Viju Abraham and Mohammed Nias Chovvakkaran Puthiyapurayil, two lawyers of the Kerala High Court, were appointed as Additional Judges for a period of two years. Swearing-in soon The newly appointed High Court judges will be sworn in shortly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/two-judges-appointed-to-high-court/article35868589.ece
12 August 2021||Kochi,KERALA||2 more held in car pawning case||The Aluva East police on Wednesday arrested two persons on the charge of pawning a car they had taken on rent. The arrested were identified as Muhammed Ashiq, 21, of Edappally, and Ashwin Ramesh, 23, of Kaloor. Another accused, Nidhin of Alappuzha, had already been arrested in this connection. Meanwhile, District Police Chief (Ernakulam Rural) K. Karthik held an online meeting with traders and local body representatives on the arrangements to be made in connection with Onam. The precautions to be taken by traders in the wake of the pandemic were discussed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/2-more-held-in-car-pawning-case/article35868566.ece
12 August 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Stray dog menace a concern in Kollam||With an alarming rise in dog bite cases and accidents involving canines, stray dog menace has become a major concern in many parts of Kollam. Since stray packs rule several bylanes and roads in the city, pedestrians and two-wheeler riders are scared to venture out after evening. Two persons recently died in a road accident caused by strays. Many incidents have been reported from places, including Kottarakara and Klappana. Many joggers and cyclists say they are unable to continue their routine as ferocious dogs keep following and barking at them. People wary “After the second lockdown there has been an increase in the number of strays. If large packs were earlier seen in areas such as Asramam only, they are everywhere now. Apart from posing a threat to pedestrians, they are making life difficult for senior citizens and children. These days we are scared to step out or go to any new place,” says S.Sudharma, a health worker. Aggressive packs take over the roads in rural areas during night, making it unsafe for two-wheeler riders. “Passing through some parts of Pathanapuram after 8 p.m. is a nightmare. I was chased several times by barking dogs and there have been many accidents. Officials are ignoring this issue and stray population is swelling day by day,” says Kishor Nair, a bank employee. The failure in implementing the Animal Birth Control (ABC) programme has been cited as the main reason behind the problem. Though the district panchayat revived the programme in 2020 December, it once again came to a standstill in March. Since the Kollam Corporation took no steps to address the issue, a pack of aggressive dogs were captured and sterilised by the district panchayat as an emergency step in December. Officials say such measures cannot be continued as it will lead to audit issues. Issue in Corporation “You cannot spend the panchayat funds in corporation area. The Kollam Corporation is yet to find space for ABC centres and the flawed implementation of the programme will do no good,” says an official with the Animal Husbandry Department. He says since strays do not need much time to multiply, immediate intervention is needed. “Among other things, limited human presence on streets during the lockdown and huge quantities of waste and leftovers being thrown out in public due to the ban on dine-in can be one reason for their presence in all parts,” he says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/stray-dog-menace-a-concern-in-kollam/article35868633.ece
12 August 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||1,633 test positive in Kollam||The district reported 1,633 new cases of COVID-19 and 1,165 recoveries on Wednesday. While 1,622 patients contracted the disease through contact, others include two persons from other States and eight health workers. At present the district has 31,305 people under observation and the total number of samples collected is 20,64,407. While 2,416 people completed home quarantine on Wednesday, the Health Department has traced 3,21,565 primary and 19,299 secondary contacts of the cases. Alappuzha The district reported 1,440 COVID-19 cases on Wednesday. It recorded five COVID-19 deaths. The test positivity rate for the day was recorded at 13.38%. The fresh cases include 1,407 people who contracted the disease through local contact, while the source of infection of 29 others remains unknown. Four health staff also tested positive for the disease. Meanwhile, 1,073 people who were undergoing treatment for the disease in the district recovered. The active COVID-19 caseload stands at 9,861. Kottayam Kottayam continued to witness a sharp rise in fresh COVID-19 cases with 1,227 people testing positive for the disease on Wednesday Of the fresh cases, 1,223 people including a health worker, contracted the disease through local transmission. The test positivity rate (TPR) for the day stood at 12.17%. With 109 cases, Kottayam municipality reported the highest number of cases, followed by Mundakkayam, which recorded 63 cases . As many as 1,301 people recovered from the disease during the day, bringing down the total active cases to 7,174. Meanwhile, 40,775 people remain in quarantine for suspected symptoms of the disease. Meanwhile, authorities have imposed lockdown in as many as 26 wards of the various local bodies including Changanassery, Kottayam, Ettumanur and Pala municipalities, where the Weekly Infection Population Ration stood above 8%. Pathanamthitta In Pathanamthitta, 696 people tested positive for the disease during the day. Of this, all but two persons contracted the disease through local transmission. The contact source of six cases were yet to be ascertained. The TPR for the day was 10%. With 42 cases, Ezhamkulam reported the highest number of cases, followed by Konni, which reported 37 cases. Meanwhile, the decease claimed nine more lives in the district. With 453 recoveries during, Pathanamthitta currently has 6,165 active cases. Meanwhile, the authorities have imposed lockdown in four wards of Thiruvalla and two wards of Pandalam municipalities, where the Weekly Infection Population Ratio stood above 8%. ( With inputss from Alappuzha, Kottayam, and Pathanamthitta bureaus )||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/1633-test-positive-in-kollam/article35868643.ece
12 August 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Compensation distribution begins||The district administration has started distributing compensation for landowners whose property has been acquired for the widening of NH 66. District Collector B. Abdul Nasar has said the compensation would be handed over to all landowners by the end of next month. “The compensation has been made available after completing all legal proceedings. The project aims to widen NH66 in a foolproof manner and the construction will start shortly,” he said. First phase In the first phase, compensation has been distributed to the residents of Adinadu, Kulasekharapuram, and Oachira villages. A total of 25 persons have received the money so far. As part of the 2009 project, government had acquired 57.36 hectares of land from Oachira to Kadambattukonam. The stretch from Kottankulangara in Oachira to the Kavanad bypass makes the first the reach of the project. A total of Rs. 4,77,63362 will be distributed as compensation. Land acquisition and value fixing has been done under the supervision of four special tahsildars. The procedures have been completed after a four-step verification and currently the survey list is being prepared for rehabilitation. “A special list of those who lost land, home and livelihood is being prepared,” NH (LA) Special Deputy Collector R. Sumeethan Pillai said.  A special list of those who lost land, home and livelihood is being prepared||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/compensation-distribution-begins/article35868634.ece
12 August 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Panel order to conserve Ashtamudi Lake||The Kerala State Human Rights Commission has instructed the officials concerned to move ahead with various measures to protect Ashtamudi Lake and conserve its biodiversity. At a meeting convened by commission member V.K. Beenakumari recently, after visiting the highly polluted stretch of the lake near the Kollam Kerala State Road Transport Corporation bus stand, the district administration assured that strong action will be taken against encroachments and waste dumping. Help of missions “The service of the Suchitwa and Haritha Keralam missions will be availed for conducting clean-up drives,” said District Collector B. Abdul Nasar. The commission has also instructed to conduct awareness campaigns along with strict enforcement measures to protect the lake. Waste dumping While expressing anxiety over hospitals dumping medical waste in the lake, the commission asked the authorities to get police help when required.In order to curb septage reaching the waterbody, the Kollam Corporation will build public comfort stations. The local body will also remove trash and garbage from Kureepuzha and a sewage treatment plant will be built soon. The Kerala Water Authority will be implementing the project, said Corporation secretary P.K. Sajeev.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/panel-order-to-conserve-ashtamudi-lake/article35868623.ece
12 August 2021||Kollam,KERALA||Stay on panel temporary: Vijayaraghavan||Communist Party of India (Marxist) acting State secretary A. Vijayaraghavan said here on Wednesday that the Kerala High Court stay on the V.K. Mohan Commission (appointed to investigate whether there were any conspiracy to implicate Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan and others in a gold smuggling case) was temporary. The court had not arrived at a final decision. It has signalled that it would hear the parties concerned. It is well within the rights of the government to pursue its policy in multiple levels of the judiciary. It will take necessary appellate steps if the situation warranted so, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/stay-on-panel-temporary-vijayaraghavan/article35868593.ece
12 August 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Tourists trickle back to Kottayam villages||Visitors have begun trickling into the backwater villages of Kottayam after a long gap, breathing life into the struggling tourism-reliant rural economy. From Kumarakom to Vaikom, locations are gradually adjusting to the circumstances even as arrivals are expected to go up with the Onam holidays. Bookings in hotels and resorts in the region have gained momentum while houseboats and local transportation systems too have resumed operations, although at a much-reduced scale. Hotel occupancy According to K.Arun Kumar, secretary, Chamber of Vembanad Hotels and Resorts, the occupancy in the resorts on the first four days since the reopening has been 25 to 30%. The clientele base has been predominantly spread across the districts of Thirssur, Ernakulam, and Thiruvananathauram. “It may take some more time to get these inquiries convert into bookings but, at this rate, we hope to recover at least a part of the business by October,” he says. Meanwhile, the market for destination weddings, which also involve local procurement and participation in a big way, is yet to pick up in view of the restrictions for organising such events. Taking note of the situation, the hospitality sector is set to approach the Tourism Minister with a request to raise the limit of persons permitted to attend such events to at least 50. “The majority of these events are organised on the basis of certain themes, involving the staging of cultural events, sourcing of local cuisine or handicraft or even offering the village-life experience to the guests. That way, it served as a consistent source of income to the local population as well,” he says. Packages reoriented Confirming a gradual recovery in business, K.Rupesh Kumar, State coordinator of the Responsible Tourism Mission, says its village-life packages are being reoriented to suit Keralite visitors while the business will pick up steam with the arrival of north Indian guests. “In view of the COVID-19 situation, we are also making some adjustments to minimise direct interaction between guests and the local community,” he says. Meanwhile, a Tourism Department official said resorts and houseboats were operating from a bio-secure bubble with total vaccination of their employees, while the vaccination of people in related sectors was progressing at an accelerated rate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tourists-trickle-back-to-kottayam-villages/article35868625.ece
12 August 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Held for abusing minor||The Manarcad police have arrested a 29-year-old in connection with the incident in which a 14-year-old girl delivered a premature infant last week. The accused was identified as Arun, a native of Yendayar. The accused had been living with the victim’s mother for the past one year. Though the victim had earlier claimed that she was abducted, drugged and abused by an unidentified person a few months ago. She, however, disclosed about the accused following a counselling session. The accused, who worked as a construction labourer, sexually exploited the girl for more than six months during his stay with her mother. A probe is on to ascertain whether the victim’s mother connived with the accused in abusing her daughter. The accused was produced before a magistrate and remanded to custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/held-for-abusing-minor/article35868626.ece
12 August 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||RTI upgraded as national institute||Keeping pace with international standards and state-of-the art technology is essential for sustenance and growth of both upstream and downstream activities in rubber, K.N. Raghavan, Executive Director, Rubber Board, has said. Delivering the inaugural address at the ceremony for upgrading the Rubber Training Institute (RTI) to National Institute of Rubber Training, Mr. Raghavan emphasised the significance of training and upskilling activities in keeping the sector vibrant.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rti-upgraded-as-national-institute/article35868621.ece
12 August 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Probe launched into drowning||The police have launched a probe into the death of a 64-year-old man, whose body was found in a stream near Puthenangadi, Kottayam, on Wednesday morning. The deceased was identified as Jovani Parel, husband of Cincy Parel, a councillor in the Kottayam municipality. The body, spotted near the Puthanangadi Thumpil bridge, was recovered by the police and shifted to the District General Hospital. It was later handed over to relatives after a post-mortem examination. Incidentally, Parel was found dead on the day of the funeral of his 92-year-old mother Elizbeth Thomas. Preliminary investigations suggested that he was mentally disturbed followed the death of his sister a couple of months ago. The funeral of both the mother and the son was held later in the evening.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/probe-launched-into-drowning/article35868627.ece
12 August 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Concern over Plus One examinations in Kerala||The Education Department’s plan to conduct Plus One final examinations from September 6 has not gone down well with teachers and students who claim they are ill-prepared for the exercise. B.S. Emil, a functionary of the All India Democratic Students’ Organisation, which recently floated a Plus One Students’ Collective, said: “Almost 70% to 80% of students said the online classes are of no use. If examinations are a means to evaluate the academic knowledge, what is the point in conducting them if they have not studied properly?” Mr. Emil said since the syllabus covered in Plus One and Plus Two classes form a base for higher studies, there was a chance of the students being left out. Teach properly “The government should first take steps to teach the lessons properly. Then all students should be vaccinated. They can hold a combined examination after Plus Two,” he said. In a memorandum to the Education Department, a group of students claimed that they were confused for the whole year about the chapters to be covered and the conduct of the exams. The announcement about the exams came only after Plus Two classes started. This put them in a precarious situation as they were supposed to study both Plus One and Plus Two portions simultaneously. Meanwhile, K.K. Sreejesh Kumar, general secretary, Kerala Aided Higher Secondary Teachers’ Association, said the State Council of Educational Research and Training was yet to prepare model question papers. The Class X and Class XII exams had incurred the wrath of the academic community for the weird method of calculating marks. However, the teachers still are not clear about it as only some focus points have been published. “The government has clarified that they will not get a chance to improve the scores. The students had no proper classes, their Plus One marks will be added to the final score, and they won’t be able to improve their marks as well,” Mr. Kumar added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/concern-over-plus-one-examinations-in-kerala/article35868581.ece
12 August 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Move to scrap diploma resented||The National Medical Commission’s (NMC) move to end postgraduate diploma courses has incurred the wrath of a section of public health experts, who say it is aimed at providing cheap manpower to private hospitals. Draft regulation The draft of the postgraduate medical education regulations published by the postgraduate medical education board says, “No new diploma courses shall be permitted from 2021 onwards. All the Rules and Regulations of erstwhile Medical Council of India (MCI) regarding existing diploma courses shall be applicable till all the diploma courses are phased out and the last diploma candidate has cleared the examination.” According to a notification on August 6, 2020, the National Board of Examinations is now planning to start diploma courses in broad specialities. Each applicant hospital should have at least 100 operational beds, except for diploma in Ophthalmology. It should have minimum required faculty in each applicant department. The applicant department should have one senior consultant or two junior consultants as well. A senior consultant should have a minimum of five years of experience after qualifying MD/MS/DNB or equivalent in the specialty concerned. A junior consultant should have a minimum of two years of experience after qualifying MD/MS/DNB or equivalent in the speciality. However, the earlier postgraduate medical rules of 2000, amended up to 2018 by the MCI say 50% of the seats in PG diploma courses shall be reserved for medical officer in government service, who have served for at least three years in remote and/or difficult areas and/or rural areas. After acquiring the diploma, these officers shall serve for two more years in remote and/or difficult areas and/or rural areas as defined by the State government. A clinical department training candidates for broad or super specialties shall have a minimum of three full-time faculty members, of whom one shall be a Professor, one Associate Professor/Reader, and one Assistant Professor/Lecturer, having qualification and teaching experience prescribed by the MCI. PG teachers Of them, only those who possess eight years of teaching experience, of which at least five years teaching experience is as Assistant Professor gained after obtaining postgraduate degree, shall be recognised as postgraduate teachers. A public health expert pointed out that replacing postgraduate diploma courses with diploma in broad specialities would lead to a single senior consultant/faculty running them. A single doctor would have to run outpatient, inpatient, and surgical departments along with teaching. That doctor could go for private practice too if allowed. The courses would not have any reservation for medical professionals working in rural areas either. K.V. Babu, Kannur-based public health activist and ophthalmologist, said it would not help doctors, patients or the public at large. “It will only help provide cheap manpower for private hospitals and the move should be dropped,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/move-to-scrap-diploma-resented/article35868538.ece
12 August 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Fresh COVID-19 cases, TPR go up in Kozhikode||The number of fresh COVID-19 cases as well as the daily test positivity rate (TPR) are going up in Kozhikode district. As many as 2,789 people tested positive for the virus, and the daily TPR was 18.52% when 15,392 samples were tested on Wednesday. Health Department officials said the daily TPR had been above 15% for the past six days. The active caseload of the district is 25,794. Of the fresh cases reported on Wednesday, 2,765 were due to local transmission, and the source of 20 others is not known. Kozhikode Corporation accounted for 515 locally acquired infections, Kakkodi 86, Koyilandy 82, Unnikulam 77, Maniyoor 69, Narikkuni 65, and Feroke 62. A total of 2,098 people recovered. Meanwhile, the campaign to vaccinate everyone aged above 60 before August 15 was launched in the district. Wayanad Wayanad District Collector Adeela Abdulla on Wednesday declared triple lockdown in Vythiri, Pozhuthana and Ambalavayal grama panchayats for a fortnight after the weekly infection population ratio (WIPR) crossed eight. The government had earlier said that triple lockdown restrictions would kick in localities that registered WIPR above 10. No activities, except essential services, in the grama panchayats will be allowed during the period. Kasaragod A complete lockdown has been declared in two panchayats in Kasaragod district owing to COVID-19 spread. Accordingly, restrictions are in place in Kaiyur and Cheemeni panchayats, where WIPR has crossed nine. Similarly, complete lockdown has been declared in wards 34, 13, and 9 of Kanhangad Municipality and wards 3, 7, 11, 12, and 25 of Neeleswaram Municipality. WIPR in these places is over eight. District Collector Bhandari Swagat Ranveerchand, who is also the chairperson of the District Disaster Management Authority, has ordered that 49 areas with more than five COVID cases be classified as micro-containment zones.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fresh-covid-19-cases-tpr-go-up-in-kozhikode/article35868552.ece
12 August 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Potters worried over influx of ‘foreign’ products||The proverb ‘between the devil and the deep blue sea’ has come true for potters in Kozhikode district, making them rethink about continuing their line of work. On one side, the pandemic has hit them hard, and sales are at their lowest. Even the Onam market, which is their usual harvest season, has not been able to uplift their spirits, as the usual avenues for business are absent. What worries them the most is the influx of ‘foreign’ products into the local market. T. Rajan, a traditional potter from Parambil Bazaar, blamed the better-finished and low-priced products from Tamil Nadu and Palakkad for the drastic decline in sales. “Terracotta products from Palakkad and Tamil Nadu have better finish compared to what we make. It is not our fault but that of the clay that we procure. The clay available in Palakkad is much better and stronger compared to what we procure from Wayanad,” said Biju K.K., a potter from Vadakara. Besides, raw materials are available in plenty in Palakkad, while the local potters have to pay heavily for them. Large-scale industry Since pottery has developed as an industry at a much larger scale in Tamil Nadu, those in that State can afford to sell the products at lower prices, while potters here are struggling to make both ends meet, he added. Manikandan C., a potter from Palakkad, claimed that he had a medium-sized unit and employed a few to cater to the growing market. “I have small units in every northern district, where we sell terracotta products from Palakkad,” he said. However, the sale is comparatively low for them as compared to products from Tamil Nadu. Potters complained that local buyers had no respect for their hard work, and that they could not compete with the bargaining skills of most people. “Buyers should realise that getting a terracotta product ready is a month-long labour. It takes a lot of hard work to prepare clay for moulding, around 20 days for drying after it is moulded, and another week to get it out of the kiln. And, we are forced to sell it at extremely lower prices owing to competition and extreme and unsympathetic bargaining,” Mr. Rajan said. He stressed the need for bringing in innovative designs and unlearning and relearning the craft to suit modern standards for the traditional industry to survive.  Terracotta products from Palakkad look better, as the clay available there is much better and stronger compared to what we procure from Wayanad Biju K.K. A potter from Vadakara||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/potters-worried-over-influx-of-foreign-products/article35868548.ece
12 August 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Two MCHs likely to start liver transplant surgery||Two government medical college hospitals (MCH) in the State may soon get facilities for liver transplant surgery. Sources in the Health Department said on Tuesday that the hospitals at Thiruvananthapuram and Kottayam would have an operation theatre, liver transplant intensive care unit, and other required equipment in the coming days. The demand for liver transplant surgeries in government hospitals have been a long-pending one. The cost in private hospitals is very high, and often beyond the reach of the common man. It is learnt that the government is planning to bring organ donation and surgeries under one system. The Cabinet recently decided to set up a State Organ and Tissue Transplant Organisation. There is already a similar entity at the national-level, which lays down protocols and guidelines. The sources added that the government was also taking steps to avoid delay in organ transplantation. However, Liver Foundation of Kerala, an organisation representing people who have undergone the surgery, have demanded that the government bear the expenditure of both surgery and the treatment thereafter. M. Rajesh Kumar, general secretary of the foundation, told The Hindu that earlier efforts to conduct liver transplant at medical college hospitals at Thiruvananthapuram and Kannur had reportedly failed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/two-mchs-likely-to-start-liver-transplant-surgery/article35868560.ece
12 August 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Greens demand steps to protect Thusharagiri||A collective of environmentalists from across the State has appealed to the government to take steps to protect the Thusharagiri forest at any cost. In a memorandum signed by over 60 activists representing various organisations as well as independent activists, they accused Forest officials of maintaining a lackadaisical attitude with regard to the 24 acres of forest land that should be returned to the original owners on the basis of a recent Supreme Court order. Citing the importance of the three waterfalls in nourishing the nearby land in the form of Chalippuzha, the forum pointed out that the Forest Department had made no efforts to bring it before the Supreme Court during the hearing of the two-decades-old case. Thusharagiri is a hub of biodiversity, and the climate and water availability in the nearby regions depend on the existence of the forest. Besides, Thusharagiri and Chalippuzha host the International Kayaking Championship every year, a major tourist attraction. “The Forest Department had taken the case very lightly to help landowners. It is evident from the judgment that a large-scale conspiracy is behind the attitude of the Forest Department in the case. The department did not attempt to highlight the importance of the forest, the extent of biodiversity, or the origin of Chalippuzha in the court. It did not even mention that the forest is home to a wide variety of birds and animals,” the forum said. It also demanded a fresh study on the biodiversity of the Thusharagiri forest. M.N. Karassery, T. Shobheendran, C.R. Neelakandan, Thayat Balan, P. Vasu, Kalpetta Narayanan, U.K. Kumaran, P. Surendran, Kusumam Joseph, and T.N. Prathapan, MP, are among those who signed the memorandum.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/greens-demand-steps-to-protect-thusharagiri/article35868549.ece
12 August 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Validity of visas extended||In a major relief to thousands of Non-Resident Indians stranded back home owing to the COVID-19 lockdown, Dubai has extended the validity of expired residency visas till December 9, sources said. The automatic visa renewal is for three months, including the one-month grace period for reapplication. Those wishing to travel to the United Arab Emirates (UAE) can check their visa status onhttps://amer.gdrfad. gov.ae/visa-inquiry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/dubai-extends-validity-of-visas/article35868565.ece
12 August 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Homeopathic doctor loses registration||The Travancore-Cochin Medical Councils (TCMC) may have suspended his registration for a year. But Arif Hussain, a homeopathic doctor who is now a fierce critic of that system of medicine, is undeterred and vows to continue his campaign. It was on July 28 that the TCMC issued a notice to Dr. Hussain. The letter said that he was found to “abuse homeopathic system of medicine through social media and speeches.” It claimed that though the council asked for his explanation and directed him to present himself at its office, Dr. Hussain “declined to respond.” The council viewed this as a “deliberate lapse”. Since the council is convinced that his action was against medical ethics, his registration since March 23, 2010 had been cancelled for a year by the TCMC’s homeo council. Dr. Hussain is advised against homeopathy practice or issuance of medical certificates during the period. Dr. Hussain, however, said he had stopped homeopathy practice some time ago. “I have been campaigning against the unscientific nature of homeopathy. It is naturally causing some heartburn among its practitioners. They could have addressed the issues I am raising. Instead, they are trying to stop me by the use of force and misuse of power,” he said, adding that he would continue criticism nevertheless. “If they can prove me wrong, I will naturally become silent. Why aren’t they doing it?” he wondered. Dr. Hussain said he had been trying to create awareness among prospective medical students who might be planning to take up homeopathy as a profession. “If I had been told about this earlier, I would not have joined the course,” he added.  Arif Hussain is undeterred and vows to continue his campaign||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/homeopathic-doctor-loses-registration-but-vows-to-fight/article35868551.ece
12 August 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Lockdown in 3 grama panchayats in Kozhikode||Strict lockdown will be in force from Thursday in all wards in Kavilumpara, Atholi and Ulliyeri grama panchayats where the weekly infection population ratio (WIPO) for COVID-19 is above eight. Similar restrictions will be applicable in nine wards in Payyoli (11, 14, 16, 23, 24, 28, 31, 34, and 36) and Koduvally (1, 2, 6, 7, 8, 20, 22, 23, and 33) municipalities, seven wards in Mukkom Municipality (1, 5, 7, 17, 18, 28, and 31), five wards in Koyilandy Municipality (13, 34, 35, 36, and 39), three wards in Feroke Municipality (14, 19, and 24), two wards in Kozhikode Corporation (1 and 16), and one ward each in Vadakara (37) and Ramanattukara (14) municipalities as well. An order from the district administration on Wednesday said all these wards would be barricaded. Those who are infected and their contacts should be in quarantine. All residents of the above-mentioned wards and grama panchayats will be tested in a week.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/lockdown-in-3-grama-panchayats-in-kozhikode/article35868550.ece
12 August 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Abuse of power, says Surendran||Bharatiya Janata Party State president K. Surendran has termed the interim order of the Kerala High Court staying the judicial inquiry against the Enforcement Directorate (ED) as a blow to the Left Democratic Front government in the State. At a news conference here on Wednesday, he said that the State government’s notification for probe amounted to “an abuse of power and an exercise of excessive power” by the Left government. The Chief Minister had resorted to the unconstitutional move because he was the mastermind behind dollar smuggling and gold smuggling, the BJP leader alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/abuse-of-power-says-surendran/article35868585.ece
12 August 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||New firm at Cyberpark||Bengaluru-based IT firm Hexwhale Interactive has started operations at Cyberpark in Kozhikode. The company came with over a decade experience in mobile application development, web, and IT services. Parisons Group chairman N.K. Muhammed Ali and Bengaluru-based Empire Group chairman KPC Muhammed Kunhi jointly inaugurated the office at Sahya building at Cyberpark. Hexwhale managing director Masud Muhammed, operations head Jiljil Gonvid, creative director Joby Thomas, Cyberpark deputy manager Bijesh Adhikarath, CAFIT president Haris P.T., and secretary Abdul Gafur were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/new-firm-at-cyberpark/article35868556.ece
12 August 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Senior citizen jumps to death at MCH||A senior citizen undergoing treatment for post-COVID complications at the Government Medical College Hospital, Kozhikode, committed suicide early morning on Wednesday by jumping off from ward number 24 of the hospital building. Sources said the incident occurred around 3.30 a.m. Krishnan, 65, of Kunnathuparamba in Malappuram district, had renal problems as well. He was suffering from breathlessness after being infected with the virus. It is learnt that he was mentally depressed. The body was subjected to a post-mortem examination. Helpline: (0495) 2725555, 3279307, 2546111.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/senior-citizen-jumps-to-death-at-mch/article35868558.ece
12 August 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Sedentary habits behind lifestyle diseases: survey||That lifestyle diseases are prevalent more among those who follow a sedentary lifestyle than those who are physically active is a given. But their incidence is 62% and 9%, respectively, as per the results of a survey carried out in Palakkad and Malappuram districts, and could be some food for thought. The survey titled ‘Prevalence of lifestyle diseases: Comparison with respect to gender, locale, age and lifestyle’ was done by V. Nandya, an assistant professor with the Department of Physical Education, University of Calicut. The sample size was 200 people. Data collection was done between 2018 and 2019 from hospitals and other places. The study found that the prevalence of lifestyle diseases in urban areas was 37.14% compared to rural areas where it was 33.85%. “Inactivity may diminish life expectancy not only by predisposing to ageing-related diseases, but also because it may influence the ageing process itself,” the survey quotes a report in the January 29, 2008 issue of The Archives of Internal Medicine . Among males, it was 35.87% and females 31.48%. Almost 36.67% among non-vegetarians were found to have such problems.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sedentary-habits-behind-lifestyle-diseases-survey/article35868803.ece
12 August 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Drug seized from hotel room; 8 held||Eight persons, including a woman, were arrested in Kozhikode on Wednesday on the charge of possessing different types of narcotic products, including synthetic drugs. Around 500 grams of hashish oil and 6 grams of ADMA were allegedly found in their possession, which is estimated to cost more that Rs. 2 lakh in the market. The group, all of whom are Kozhikode natives, was arrested from a private hotel on Mavoor Road where they have been staying for several days. Police and excise teams are conducting a joint inquiry and questioning the accused at the hotel. Police doubt inter-State connections to the accused. An investigation will be conducted on why the group rented out a room in their native place.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/drug-seized-from-hotel-room-8-held/article35868557.ece
12 August 2021||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||CJM to supervise probe against Anvar||The Chief Judicial Magistrate (CJM) Court at Manjeri on Wednesday took over the supervision of a Crime Branch investigation in a cheating case involving P.V. Anvar, MLA. Magistrate S. Rasmi ordered the Crime Branch to present its report on the current status of the investigation and to report to the court the progress of the inquiry every two weeks. The court order came following an appeal by an Non-Resident Indian engineer Saleem Naduthodi. The court found fault with the Crime Branch for failing to complete its investigation even two years after the High Court ordered the agency to inquire. The case was about Mr. Anvar allegedly cheating Mr. Saleem after collecting Rs. 50 lakh from him for a partnership business in a crusher in Karnataka.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cjm-to-oversee-probe-against-anvar/article35868584.ece
12 August 2021||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Ring road ronavation gets PWD approval||Authorities have embarked on a major plan to renovate the 5.50-km ring road around Pathanamthitta town. According to officials, the Public Works Department has given an administrative sanction for Rs. 4.50 crore towards renovating the road, which encircles the town. The project envisages developing pedestrian paths on both sides of the road and developing junctions, besides beautifying the stretch by landscaping and installing murals that highlight the cultural tradition of the region. Meeting held The District Tourism Department here on Tuesday convened a meeting to chalk out an action plan for developing the road. District Collector Divya S. Iyer presided over the meting, attended by various stakeholder agencies. T. Sakker Hussain, chairman, Pathanamthitta municipality, said the plan envisaged a comprehensive development of the stretch. Tourism potential “The project will be implemented with special attention to the development of destinations such as Chuttipara and the Vanchipoyka waterfalls that holds immense tourism potential,” he said. Meanwhile, the Collector directed the PWD Roads division to chop down the branches of trees on the roadside to enable installation of street light.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ring-road-ronavation-gets-pwd-approval/article35868622.ece
12 August 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Titanium to resume production from today||Six months after a disastrous oil leak into the coast sparked outrage, the Travancore Titanium Products Ltd (TTP) will resume production at full capacity from Thursday. Angered local people had sealed the mouth of the effluent pipeline that opened out into the coast following the February 10 mishap, preventing full-fledged operations at the company. The Coastal Uplift Association formed by the local residents had agreed to re-open the pipeline, Industries Minister P. Rajeeve said on Wednesday. Discussions Mr. Rajeeve, along with Labour Minister V. Sivankutty and Transport Minister Antony Raju held discussions with the association and the TTP trade unions. A decision will be taken soon regarding the compensation for the local people whose livelihood was affected by the oil leak. Principal Secretary (Industries) A.P.M. Mohammed Haneesh will look into this matter that also will be subject to the decision of the National Green Tribunal, according to the Industries Department. The State government has decided to seek legal advice on the demand that the local people should have 25% reservation in unskilled jobs at TTP. Further, the government will also examine the demand that a hospital should be established in the locality. Rs. 4-crore loss per day Hundreds of litres of furnace oil had spilled out into the coast after a pipeline inside the TTP grounds ruptured on February 10 this year. A frantic clean-up of the coast had ensued and the TTP was ordered to halt operations. Operations were resumed on a limited scale in March, but a scale-up to full-fledged production was hindered by the controversy over effluent discharge. Loss per day The Industries Department said on Wednesday that the TTP had been running at a per-day loss of Rs. 4 crore. In February, the department had also constituted a three-member committee to investigate the leakage. The three-member committee consisted of the Industries Principal Secretary; M. Mohammed Ali, managing director, Malabar Cements; and S. Chandrabose, managing director, Kerala Minerals and Metals Ltd (KMML). TTP managing director Georgee Ninan was also present at Wednesday’s meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/titanium-to-resume-production-from-today/article35868797.ece
12 August 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Corporation launches dry leaf collection units||City Corporation Mayor Arya Rajendran on Wednesday inaugurated the installation of ‘Kariyila Sambharani’, large boxes that will be used to collect dry leaves, to prevent their burning in open spaces. The units are being placed near Pangode fish market, Manaveeyam Veethi, near Sree Moolam Club in Vazhuthacaud, Mudavanmugal junction, near the Vanchiyoor Court, Sreekandeswaram, and near the Government Model Boys Higher Secondary School. Earlier installed Dry leaf collectors were earlier installed in three locations as part of the ‘My City, Beautiful City’ waste management programme of the city Corporation. Such boxes will be kept in places that usually have a large deposit of dry leaves in all wards. The Mayor said that such collectors would be placed in more places where they were required. The dry-leaf collection box would address the multiple issues of burning of dry leaves and the shortage of dry leaves for processing waste in aerobic bins. The collected dry leaves would then be shredded, compressed, and taken to aerobic bins in various wards. The sanitation workers in each ward would have the responsibility of the boxes. Jameela Sreedharan, chairperson of the Health Standing Committee, presided over the function. Collection of cloth waste, as part of the periodic collection of various kinds of non biodegradable waste, would be held on Friday at various collection points.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/corporation-launches-dry-leaf-collection-units/article35868794.ece
12 August 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||New order to decentralise vaccination process: Veena||Health Minister Veena George has clarified that the new order on COVID-19 vaccination was meant to decentralise the process and to make the vaccination campaign easier. She said here on Wednesday that it was wrong to campaign that people needed to register themselves in their own local bodies to seek vaccination. At present, after registering on CoWIN portal, one can book a vaccination slot at their place of preference, be it a neighbouring ward or even a neighbouring district. While this allows people a lot of flexibility in vaccination, given the serious issue of vaccine shortage across the State, people from one municipality/ward may seek vaccination in a ward/municipality far away from their place of residence where slots might be available. This has been leading to many skirmishes at vaccination centres as this upsets the vaccine prioritisation at the ward-level. The residents of a particular municipality/panchayat may not get slots because the free slots were booked by people from a neighbouring ward/municipality. However, the government insisted on ward-level lists to ensure that the prioritised categories of the population in one locality were not left out of vaccination when slots were opened up for every one, Ms. George said. As part of the vaccination campaign, all above 60 years and those above 18 years who are chronically bedridden, would be given the first dose before August 15. The list of these vulnerable categories would be drawn up at the ward-level to administer the vaccines to them. Fifty per cent of the vaccination slots would be available online and the rest would be open for spot registration, for which beneficiaries would be selected on priority basis. State gets more vaccine The State has received 8,86,960 doses of vaccine on Wednesday, Ms. George said. This includes 8 lakh Covishield vaccine and 86,960 doses of Covaxin. On Wednesday, 2,37,528 doses were administered, of which 1.25 lakh doses were administered amongst people above 60 years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/order-to-decentralise-vaccination-veena/article35868599.ece
12 August 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||KTU’s digital certificates a big hit||The move by APJ Abdul Kalam Technological University (KTU) to issue provisional certificates through a digital system has found immense support from the student community. Students of the outgoing 2017-21 batch have begun to receive digitally signed certificates from KTU’s student portal from Monday. Around a thousand students requested for the certificates within minutes after the service went live. This is for the first time in Kerala that certificates were made available to students through a digital system. Grade cards for different semesters are available on the portal. The system allows students to download certificates with the examination controller’s digital signature. Under the new system, students will be able to review the information on their certificates and report errors. Vice Chancellor M.S. Rajasree said the facility would enable the university to complete the issuance of certificates in a timely and transparent manner. According to official sources, students have been ecstatic, as they could download the certificates at their convenience. The facility came as a blessing for many including Neeraj Nair, a BTech student of Mar Baselios College of Engineering, Thiruvanathapuram, who travelled to Prayagraj in Uttar Pradesh to attend a job interview. While his job prospects could have been dashed without his final-year certificates, Neeraj was able to download the provisional certificates in time for his interview. The e-certificate enabled Devika S., who graduated from TKM College of Engineering, Kollam this year, to submit the necessary documents for verification purpose prior to her joining the South Indian Bank where she was placed. Pointing out the system would benefit both colleges and students alike, Vinu Thomas, Principal, Government Model Engineering College, Kochi, said the facility removed a huge workload for colleges.  Grade cards for different semesters are available on the portal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ktus-digital-certificates-a-hit-among-graduates/article35868647.ece
12 August 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||23,500 fresh cases in State||The State registered 23,500 new cases of COVID-19 on Wednesday when 1,62,130 samples were tested in 24 hours. The test positivity rate (TPR), which had soared to 15.91% on Tuesday, dropped to 14.49% on Wednesday. ICU occupancy of COVID patients showed a slight dip at 2,075. But the number of patients requiring ventilator support has climbed to 817. The State’s active case pool has gone up slightly to 1,75,957 patients and 19,411 recovered on the day. The official case fatality is continuing to rise and now stands at 18,120, with the State adding 116 recent deaths to the official list on Wednesday. The number of patients newly admitted to hospitals with COVID on Wednesday was 2,371. Total hospitalisations of those with moderate or severe COVID now stand more or less stabilised at 28,489. Thrissur tops Thrissur has overtaken Malappuram as the district reporting the highest number of new cases on Wednesday with 3,124 cases. Malappuram has 3,109, Ernakulam 2,856, Kozhikode 2,789, Palakkad 2,414, Kollam 1,633, Alappuzha 1,440, Thiruvananthapuram 1,255, Kottayam 1,227, Kannur 1,194, Pathanamthitta 696, Idukki 637, Wayanad 564, and Kasaragod 562 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/23500-fresh-cases-in-state/article35868591.ece
12 August 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Uproar in House over action against Attingal fish vendor||The Assembly witnessed an uproar during the question hour on Wednesday when the Opposition accused Health Minister Veena George of evading a question regarding incidents of alleged high-handedness of authorities against fish vendors. Congress MLA M. Vincent raised a question whether the Health Department had issued instructions to implement COVID-19 restrictions using force, referring to an incident at Attingal in Thiruvananthapuram on Tuesday when local body authorities forcibly stopped a fish vendor from carrying out sales. In response, Ms. George said the government was committed to saving lives and protecting livelihoods. However, Leader of the Opposition V.D. Satheesan said it was unfortunate that the Minister did not directly refer to the incident. He said the question was specifically directed at the Minister since she had placed on the table statements regarding the COVID-19 protocol and restrictions. Speaker M.B. Rajesh said no one could dictate how the response to a question should be. Congress MLA Mathew Kuzhalnadan repeated Mr. Vincent’s query and said there had been three incidents of police atrocities against fish vendors in the past few days. Ms. George, in her response, said everyone had the freedom to carry out their work. The Health Department had given extra focus to the coastal belt, with a special vaccination drive in these regions, she added. Pinarayi’s statement Congress MLA T.J. Vinod said Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan’s statement on a similar incident earlier, dismissing it as a fake one, had led to such incidents repeating. Muslim League MLA P.K. Kunhalikutty said the Minister should have taken a compassionate stance with a promise to look into the incident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/uproar-in-house-over-action-against-attingal-fish-vendor/article35868597.ece
12 August 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||School building work to be expedited||The government has decided to expedite construction of buildings using Rs. 1 crore of Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board (KIIFB) funds in government schools in the State. A pressnote issued here said the decision was taken at a meeting convened by Minister for General Education V. Sivankutty and Minister for Local Self-government M.V. Govindan. KIIFB funds It was also decided to speed up construction of school buildings using Rs. 3 crore KIIFB funds through special purpose vehicles decided by the government. There are 446 schools that are being built by Kerala Institute of Local Administration using Rs. 1 crore financial aid. Local self-governments will be directed to give speedy permission for demolition of school buildings where necessary. KILA Director General Joy Elamon, Director of General Education Jeevan Babu K., and KIIFB Additional CEO Satyajit Rajan, were present at the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kiifb-funds-sanctioned/article35868628.ece
12 August 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||50 years of Indo-Soviet treaty observed||The 50th anniversary of the Indo-Soviet Treaty on Peace, Friendship and Cooperation was celebrated here under the auspices of the Russian House. Minister for Food and Civil Supplies G.R. Anil inaugurated the programme. In his address, Mr. Anil said the treaty was an important factor in strengthening international peace security and cooperation.  Peace in Asia He said the treaty crowned the principles and consistent policy of the two countries aimed at cooperation and friendship and contributed to the consolidation of peace in Asia. “When India was facing issues in the region, the Soviet Union came out with a helping hand, which ultimately created peace in Asia,” he said. C.P. John said the cooperation between the two nations in the political, economic, cultural, technical and scientific fields had evolved successfully. Former Ambassador T.P. Sreenivasan said the treaty of 1971 was the foundation of the relationship between India and Russia and it had not lost spirit even in the present situation. Head, Department of Political Science, University of Kerala, Josekutty Abraham, Air Marshal (Rtd.) Pavan Kapoor, and Russian Association for Friendship with India Elizaveta Stupankaya, spoke. Honorary Consul of the Russian Federation and director of the Russian House in Trivandrum Ratheesh C. Nair presided.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/50-years-of-indo-soviet-treaty-observed/article35868787.ece
12 August 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Midday meal: food security allowance distribution||Minister for General Education V. Sivankutty will inaugurate the distribution of food security allowance as part of the mid-day meal scheme at Government Upper Primary School, Ambalathara, here on Thursday. Minister for Food and Civil Supplies G.R. Anil will preside over the function. In the wake of COVID-19, the government has decided to distribute food security allowance to all eligible children included in the mid-day meal scheme till the time schools reopen this academic year. In the first phase, distribution of the food security allowance for the months from April to August will begin under the General Education Department. Food kits containing foodgrain and seven food items will be distributed to 29,52,919 students from pre-primary to Class VIII who are eligible under the mid-day meal scheme. The allowance will also be distributed to visual and hearing impaired students in 43 special schools in the State. Pre-primary and primary students will get 2 kg and 6 kg of food grain, respectively. They will also get food kits with items to the tune of Rs. 497. The food items include 500 g each of green gram, tuvar dal, and urad dal; 1 kg of fried rava and ragi powder; 1 litre of coconut oil; and 100 gms black gram/peanut candy. Upper primary students Upper primary students will get a kit containing 10 kg of rice and food items for Rs. 782.25. These include 1 kg of green gram, 500 gms of tuvar dal, 1 kg of urad dal, 1 kg each of fried rava and ragi, 2 litre coconut oil, and 100 gms of black gram/peanut candy. Supplyco Supplyco will deliver the foodgrain and food kits to schools on behalf of the General Education Department. These could be distributed to parents of students with the support of school parent-teacher association (PTA), mid-day meal committee, mother PTA, and mid-day meal cooks.  The allowance will also be distributed to visual and hearing impaired students in 43 special schools||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/midday-meal-food-security-allowance-distribution/article35868791.ece
12 August 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||SIFFS designs biotoilets for fishing boats||The South Indian Federation of Fishermen Societies (SIFFS) has designed a biotoilet for small fishing boats which could go a long way towards improving the on-board living conditions of the crew. Absence of toilets on board the boats and the need for creating awareness on the issue prompted the Thiruvananthapuram-based SIFFS to design the biotoilets. The SIFFS biotoilet, designed for a 37-foot, fibre-reinforced plastic (FRP) model boat, consists of a European closet with flush tank, hand shower and wash basin plus a 500-litre biodigester. All this is enclosed within a 4 ft x 3ft cabin. The cabin size can be further reduced if space constraints demand it, said J. Vincent Jain, Deputy Chief Executive and head, SIFFS Boatyards. The eco-friendly facility also has solar-powered lamps. The biodigester technology enables at-source treatment of the waste matter. The bio-toilet converts septage into water and gas with the help of anaerobic bacteria. It eliminates the direct discharge of septage into the sea. SIFFS chief executive X. Joseph wanted to promote the concept in fishing boats. Mr. Jain said that the biotoilets offers a healthy option for fishermen. “'Right now, none of the boats is fitted with toilets. A 37-footer carries a crew of between five and seven men and stays out at sea for several days,”' he said. A 37-foot FRP boat costs Rs. 8 lakh. A basic-model biotoilet with Indian-type closet can be fitted aboard it for Rs. 75,000. In a bid to popularise the concept, a prototype has been installed at the SIFFS boatyard at Veli so that fishermen, boat owners and government representatives can try it out. Earlier this week, SIFFS also organised a presentation on the concept before the Fisheries Department, Puducherry. These biotoilets are also ideal for commercial establishments, hospitals and houseboats, according to SIFFS.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/siffs-designs-biotoilets-for-fishing-boats/article35868546.ece
12 August 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Govt. aware of gun sales on dark web: CM||The Hi-Tech Crime Enquiry Cell and the Cyber Dome has noticed the presence of Telegram channels and platforms in the dark web offering to sell guns and banned psychotropic drugs, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan told the Assembly on Wednesday. Replying to a question related to illegal sales of guns online by MLAs, Roji M. John and A.P. Anilkumar, he said that certain advertisements on guns, being spread through social media applications, had also come to the notice of the government authorities. But, there has been no evidence till now of guns being delivered to the State through such online platforms. None of these applications are also registered in the State. It has been noticed that the money transaction for the gun sales in such platforms are through virtual currencies. Virtual currencies Since virtual currencies are illegal in India, there is no evidence till now as to whether they are delivering guns as promised in these sites. Though no complaints regarding these have been received till now, the Hi-Tech Cell and the Cyber Cell are constantly monitoring them, said the Chief Minister. Licences To a question on gun licenses, the Chief Minister said that the respective district administrations approve the licences for sporting activities, self defence or for protection of agricultural land. The licenses are approved based on police reports on the applicant’s criminal records, proficiency in handling the gun and on the need for such a license. Custody of guns In case a license holder is accused of a crime, steps including taking custody of the gun are being taken, the Chief Minister said.  Govt. has taken note of ads on guns being spread through social media applications, says Chief Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/govt-aware-of-gun-sale-offers-on-dark-web-says-cm/article35868545.ece
12 August 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||When authors speak about their books to kids||Introducing the short story Manja Niramulla Rosapoovu (Yellow Rose), writer T. Padmanabhan recalls how he had got a yellow rose plant transported all the way from Kolkata to his residence. While he was planting it, a girl from a poor family in the colony asked him if there was a rose that was yellow. The writer assured her that indeed there was one, and offered her the first flower on the plant. The joy she felt on receiving the promise was palpable. It is this moving experience that Mr. Padmanabhan describes in the short story, which is included in his book for children Poochakuttikalude Veedu brought out by the State Institute of Children’s Literature. He also talks about the other stories in the book in his introduction to its third edition on Balasahithi, the new YouTube channel of the State Institute of Children’s Literature. On the channel launched recently, children’s books are introduced by the authors themselves, thus giving children a rare glimpse into how the books came to be penned. While the first episode features Mr. Padmanabhan, the second, uploaded recently, has B. Ekbal, academic, talking about Kuttikalude Hortus Malabaricus, a kind of a primer for children on the 12-volume treatise on Kerala flora compiled by Hendrik Van Rheede, Governor of Dutch Malabar, more than 300 years ago. A child anchor introduces the writer and the book to the viewers in a few sentences before the authors speak. Enriching experience Palliyara Sreedharan, Director of the State Institute of Children’s Literature, says getting writers to speak about their work is aimed at sparking children’s interest in books and reading. It is very enriching to hear them open up about the book, its background, content and design, and relevance. Moreover, the episodes introduce the children to popular names and their writings in the long-term. The channel will also be a visual documentation of the writers for posterity. Up next on Balasahithi are writers Perumbadavam Sreedharan, K.V. Mohankumar, K.G. Jyothi and so on.  T. Padmanabhan’s Poochakuttikalude Veedu was brought out by the State Institute of Children’s Literature.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/when-authors-speak-about-their-books-to-kids/article35868747.ece
12 August 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||‘Dalit Christians not to lose out on quota’||Minister for Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes and Backward Class Welfare K. Radhakrishnan told the Assembly that the government had included Dalit Christians in the OEC (Other Eligible Communities) list. They were eligible for educational reservations enjoyed by Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes without any income bar. Calling attention motion Mr. Radhakrishnan was replying to a calling attention motion by Kerala Congress (J) legislator Mons Joseph. Mr. Joseph urged the government to bring Christian students from Dalit communities under the ambit of the means-cum-merit scholarship for pupils from minority communities. List of OBCs Mr. Radhakrishnan said the government had included Dalit Christians in the list of OBCs. They were eligible for employment reservations in the government. The Minister said that Dalit Christian students enjoyed 1% reservation for postgraduate medical courses. The State government had subsidised the tuition and hostel fee of such students, the Minister said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/dalit-christians-not-to-lose-out-on-quota/article35868790.ece
12 August 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Stringent lockdown in five local body wards||Stringent lockdown measures will be imposed from Thursday in five local body wards where the weekly infection population ratio (WIPR) is above 8%, District Collector Navjot Khosa has said. Wards 35 (Pariyaram) and 36 (Chirakkani) in Nedumangad municipality, and Wards 24 (Fort), 32 (Olathanni) and 40 (Alummoodu) in Neyyatinkara municipality will be under lockdown, the Collector has said. The WIPR is as high as 20.71 in Chirakkani, Nedumangad municipality. It is below 12 in all the four places. Essential services could function from 7 a.m. to 7 p.m. in the five wards. Infection rate An increase in the infection rate has prompted the district administration to declare containment zones/micro-containment zones in nine other wards. They are the Vettucaud and Medical College wards in Thiruvananthapuram Corporation; Wards 6 and 23 in Varkala municipality; Ward 5 of Nennniyode panchayat; Ward 3 of Pulimath panchayat. Radhakrishna Lane in Ward 32, and the Yatheemkhana Road-Azeez Nagar stretch in Ward 84 of Thiruvananthapuram Corporation; and the Valsalyam Old Age Home area in Varkala municipality have been declared micro-containment zones. Shops selling provisions, fruits and vegetables, milk and milk products, fish and meat, and bakeries, could remain open from 7 a.m. to 7 p.m. This is applicable to shops selling cattle and poultry feed and pet food. Ration shops, Maveli stores, Milma booths and Supplyco outlets could stay open till 5 p.m. Restaurants can function from 7 a.m. to 7.30 p.m. for home delivery of food. Dine-in, take-away are not permitted. The stringent lockdown imposed in the Melattingal ward of Attingal municipality has been eased with the infection rate showing a decline. Alamcode and Palace wards in Attingal municipality have been excluded from the list of containment zones with the COVID-19 spread brought under control. Daily count in district The district reported 1,255 new COVID-19 cases and 1,169 recoveries on Wednesday. The test positivity rate stood at 8.8%. In all, 10,106 people are under treatment and 33,274 in quarantine in the district. Of the new cases, contact transmission accounted for 1,152 cases. The list also included two health workers||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/stringent-lockdown-in-five-local-body-wards/article35868799.ece
12 August 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Rs. 4,000 Onam bonus for govt. employees||The State government has announced a bonus of Rs. 4,000 for government employees for Onam. Employees who are not entitled for the bonus will get a special festival allowance of Rs. 2,750. The decision was taken at Wednesday’s Cabinet meeting. All government employees will be entitled to a festival advance of Rs. 15,000, which can be repaid in five instalments, according to the Finance Department. Part-time, contingent employees will be given Rs. 5,000 as advance on their salaries. Service pensioners and employees under the contributory pension scheme will be paid a special festival allowance of Rs. 1,000. The government is also spending Rs. 1,481.87 crore for disbursing the social security pensions for the months of July and August ahead of Onam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rs-4000-onam-bonus-for-govt-employees/article35868598.ece
12 August 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Govt. passivity hastened Kuttanad’s decline: Oppn.||The government’s passivity had hastened the decline of the 150-year-old agriculture system in Kuttanad and imperilled the future of its two lakh residents, the United Democratic Front (UDF) Opposition claimed in the Assembly on Wednesday. Congress legislator P.C. Vishnunath moved an adjournment notice stating that farmers were fleeing Kerala’s 61,00-hectare rice bowl. The catastrophic floods in 2018 had aggravated the plight of thousands of families who inhabit 1,172 sq km in the region. “Poor dam management of the previous Left Democratic Front government had almost destroyed Kuttanad. Now it should do something to salvage what remains of the State’s storied granary,” he said.  Congress leader Ramesh Chennithala said illegal reclamation had diminished Vembanad Lake. “Conserving Vembanad, desilting leading water channels, and deepening the catchment area of dams would prevent recurrent flooding in Kuttanad,” he said. No flood threat Irrigation Minister Roshi Augustine said silting had drastically reduced the discharge of surplus water via the Thottapally spillway. He said there was no immediate threat of flooding in Kuttanad. The government has tasked IIT, Chennai, to study the flooding in Kuttanad and suggest engineering solutions. Leader of the Opposition V.D. Satheesan said mud left behind by the flood had seeped into every aspect of daily life in Kuttanad. The State’s Planning Commission kept legislators in the dark about its plan for Kuttanad rehabilitation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/govt-passivity-hastened-kuttanads-decline-oppn/article35868592.ece
12 August 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||292 IT firms began work during 2016-21: CM||The total space occupied by the IT industry in the State has increased by 52.44 lakh sq ft in the period from 2016-21, with 292 companies launching operations, Chief Minister Pianrayi Vijayan told the Assembly on Wednesday. As many as 30,950 jobs were created through this. In the next five years, the IT space in the State will be increased by 71.22 lakh sq ft. He said most of the IT parks are coming up in cities with proper air connectivity. Hence, Kannur too can be considered for future development as an IT hub. To a question on the work progress of Kerala Fibre Optic Network (K-FON), he said that the COVID-19 pandemic had slowed down the implementation of the project to a small extent. However, the second phase is expected to be completed soon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/292-it-firms-began-work-during-2016-21-cm/article35868792.ece
12 August 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||KSIDC agency for airport land acquisition||The Cabinet on Wednesday named KSIDC as the nodal agency for taking over the land required for the proposed Green Field airport at Sabarimala. It waived the establishment levy for the land acquired by the government for establishing the A.P.J. Abdul Kalam University at Vilapil village in the State capital. Fifth report The Cabinet also approved in principle to accept the recommendations made by the Administrative Reforms Commission in its fifth report. It also gave the Kerala State Bamboo Corporation to harvest 10,000 metric tonnes of bamboo from Kerala’s forests annually.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ksidc-agency-for-airport-land-acquisition/article35868644.ece
12 August 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Big setback for government: Satheesan||Leader of the Opposition V.D. Satheesan on Wednesday said the High Court stay on the V.K. Mohan Commission is a severe setback for the Pinarayi Vijayan government. The government had constituted the commission illegallyand with a mala fide intention to scuttle the gold smuggling probe, which had got uncomfortably close to the Chief Minister’s Office. The Opposition had warned the government that a judicial probe that sought to undermine a legitimate law enforcement inquiry would not stand court scrutiny. The judicial inquiry was a political gambit to bring the Central government to the negotiation table, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/big-setback-for-government-satheesan/article35868594.ece
12 August 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||KPCC chief seeks CM’s resignation||Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president K. Sudhakaran said on Wednesday the Kerala High Court’s stay on the judicial commission “created to scuttle the gold case probe” warranted Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan’s immediate resignation. The BJP and the CPI(M) were in cahoots in the State. The Centre had blunted the gold and foreign currency smuggling probe as a quid pro quo for saving yjr BJP State president from prosecution in the Kodakara heist case. The Congress would judicially intervene in both cases to ensure that justice was served, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kpcc-chief-seeks-cms-resignation/article35868595.ece
12 August 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||State wants all NTC spinning mills functional||The State government has demanded the Union Textile Ministry to make functional all the spinning mills of the National Textile Corporation (NTC) in the State, Industries Minister P. Rajeeve told the Assembly on Wednesday. In reply to a submission from P. Nandakumar MLA, he said that the spinning mills under the State government’s control had commenced operations by following all COVID-19 protocols. However, the NTC mills were not opened despite the State government revising the guidelines, allowing such industries to function. The hardships being experienced by the workers of the five mills of the NTC in the State had come to the attention of the government, said Mr. Rajeeve in his reply to Mr. Nandakumar’s .submission.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/state-wants-all-ntc-spinning-mills-functional/article35868789.ece
12 August 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||79.73% turnout in bypolls||The byelections in 15 local body wards held on Wednesday recorded a voter turnout of 79.73%, the State Election Commission said. The counting of votes will begin at 10 a.m. on Thursday. In seven districts The elections to 11 grama panchayat wards in seven districts, one block panchayat ward in Malappuram district and three municipal wards in Thiruvananthapuram, Ernakulam and Wayanad districts had opened at 7 a.m. and closed at 6 p.m. The bypoll to the Vzhikkadavu block panchayat division recorded a turnout of 61.5%. The Pathnaramkallu ward (Nedumangad municipality, Thiruvananthapuram) recorded 82.74%; Karakkode ward (Piravom municipality, Ernakulam) recorded 78.72%, and Pazheri in Sulthan Bathery municipality (Wayanad), 80.92%. The bypoll was organised in strict accordance with COVID-19 guidelines, the authorities said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/7973-turnout-in-bypolls/article35868629.ece
12 August 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Chargesheet filed against Jacob Thomas||The Kerala Police Crime Branch has indicted former Director General of Police, Jacob Thomas, for violating the Official Secrets Act. The agency filed the chargesheet at a magistrate court here. It had opened the inquiry at the behest of the government in 2019 soon after Mr. Thomas published his service story, Sravukalku Oppam Neenthumbol (Swimming Alongside Sharks). In the FIR, the police alleged that Mr. Thomas had violated Section 4 of the Police Forces Restriction of Rights Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/chargesheet-filed-against-jacob-thomas/article35868583.ece
12 August 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||SSK launches career guidance programme||The first edition of the online career guidance talk series organised by Samagra Shiksha, Kerala, (SSK) commenced on Tuesday. The programme aims at providing proper guidance to the pass-outs of Classes 10 and 12 on various higher study opportunities and providing information about various career and aptitude-related courses and educational institutes around the world. The first session of the talk series was inaugurated by A.P. Kuttykrishnan, Director, SSK. This was followed by a two-hour session by Rajoo Krishnan, an expert. The talk series will be continued every month.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ssk-launches-career-guidance-programme/article35868543.ece
12 August 2021||August 12 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Treated beyond what was necessary||Not so long ago, people who used to proudly display their religious bigotry used to be referred to as ‘fringe elements’. Slowly, that usage almost ceased to exist as hate speech got mainstreamed through vast social media and ground networks, so much so that not even the remotest regions remained immune from it. In Kuruthi , the action takes place in one such remote region, inside the hilly forests, which is recovering from the after-effects of a landslide. When we see the families here first, most of them are still grieving the deep personal losses. There is not a clue about the communal cauldron simmering beneath, not especially in a woman who is spending much of her waking hours in taking care of the affairs of her neighbour, who belongs to another religion. The film, written by Aneesh Pallyal and directed by Manu Warrier, seems to say that it may not take much to kindle a fire from the inherent biases and baser instincts in humans especially when political actors of various hues are waiting to gain from it. Following the genre of ‘home invasion’ films, here we have a police officer (Murali Gopy) barging in one night along with an accused in a religious hate crime into the household of Ibru (Roshan Mathew), who is grieving the loss of his wife and daughter in the landslide. Before long, a band of extremists of the opposite hue lands up at the doorstep, baying for the accused’s blood, setting up a clash of religious ideologies, in which even the most sane ones sometimes display their dark sides. Moosa (Mamukkoya) and Laiq (Prithviraj) represent varied ways of looking at the same religion, while on the other side there are the accused’s and Manikandan’s characters. Yet, this promising premise does not exactly translate into exciting cinema, with over-dramatic and, at times preachy, lines spoiling the effect. One gets a staged feeling in some of the sequences, which is compounded by the fact that much of the action takes place inside a room. Saddled with the unenviable task of striking a balance between the extremism of both sides, and distributing the blame equally, the scriptwriter must have broken more sweat than the cinematographer. At times, the balance seems to be forced, and at some points the crimes of one side seems to be downplayed and explained away as the doings of an impressionable youth, rather than the after-effects of an organised system fanning hatred. In fact, we are never shown any images of the murder that he committed, but we get to see a lot of the violence those hunting for him are committing. Several layers are set up for exploration, on how religion colours interactions between humans, but these are either left under-explored or are delivered as unconvincing one-liners amid the bouts of violence. The makers of K uruthi may have been well-intentioned, but the intent somehow gets lost in the treatment and the forced balancing. S.R. Praveen||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/treated-beyond-what-was-necessary/article35868542.ece
12 August 2021||August 12 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Festivities set to begin||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/festivities-set-to-begin/article35868631.ece
12 August 2021||August 12 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Seeking reservations||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/seeking-reservations/article35868802.ece
12 August 2021||August 12 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Swimming against the tide||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/swimming-against-the-tide/article35868554.ece
12 August 2021||August 12 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||March on||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/march-on/article35868805.ece
12 August 2021||August 12 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Local bus stop sought||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/local-bus-stop-sought/article35868750.ece
12 August 2021||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Withdrawal of cases against MLAs not valid’||The High Court of Karnataka directed the State government to submit details about instances of criminal cases registered against serving and former members of Parliament or the State Legislature being withdrawn after September 16, 2020. A division bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice N.S. Sanjay Gowda made it clear that notifications issued by the State government after September 16, 2020, withdrawing criminal cases against former or serving MPs and MLAs will not be valid in view of the August 10, 2021, direction of the apex court. The apex court had on August 10, 2021, said: “No prosecution against a sitting or former MP or MLA shall be withdrawn without the leave of the High Court in the respective suo motu writ petitions registered in pursuance of our order dated September 16, 2020. The High Courts are requested to examine the withdrawals, whether pending or disposed of since September 16, 2020, in the light of guidelines laid down by this court.” Speedy trial The High Court had on September 23, 2020, initiated the petition and issued several directions for speedy progress in the trial of cases against MPs and MLAs. Stating that the State government is bound by the apex court’s directions on withdrawal of criminal cases against MPs or MLAs, the Bench directed the government to submit details of criminal cases withdrawn against such elected representatives after September 16, 2020, when the High Court takes up further hearing of the petition initiated suo motu based on the apex court’s directions.  State govt. told to submit details of criminal cases withdrawn after September 16, 2020||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/withdrawal-of-cases-against-mlas-not-valid/article35868165.ece
12 August 2021||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||HC ‘shocked’ at uncovering of statue on Bengaluru lake||The High Court of Karnataka on Wednesday termed as ‘shocking’ the incident of removal of the cover of a statue of Lord Shiva, installed on an artificial island constructed inside Begur lake by the Bruhat Bangalore Mahanagara Palike (BBMP), by a group of persons in violation of the court’s 2019 orders. It directed the the Police Commissioner to examine the allegations made about violation of the court’s order as narrated in a statement filed before the court by the Environment Support Group (ESG). A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice M. Nagaprasanna issued the direction while hearing PIL petitions through which the court is monitoring steps take to restore and rejuvenate lakes. “If what has been stated in the memo is true then the practice of defying the court’s order must be deprecated by all...,” the Bench observed while directing the Police Commissioner to post police personnel to keep vigil of the lake area where the statue is installed. It was alleged in the statement, quoting social media posts by certain persons, that a group of persons unveiled the statue by removing the cover and put several saffron-coloured flags on the island and made several allegations, including communal allegations, against Leo Saldanha of Environment Support Group, who had approached the High Court on encroachment of lakes, specifically on illegality on construction of artificial islands in Begur lake. It was also alleged in the statement that the BBMP has violated the court’s earlier orders by unveiling or permitting unveiling of the statue and allowing planting of saffron coloured flags. The ESG and Mr. Saldanha have alleged that those indulged in defying court’s order have undermined the authority of the court. However, counsel for the BBMP told the court that the officers had on Wednesday morning covered the statue again and removed the flags from the island. Meanwhile, the Bench made it clear that it has been considering the issue of lake restoration and rejuvenation, and legality of construction of artificial island by the BBMP, and no religious issue was involved in the petitions. In 2019, it had restrained the BBMP from going ahead with further work on artificial island and the statue. While orally observing that the government cannot be silent when persons defy the court’s order, the Bench directed the Police Commissioner to submit an action taken report on the allegations made in the statement filed by the ESG. It adjourned further hearing till August 18.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/hc-shocked-at-uncovering-of-statue-on-begur-lake/article35868160.ece
12 August 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||State caught in a vortex of debts, says Veerraju||The YSRCP government is caught in a vortex of debts, and the Union government has taken a serious note of it, according BJP State president Somu Veerraju. Addressing the media here on Wednesday, Mr. Veerraju said the BJP was never opposed to the welfare schemes. “While the Central government is liberally funding various welfare programmes in the State, the YSRCP government is claiming all credit. School uniforms and girl child education, national highways and railway lines are some of the programmes of the Centre,” Mr. Veerraju said. Asking Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy to clarify his stand on cooperative sugar factories, he said, “The Center is in the forefront to financially support the sick PSUs. The Visakhapatnam Steel Plant gets an annual budgetary support up to Rs. 13,000 crore. Why can’t the government provide financial support to the sugar factories?” he asked. Finding fault with the government for handing over sand maintenance to a private party, he said the dairy sector too was thrown into crisis in the State. “The state government is not in a position to pay salaries to staff of even the key departments such as health,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/state-caught-in-a-vortex-of-debts-says-veerraju/article35868730.ece
12 August 2021||COIMBATORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||DVAC searches enter second day||DVAC sleuths continued searches at the office of KCP Engineers Pvt. Ltd. here for the second day on Wednesday. They also searched the offices of a unit of KCP Engineers at Pachapalayam and VSI Sand, an M-sand unit at Palathurai. The searches were going on late on Wednesday evening. KCP Engineers and its managing director K. Chandraprakash are the third and fourth accused in the case registered by the DVAC against former AIADMK Minister S.P. Velumani and 16 others on Monday. DVAC sources said the office of KCP Engineers at Peelamedu was raided on Tuesday, and the search lasted late at night. It continued on Wednesday morning. The construction company’s office is spread over three floors of a building. The case relates to the alleged favouritism Mr. Velumani had shown in the award of contracts to certain companies, which are believed to be owned by his close associates, when he was the Minister for Municipal Administration. Mr. Chandraprakash was admitted to a private hospital in the city as he complained of chest pain on Tuesday after the DVAC started simultaneous searches at 42 locations, including the homes of Mr. Velumani and the businessman.  The case relates to the alleged favouritism Mr. Velumani had shown in the award of contracts to certain companies||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/dvac-searches-continue-at-kcp-engineers/article35868265.ece
12 August 2021||ELURU,ANDHRA PRADESH||Body of infant girl found in hospital’s water sump||In a shocking incident, police recovered the body of a 14-day-old female infant from a water sump of a private hospital in the city on Wednesday. Police took the infant’s parents — K. Hari Krishna and K. Mahalakshmi — and grandmother Vishalakshi, all hailing from Bapulapadu in Krishna district. According to sources, the couple got married six years ago. Ms. Mahalakshmi gave birth to the baby at a private hospital in Eluru 14 days ago. As the baby’s health condition was not good, the couple admitted her into Sai Children’s Hospital, at R.R. Peta, three days ago. Doctors discharged the baby from the hospital on Wednesday afternoon. Parents’ version Ms. Mahalakshmi told police that she called her husband on his mobile phone and told him that their baby was missing. Mr. Hari Krishna then reportedly went to the hospital and alerted the staff and the police, said Superintendent of Police (SP) Rahul Dev Sharma. The II Town Police who visited the hospital traced the infant’s body floating in the water sump, located on the hospital premises, the SP said. “The baby’s mother and grandmother were at the hospital and Hari Krishna was away at the time of the incident. We are observing CCTV footage to ascertain more facts,” said Eluru DSP O. Dileep Kiran. District Woman Development and Child Welfare (WD&CW) Department Project Director (PD) K. Vijaya Kumari said that the WD&CW officials were inquiring into the inhuman killing of the infant. Murder case registered No external injuries were found on the infant’s body. The body has been sent for a post-mortem. A case under Section 302 IPC (murder) has been registered and an investigation is on,” Mr. Dileep Kiran said. “We are inquiring whether the baby’s parents had any quarrel in the hospital ward, or tried to sell the baby at the hospital. The hospital staff will also be questioned,” said Ms. Surya Chakraveni.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/female-babys-body-found-in-hospitals-water-sump/article35868215.ece
12 August 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||New indoor stadium at RVR & JC College||A new indoor stadium was inaugurated at RVR and JC College of Engineering by Home Minister M. Sucharita on Wednesday. The indoor stadium was constructed at a cost of Rs. 2 crore and is equipped with a badminton court, table tennis and carrom boards and separate gyms for boys and girls. While stating that sport and fitness facilities are essential for students to develop their mental and physical abilities and to improve focus on their studies, Ms. Sucharita said that the college management should be appreciated for providing good equipment and gym facilities to the students. Secretary and correspondent R. Gopala Krishna said that the college gives utmost importance to games and sports in order to enable students have an all-round development. College treasurer K. Krishna Prasad said the college authorities are ensuring that students have access to all the required facilities at the stadium.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/new-indoor-stadium-at-rvr-jc-college/article35868831.ece
12 August 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Jogi Ramesh slams Naidu||Pedana MLA Jogi Ramesh has slammed TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu for neglecting BCs during his regime and said it was Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy who proved his commitment to uplift the families of BCs through welfare schemes. Speaking to media, the MLA said the State government had disbursed more than Rs. 1 lakh crore through direct benefit transfer ( DBT) under various welfare schemes in last 26 months, of which more than Rs. 50,000 crore was given to BCs, and added that the number went up to another Rs. 19,000 crore, including non DBT schemes. The MLA flayed TDP leaders for claiming that Mr. Naidu had extended Rs. 50,000 per annum to weavers during the previous government and said not even 50 paise was given to them in the previous government and added that it Mr. Jagan who implemented Nethanna Nestham for third consecutive year. He said the CM had given 60% of Cabinet berths to BC, SC, ST and Minorities also two out of four Rajya Sabha seats to BCs and questioned if Naidu had ever given a Rajya Sabha seat to BCs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jogi-ramesh-slams-naidu/article35868832.ece
12 August 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||TRS to field student leader for Huzurabad poll||The State president of student wing of Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) Gellu Srinivas Yadav is the party candidate for by-election to Huzurabad Assembly constituency. His candidature was announced by TRS president and Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao. The by-election to the constituency was necessitated by the resignation of former Minister Eatala Rajender after the government booked land grabbing cases against him. He was sacked from the Cabinet, upon which he resigned from TRS and his membership of Assembly. He joined the BJP two months ago but the party has not yet named him as its candidate though he took up a padayatra in the constituency seeking the blessings of the electorate a fortnight ago. Multiple aspirants The selection of Mr. Srinivas Yadav came at a time when there were multiple aspirants to the TRS ticket. Prominent among them was the Congress rival of Mr. Rajender in the last Assembly elections — P. Kaushik Reddy — who polled 61,000 votes to Mr. Rajender’s 1.04 lakh votes. Mr. Kaushik Reddy quit Congress to join TRS recently but he was made an MLC under the Governor’s quota. Another BJP leader and former Minister E. Peddi Reddy who represented Huzurabad in the past also joined the TRS, but he was not considered. Mr. Peddi Reddy quit BJP as his chances of getting the ticket dimmed with Mr. Rajender joining the party. A former State Backward Classes Commission member V. Krishna Mohan Rao was among the other aspirants, including former TDP Minister Muddasani Damodar Reddy’s son Kashyap Reddy who recently joined the TRS, Veereshalingam and Ponuganti Mallaiah. Mr. Veereshalingam was with the TRS even before Mr. Rajender joined it. Bitter critic Sources said Mr. Srinivas Yadav was a bitter critic of Mr. Rajender within the TRS. He is a close follower of Minister and TRS working president K.T. Rama Rao.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/trs-student-leader-is-party-candidate-for-huzurabad/article35868486.ece
12 August 2021||Hyderabad,ANDHRA PRADESH||Amit Shah||Union Home Minister Amit Shah will be arriving in the city on Thursday en route Srisailam for prayers at the local temple. He will reach Begumpet airport by a special aircraft at 11.15 a.m. and take a private helicopter for Srisailam. He will return to the airport by the same helicopter and leave for New Delhi at 3.45 p.m. Authorities have made arrangements for his brief halt at a guest house in Sunnipenta near Srisailam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/amit-shah/article35868510.ece
12 August 2021||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Weapons purportedly used in Viveka murder seized||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) officials reportedly seized some weapons purportedly used in the murder of former Kadapa MP Y.S. Vivekananda Reddy from the houses of an accused Sunil Yadav and Vivekananda Reddy’s former driver Dasthagiri at Pulivendula. The weapons included a machete, a sickle, a crowbar and some tools used in farming. Sources said the CBI officials had a meeting with bank officials from Karnataka as part of the probe into the transactions between the slain former MP and Sunil Yadav. Earlier in the morning, Vivekananda Reddy’s daughter Sunitha and son-in-law Rajasekhar Reddy met the CBI officials at Pulivendula. Sunil Yadav’s brother Kiran Yadav claimed before the media that his family members had nothing to do with the murder and that they were being implicated to shield the culprits. Meanwhile, the CBI officials who launched a two-day search for the weapons at a stream in Pulivendula abandoned the exercise on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/weapons-purportedly-used-in-viveka-murder-seized/article35868736.ece
12 August 2021||KOCHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kerala HC rejects State’s stand, stays panel probe against ED||The Kerala High Court has stayed the functioning of the V.K. Mohan Commission appointed by the State government to probe whether any conspiracy was hatched or deliberate attempts were made to implicate Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan and other senior functionaries in the diplomatic channel gold smuggling case. The interim order was passed by Justice P.B. Sureshkumar on Wednesday on a writ petition filed by P. Radhakrishnan, Deputy Director of the Enforcement Directorate (ED). In its order, the court noted that the question of conspiracy was to be examined by the Special Court supervising the investigation under the Prevention of Money Laundering (PML) Act and probed by the ED. The court held that parallel investigations and inquiries would impede and derail the probe and would ultimately go to the benefit of the accused, defeating the object of the legislation under which the accused were booked. The court noted that the inquiry was ordered into the question whether the contents of a voice clip and a letter stated to have been issued by the accused persons in the gold smuggling case, investigated by the various Central agencies including the ED, would reveal any conspiracy to falsely implicate the leaders of the political front of the State. ED’s argument Appearing for the ED, Thushar Metha, Solicitor General, argued that the notification appointing the commission was issued with the oblique motive to put pressure on the investigation officers and to derail the investigation into the money laundering committed by highly influential persons in the State. Rejecting the arguments of the State government, which challenged the locus standi of the Deputy Director of the ED to file a writ petition, the court held that he was a statutory authority under the PML Act and could file the petition. One of the terms of reference of the commission was to inquire into the facts and circumstances leading to a letter written by Sandeep Nair, an accused in the diplomatic channel gold smuggling case, revealing an attempt to falsely implicate State Ministers, the Chief Minister and the Assembly Speaker in serious criminal cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kerala-hc-rejects-states-stand-stays-panel-probe-against-ed/article35868167.ece
12 August 2021||KOCHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘COVID curbs applicable to liquor shops’||The restrictions imposed for people to enter shops, markets, public and private offices and other establishments are also applicable to those entering bars and liquor outlets, the Excise Department has submitted before the Kerala High Court. Only those customers who had taken at least one dose of COVID-19 vaccine two weeks ago or those possessing an RT-PCR-negative certificate taken within 72 hours will be allowed into bars and liquor outlets, submitted the Excise Commissioner to the Kerala High Court on Wednesday in a contempt of court petition. Directions were issued to the Managing Director of the Kerala State Beverages Corporation and Consumerfed, Joint Excise Commissioners, Deputy Excise Commissioners and Assistant Excise Commissioners for strict compliance with the safety protocols, he submitted. Crowd control The Excise Department submitted that specific instructions were issued to the officers concerned to ensure that the employees and consumers were complying with the COVID-19 safety measures. It was specifically directed to deploy excise personnel in front of liquor outlets to control crowding of customers. Directions were issued to sanitise and disinfect the shop premises before beginning and closing the business. The officials were also directed to identify the outlets where there could be possible crowding and to seek police aid for crowd control, he submitted. An audit team has suggested shifting 96 liquor outlets from the present locations. It will take some time to find out convenient locations and spacious buildings for shifting the shops following the conditions laid down in the Kerala Abkari Shops Disposal Rules, the official submitted. The court, while considering the case, orally observed that those outlets where crowd could not be controlled should be closed down. The customers should be provided with adequate facilities for purchasing liquor and they could not be exposed to the pandemic, the court noted. The government pleader submitted that the Division Bench of the Kerala High Court headed by the Chief Justice was considering a suo moto petition in the matter. The single judge posted the case for September 2.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/covid-curbs-applicable-to-liquor-shops/article35868168.ece
12 August 2021||Kozhikode,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vaccination certificate not a must for travel to Dubai||Amid confusion over pandemic protocols, the United Arab Emirates (UAE) has revised relaxation norms for passengers with approved vaccines taken in India. As such, residency visa holders can register on the UAE’s Federal Authority of Identity and Citizenship website from August 15. They have been advised to register their details such as visa, residency and Emirates ID services for themselves and their sponsors on the website: www.smart services.ica.gov.ae . Registering vaccination certificates is optional for travellers who wish to enjoy the benefits made available in the UAE to vaccine recipients. However, only certificates of vaccines approved in the UAE will be accredited on the website. As per the latest notification, a COVID-19 vaccination certificate is no longer a requirement for those travelling to Dubai. However, this is specific to travel to Dubai and not other emirates. Meanwhile, Dubai-based airline Emirates has announced that all passengers travelling to Dubai from any point of origin must hold a negative COVID-19 PCR certificate for a test taken no more than 72 hours before departure. Passengers from India will be required to take another COVID-19 PCR test on arrival at the Dubai International Airport. Besides, passengers transiting through Dubai are required to present a negative COVID-19 PCR test certificate for a test taken no more than 72 hours before departure, as well as to follow any requirements mandated by their final destination. Pre-entry approval Dubai visa holders must apply for pre-entry approval through the General Directorate of Residency and Foreigners Affairs (GDRFA)Now, stranded passengers abroad who are Dubai residents can fly to Abu Dhabi on-board Etihad Airways. Etihad is operating from New Delhi, Chennai, Kochi, Bengaluru, Thiruvananthapuram, Ahmedabad, Hyderabad and Mumbai. Further, the Abu Dhabi Emergency, Crisis and Disasters Committee has decided to allow residents’ entry into public places only for those vaccinated, effective from August 20. The decision comes after the capital city of Abu Dhabi vaccinated over 90% of the target groups. First phase of reopening Shopping centres, restaurants, cafes, spas, retail outlets, gyms, recreational facilities, sporting activities, health clubs, resorts, museums, cultural centres, theme parks, universities, institutes, public and private schools will be opened in the first phase. As of now, the UAE has not completely lifted the travel restrictions on India. However, India is operating international flights under the Vande Bharat mission and the air bubble arrangements with the UAE.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vaccination-certificate-not-must-for-travel-to-dubai/article35868164.ece
12 August 2021||MACHILIPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||SI, police constable suspended||Superintendent of Police Siddharth Kaushal on Wednesday suspended Chillakallu SI K. Durga Prasad Rao and constable, K. Sivarama Krishna Prasad on charges of irregularities. The Chillakallu police arrested a person, Pichuka Majji (23), for allegedly smuggling liquor in 2020. The constable allegedly demanded Rs. 1 lakh from the person for relieving him from the case, and reportedly threatened to foist false ganja and other cases, if he did not pay the amount. Later the suspect recorded a selfie video and resorted to suicide, triggering outrage. Taking the matter seriously, Mr. Kaushal suspended the SI and the constable and directed the police to book criminal cases against them under relevant sections.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/si-police-constable-suspended/article35868838.ece
12 August 2021||NELLORE/ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||275 new cases, 4 deaths in South Coastal Andhra||The number of active COVID-19 cases dipped to a little over 4,000 in South Coastal Andhra Pradesh in the wake of fall in fresh cases in the last 24 hours. Four more persons, three in Prakasam district and one in SPSR Nellore district, died due to the pandemic in the 24 hours ending 9 a.m. on Wednesday, taking the toll to 1,996 in the region. Prakasam district accounted for 1,023 casualties and SPSR Nellore district for 973, according to a health bulletin released by the State government.\ Cumulative tally As many as 275 persons in the region, including 98 in Prakasam district, tested positive for the disease in the last 24 hours. With this, the cumulative coronavirus count crossed the 2.68 lakh mark. As many as 261 persons in the region, including 93 in SPSR Nellore district, recovered from the disease. The number of active cases came down to 1,470 in Prakasam district. But such cases increased to 2,591 in SPSR Nellore district. So far, over 2.62 lakh persons recovered from the disease in the region, including over 1.28 lakh in Prakasam district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/275-new-cases-4-deaths-in-south-coastal-andhra/article35868719.ece
12 August 2021||NEW DELHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||T.N. moves SC against NGT order on Mekedatu||The Tamil Nadu government has moved the Supreme Court against a National Green Tribunal (NGT) decision to close proceedings against the Mekedatu dam project. The tribunal had in June expressed its satisfaction over the Karnataka government’s submissions that requisite environmental clearances were pending consideration before the statutory authorities concerned. The Tamil Nadu government submitted in the Supreme Court that the case had been closed by the NGT without giving it (Tamil Nadu) an opportunity to present its side of the case. Tamil Nadu said, “The NGT failed to consider that the pending adjudication relates to the challenge to the preparation of Detailed Project Report for Mekedatu Balancing Reservoir Cum Drinking Water Project while the issue raised in the original application was with regard to taking up road laying work without taking any forest and environment clearances under the Forest Conservation Act, 2003, and Environment Impact Assessment Notification, 2006, and the impact on the nearby reserve forests and wildlife sanctuaries.” “The Tribunal, which is established to ensure effective environmental protections and conservation of forest, has a power coupled with duty to ensure that the project proponent does not violate the mandate and not to undertake any work without getting prior approvals from the authorities,” the State said in its appeal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tn-moves-sc-against-ngt-order-on-mekedatu/article35868198.ece
12 August 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Farmers demand allocation of assured Krishna waters||Work on the giant tunnel of the first phase of the multi-crore Pula Subbaiah Veligonda project has been completed. The head regulator works at Kollamvagu to draw the Krishna waters from the foreshore of the Srisailam reservoir have also been completed. Yet, the farmers, who have been expecting the Krishna waters to wet their parched lands in the drought-prone Prakasam district at least during this kharif season, have to wait for some more time for storing the water in the Nallamala Sagar reservoir constructed by closing the gaps at Kakarla, Sunkesula and Gottipadaya in view of the issues relating to the rehabilitation of the displaced people. Houses to rehabilitate all the people of the 11 villages facing submergence threat have not been completed in the seven newly-formed colonies. However, common infrastructure facilities have been completed. “The irrigation canal system also has to be completed fully for the water to reach the farms,” laments a group of farmers after a visit to the project site. The pet project of former Chief Minister Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy under ‘Jalayagnam’ scheme, it had suffered cost and time overruns repeatedly before the first phase could be completed in January this year, overcoming the technical snags involved in drilling the tunnel of a diameter of 9.2 metres and an internal diameter of 7 metres, up to a distance of 18.8 km using double shielded boring machines imported so as not to disturb the natural environment of the Nagarjunasagar Srisailam Tiger Reserve (NSTR). The project was originally scheduled to be completed in 2008. So far, over Rs. 5,400 crore had been spent on the project. Another Rs. 2,000 crore would have to be spent to complete the second tunnel up to a distance of 7 km and for rehabilitation of over 7,500 families in seven colonies, Superintending Engineer M. Srinivasulu Reddy said. “The second tunnel has already been drilled up to a distance of 11.8 km so far. It will be able to completed by the end of 2023,” sources in the Irrigation Department say. “The non-inclusion of the project by the Centre while issuing the gazette notifying the jurisdiction of the Krishna River Management Board has come as a big shock to the farmers of the ayacut in the districts of Prakasam, Nellore and Kadapa districts,” said All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee Prakasam district convener Ch.Ranga Rao after a meeting with Vice-President M. Venkaiah Naidu in New Delhi recently. “Mr. Venkaiah Naidu favourably responded to the farmers’ demand to use his good offices with the Union Water Resources Ministry to include the project that had been considered as an ongoing project by the Bachawat Tribunal,” Mr. Ranga Rao said. Meanwhile, TDP Ongole Lok Sabha unit president N. Balaji, while expressing solidarity with the fasting former MLA Kandula Narayana Reddy in Markapur, demanded allocation of assured water from Andhra Pradesh’s share of the Krishna waters. “Water cannot be ensured if the Veligonda project continues to be treated as one based on floods in the Krishna. The rehabilitation package at the rate of Rs. 12.50 lakh to each of the displaced family should be disbursed without further loss of time so that the Krishna water can be stored in the Nallamala Sagar to its full capacity during this year itself,” said Mr. Narayana Reddy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/farmers-demand-allocation-of-assured-krishna-waters/article35868738.ece
12 August 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Fake currency racket busted in Prakasam||Prakasam police arrested three inter-State conmen who allegedly cheated a gullible person from Bengaluru by providing playgame 500 rupee notes mixed with original currency notes in neatly-packed bundles at Podili in Prakasam district on Wednesday. Prakasam Superintendent of Police Malika Gargh told the media that the victim from Bengaluru, Rahmatullah Khan, fell into the trap laid by the trio who had claimed mystical powers and promised to provide counterfeit notes closely resembling currency notes for Rs. 70 lakh in exchange for currency notes worth Rs. 7 lakh. After depositing some notes in a bank ATM cash recycler and exchanging in a restaurant the victim agreed to the deal. He realised that he had been cheated only when he opened the bundles containing notes used by children while playing games along with currency notes. Rs. 2.90 lakh recovered Police recovered Rs. 2.90 lakh from the arrested offenders, P.Audinarayana (63), M.Anjaiah(56) and M.Prasad(24). Police intensified the probe to find out others involved in the racket. They were involved in similar cheating cases in Karnataka and Telangana, besides Andhra Pradesh. She appealed to the public not be carried away by conmen promising fake notes resembling original currency notes and gold biscuits at cheaper price.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/fake-currency-racket-busted-in-prakasam/article35868723.ece
12 August 2021||SANGAREDDY,ANDHRA PRADESH||Abandoned newborns now in safe hands||Two newborns, who were abandoned by their parents — perhaps for the crime of being born as girls — were rescued by kind-hearted people and a traditional cradle ceremony was held for both here on Wednesday. In the first instance, a newborn girl was found abandoned within hours of her birth in a colony at Domadugu in Gummadidala mandal on July 13. On being informed by locals, mandal parishad territorial constituency (MPTC) member Govardhan Goud immediately alerted Anganwadi worker Appamma and Aasha worker Vijaya Lakshmi who rushed to the spot. Ch. Udaya Kumar, founder of Mythri Foundation, an NGO, arranged an ambulance to shift the girl to the government hospital at Sangareddy, where she was given due care by Dr. Ashok and Dr. Chakrapani. Her parents have not been traced so far. About a month before that, on June 6, another infant aged about about two months, was found at Lakdaram gate. Her parents, habitual drinkers, were not interested in taking care of her and so had abandoned her. By the time she was found, a nerve at the neck was bitten and damaged by ants. Medical condition In addition, she had severe pneumonia and doctors had little hopes about her survival. She was admitted at Niloufer Hospital in Hyderabad where she underwent treatment for about two months. Staff from Shishu Gruha took care of her in turns at the hospital. “Nalini (as the baby was called) was suffering from very severe pneumonia due to aspiration of milk. The wounds around her neck were due to ant bites,” said Dr. Chakrapani, who treated the baby. The survival of both the girls despite all odds was celebrated with a cradle ceremony on the premises of Mahila Pranganam which was attended by District Revenue Officer Radhika Ramani, Welfare Officer Padmavathi, Excise Officer Gayatri Devi, District Jail Superintendent Shiva Kumar Goud, Dr. Shankar Babu, DRDO Ch. Srinivas Rao among others. Permanent cradle Principal of Government College at Narayanakhed, Krishna Kumar, who represents ‘Save the Girl Child’ organisation assured that they will take care of girl children and as part of that, a permanent cradle will be established in front of Mahila Pranganam. “Do not kill the girl child. Leave them at our cradle and we will take care of them. They will be in safe hands,” Mr Krishna Kumar urged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/abandoned-newborns-now-in-safe-hands/article35868174.ece
12 August 2021||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||Subba Reddy sworn in as TTD Chairman for second time||Y.V. Subba Reddy was sworn in as the Chairman of the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) Trust Board for the second time on Wednesday. During a brief ceremony held at the Bangaru Vakili, TTD Executive Officer K.S. Jawahar Reddy administered Mr. Subba Reddy the oath of office followed by vedasirvachanams by the priests at the Ranganayakula Mandapam. Later speaking to the media, Mr. Subba Reddy vowed to carry out the programmes that failed to take off at the desired level in the wake of coronavirus pandemic. “The ‘Gudi ko Go Matha’ programme which has been implemented at more than 100 temples will soon be extended to other prominent temples in the country.Efforts will be made to ensure that organic products are used in the daily naivedhyam offered to the presiding deity,” he said. Sarva Darshan In reply to a question, the TTD Chairman said he would explore the feasibility of resuming the Sarva Darshan at the Lord Venkateswara temple in consultation with the officials, after taking stock of the pandemic situation. Possibilities of allowing the devotees at least in limited number will be considered, he said. Deputy Chief Minister K. Narayana Swamy, Minister P. Ramachandra Reddy, MP Gurumurthy, MLAs B. Karunakar Reddy, Chevireddy Bhaskar Reddy, TTD Additional Executive Officer A.V. Dharma Reddy, CVSO Gopinath Jatti were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/subba-reddy-sworn-in-as-ttd-chairman-for-second-time/article35868169.ece
12 August 2021||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||TTD signs MoUs with SVVU to promote domestic cow breeds||The Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams(TTD) on Wednesday signed Memorandum of Understanding (MoU)s with Sri Venkateswara Veterinary University (SVVU) for producing high-milk yielding cows through high-genetic merit embryo transfer technology and setting up of a quality cattle feed manufacturing plant at its Sri Venkateswara Goshala in Tirupati. Director of TTD SV Dairy farm Harinath Reddy and SVVU Registrar Ravi exchanged the signed documents in the presence of Chairman Y.V. Subba Reddy, Executive officer K.S. Jawahar Reddy and SVVU Vice-Chancellor Padmanabha Reddy at a meeting at Annamaiah Bhavan. Speaking to mediapersons, Mr. Subba Reddy said the primary purpose behind the MoU was to promote breeds of domestic cows and produce ghee from indigenous cows required for the preparation of daily prasadams offered as ‘naivedhyam’ to Lord Venkateswara at Tirumala. SV Gosamrakshan Trust and SVVU have agreed to assist in developing high- genetic embryos by employing In Vivo and In Vitro fertilization technologies at the laboratory in College of Veterinary Sciences. The setting up of a cattle feed plant will not only be helpful in manufacturing quality nutrients in a scientific way but also will be useful for the pedagogy and research students. While the SVVU’s Department of Nutrition will be entrusted with the onus of maintenance of the plant, the TTD laboratory will facilitate the quality check of raw materials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ttd-signs-mous-with-svvu-to-promote-domestic-cow-breeds/article35868720.ece
12 August 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Granite flooring in schools sets Chittoor apart||While several old, dull-looking school buildings in the State were refurbished under the government’s flagship ‘Nadu Nedu’ scheme, what made the schools in Chittoor district unique are the lavishly-laid granite floors. As Chittoor is known for widespread availability of granite, the stones became an integral part of the renovation process. Granite flooring has been laid on 7 lakh square feet area in all schools put together in the district. The district sanctioned 11,245 works worth Rs. 369 crore in 1,533 schools and had completed 11,103 works, scoring 98.74%. Among the constituencies, Chandragiri ranks first with Rs. 26 crore in 122 schools, followed by Chittoor with Rs. 10 crore in 54 schools, Gangadhara Nellore with Rs. 28 crore in 139 schools, Kuppam with Rs. 32 crore in 121 schools, Madanapalle with Rs. 18 crore in 69 schools in the first phase. “When the schools open for the offline mode, the second phase of works will start in as many as one-third of the total number of schools,” says District Collector M. Hari Narayanan. More than surface painting and laying of walking tracks, several schools got modern infrastructure like clean drinking water, play area and hygienic toilets. “More parents are evincing interest to admit their wards in State-run schools after the renovation process,” says Joint Collect (Development) V. Veerabrahmam. The unique requirements of a school are identified taking into account the local conditions. “Involving the parents’ committee in the renovation work made us feel responsible and own the process,” avers Uday Kumar Reddy, Parents Committee Chairman of Pudipatla ZP High School in Chowdepalli mandal of Punganur constituency. Women volunteered to paint ‘Rangoli’ on the walls of Siddiraju Kandriga school building in Pichatur mandal of Satyavedu constituency, adding a local touch to the buildings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/granite-flooring-in-schools-sets-chittoor-apart/article35868716.ece
12 August 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Students stare at bleak future due to poor GPA||Students of Nirmala High School, Patamata, who got a lower Grade Point Average (GPA) in the recent SSC (Tenth class) examinations, fear that they might be rendered ineligible for many tests and jobs in government and private firms, owing to their low score. Parents said that their wards could not get admission in colleges due to poor GPA, and urged the government to revise the grades allotted to them. “The marks scored by the student in 10th class are the criteria for higher studies, competitive tests and examinations in government departments, public sector units and multinational companies,” said Ravi, a parent. “I am not eligible for many tests being conducted by the State and Central governments and private firms. My application submitted for admission in a college was rejected due to poor marks,” said a student, who got a GPA of 5.7. Parents and the students allege that the school management gave less marks in FA and SA tests and school weightage marks. Speaking to The Hindu on Wednesday, Nirmala High School headmistress Terasa Augustine said that 238 students appeared SSC examinations during 2020-21, and the management gave marks as per the performance of each student. “Of the total, nine students got 10 GPA, 45 got 9 to 9.8 and 8 to 8.8, 52 students were given 7 to 7.8 GPA, 34 scored 6 to 6.8, 29 got 5 to 5.8 and 24 students were given 4 to 4.8 grades,” Sr. Augustine said. The school teachers gave marks based on the project work, class participation, slip tests, FA and SA examinations. The online and offline marks sheets were shown to the parents every time and their signatures were taken. Some students who performed well in the previous classes and examinations, could not fare well in tenth class due to the pandemic situation, the principal said. “The class teachers uploaded the marks scored by students in the specified portal immediately after the exams, and forwarded the same to School Education Department. The marks were not given at the end of the year,” Sr. Augustine said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/students-stare-at-a-bleak-future-owing-to-poor-gpa/article35868722.ece
12 August 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||18 more succumb to COVID-19||The State reported 1,869 new infections and 18 deaths due to COVID in the 24 hours ending Wednesday morning. The cumulative tally increased to 19,87,051 and the death toll reached 18,582.   The number of recoveries increased to 19,55,052, including 2,316 in the past day. The recovery rate stands at 98.39%. The number of active cases came down to 18,417. During the past day, 71,030 samples were tested, with positivity rate was 2.63%. Chittoor reported five deaths in the past day, while Krishna and Prakasam reported three each. Guntur reported two while Anantapur, East Godavari, Nellore, Visakhapatnam and West Godavari saw one each. Four districts reported no death. East Godavari reported 385 infections. It was followed by West Godavari (304), Guntur (222), Nellore (177), Chittoor (175), Krishna (148), Kadapa (133), Prakasam (98), Srikakulam (82), Visakhapatnam (63), Anantapur (51), Vizianagaram (21) and Kurnool (10). The district tallies are as follows: East Godavari (2,81,384), Chittoor (2,34,198), West Godavari (1,71,354), Guntur (1,69,978), Anantapur (1,56,673), Visakhapatnam (1,53,395), Nellore (1,36,685), Prakasam (1,31,478), Kurnool (1,23,525), Srikakulam (1,21,217), Kadapa (1,11,341), Krishna (1,11,221) and Vizianagaram (81,707).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/18-more-succumb-to-covid-19/article35868732.ece
12 August 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||New chairpersons of BC Corporations take charge||The new chairpersons of various backward classes corporations took charge on Wednesday Sataka Bulli Babu took charge as the Chairman of the Andhra Pradesh Scheduled Tribes Cooperative Finance Corporation Limited (TRICOR). Partipating in the programme, Deputy Chief Minister Pamula Pushpa Sreevani, who also holds the tribal welfare portfolio, said that the government was taking up many measures for the development of tribal people in the State. “The TRICOR and ITDAs will implement an animal husbandry project to create livelihood for the tribal people. As part of it, proposals worth Rs. 242.89 crore have been prepared. As many as 242 Gokulams will be constructed in tribal areas. A sum of Rs. 28.34 crore will be spent to take up poultry as livelihood by the tribal people,” she said. Mr. Bulli Babu thanked Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy for giving him an opportunity to serve the tribal people. Bukkapatnam Naveen Nischal assumed the office of Chairman of the AP Agros (Andhra Pradesh State Agroindustries Development Corporation Limited). “The YSRCP government has made agriculture a profitable venture. The people, especially farmers, are happy under the YSRCP rule,” he said. Pointing out that around 62 % population of the State are dependent on agriculture, Mr. Nischal observed that the farmers would get remunerative prices only if the agri-based industries were developed. “The government is putting in efforts in that direction,” he added. Tummala Chandrasekhar Rao took charge as the Chairman of the Kamma Welfare and Development Corporation. Minister for Information and Public Relations and Transport, Perni Venkataramaiah administered him the oath of office. Mr. Chandrasekhar Rao said he would strive for the development of his community by ensuring all welfare schemes of the government reached the targeted group.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/new-chairpersons-of-bc-corporations-take-charge/article35868741.ece
12 August 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Jagan for analysis of infection after jab||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has directed officials to analyse the way in which Coronavirus is being transmitted even after people are vaccinated in comparison with the situation prevalent in other States, to enable the government to take more stringent measures to control the pandemic. He ordered that focus should be laid on vaccinating teaching and non-teaching staff in schools keeping in view their planned reopening on August 15. In a review meeting on COVID on Wednesday, Mr. Jagan ordered that due priority should be given to vaccinating those aged between 18 and 44 years and employees, officers and staff who directly dealt with the people in the delivery of various services. Details On the government’s digital health programme, Mr. Jagan said the details of family members should be entered in the Aarogyasri cards in the form of QR codes so that the data would come in handy at the time of treatment in the empanelled hospitals. Such details should also be registered in the village clinics, he suggested. He instructed the officials to appoint the required number of doctors and staff right from village clinics to teaching hospitals within three months. Besides, the Chief Minister wanted emphasis to be laid on providing better health services in tribal areas and incentives to be given to doctors and staff rendering their services in such remote places. ‘Cases on eh decline’ Officials told the Chief Minister that there was a sharp decline in the number of COVID cases. The number of active cases was 18,882 and the daily positivity rate was 2.29% percent and recovery rate 98.37%. The positivity rate was less than 3% in 10 districts, less than five in two districts and more than five in one district. Deputy Chief Minister and Minister for Health Alla Kali Krishna Srinivas, Chief Secretary Aditya Nath Das, DGP Gautam Sawang, Principal Secretary (Health) Anil Kumar Singhal and COVID Task Force committee chairman M.T. Krishna Babu were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jagan-for-analysis-of-infection-after-jab/article35868743.ece
12 August 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Reconstruction of temples likely to be over this month||The reconstruction of temples, which were demolished during the Krishna Pushkarams in 2016, is going on at a quick pace. The temples are likely to be ready in a month. According to information, Sri Durga Malleswara Swmayvarla Devasthanm is reconstructing Boddu Bomma, while a few other temples are being reconstructed by the Endowments department. The construction works are in different stages. The department has released funds from the Common Good Fund (CGF) for the reconstruction of the temples. For instance, the government released Rs. 44.50 lakh from the CGF for reconstruction of Dakshinamukha Anjaneya Swamy temple near Seetammavari Paadalu here. More than 50% of the works have been completed so far. Likewise, Rs. 9.50 lakh was released for Seetammavari Paadalu. About 90% of the work has been completed here, sources say. Sri Sitarama Lakshmana Sametha Sri Dasanjaneya Swamyvari Devalayam near Swargapuri in Krishna Lanka, Sri Veerababu temple, Sri Venugopala Krishna temple, Sri Anjaneya Swamy temple near Fire Station at Krishna Lanka, Sri Shirdi Saibaba temple near the bus stand, and Sri Nagendra Swamy temple near Sitara Centre are some of the temples that are being reconstructed. It is estimated that Rs. 1.79 crore is required for the reconstruction of the temples. In addition, works worth Rs. 2 crore, which would be borne by donors, would also be taken up. This takes the total expenditure to Rs. 3.79 crore. A devotee has come forward to develop Saneeswara Alayam, which was partially demolished. An amount of Rs. 2.25 crore is being spent on the ongoing works. Endowments Minister Velampalli Srinivasa Rao is planning to invite Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy for the inauguration of the reconstructed temples, according to sources. Two temples on the way to the Kanaka Durga temple atop Indrakeeladri are being reconstructed. The temples were demolished as part of developmental works and are being reconstructed now. Temple officials said that the two temples of Anjaneya Swamy and Vinayaka Swamy, were being reconstructed at a cost of Rs. 28 lakh. About Rs. 23 lakh is being spent on Boddu Bomma. The construction would be completed in a month, it is learnt. Boddu Bomma, an ancient sculpture dating back to the 10th century and located on Canal Road near Durga temple, was dismantled during development works for the Krishna Pushkarams in 2016. Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy laid foundation stones for nine temples in the city in January this year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/reconstruction-of-temples-likely-to-be-over-this-month/article35868718.ece
12 August 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. sets additional targets for Commercial Taxes dept.||The State government has given additional targets to the Commercial Taxes (CT) department for the current financial year. The budget estimates for the Goods and Services Tax (GST) and Value Added Tax (VAT) was Rs. 55,535 crore. Now, the government has set an additional target of Rs. 1,500 crore to these heads. Similarly, an additional target of Rs. 200 crore was added to the professional tax budget estimates of Rs. 400 crore. Special Chief Secretary (Revenue) Rajath Bhargava announced this at a review meeting with officials of the department on Wednesday. Exhorting them to put in more efforts to achieve the budgeted revenue estimates including additional revenue, Mr. Bhargava stressed on the need to increase the percentage of filing of returns by taxpayers, He also wanted them to take steps to arrest tax evasion/avoidance. Mr. Bhargava emphasised on keeping a tab on matters such as suppression of turnovers, and claiming ineligible input tax credit. Floating bogus firms and taking registrations in the name of such firms and issuing of invoices to other registered persons facilitating them to claim illegal input tax credit was another major area of concern. The issues like classifying goods and services under a wrong head which attracts a lower rate of tax, misinterpreting the provisions of the GST Act and rules to lower the tax liability need to be focussed, he added. Chief Commercial Taxes Commissioner Peeyush Kumar and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govt-sets-additional-targets-for-commercial-taxes-dept/article35868220.ece
12 August 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Focus is on infra development: Minister||Minister for Industries and Information Technology Mekapati Goutham Reddy has said that the State government is investing in the development of infrastructure, particularly sea and airports and multimodal logistics parks, and doing an overhaul of the business processes to achieve a higher growth rate. “Emphasis has been laid on the job creation, healthcare, education and women empowerment, besides support the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs), the Minister said while addressing a virtual conference on ‘India @ 75 - Prospects & challenges for accelerating growth’ organised by the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) on Wednesday. Mr. Goutham Reddy said the government has embarked on a journey of holistic and sustainable development through convergence of human, physical and financial resources. “Each district is being considered as a resource unit. Efforts are on to double productivity of exports hub, expansion of markets and creation of jobs with focus on value addition. Potential exportable commodities have been identified for each district,” said the Minister. An assessment of industrial and transport infrastructure including warehousing, roads and railway connectivity and facilities required at seaports and cargo facilities at airports is being done to bridge the gaps, he said. Market intelligence was being strengthened for key products. “A ‘buy from A.P.’ campaign will be launched for importers to understand their requirements. Apart from this, a single desk for exports is being established to cater to the needs of exporters,” said Mr. Goutham Reddy. A State Logistics Coordination Committee has been formed to deal with trade infrastructure . Mr. Goutham Reddy also said that the government had constituted a taskforce to attract investments and liaise with investors. Industrial and electronics policies have been introduced with a focus on attracting large-scale manufacturing units, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/focus-is-on-infra-development-minister/article35868734.ece
12 August 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Many sit entrance test for Jawahar Navodaya||Many students across the State wrote the entrance test for admission into Class VI of Jawahar Navodaya schools for the academic year 2021-22, held on Wednesday. Out of the total 2,056 students who registered for the entrance test, 1,042 of them wrote the test at 19 examination centres across Krishna district. Following a directive by the District Education Officer, the Assistant Commissioner, Government Examinations in Krishna and Machilipatnam, visited five exam centres at the Government High School at Machilipatnam, Zilla Parishad High School at Pamarru, Fr. Biyanki High School at Gudivada, Montessori English Medium High School, Gudivada and Zilla Parishad High School, Penamaluru.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/over-1000-children-turn-up-for-jawahar-navodaya-entrance/article35868218.ece
12 August 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Candidate selected for Sainik Welfare post||One candidate was provisionally selected for appointment to the post of Welfare Organiser in A.P. Sainik Welfare Sub-Service on the basis of the results of an online exam held on September 26 last year. The certificate verification was done on August 5. The appointment is subject to certain conditions. A statement issued by the Andhra Pradesh Public Service Commission on Wednesday sought to clarify that success in the examination confers no right to appointment unless the appointing authority is satisfied after an enquiry, if considered necessary, to see if the candidate is suitable in all respects for appointment to the service. The candidate should be physically fit for the post, should produce original certificates as may be required by the appointing authority, in accordance with the rules. The selections are subject to the outcome of court cases, if any. The candidate with registered number 150601008 has been provisionally selected for a district post (Kurnool). The Commission Secretary said that if it later comes to the notice of the Commission that a candidate furnished false information or the selection is not in order due to any act of omission or commission of the candidate, the provisional selection would be liable for cancellation at any stage.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/candidate-provisionally-selected-for-sainik-welfare-post/article35868219.ece
12 August 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Delhi-based ‘journalist’ arrested, ganja seized||The Government Railway Police (GRP) arrested a person, Rajiv Misra, who was allegedly in possession of ganja, in Vijayawada railway station on Wednesday. The accused, who claimed to be a journalist of a private electronic media channel, was carrying 38 kg of ganja, packed in a suitcase, said Vijayawada GRP CI P. Srinivas. Police are verifying from where and how he got the contraband. The accused had a press ID card. Misra would be produced in the court and the case is under investigation, the CI said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/delhi-based-journalist-arrested-ganja-seized/article35868837.ece
12 August 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||I-Day: civic chief inspects works at IGMC||Vijayawada Municipal Corporation commissioner V. Prasanna Venkatesh along with other officials inspected the works under way at Indira Gandhi Municipal Corporation Stadium for the State’s Independence Day celebrations on Wednesday. In view of rains, Mr. Venkatesh asked the officials to dump gravel at necessary places in the ground so that water did not stagnate. Flags Vijayawada Sub-Collector G.S.S. Praveen Chand asked the officials and public not to use plastic national flags on Independence Day. Mr. Chand said that only flags made of paper should be used as per the Flag Code of India, 2002 and asked officials to create awareness on the same. He wrote letters to Tahsildars, Municipal Commissioners and others officials in the Vijayawada sub-division on Wednesday. He said the Flag Code should be followed without fail.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/i-day-works-at-igmc-inspected/article35868216.ece
12 August 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||National panel to review Polavaram R&R scheme||The National Monitoring Committee for Rehabilitation and Resettlement (NMCRR) of the Department of Land Resources (Union Ministry of Rural Development) will review the implementation of Rehabilitation and Resettlement (R&R) schemes for various projects, including that of Polavaram, apart from the the status of the land acquisition between August 2020 and May 2021, in a meeting to be held in virtual mode on August 18. The committee will examine the compliance of the R&R scheme with the Right to Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act, 2013 and the National Rehabilitation and Resettlement Policy, 2007. The meeting will also look into a representation by P. Pulla Rao, a noted economist and environmentalist, on the alleged eviction of tribal people from the Polavaram project area without appropriate compensation and implementation of the R&R package. Mr. Pulla Rao has recently written a letter to the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) in this regard, requesting it to revive his case related to the rights of the tribal people in view of the non-fulfilment of their mandatory requirements by the Andhra Pradesh government. The tribal residents were forced to leave their hamlets in the wake of submergence issues, he alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/national-panel-to-review-polavaram-rr-scheme/article35868735.ece
12 August 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Greening Corp. to develop Pulivendula Nagaravanam||The State government has decided to entrust the Nagaravanam, a model botanical garden, in the Pulivendula Centenary Park to the Andhra Pradesh Greening and Beautification Corporation. The government initially asked the Public Health Engineering Department to take up the work in the notified forest area. With no response from the department, the works have been entrusted to the Andhra Pradesh Greening and Beautification Corporation as the authorities are well versed in developing botanical gardens, said Secretary (Environment and Forests) G.S.R.K.R. Vijay Kumar in an order. The government has given administrative sanction for Rs. 41.30 crore for the development of the garden.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/greening-corp-to-develop-pulivendula-nagaravanam/article35868740.ece
12 August 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Threat of climate change looms over Vizag, Kakinada, Masula||On October 12, 2014, Visakhapatnam, for the first time in modern history, had witnessed an unparalleled natural calamity when it was struck by the Very Severe Cyclonic Storm Hudhud. During landfall, the wind speed had picked up to over 185 kmph, uprooting lakhs of trees and thousands of electric poles in its path. The destruction had left over 60 persons dead across three coastal districts, and it took weeks for the city to limp back to normal. The abnormality of the cyclone was attributed to global warming and climate change by the scientists. Thereafter, the district had felt the effect of at least eight severe cyclonic storms. IPCC report Is the city vulnerable to climate change? As per the latest report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), Visakhapatnam is one among the six cities identified by the scientists that could be exposed to coastal flooding if the sea levels rise by 50 cm due to global warming. The other five cities are Kochi, Kolkata, Chennai, Surat and Mumbai. “The Indian peninsula is already experiencing monsoon extremes, and such phenomenon will only be experienced more in the future. There is definitely a threat to the city,” S.S.V.S. Ramakrishna, former Head of the Department of Oceanography and Meteorology, Andhra University, told The Hndu . “But more than Visakhapatnam, Kakinada and Machilipatnam have a bigger threat,” Prof. Ramakrishna added. According to him, the ocean temperatures are rising due to global warming, and the temperature in the Indian Ocean has risen much quicker than expected. “The huge disparity in the temperatures of the land and the ocean may lead to the formation of many cyclonic systems, which will have the potential to develop into very severe cyclonic storms such as Hudhud, Titli and Amphan. Both wind and rainfall will be high, which will lead to increase in the sea level,” Prof. Ramakrishna said. “This apart, the melting of the glaciers due to global warming is causing the sea level to rise higher and quicker than predicted. These factors will finally lead to inundation, or flooding of the coastal cities and regions,” opine Prof. Ramakrishna and a few scientists from the Geological Survey of India and the scientists researching on the Bay of Bengal in Andhra University. Prof. Ramakrishna, however, said that the topographical features of Visakhapatnam, with its hills and hillocks, would protect it to some extent. “But some areas such as the Beach Road up to Bheemunipatnam and the low-lying areas such as East Point Colony and M.V.P. Colony may be under threat,” he said. “The threat is higher for Machilipatnam and Kakinada, as the difference between the land mass and the sea is very small,” Prof. Ramakrishna said. Another threat looming is the possibility of thunderstorms. “Global warming has rendered monsoon erratic and extreme, and is giving way to high-intensity thunderstorms, which will increase the possibility of flash floods and landslides. Moreover, during thunderstorms, the rainfall is quick and high, and this will also increase the sea level,” said Prof. Ramakrishna.  The topographical features of Visakhapatnam may protect the city to some extent, but the same cannot be said in the case of the other two places S.S.V.S. Ramakrishna, Former HoD, Department of Oceanography and Meteorology, AU||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/threat-of-climate-change-looms-over-vizag-kakinada-masula/article35868835.ece
12 August 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||On a mission to clean beaches in city||Three youngsters from the city — M. Ramesh, M. Jitesh and Satyanand Prasad — have been on a mission to clean city beaches. Forming a group, the Beach Cleanup Club, the three friends with the help of the locals, volunteers and college-going students have been actively organising beach cleanliness programmes at various stretches for the past two months. Mr. Ramesh, who works with an IT firm in Benguluru, has been working from home due to the pandemic. He has associated with two friends Jitesh, a businessman and Mr. Prasad, who prepares for competitive exams, and came up with an idea to conduct beach clean-up programmes every weekend to fight pollution. “We were aghast over the pollution at our local beaches. Earlier we three used to participate in beach clean-up programmes organised by various NGOs and associations at the local beaches. Then there was an idea, why do not we conduct it every weekend. Just like how we visit beach every weekend, it also sounded good to take up cleanliness programme for one hour every weekend. We went ahead with with idea,” said Mr. Ramesh. Since the last two months, the youth with the support of locals, have taken up such programmes in stretches along Rushikonda beach towards Bheemili and Jodugullapalem. On Sunday, the club has conducted a massive clean-up programme near Tenneti Park Beach. According to the youth, heaps of plastic wastes and hundreds of beer bottles were picked up at various places between the stretch of Jodugulapalem and Rushikonda Beach. “Milk packets, water sachets, bottles, oil packets, plastic plates and cups are being found on shore in large numbers. This may happen when people just dump the wastes into the drains. Similarly, in a cleanliness drive near Rushikonda Beach, we picked up at least 500 liquor bottles,” they said. According to the club members, their motto is to create awareness over the beach pollution. The youth have also created pages in social media accounts and are posting about their activities every week in the form of memes. “On the occasion of International Youth Day on Thursday, we want all youth to keep our beaches clean and take part once in a while to clean it up,” they said. “We intend to come up with massive clean up drives if people come forward. On the occasion of friendship day (August 1), we organised a clean up activity, for which around 80 people took part. Similarly, we are also mulling to take out such a programme on August 15, on the occasion of Independence Day. Interested can feel free to join us and clean our very beautiful beaches,” added Mr. Ramesh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/on-a-mission-to-clean-beaches-in-city/article35868869.ece
12 August 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||IIPE yet to get entire allotted land under its control: Minister||Indian Institute of Petroleum and Energy (IIPE), an institute of national importance, is yet get the entire land allotted to it, under its control. This was confirmed by Union Minister of State of Petroleum and Natural Gas, Rameswar Teli, in Parliament on Wednesday. The Minister was referring to an unstarred question raised by YSR Congress MP V. Vijaya Sai Reddy. In a reply, Mr. Teli confirmed that the IIPE was still functioning from the premises leased out by Andhra University and is yet to move to its own campus. He also said that the then State government had allotted 201.80 acres of land in February 2019, and thereafter 175.74 acres of land was handed over to the IIPE. The remainder of 26.06 acres of land is yet to be handed over to the IIPE due to a court case. He also confirmed that the construction work for boundary wall around the land handed over to the IIPE is under way through the Andhra Pradesh Industrial Infrastructure Corporation (APIIC). Referring to another question raised by the MP, the Minister stated that the ministry has approved a capital expenditure of Rs. 655.46 crore, of which Rs. 184.85 crore has been released.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/iipe-is-yet-to-get-allotted-land-under-its-control/article35868836.ece
12 August 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Simhachalam inscriptions deserve a place in UNESCO list’||The sculptures and inscriptions dating back to the 11th Century AD at the Sri Varaha Lakshmi Narasimha Swamy temple atop Simhachalam deserve a place in the UNESCO World Heritage list, temple Executive Officer M.V. Suryakala has said. Ms. Suryakala met Andhra University Vice-Chancellor P.V.G.D. Prasad Reddy on Wednesday, and explained him about the heritage values of the sculptures and inscriptions at the temple and sought technical support for conducting a full-scale research into the available evidence. Ms. Suryakala told the Vice-Chancellor that the sculptures reflected the culture and traditions of the past several centuries. “The inscriptions and engravings reflect the eras ranging from Sri Krishnadevaraya to the Gajapathi kings. The sculptures have been cleaned recently. Boards too have been set to arouse the curiosity of the devotees,” she said. Prof. Prasad Reddy assured Ms. Suryakala that the university was prepared to extend the technical and structural support to the temple to bring out the facts to light through scientific studies. A technical team would be constituted in this regard, he said, and added that the temple had all that was needed to make it into the UNESCO World Heritage list.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/simhachalam-inscriptions-deserve-a-place-in-unesco-list/article35868862.ece
12 August 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||BC Sangham fears States may misuse 127th Amendment Bill||Andhra Pradesh Backward Classes Sangham president Kesana Sankara Rao has said that more discussions should have been held before Parliament unanimously approved the 127th Constitutional Amendment Bill granting power to the States for changes and inclusion in the BC list. Addressing the media here on Wednesday, Mr. Sankara Rao said that the governments in various States could misuse the power to include even forward castes, in the BC list to secure their support in elections. He demanded that the 127th amendment have strong safeguards to prevent such misuse by the State governments. Citing an example, he said that the previous government in the State had passed a resolution including Kapus in BC list, even before the Manjunadh Commission gave its report. This was nothing but vote bank politics, he said. Referring to the announcement of Union Minister Veerendra Kumar that the amendment has provided an opportunity for inclusion of 671 castes in various States in the BC list, Mr. Sankara Rao said that reservations should be on the basis of social and educational backwardness and not on economic grounds. Mr. Sankara Rao demanded that the Centre gather caste-wise population statistics. He said that the Sangham has filed a case in the Supreme Court on the issue. He said that the Centre was already implementing 27% reservation for OBCs. The number of castes in the BC list, which was 92 in the past, has increased to 132. Though the number of castes was increasing the percentage of reservation has remained the same. He sought that the percentage of reservation should be increased based on the addition of new castes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bc-sangham-fears-states-may-misuse-127th-amendment-bill/article35868861.ece
12 August 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||CPI(M) slams YSRCP on tax proposal||CPI(M) leader and corporator of Ward No. 78, B. Ganga Rao, has criticised the leaders of the YSR Congress Party for supporting and passing the proposal of new property tax scheme in the recently held Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) council meeting. Addressing the media here on Wednesday, he said that while the people of Visakhapatnam were expressing anger at the decision, it is shameful on part of the YSRCP leaders to support the proposal by making false claims. He condemned the statements of the YSRCP leaders that the Opposition and the Left parties were creating panic and indulging in false propaganda against the property tax. He demanded that the ruling party members come for an open debate to discuss the property tax scheme. He said that the YSRCP leaders did not even attempt to make changes in the property tax rules to reduce burden on people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cpim-slams-ysrcp-on-tax-proposal/article35868864.ece
12 August 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||New DRM takes charge||Anup Kumar Satpathy assumed charge as the new Divisional Railway Manager of Waltair Division on Wednesday. Chetan Kumar Shrivastava, the outgoing DRM, has been transferred as Principal Chief Safety Officer of Eastern Railway. Mr. Anup Kumar, an Indian Railway Traffic Service (IRTS) officer, began his career in 1995. After joining as Area manager of Sahdol in 1997, he held various posts in operations at Chakradharpur Division of South Eastern Railway.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/new-drm-takes-charge/article35868866.ece
12 August 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||District records 1 death, 63 new COVID cases||The Visakhapatnam district recorded 63 new COVID-19 infections in the last 24 hours taking the cumulative tally to 1,53,905. The number of recoveries has outnumbered the daily-infection count as 170 persons recovered from the coronavirus during the same time period. The death toll has increased to 1,061 after one more person succumbed to the infection. The number of recoveries has increased to 1,51,533. As on date, the recovery rate in the district is hovering around 98.4 %. The number of active cases has gradually declined to 1,311.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/district-records-1-death-63-new-covid-cases/article35868867.ece
12 August 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Three persons arrested in honeytrap case||The cyber crime police on Wednesday cracked a honeytrap case by arresting three persons, including a woman, who reportedly blackmailed a youth and forced him to pay Rs. 24 lakh. The arrested were identified as Shaik Abdul Raheem (30) of Krishna district, Gunda Jyothi (28), and her husband Gunda Veera Satish (34), both hailing from Jeedimetla in Hyderabad. Addressing the media here on Wednesday, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Crimes) V. Suresh Babu said that on November 9, 2020, the victim in the case had received a bulk message “Call Me Anytime, I am your Bestfriend - to talk call 55678557”. The victim called the number from his mobile, and came in contact with another woman. The woman reportedly asked the victim to make a nude video call to her and passed her mobile number to him. Believing her words, he reportedly made a call. The woman took screenshot during the video call and started to blackmail him by telling that she would make his nude photo go viral, from the very next day, if he failed to pay the money demanded by her. The DCP said that the victim thereafter had reportedly deposited nearly Rs. 24 lakh, in phases into various bank accounts which were provided by the accused. The victim approached the police on July 16, this year Inspector of cyber crime police station, R.V.R.K. Chowdhary formed a team with Sub-Inspector Ravi Kishore and others. The victim is said to be a 26-year-old software engineer and he reportedly had to borrow money to pay the accused. The police have recovered Rs. 3.50 lakh cash, a laptop, five mobile phones, ATM cards and a few other things. The arrested were sent in remand.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/three-persons-arrested-in-honeytrap-case/article35868872.ece
12 August 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Community guards rescue six youths||The community guards rescued six youth, who were about to be drowned in the sea at Rushikonda beach, here on Wednesday. The youth reportedly went for a swim and were being swept away by strong tides. The community guards present at the spot responded promptly and rescued them. The marine police who reached the spot congratulated the community guards Ramesh, Appanna, Deva and Yellaji for their courageous act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/community-guards-rescue-six-youths/article35868873.ece
12 August 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police constable goes the extra mile to rescue stray dog||A traffic constable from the city saved the life of a stray dog, which was battling for life after being stuck between two walls. Constable P. Krishna spent two hours to set the canine free. The incident occurred near Uppada area of Bheemunipatnam in Visakhapatnam city. At around 8 a.m. on Tuesday, the Police Control Room (PCR) received a call from the locals of Uppada, who expressed concern over the condition of the dog which was stuck between the walls of two houses for a long period of time, in the wee hours of Wednesday. Mr. Krishna, posted with Bheemunipatnam police station, was on his morning shift near Rama Naidu Studios. Upon getting the message, he rushed to the spot. “Locals informed us that they had fed the dog early in the morning, but it had vomited. We understood that the dog had its ribs caught between the walls and was not able to come out from either side,” Mr. Krishna said.  Painstaking operation We first tied its mouth to avoid getting bitten and then slowly and carefully broke a small part of the wall. It had to be done very carefully to avoid causing injury to the dog. After breaking off part of the wall using a chisel and hammer, we used bamboo poles as levers to pull the dog out safely,” said Mr. Krishna. Video goes viral A video of the dog’s rescue operation was posted on social media by the locals, on Wednesday. Locals applauded the police constable for going the extra mile to save the dog’s life.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/police-constable-goes-the-extra-mile-to-rescue-stray-dog/article35868221.ece
12 August 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||AU Vice-Chancellor launches movie shooting||Andhra University Vice-Chancellor P.V.G.D. Prasad Reddy launched the shooting of a movie ‘Veeravalli Agraharam’, which is being directed by AU student Raj Kiran, at the Department of Physics on Wednesday morning. The trilingual film is being produced under the banner of VR Productions, co-produced by Victoria Rani and Bandi Lakshmi Narayana (Gabbar). Speaking on the occasion, Prof. Prasad Reddy said that that the varsity is proud that a student of the AU Theatre Arts Department is acting as a protagonist and director. He said that cinema stands as a medium that conveys a good message. He said that leading actors will be appointed as Honorary Professors in the AU Theatre Department. Film director Raj Kiran said that the film will be based on a true story. Dia Raj is said to be playing the heroine, while Kancharla Premchand is the music director.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/au-vice-chancellor-launches-movie-shooting/article35868870.ece
12 August 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||3,083 candidates attend Navodaya entrance exam||As many as 3,083 candidates out of 4,723 attended the Jawahar Navodaya Entrance Examination which was held in 34 centres in the district on Wednesday. A total of 1,640 candidates remained absent, the officials said. District Educational Officer B. Lingeswara Reddysaid that the examination was held in a very peaceful manner without any issues.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/3083-candidates-attend-navodaya-entrance-exam/article35868871.ece
12 August 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||AU is a ‘Green Champion’||Andhra University has received the ‘Green Champion’ award in recognition of the services rendered by its NSS wing in plantation programmes, environment protection, and solid waste management. The Mahatma Gandhi National Council of Rural Education, under the Ministry of HRD, has announced the award. Collector A. Mallikarjuna gave away the award to Registrar V. Krishna Mohan and NSS coordinator S. Haranadh on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/au-is-a-green-champion/article35868744.ece
12 August 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Co-op bank declares 15% dividend||Chairman of the Kanakamahalakshmi Co-operative Bank Ltd. P Raghunadha Rao has said that the coronavirus outbreak had a devastating effect on the economy of the nation. At the 22nd General Body Meeting of the bank here on Wednesday, Mr. Raghunadha Rao said that the bank had achieved better results in spite of the pandemic. He informed that 24 branches were set up in various districts of the State, so far, and with the goodwill, and support of the clients, more branches would be set up in the near future. Net profit Chief Executive Officer of the bank K. Syamkishore said that the bank had Rs. 713 crore deposits and Rs. 407 crore loans and earned a net profit of Rs. 8.16 crore. The Chairman announced 15% dividend on capital for 2020-21. He handed over prizes of Rs. 5,000 each to the children of the shareholders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/co-op-bank-declares-15-dividend/article35868860.ece
12 August 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ayyanna seeks immediate allotment of TIDCO houses||Former Minister Ch. Ayyanna Patrudu has demanded that the TIDCO houses, constructed during the Telugu Desam Party (TDP) government, be immediately allotted to the beneficiaries. In a video message from Narsipatnam on Wednesday, Mr. Patrudu said that the YSRCP government had not allotted the houses to the beneficiaries though two years have passed after it came to power. It has also gone back on its election promise of waiving bank loans taken by the beneficiaries for the houses. He recalled that 7.59 lakh houses were sanctioned in the State for the construction of houses for the poor in urban areas during the TDP rule by the Union and the State governments. As many as 2.70 lakh houses were completed during the previous regime but the new government has failed to hand them over to the beneficiaries even after two years, he said. He alleged that the YSRCP government had cancelled the remaining 4.96 lakh houses. The share of the Centre for the 7.59 lakh houses in the State was Rs. 11,385 crore with equal contribution from the State government. This amounts to Rs. 22,770 crore. Citing the example of Narsipatnam, he said a total of 2,592 houses were sanctioned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ayyanna-seeks-immediate-allotment-of-tidco-houses/article35868863.ece
12 August 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Muttamsetti seeks release of funds under ‘PRASAD’||Tourism Minister Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao has written to the Union Minister for Tourism Kishen Reddy seeking sanction of funds under the ‘PRASAD’ scheme for provision of basic amenities at temples in Andhra Pradesh. In a letter to the Union Minister, Mr. Srinivasa Rao while thanking the Centre for selecting nine temples in State under the PRASAD scheme including Sri Varaha Lakshmi Narasimha Swamy temple at Simhachalam in Visakhapatnam, sought sanction of funds under the scheme to the nine prominent temples. He noted that two projects were sanctioned under the scheme to temples Amaravati and Srisailam during 2015 and 2017 and they were completed. He noted that no new projects were sanctioned to AP under the ‘PRASAD’ during the last four years and sought generous release of funds for the promotion of temple tourism in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/muttamsetti-seeks-release-of-funds-under-prasad/article35868833.ece
12 August 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Bhavana takes over as DCMS chairperson||Avanapu Bhavana, wife of senior YSRCP leader Vikram, on Wednesday took over as the chairperson of the District Cooperative Marketing Society (DCMS) here. Dr. Bhavana, who holds a master’s degree in dental sciences, is working as an assistant professor in a dental college in Visakhapatnam district. Nellimarla MLA B. Appalanaidu and MLC P. Suresh Babu greeted her on the occasion. Addressing the mediapersons later, she thanked Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy for giving her the opportunity and vowed to strengthen the party in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bhavana-takes-over-as-dcms-chairperson/article35868725.ece
12 August 2021||August 12 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Testing times||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/testing-times/article35868176.ece
12 August 2021||August 12 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||At brisk pace||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/at-brisk-pace/article35868727.ece
12 August 2021||August 12 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Heavy inflows||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/heavy-inflows/article35868729.ece
12 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Lung transplantations shoot up||The COVID-19 pandemic seems to have struck the organ transplantation sector in a unique way with hospitals in Hyderabad reporting a huge spike in lung transplants. From 2013 to 2019 — a period of six years — Telangana had recorded just 21 lung transplantations. However, in 2020, when the COVID-19 pandemic broke out, the numbers clocked in a single year was 20. What’s more, the State has already logged 43 lung transplantations this year (till August 10). What has caused this surge? According to specialist doctors, COVID is to blame and Hyderabad is the new hub for lung transplants. Such is the demand that patients across India were airlifted to the city for the procedure, which was performed at three major corporate hospitals in the city. To be eligible as a recipient, one has to register with Telangana government’s Jeevandan Cadaver Transplantation Programme. While thousands of people across the country are in need of the transplantation, only affluent can afford the advanced medical procedure which costs anywhere between Rs. 25 lakh and Rs. 35 lakh. This excludes charges for investigations which range around Rs. 3 lakh. If the patient has to be airlifted from another State to Hyderabad, the cost of air transportation varies from Rs. 6 lakh to Rs. 25 lakh. For the affluent Exceptions were cases when State governments funded the procedure and bore the charges for airlifting patients. During the first and second peaks of COVID-19 pandemic, several patients from various States were brought to Hyderabad, including doctors and political leaders. However, in a more general sense, it is only patients loaded with cash who get a second chance to live. Sharanya Kumar, consultant-Cardiothoracic Anasthesia and Critical Care at KIMS Hospitals, said lung transplantation is the last resort to save COVID patients whose lungs are completely damaged due to the coronavirus. Of the several methods, Extracorporeal Membrane Oxygenation (ECMO) too is tried to save the patients. “The waiting list of people in need of lung transplantation has shot up. Earlier, though lungs from a donor were available, a recipient who matches the blood group, height and weight, were not available all the time. Now, a matching recipient is ready if someone donates lungs,” Dr Kumar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/lung-transplantations-shoot-up/article35868490.ece
12 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Rs. 2 lakh more for families of two manual scavengers||Mayor Gadwal Vijayalakshmi has released Rs. 2 lakh from her funds for the families of each of the two sewage workers who died after getting into a manhole in Padmavathi Colony of Vanasthalipuram over a week ago. Ms. Vijayalakshmi accompanied the member of the National Safai Karmachari Commission Anjana Panwar on her visit to the homes of the bereaved families on Wednesday, and handed over the cheques to them. Already GHMC has released compensation of Rs. 10 lakh each to the families, apart from Rs. 5 lakh from the contractor of de-silting works who had engaged the workers on the fateful night. Earlier in the day, she met officials from the GHMC and Hyderabad Metropolitan Water Supply & Sewerage Board (HMWS&SB) and reviewed the measures taken for welfare of the Safai Karmacharis. Ms. Panwar directed the officials to provide rehabilitation to the workers engaged in manual scavenging, apart from financial support, special training, housing, medical and health facilities. Wage disparity Questions about wage disparity between the sanitation workers of GHMC and HMWS&SB were raised during the meeting Representatives of workers’ unions who claimed that they had not been intimated about the meeting, arrived and submitted a grievance to Ms. Panwar about the wages paid to the sewerage workers of the water board. As per the revised minimum wages announced in June this year, the ‘unskilled’ labourers including sweepers and Safai Karmacharis should be paid a basic wage of Rs. 18,019 per month per head, they claimed. However, sewerage workers of the water board are being paid only Rs. 11,870, which went against the Minimum Wages Act, president of the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Employees’ Union U. Gopal claimed. MD of HMWS&SB M. Dana Kishore rebutted the claims saying that the board kept up with the orders by the Labour & Employment department revising minimum wages from time to time. He cited government orders specifying wages for four categories of sewage workers employed by the water board, ranging between Rs. 12,452 and Rs. 22,592, updated once in every six months by Variable Dearness Allowance points. 3,600 workers There are about 3,600 workers coming under the purview of the orders, working in STPs, WTPs, and Operation & Maintenance wings, he said. Representatives from Safai Karmachari Andolan, Valmiki Mahasabha and Akhila Bharatiya Valmiki Sabha participated in the meeting along with the officials on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/rs-2-lakh-more-for-families-of-two-manual-scavengers/article35868480.ece
12 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘TRS win in Huzurabad certain’||Asserting that victory of TRS candidate Gellu Srinivas Yadav from Huzurabad was certain, senior TRS leader and Finance Minister T. Harish Rao said the result of the impending byelection would fulfil people’s aspirations for welfare and development which was only possible through the ruling party. At a public meeting in Veenavanka on Wednesday, Mr. Harish Rao launched a broadside at former minister Eatala Rajender who had switched loyalties to the BJP. He exhorted people to question Mr. Rajender how he proposed to develop the constituency while being in opposition when he, being a minister in the Cabinet, could not usher in development. “Mr. Rajender could not ensure construction of single house in the constituency while being a minister in the Cabinet. “What does he propose to do while being in the opposition?” he asked. The ruling party was extending a string of schemes like Rythu Bima, Rythu Bandhu, Aasara, Kalyana Lakshmi, KCR Kit and Dalit Bandhu. “What will Mr. Rajender offer to people? Mr. Rajender is speaking about self-respect while he himself is in a self-betrayal mode?” Mr. Harish Rao said. Mr. Rajender who laid had tall claims on following Leftist ideals joined a right-wing party. The contest in Huzurabad was primarily between the TRS and the BJP as the Congress was nowhere in picture there. Privatisatiion faulted He criticised the BJP which was in power at the Centre for diluting the public sector through privatisation resulting in job loss. Coupled with this was the heavy burden being imposed on people in the form of steep hike in petrol and diesel prices. Diesel which used to cost Rs. 60 a litre had been increased to Rs. 104 a litre in recent past. This had in turn resulted in significant increase in the input costs for farmers who operated tractors for their farm operations. “Tractor operation which used to cost Rs. 3,000 an acre per season had now gone up to Rs. 5,000 an acre. The Bbharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government is snatching the Rythu Bandhu benefit being given to farmers by the K. Chandrasekhar Rao government in the form of diesel price hike,” he said. Mr. Rajender, he recalled, was against implementation of Rythu Bandhu and Kalyana Lakshmi schemes. The former minister who was against the Rythu Bandhu, however, claimed benefits to the tune of Rs. 10.5 lakh through the same scheme. ‘Intemperate language’ Mr. Harish Rao was particularly critical of Mr. Rajender for intemperate language he had used against the Chief Minister. “Is it the manner you address a man who gave you political life and made you minister twice? Mr. Rajender has joined the BJP to protect his personal interests,” he alleged. He took a dig at Karimnagar MP and BJP State president Bandi Sanjay, claiming that the constituency had not seen any development in more than two years since the latter became MP from there. He asserted that the victory of Mr. Rajender would help him personally while the Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) win would be for the betterment of 2.29 lakh people of the constituency because Mr. Rajender had resigned from the post for his selfish interests, Mr. Harish Rao said Mr. Rajender, who was indulging in offering allurements like mixer/grinders to voters, was making baseless charges of money distribution against the Telangana Rashtra Samithi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/trs-win-in-huzurabad-certain/article35868518.ece
12 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||BJP criticises KCR for boycotting Krishna-Godavari Board meeting||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Wednesday has strongly criticised Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao for Telangana State boycotting the Krishna-Godavari Boards meetings and keeping silent over the ongoing river water distribution disputes. Telangana party president Bandi Sanjay Kumar told a press conference in Delhi that the TRS government had lost an opportunity to question and expose the ‘deceit’ of the Andhra Pradesh government in illegally utilising more river waters than the permitted with its glaring absence at a joint meeting of the boards on Monday. “Mr. Rao has a secret understanding with AP Chief Minister Y.S. Jaganmohan Reddy and this would have got exposed if he had attended the meeting,” he charged. The BJP president accused Mr. Rao of avoiding the meetings lest the irregularities in the detailed project reports, enhanced project costs and the illegal gratifications associated with the projects would have come out. “The Telangana Chief Minister did not utter a word when the Pothireddypadu project and other illegal works were being constructed. He made the Chief Secretary react to my letter on the issue and when Union Water Resources Minister Gajendra Shekawat called for a meeting, he did not attend,” he alleged. Mr. Sanjay Kumar said the whimsical attitude of Mr. Rao has been causing grave injustice to the people of Telangana. After accepting just 299 TMC water for TS earlier instead of the eligible 555 TMC, the Chief Minister has been unable to make use of the meagre allocation too. Eatala hits out In a separate meeting at Huzurabad, former health minister Eatala Rajender accused the government of snooping on not only the Opposition leaders, but also the ruling party’s own leaders. “What kind of democracy is this when the ruling party MLAs too are under surveillance? Does Mr. Rao have any right to govern the State if he has no trust in his own MLAs,” he questioned. Now with the BJP, and the likely candidate to contest the Huzurabad byelection, he claimed that the government had spent close to Rs. 192 crore in the constituency to win the bypoll at any cost. “Five ministers and 10 MLAs have been pressed into action to defeat me. Everyone is aware of the assets of Mr. Rao and Harish Rao in 2014 and now. I consider myself fortunate that the forgotten poll promises are being implemented following my resignation. The same should be applied throughout the State. None of the schemes were halted in Dubbak after TRS lost, it will be the same in Huzurabad,” the BJP leader said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bjp-criticises-kcr-for-boycotting-krishna-godavari-board-meeting/article35868501.ece
12 August 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Road dividers a bane for pedestrians||It is a 900-metre stretch in Nallagandla, it is a 700-metre stretch in Masab Tank and it is a kilometre long stretch near Suchitra Junction. These are the ‘lengths’ that citizens have to go to, literally, to cross over to the other side of the road. At Nallagandla, a row of apartments is on one side and a row of big retail outlets on the other. In Masab Tank, the Sarojini Devi Eye Hospital is on one side and the parking bay for regional transport buses on the other. These long stretches with speeding traffic are divvying up the city and making the city more pedestrian-unfriendly. “Traffic was slow here and people used to cross over to the shops on the other side. Now, the traffic speed has gone up,” says Suresh, who has seen the Nallagandla area change over the past four years with the ringside view of his coconut stall. On Monday, a woman tumbled at the road divider as she tried to cross the road in the company of other women. A thin wire has been strung up to stop people from crossing over. “These high-speed highway-type roads are a disaster in the making. Globally, cities are calming down traffic and giving higher priority to pedestrians. Providing well designed inclusive at-grade road crossings for pedestrians at every 200 metres is the best practice in progressive countries,” says Jasmine Singh, an urban planner. Walls with trees The medians not are not just a hurdle but are walls with trees in the middle. Near the CM’s camp office, there are small olive trees over the 400-metre stretch that citizens have to walk on the road without footpath to cross to the other side without the help of a zebra crossing. “We are working on the NH65 (near Miyapur) to create mid-block crossing and table-top crossing that slow down vehicles and allow people to cross. Pelican signals are also being installed in the western part of the city, but they should not be misused, and require police presence,” says Tarun George, a sustainable transport proponent working with World Resource Institute. He advocates streamlining pedestrian movement matching pedestrian movement with carriageways. “Our experience is that foot over-bridges are not used by pedestrians and table-top crossing are an effective solution,” he says. An intervention to help smoothen pedestrian movement can be seen at the Hi-Tec City Junction. Incidentally, Hyderabad has seen 113 pedestrian deaths in the past two years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/road-dividers-a-bane-for-pedestrians/article35868498.ece
12 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Organ donations get ticking||After a dip during the first wave of COVID-19 pandemic, the number of organ donations and transplantations in Telangana is once again picking up. After the State government’s Jeevandan Cadaver Transplantation Programme was started in 2013, the highest of 573 organs were donated in 2018, followed by 263 in 2017. In 2019, it was 469. After coronavirus started to spread in the State from March 2020, the donations plummeted with only 257 organs being donated. A large pool of donors is brain-dead patients who suffer critical severe injuries to brain in road accidents. Minimal movement of people during lockdown and therefore, fewer accidents, was cited as one of the reasons for low donations. Lockdown was implemented this year too when the second wave set in around mid-March. However, the donations did not come down. From January to August 10 of this year, 310 organs were donated. Since over four months are left for the year to end, the numbers are expected to increase. Of all the organs, kidney is the most transplanted. Of the total 3,369 transplantations, 40% (1,360) are of kidneys. In-charge of Jeevandan Programme and nephrologist G. Swarnalatha said uncontrolled hypertension and diabetes is leading to kidney diseases, and kidney failure. The senior doctor has suggested some methods to prevent and avoid progression of kidney diseases and failure of the organ — drink at least two litres of water a day, limit salt consumption to 2 to 4 grams a day rather than the 12-14 grams which Indian foods have, cut down consumption of pickles, consume fresh vegetables and fruits, exercise regularly, limit animal protein source and stop unprescribed usage of painkillers.  Uncontrolled hypertension and diabetes is leading to kidney diseases, and kidney failure. G. Swarnalatha, Nephrologist and in-charge of Jeevandan Programme||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/organ-donations-get-ticking/article35868495.ece
12 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||HC asks govt. plans on COVID preparedness, GO 111||The Telangana High Court on Wednesday expressed dissatisfaction over the high-power committee appointed by the State government to study issues relating to GO 111 not filing any report so far. A bench of Chief Justice Hima Kohli and Justice B. Vijaysen Reddy, hearing a batch of writ petitions on matters relating to GO 111, said the committee failed to accomplish the task assigned to it. It would be better to disband the committee since it had not made any headway in coming out with the analysis and study of GO 111 even after five years, the bench observed. GO 111 was issued by the then State government of undivided Andhra Pradesh State in 1996. As per its provisions, no industries or high-rise structures were not allowed to spring up in the catchment areas of Himayathsagar and Osmansagar lakes, the two main drinking water sources to the State capital of Hyderabad. Some writ petitions were filed seeking strict implementation of GO 111. Some pleas challenged the GO questioning its practicality while others petitions sought deletion of their villages or localities from the purview of the GO. The government constituted a high-power committee. Along with the Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar, Municipal Administration secretary Arvind Kumar and Dana Kishore of Water Board were members of the committee. Assuring swift action on the matter, the government counsel sought time to file status report. The matter was posted to Monday for next hearing. The bench, hearing a batch of PIL pleas on COVID-19 related issues, directed the government to take steps ensuring that unnecessary crowding of people did not take place during the ensuing Vinayaka Chaviti and other festivals and events. In the backdrop of reports about rising corona cases and in the event of third wave of COVID-19, the government should have an action plan to tackle the situation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/hc-asks-govt-plans-on-covid-preparedness-go-111/article35868514.ece
12 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Issue addendum on GO 208’||Telangana High Court on Wednesday instructed the State government to issue an addendum to the recently released GO 208 (Routine) sanctioning Rs. 58.95 crore towards expenses for contempt of court cases faced by Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar. A bench of Chief Justice Hima Kohli and Justice B. Vijaysen Reddy passed the direction while hearing contentions presented by Advocate General B.S. Prasad in a PIL petition seeking a direction to declare the GO as illegal and arbitrary. Earlier the bench directed that no funds should be released under the GO till furthers orders when it first heard the plea a week ago. The same day, Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar filed an affidavit stating that the funds were meant for payments to the persons whose lands were acquired by the government. When the petition came up for hearing on Wednesday, the AG reiterated that the GO was aimed at making payments in different execution petitions arising out of land acquisition original petitions. He apprehended that the bench’s direction not to release funds under the GO would result in withholding payments in land acquisition cases. “Look at the tone and tenor of the GO...it is misleading….a person reading the GO would get an impression the money is sanctioned towards expenses of contempt of courts...,” the CJ observed. The bench said issuing an addendum to the GO was the best option for the State government to set right misconceptions about the purpose of sanctioning Rs. 58.95 crore. The bench recalled that the Chief Secretary had filed a memo and an affidavit within four hours of it passing a direction in the PIL plea last week. “Why cannot the government issue an addendum...it will take two minutes for them to issue it,” the CJ said recalling the speed at which the CS filed the affidavit last time. The matter was adjourned to Friday for next hearing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/issue-addendum-on-go-208/article35868515.ece
12 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Govt. continues to depend on open market borrowings||The State government is continuing to depend on open market borrowings (OMBs) through Reserve Bank of India to meet its financial commitments for welfare and developmental programmes. The government has borrowed Rs. 8,000 crore in the form of State Development Loans and auction of securities during the second quarter of the current financial year with more than one and half a months still remaining. The government raised OMBs to the tune of Rs. 2,000 crore on August 10 and Rs. 1,500 crore on August 3, taking the total to Rs. 3,500 crore during the current month. The government raised Rs. 4,500 crore in July including Rs. 2,500 crore in the form of auction of securities on July 16 and July 30 and State Development Loan of Rs. 2,000 crore on July 13. The development comes in the light of indicative calendar released by the RBI for the second quarter wherein the OMBs for the period were projected at Rs. 6,000 crore. The State indicated that it would borrow the amount in four tranches — Rs. 1,000 crore during the auction to be conducted on July 27 and Rs. 2,000 crore on August 10. This will be followed by raising another Rs. 1,000 crore on August 24 and Rs. 2,000 crore on September 7, according to the RBI calendar. But the government raised Rs. 8,000 crore already reflecting the stress on finances to ensure implementation of welfare and development programmes. The government had raised total quantum of Rs. 13,500 crore through OMBs for the first quarter as against the Rs. 8,000 crore indicated for the period. While kharif instalment of Rythu Bandhu scheme caused a major outgo of over Rs. 7,500 crore, implementation of revised pay scales to all categories of employees with 30% fitment benefit had its impact on the finances. The Finance department is said to be working overtime to raise resources for meeting the likely impact of the Dalit Bandhu, involving transfer of Rs. 10 lakh each to identified SC beneficiaries as part of efforts to promote entrepreneurship.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/govt-continues-ombs/article35868516.ece
12 August 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Cong. seniors slowly coming to terms||Ripples created within the Congress, particularly dissidence among the seniors, after the appointment of A. Revanth Reddy as Telangana Congress chief seem to be settling down with the ‘disappointment and anger’ among some seniors fading slowly. D. Sridhar Babu, MLA and T. Jeevan Reddy, MLC, who were powerful Ministers much before Revanth Reddy was an MLA, have finally shared the dais with the new PCC president at the Dalita Girijana Dandora in Indervelli. This is the first time both former ministers have come face to face with the new president at the party programmes that they have been avoiding till now. They made their displeasure quite clear by skipping the swearing-in ceremony of Mr. Revanth Reddy as well despite the presence of AICC in-charge for Telangana Manickam Tagore. Irrespective of personal relations all the party leaders rarely miss a programme that the AICC in-charge attends. Party sources said that both leaders had come to terms with the reality apart from the energised cadre who seem to find some confidence in the new leader in taking on the powerful ruling party irrespective of the outcome in the elections. The grassroots cadre and the middle-level leadership in their respective constituencies too played a crucial role in the seniors accepting the new leadership. Mr. Revanth Reddy too did not leave any opportunity to calm their anger, personally calling on them right after his appointment was announced. Publicly as well, Mr. Revanth Reddy sent strong signals to them that their disappointment was understandable. “They were just in their disappointment given their seniority and commitment to the Congress over the years. I got the opportunity and will work with them to bring back the golden days of the Congress,” Mr. Revanth Reddy told the journalists during his interactions. The Komatireddy brothers — Komatireddy Venkata Reddy, Bhongir MP, and Komatireddy Rajagopal Reddy, MLA,— however continue to stay away from the meetings though both leaders have been hyper-active politically. The MP has been meeting officials in New Delhi focussing on getting some projects for his constituency and also constantly criticising Chief Minister, K. Chandrasekhar Rao on various issues. The MLA too had taken an aggressive approach against the TRS government and his spar with senior Minister G. Jagadish Reddy in an official meeting and subsequent squabbles with the police grabbed the headlines. However, their recent meeting with BJP leader and Union Minister G. Kishan Reddy in Parliament did lead to some speculation. “Though they won’t leave the party, it is quite clear that they will continue to reveal their displeasure in various forms,” a senior leader said. Former PCC chief and Nalgonda MP N. Uttam Kumar Reddy has confined himself to his constituency activities. It is no secret that he wanted either Mr. Sridhar Babu or CLP leader Bhatti Vikramarka to take over the reins from him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cong-seniors-slowly-coming-to-terms/article35868522.ece
12 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Vaccination drive reaches slums||The Health department has pressed into action 40 mobile vans to conduct COVID-19 vaccination in Hyderabad slums. District Medical and Health Officer J. Venkati said the daily target for each van is 400 beneficiaries, which translates to 16,000 beneficiaries a day. “The drive was initiated on Tuesday. On the first day, around 11,500 people were vaccinated,” Dr Venkati said. Anyone above 18 years is eligible to get vaccinated at designated government health centres. The DMHO saidt the mobile vans are being used to take the vaccination to doorstep of people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/vaccination-drive-reaches-slums/article35868778.ece
12 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||11-year-old boy killed in freak accident||An 11-year-old boy was caught and crushed between an automated shutter in a freak accident on Wednesday. According to Raidurgam police, Gutthula Rajesh met with the accident at a building at Anjaiah Nagar in Gachibowli. Police said that the victim’s father, Arjun Kumar, works at the same building as a watchman. He, along with his wife, 12-year-old son Gutthula Bhanu Prakash, and the victim moved to the city around five years ago to eke out a living. Around 7.30 a.m. on Wednesday, the boy went to the second floor to play. When he did not return, Arjun went looking for him. When he reached the second floor of the building, he found his son caught and crushed between the automated shutter. Arjun broke a portion of the shutter and pulled his son out. However, it was too late by then. It is suspected that somebody inadvertently operated the automated shutter. Raidurgam police have booked a case. The 11-year-old boy’s body was moved to a hospital for post mortem.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/11-year-old-boy-killed-in-freak-accident/article35868507.ece
12 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||No tree felling in KBR Park, says HC||Telangana High Court on Wednesday directed the government not to resort to felling of trees in and around KBR Park as part of SRDP. Hearing a PIL petition seeking to quash a notification issued by the Union Ministry of Forests declaring an eco-sensitive zone under KBR Park in the backdrop of SRDP, the HC instructed the government to file an affidavit with complete details of trees felled so far. A bench of Chief Justice Hima Kohli and Justice B. Vijaysen Reddy passed the directions. Earlier, the government had notified 1,300 trees to be felled. Observing that relocation of trees cannot be a sufficient ground to fell them, the bench wanted it to furnish all details about the trees that were cut so far. “Details of age of the trees, how long will it take to grow such trees and how many were felled should be explained,” it said. The petitioners’ counsel contended that an expert committee was constituted to propose changes to be made to the park in the backdrop of SRDP. Changes were also proposed to the specifications of the eco-sensitive zone. Even these changes were not uniform and violated provisions of laws including Wild Life Protection Act, the lawyer contended. The bench also instructed that GHMC and Municipal Administration department be impleaded as they were responsible for executing the SRDP.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/no-tree-felling-in-kbr-park-says-hc/article35868505.ece
12 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Orange alert for I Day||An ‘Orange’ alert for security has been issued from August 13-17, and the highest level of vigilance and alert is being maintained by security forces for any suspicious activity with adequate traffic and movement control measures in Secunderabad Military Station starting from Wednesday. The roads on defence land in Secunderabad Military Station will be closed temporarily due to high security alert for Independence Day from 11.59 p.m. on August 13 to 6 a.m. on August 16. Military authorities have welcomed the willing cooperation and support from citizens to thwart the evil designs of anti-national elements together. All preparations for safe conduct of Independence Day celebrations are being undertaken with comprehensive security measures being instituted against likely target strikes, a press release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/orange-alert-for-i-day/article35868780.ece
12 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Burglar nabbed, gold and silver worth Rs. 18L seized||The South Zone Task Force arrested a house burglar, and seized 36.5 tolas of gold ornaments and around 1 kg silver ornaments, estimated to be worth Rs. 18 lakh. Police identified the accused as Mohammed Saleem alias Sunil Shetty (46), a resident of Nawab Saheb Kunta. He is a painter. According to the police, as many as 12 offences, which took place in Hyderabad and Rachakonda police commissionerates, were detected after his arrest. The accused has been committing offences since 1991. In 2018, the Preventive Detention Act was invoked against him. Explaining his modus operandi, police said that the accused targeted houses belonging to those from middle class and lower-middle class background. He would break locks using a screw driver and cutting pliers. He was handed over to the Chandrayangutta police for further action.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/burglar-nabbed-gold-and-silver-jewellery-worth-rs-18l-seized/article35868512.ece
12 August 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||‘TRS frustrated over Indervelli’||The Congress has said that the ruling Telangana Rashtra Samihthi (TRS) was worried over the huge response to the Indervelli meeting and their frustration reflected in the Ministers’ and MLAs’ attack on the Telangana Congress president A. Revanth Reddy. At separate press conferences here, senior leaders Mallu Ravi, E. Anil Kumar, Sudheer Reddy, Dasoju Sravan and Ramulu Naik said the meeting’s success and the public response had worried the TRS that was spewing venom on the Congress. Mr. Mallu Ravi said Mr. Revanth used the same language that Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao had been using to target the opposition parties and wondered why the Ministers did not find it wrong. He demanded an apology from Ministers Prashanth Reddy and Indrakaran Reddy for indulging in abusive language against the Congress president. Mr. Ravi said the Congress had a long history of working for the upliftment and empowerment of Dalits and the rising presence of Dalits in public life and various professions was due to the policies of the Congress over the years. AICC spokesperson Sravan Dasoju claimed that KCR had announced Dalit Bandhu after betraying the SCs in every possible way in his seven-year rule till now. He challenged the TRS leaders to an open debate on the funds spent towards SCs/STs empowerment under KCR rule. He said Congress cadre would react and reply strongly to the oppressive tactics of TRS and urged the TRS SC/ST MLAs to question KCR for cheating rather than attacking Congress leaders for being a responsible opposition. He said KCR was promising Rs. 10 lakh to every Dalit family but in his seven-year rule 9.15 lakh SCs/STs applied for loans through SC/ST Corporation but only 1.05 lakh beneficiaries were given loans. Moreover, Rs. 6,491 crore was allocated to SC/ST Finance Corporation but just Rs. 2,246 crore was spent. On the contrary TRS government had not even spent Rs. 40,000 crore for the upliftment of Dalits through the Sub Plan introduced by the Congress.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/trs-frustrated-over-indervelli/article35868527.ece
12 August 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||TRS to give personal touch to voters||TRS will give a personal touch campaign in Huzurabad writing a personally addressed letter to voters and their families seeking votes for its candidate Gellu Srinivas Yadav. The party has prepared a list of all the beneficiaries of various schemes in the constituency and the letters will be personally addressed to them. A common letter highlighting the government’s achievements over the last 7 years is also being prepared to be handed over to the voters with a request to vote for Mr. Srinivas Yadav. The letters will be handed over personally to beneficiaries by leaders to get the personal touch and getting some kind of assurance that they will favour the ruling party. The party in-charges for every mandal and village already camping in the constituency will take the responsibility. More than two lakh letters are being printed in pink to constantly remind the voters of the party’s colour. Thousands of people in the constituency are beneficiaries of schemes like Rythu Bandhu, Rythu Bima, Kalyana Lakshmi, Shaadi Mubarak and also the Overseas Scholarship scheme apart from the Aasra pensions. Double bedroom house is one big issue that the party may be avoided in the letter since the scheme has not really taken off. Efforts are on to reach out to all beneficiaries and the voters with the letters much before the proposed visit of Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao to the constituency. The government has already made arrangements to launch its flagship Dalit Bandhu scheme from the constituency in a big way. The Chief Minister apparently has given instructions to party leaders that defeating Eatala Rajender was not the idea alone but defeating him with a huge majority is what he expects given the way Mr. Eatala Rajender’s ouster from the Cabinet and the subsequent political developments have created a new challenge to the party.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/trs-to-give-personal-touch-to-voters/article35868523.ece
12 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Celebrating India’s Olympics achievements, with a difference||The Heartfulness Institute of Hyderabad organised ‘Forests by Heartfulness’, a nation-wide initiative to plant seven lakh saplings to mark the seven medals won by India in Tokyo Games. Champion shuttler and Tokyo Games bronze medallist, P.V. Sindhu visited the institute to seek the blessings of Heartfulness guide Kamlesh Patel, also known as Daaji, and undertook a mediation session with him. A long-time practitioner of Heartfulness, the shuttler expressed her gratitude to Daaji for helping her realise her goal of bringing glory to the country. “My family has always pursued meditation. Through them, I was introduced to Heartfulness meditation. I feel happy whenever I visit Kanha Shantivanam or any Heartfulness meditation centre. My life has changed after I started practising meditation. People have many questions when they hear about meditation. I want to convey that meditation is not a magic pill for success, but it brings clarity in your mind and heart,” said Sindhu, who has become the first woman athlete from India to win back-to-back Olympics medals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/celebrating-indias-olympics-achievements-with-a-difference/article35868488.ece
12 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Youths booked for ‘nuisance’ on Durgam Cheruvu bridge||Three youths were booked for allegedly stopping on the Cable Stayed Bridge at Durgam Cheruvu and celebrating a birthday, Madhapur police said on Wednesday. According to the police, the youth reached the bridge late on Tuesday night to cut a birthday cake and hindered traffic. Their ‘nuisance’ was captured on CCTV cameras, police said. A case was registered against the trio under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code, including one pertaining to negligence, Madhapur inspector said. According to Cyberabad Traffic Police’s official Twitter handle, a similar incident was reported at around 11.57 p.m. on August 5 when six youths on two-wheelers, allegedly riding them rashly, stopped on the bridge. One more succumbs The LPG cylinder explosion in Dhoolpet on Tuesday claimed another life with Neeraj Singh succumbing. The explosion had killed 24-year-old Manav Singh on Tuesday. He was the son of Neeraj, who suffered 70% burns and died while undergoing treatment on Wednesday. Neeraj’s wife, who too was injured, is undergoing treatment and said to be stable.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/youths-booked-for-nuisance-on-durgam-cheruvu-bridge/article35868513.ece
12 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Plea to Agro Service Centres||Agriculture Minister S. Niranjan Reddy has appealed to agro service centres in the State not to become a financial burden on farmers but become useful partners to them. Inaugurating a 45-day training programme in agri-clinics and agri-business for organisers of these centres, Mr. Reddy asked them to make good use of 36% subsidy extended to their units. Instead of confining themselves to running conventional businesses in fertilizer, pesticide and seed, they should diversify. The programme was organised by Telangana State Agro Industries Development Corporation (AGROS) in coordination with National Institute of Agricultural Extension Management .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/plea-to-agro-service-centres/article35868528.ece
12 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||COVID cases below 500 as tests stay low||The daily COVID-19 caseload in Telangana continued to stay under 500 for the fourth consecutive day as tests dropped to 80,000-90,000 a day. Until a week ago, over one lakh samples were examined in a day. On Wednesday, 88,164 samples were put to test and 482 were detected with coronavirus. Of the new infections, 82 were from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation limits, 61 from Karimnagar, 41 from Warangal Urban and 35 from Nalgonda. No case was detected in Nagarkurnool, and only one case was detected each in Vikarabad, Medak, and Jogulamba Gadwal. Two more COVID patients died, pushing up the death toll to 3,833. Of the total cases, 8,137 were active as of Wednesday evening. Vaccination at slums The Health department has pressed into action 40 mobile vans to conduct COVID-19 vaccination in Hyderabad slums. District Medical and Health Officer J. Venkati said the daily target for each van is 400 beneficiaries, which translates to 16,000 beneficiaries a day. “The drive was initiated on Tuesday. On the first day, around 11,500 people were vaccinated,” Dr Venkati said. Anyone above 18 years is eligible to get vaccinated at designated government health centres. The DMHO saidt the mobile vans are being used to take the vaccination to doorstep of people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/covid-cases-below-500-as-tests-stay-low/article35868492.ece
12 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||CREDAI property show starts from tomorrow||Confederation of Real Estate Developers Associations of India, the country’s apex body of private real estate developers, is organising the 10th edition of Hyderabad Property Show 2021 at Hitex Exhibition Center from August 13. Minister of State for Roads, Buildings, Legislative Affairs, and Housing Department V. Prashanth Reddy will inaugurate the event. The three-day property show will bring together realtors, building material manufacturers, consultants, and financial institutions from across the city to exhibit the advances in the real estate sector under a single umbrella. About 15,000 units and RERA-approved projects will be showcased, including integrated townships, apartment complexes, gated communities, villas, green buildings with a special impetus on retail and commercial complexes at 100 stalls. In view of the pandemic, necessary care and protection will be taken to safeguard all visitors, financial institutions, and builders, said a press release.  5,000 units and RERA-approved projects will be showcased||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/property-show-from-tomorrow/article35868496.ece
12 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||4 booked for water pilferage||Hyderabad Metropolitan Water Supply & Sewerage Board (HMWS&SB) officials have slapped criminal cases against four persons in KCR Colony of Kapra for pilferage of water. The four, colony president D. Kiran Kumar, vice-president Venkatesh, treasurer Venkatesham and secretary Parasuram, facilitated 130 illegal water supply connections without required permissions, a note from the water board informed. Vigilance wing officials acted on a tip off and conducted inspections in the area, after which criminal cases were booked against them, the note said. Information about illegal connections may be shared on mobile numbers 9989998100 or 9989992268, it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/4-booked-for-water-pilferage/article35868509.ece
12 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||15 booked for obstructing SIT team||Saidabad police, on Wednesday, booked a case against 15 women who allegedly obstructed Special Investigation Team (SIT) officers from serving summons in an old case on one Jille Huma. According to the police, the incident happened at Jeevan Uar Jung Colony on August 9. The team was not allowed to meet the woman.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/15-booked-for-obstructing-sit-team/article35868782.ece
12 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Commission for non-lapsable fund for defence||The 15th Finance Commission has recommended the creation of a non-lapsable fund in the public accounts for capital outlay and defence modernisation as well as possible financial options for the fund. The Commission also mentioned the need to progressively reduce revenue expenditure and enhance capital outlays expenditure besides making suggestions on mitigating the impact of the rising pension bills in the defence, said its chairman N.K. Singh online on Wednesday. He was addressing the Higher Defence Management Course at College of Defence Management, Secunderabad, virtually.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/commission-for-non-lapsable-fund-for-defence/article35868500.ece
12 August 2021||hyderabad,TELANGANA||CS inspects I Day arrangements at Golkonda Fort||Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar on Wednesday inspected the arrangements for 75th Independence Day celebrations at Golconda fort on August 15. Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao will unfurl the national flag at 10.30 am to mark the occasion. The Chief Secretary accompanied by senior officials visited Golconda fort and reviewed the arrangements with police, GHMC, Revenue, Culture and other departments at the venue. Special care should be taken regarding security and traffic management to avoid inconvenience to the public.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cs-inspects-i-day-arrangements-at-golkonda-fort/article35868520.ece
12 August 2021||hyderabad,TELANGANA||New Collector for Hyderabad||Mr. L. Sharman is the new Collector of Hyderabad, relieving Ms. Sweta Mohanty who will proceed on study leave. An IAS officer of 2005 batch, Mr. Sharman is presently the Collector of Nagarkurnool district. Mr. Manu Chowdary, Additional Collector (Local Bodies) at Nagarkurnool has been placed in full additional charge of the post of Nagarkurnool Collector. Medak Collector S. Harish has been given full additional charge as Medchal Collector, relieving Ms. Sweta Mohanty who was also holding the post in the same capacity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/new-collector-for-hyderabad/article35868529.ece
12 August 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Cylinder explosion claims another life||The LPG cylinder explosion in Dhoolpet on Tuesday claimed another life with Neeraj Singh succumbing to his injuries. The explosion had killed 24-year-old Manav Singh on Tuesday. He was the son of Neeraj Singh, who suffered over 70% burns and died while undergoing treatment on Wednesday. Neeraj Singh’s wife, who too was injured, is undergoing treatment and is said to be stable.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cylinder-explosion-claims-another-life/article35868781.ece
12 August 2021||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||After release, ryots protest at jail||Emotional scenes were witnessed at the District Jail complex here on Wednesday during the release of 21 farmers, including 18 women farmers of Yallanna Nagar on bail, six days after being arrested by the Konijerla police in connection with a case filed by the forest staff against 21 villagers over a week ago. The aggrieved family members of the farmers waited anxiously with tears welling up in their eyes even as 18 women farmers, including two nursing mothers with their months-old babies in their laps, walked out of the jail. Tense moments prevailed at the entrance of the jail as a section of the women farmers, soon after emerging from the prison, squatted in front of the main entrance of the jail complex in protest against what they termed “shabby treatment” meted out to them by a woman member of the prison staff. A woman farmer with her four-month-old baby in her lap alleged that she was compelled to remove small pieces of stones from rice along with other remand prisoners for several hours without heeding her pleas to spare her from the arduous kitchen work. Another woman farmer charged a woman member of the jail staff with abusing and manhandling her for keeping aside a small quantity of rice served to her in the jail for later consumption. “We were implicated in false cases for trying to safeguard our crops and subjected to inhuman treatment inside the jail,” she alleged. CPI (ML-New Democracy) State assistant secretary P Ranga Rao and a host of other party leaders joined the sit-in protest expressing solidarity with the aggrieved women farmers. The agitated women farmers called off their protest following the intervention of the jail authorities. The women farmers were treated shabbily inside the jail, he charged, saying: “This is the same jail where TRS president K Chandrasekhar Rao, now the Chief Minister of Telangana, was lodged during his indefinite hunger strike for separate Telangana in 2009.”  When contacted, district jail superintendent A Sridhar told The Hindu that all the requisite amenities were being provided to remand prisoners as per the prison manual in the district jail. Rebutting the charges made by some women farmers who were released from the district jail on bail on Wednesday, he said all the 21 remand prisoners from Yallanna Nagar were vaccinated against COVID-19 in the jail and provided with all requisite amenities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/after-release-ryots-protest-at-jail/article35868504.ece
12 August 2021||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||BC panel vice-chief at Khammam||National Commission for Backward Classes (NCBC) vice-chairperson Lokesh Kumar Prajapati has asked the district administration to provide alternative house sites to those who lost their homes in the demolition drive at Ramachandraiah Nagar in the Khammam Municipal Corporation (KMC) limits in June this year, within a fortnight. Mr Lokesh wanted the authorities to take urgent steps for proper rehabilitation of those rendered homeless by the demolition drive either at the site where their houses existed or some other suitable locality. Mr Lokesh and National Commission for Backward Classes member Thalloju Achary held a review meeting with Collector V P Gautham and other senior officials at the TTDC hall on Wednesday. Earlier in the day, he interacted with members of the displaced families of Ramachandraiah Nagar during his field visit to the area. The aggrieved shelterless poor people deplored that their houses constructed along the defunct irrigation canal were “demolished” by the authorities in an “arbitrary manner” during the COVID-19 pandemic. They further alleged that their consistent requests for regularisation of their houses went unheeded while some influential persons managed to regularise their high-rise buildings constructed on the NSP lands using their clout in the past. They wanted the intervention of the NCBC to ensure alternative house sites to them in the same locality. Mr Achary said any delay in providing alternative house sites to the displaced poor people would be viewed seriously and the matter would be brought to the notice of the Central government for appropriate action. The officials reportedly told the National Commission for Backward Classes vice-chairman that house site pattas were already sanctioned to around 25 displaced families and efforts were on to issue pattas to the remaining soon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bc-panel-vice-chief-at-khammam/article35868526.ece
12 August 2021||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||Eight gates of Sagar project lifted||Eight crest gates of the brimming Nagarjunasagar project were lifted as discharge from the upstream Srisailam project began on Wednesday. Officials operated the eight gates to a height of five feet, as a volume of about 1.15 lakh cusecs was being received. An outflow of 98,000 cusecs was maintained downstream. The project was holding 311.14 tmc ft water as against its full capacity of 312 tmc ft. and the water level was 589.70 as against its full reservoir level of 590 feet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/eight-gates-of-sagar-project-lifted/article35868783.ece
12 August 2021||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||Bullocks donated to farmers||In a move to encourage farmers, 22 bullocks were donated to farmers by Gangotri Gou Nilayam based at Hyderabad. The programme was organised by the Deccan Development Society (DDS) at Pastapur near Zaheerabad on Wednesday, said Go Gangotri Nilayam founder Hanumantha Rao. DDS director P.V. Satheesh, DSP Shankar Raju, Plant Genome Saviour Awardee Gangwar Anjamma, Municipal Commissioner Janakiram, and Dr Vinod Kumar participated in the programme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bullocks-donated-to-farmers/article35868524.ece
12 August 2021||YADADRI-BHUVANAGIRI,TELANGANA||Two arrested for theft and sale of metal||Choutuppal and Pochampally police in a joint operation arrested two persons for theft and sale of palladium carbon and platinum metal on Wednesday. According to the police, Raghunadh Reddy, who is a shift in-charge at a private drug company at Dothigudem of Rangareddy district, has been stealing the precious metal for the last one year. He took to stealing the metal from his office, unable to meet his loan repayments, and sold it to Lalu Swamy at Rs. 3 lakh per kg. Following a complaint by the company’s manager, and based on suspicion, the accused was nabbed while delivering the package to his buyer at Yellagiri of Choutuppal. A total of Rs. 47 lakh worth precious metals, a sale deed and other accessories were recovered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/two-arrested-for-theft-and-sale-of-metal/article35868779.ece
12 August 2021||Mumbai,||The Hindu In School to conduct eco-Ganpati making workshops||The Hindu In School , in collaboration with a Mumbai-based NGO, Parisar Asha, is conducting mega eco-Ganpati making online workshops to sensitise families to the environmental contamination caused by the immersion of POP Ganesha idols. The workshops aim to teach the participants and their family members the technique of making Ganpati idols using fire clay (shadu) or other easily available eco-friendly material and conserve the environment. The efforts are directed towards creating a ripple effect where the trained participants can further pass the knowledge to their community members. The workshops will be held on August 14, 15, 21 and 22, and September 4 and 5. Two batches will be conducted on each day at 11 a.m. and 4 p.m.. Children can choose the dates and batch to attend the sessions by paying a nominal fee of Rs. 299. To register, call at 9820955057/8828233442/9821083540 or email at info@parisarasha.com/ ajit.balan@thehindu.co.in. This initiative is being presented by Union Bank of India, and Hindustan Petroleum Corporation of India is the energy partner. The best work will be selected at the end of each session and all the winners will be awarded after the event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/the-hindu-in-school-to-conduct-eco-ganpati-making-workshops/article35868386.ece
12 August 2021||Navi Mumbai,||Teen detained for mother’s murder||The Rabale police in Navi Mumbai on Wednesday detained a teenager for allegedly killing her 41-year-old mother and then trying to pass it off as a suicide. She was sent to a juvenile home in Bhiwandi. Suresh Mengade, Deputy Commissioner of Police, Zone I, said, “After clearing Class X exam, the teenager’s parents wanted her to become a doctor and enrolled her for classes for NEET exam. The mother and the daughter used to fight over her studies for NEET classes.” On July 30, during one such fight, the mother threatened her with a knife. But the girl pushed her mother who banged her head against the corner of a cot. The mother tried to grab a karate belt lying nearby but the teenager snatched it and strangled her to death.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/teen-detained-for-mothers-murder/article35868384.ece
12 August 2021||New Delhi,||‘Justice has won; PM’s conspiracy exposed’||Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia on Wednesday said the case regarding ‘assault’ on former Chief Secretary Anshu Prakash was a “conspiracy” hatched by the Prime Minister.  “Today is a day of victory of justice and truth in Delhi. Now, it has become clear that this conspiracy to obstruct the government elected by the people of Delhi is on the behest of PM Narendra Modi, the Centre and the BJP, and it has been exposed now. Considering the truth is in front of everyone, The Centre and the BJP should apologise to Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal and the people of Delhi who chose him,” he said. Mr. Sisodia said false and fabricated conspiracies were being hatched from day one to obstruct the Delhi government, and that Mr. Kejriwal was treated like a “terrorist”. ‘Attempt to topple govt.’ “This would be the first instance of Independent India when a Prime Minister hatched a conspiracy to topple a State government, fearing the increasing popularity of the Chief Minister elected by the people. Officers were forcibly stopped from working for the public good for six months,” Mr. Sisodia said. He said that the PM was chosen by the people to run the country and not for making “false cases” or to bring down State governments. “Today, the Centre has become so busy in all this that the country’s systems are failing. This failure of the Centre can also be seen in the mismanagement of the COVID-19 crisis,” the senior AAP leader said. He claimed that the BJP is scared of Mr. Kejriwal’s popularity, so a fake FIR was made against him using the Delhi Police, and his house and office were raided. “He was treated like a terrorist. This is the first incident after Independence when such a raid was conducted in the house and office of a sitting CM. Police entered Mr. Kejriwal’s bedroom. He was treated like a terrorist. The police interrogated him for six hours continuously,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/justice-has-won-pms-conspiracy-exposed/article35868383.ece
12 August 2021||new delhi,||Hopsitals see rise in patients requesting elective surgeries||As novel coronavirus cases decline in the national capital, hospitals in Delhi-NCR are seeing patients returning to them for elective surgeries with some of them saying the current situation is almost similar to pre-COVIDtime. However, the medical facilities said patients put forth special demands like less hospital visits and single room stay as they are still fearful of contracting COVID. Gurinder Bedi, director and HOD, orthopedic and joint replacement, Fortis Hospital in Vasant Kunj, said the hospital OPDs are back to normal and in some cases, even better placed than how they were befiore COVID. The senior doctor said the hospital has seen an increase in joint replacement surgeries, spine surgeries for chronic low backache. ‘Colossal change’ “There is a colossal change in the last six to eight weeks. There is also a fear of the third wave and people are more pragmatic thinking that there is a window and they should get issues sorted out,” he said. Sumeet Shah, director - Minimal Access and Bariatric Surgery - PSRI Hospital, concurred with Dr. Bedi and said there was definitely a dip in the number of elective surgeries during the second wave of COVID-19 but since the number of cases have come down significantly the elective surgery numbers are now almost close to the COVID-19 levels. “There are multiple reasons for it, people sense that there is a gap in the COVID cases and this provides them the right opportunity to get operated on,” he said. Since many patients had already delayed their surgeries, they reached the point where the surgery could not be delayed further, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/hopsitals-see-rise-in-patients-requesting-elective-surgeries/article35868613.ece
12 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||BJP asks CM to apologise to Anshu Prakash, dismiss two MLAs||The Delhi BJP on Wednesday demanded that Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal apologise to former Chief Secretary Anshu Prakash after a city court ordered framing of charges against two AAP MLAs in relation to his alleged assault at the Chief Minister’s residence in 2018. Delhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta expressed surprise over Deputy CM Manish Sisodia “praising” AAP MLAs Amantullah Khan and Prakash Jarwal against whom the court ordered the framing of charges. “The charges against these MLAs have been framed under Sections 186, 353 of the IPC. It is shocking that Mr. Sisodia, rather than dismissing them from the party, is defending and praising such elements who indulge in acts of violence against the senior-most IAS officer,” Mr. Gupta said. “Propriety demands that these two MLAs should be immediately dismissed from the party, especially now that charges have been framed against them. The fact that all this happened at the CM’s residence and in his presence also points a finger at him,” he added. Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor said the framing of charges against the two AAP MLAs “proved” that the Chief Secretary was actually beaten. “Mr. Kejriwal and some MLAs may have been given a clean chit due to lack of sustainable evidence but fixing of charges against the two MLAs shows that a beating took place in the CM’s presence and thus the CM is morally responsible. He should apologise to Mr. Prakash,” Mr. Kapoor said. The Delhi Congress said the framing of charges against the MLAs was proof enough that there was a strong case for Mr. Prakash to approach a higher court to appeal against the discharge of Mr. Kejriwal and others. ‘CM should resign’ The party called for the suspension of the two MLAs and demanded the resignation of Mr. Kejriwal on moral grounds as the ‘assault’ occurred at the CM’s residence. Delhi Congress chief. Ch. Anil Kumar said, “The very fact that the incident happened in the presence of Mr. Kejriwal and Mr. Sisodia at the CM’s official residence should automatically make out a case against the CM for instigating his MLAs to assault Mr. Prakash, which is an equally serious offence.” “The fact that the police filed a very weak case against Mr. Kejriwal and his party MLAs shows that the BJP is keen to bail them out in return for Mr. Kejriwal’s silence on the Pegasus case and support for the Centre’s anti-farmer laws, one of which was validated in the Delhi Assembly,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/bjp-asks-cm-to-apologise-to-anshu-prakash-dismiss-two-mlas/article35868379.ece
12 August 2021||New Delhi,||HC seeks Ramani stand on Akbar’s appeal in defamation case||The Delhi High Court on Wednesday sought response from journalist Priya Ramani on former Union Minister M.J. Akbar’s appeal against a trial court order acquitting her in the criminal defamation case filed by him her tweets accusing him of sexual harassment. Justice Mukta Gupta posted the case for further hearing on January 13. Senior advocates Rajiv Nayar and Geeta Luthra, appearing for Mr. Akbar, argued that the trial court “erroneously” acquitted Ms. Ramani despite concluding that her allegations were defamatory in nature. Mr. Akbar, in his appeal, stated that the trial court’s judgment “suffers from non-application of mind, which has led to crucial errors”. “On one hand, while the impugned judgment itself states that the article written by the accused [Ms. Ramani], which was subsequently linked to the complainant [Mr. Akbar], was defamatory, and simultaneously rejects the defence of the accused that only part of the article applied to the complainant and the remainder did not, it ultimately acquits the accused,” the plea said. “It would follow that the accused, once her argument is rejected and her publication is held to be defamatory, would be convicted. However, the trial court, even after holding as above, has acquitted the accused, without providing adequate reasons for such acquittal,” it added. #MeToo movement At the height of the #MeToo movement in 2018, Ms. Ramani accused Mr. Akbar of sexual harassment. Following Ms. Ramani’s accusation, about dozen former colleagues of Mr. Akbar also came out with different allegations against him. Open letter Days before he resigned from his post of Minister of State for External Affairs in October 2018, Mr. Akbar filed a criminal defamation case against Ms. Ramani citing her open letter published in a magazine and her tweets naming him. Mr. Akbar had in his criminal defamation complaint claimed that Ms. Ramani’s tweet and her article accusing him of sexual harassment were defamatory, and lowered his reputation. He also said that Ms. Ramani didn’t produce any evidence to prove her story. However, Ms. Ramani pleaded that truth was her defence in relation to the allegations of sexual harassment against Mr. Akbar. She said her tweet and subsequent article alleging Mr. Akbar of sexual harassment during his previous role as newspaper editor was made in “good faith” and for public good. Trial court’s ruling The trial court on February 17 rejected Mr .Akbar’s complaint noting that, “woman has a right to put her grievance at any platform of her choice and even after decades”. The trial court accepted Ms. Ramani’s argument that she spoke out against Mr. Akbar after two decades of the incident “in public interest and for the public good.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/hc-seeks-ramani-stand-on-akbars-plea/article35868375.ece
12 August 2021||New Delhi,||Govt. takes back claim, says Centre did request data on oxygen-scarcity deaths||A day after Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia claimed that the Centre had never asked for any data on oxygen-scarcity deaths in the city during the second COVID-19 wave, the Delhi government on Wednesday reversed its claim. ‘Not enough time’ The Delhi government has now stated it was asked to submit the data, but added that the Centre gave only “12-14 hours” to file a report on the issue. “The Centre has not sought any report from the Delhi on deaths due to lack of oxygen... Till now no information or letter has been sent... The centre is spreading the lie that States are not giving information, whereas they themselves have not asked for any information from the States,” Mr. Sisodia had said on Tuesday. On Wednesday, however, he said: “In the communication received by the Delhi government on July 26, the Centre gave time till noon of next day to file the data, a mere 12-14 hours. It was never mentioned that the data can be submitted by August 13. If there is any such letter that says so then it must be shown by the Centre.” He also reiterated that the Delhi government will submit a report to the Centre on the oxygen-scarcity deaths.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/govt-takes-back-claim-says-centre-did-request-data-on-oxygen-scarcity-deaths/article35868376.ece
12 August 2021||New Delhi,||No new COVID-19 death||The city reported only 37 new COVID-19 cases in the past 24 hours, taking the total cases to 14,36,889, as per a bulletin released by the Delhi government on Wednesday. There was no death reported and the toll stood at 25,068. A total of 66,886 tests were done in a day and the test positivity rate (TPR) was 0.06%. Of the total cases, 14,11,327 people have recovered and there are only 494 active cases in the city. In early May, the active cases were as high as 99,361. Vaccine stock The COVID-19 vaccine stock of the city on Wednesday morning would last for three days and there were 3,26,720 doses of Covishield and 3,07,940 doses of Covaxin, as per another bulletin by the government. A total of 1,40,843 vaccinations were done on Tuesday and till now, 1,09,77,134 doses of vaccines have been administered in the city, the bulletin said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/no-new-covid-19-death/article35868377.ece
12 August 2021||new delhi,||Delhi Police issues traffic advisory ahead of Independence Day||Delhi Police issued a traffic advisory on Wednesday to ensure safe and smooth vehicular movement across the national capital ahead of the Independence Day function and the full-dress rehearsal ceremony on August 13. According to the advisory, the traffic around Red Fort -- from where Prime Minister Narendra Modi will address the nation on Independence Day -- will remain closed for general traffic from 4 a.m. to 10 a.m., and will open to only authorised vehicles. Traffic restrictions for the full-dress rehearsal on August 13 and for the Independence Day function will remain the same, the police said.  Roads closed Eight roads, Netaji Subhash Marg, Lothian Road, SP Mukherjee Marg, Chandni Chowk Road, Nishad Raj Marg, Esplanade Road and its Link Road to Netaji Subhash Marg, Ring Road from Rajghat to ISBT, and Outer Ring Road from ISBT to IP flyover, will be closed for general public from 4 am to 10 am on both the days, according to the advisory. Vehicles without parking labels for the two days have been advised to avoid C-Hexagon India Gate, Copernicus Marg, Mandi House, Sikandra Road, Tilak Marg, Mathura Road, Bahadur Shah Zafar Marg, Subhash Marg, Jawaharlal Nehru Marg, and the Ring Road between Nizamuddin Bridge and the ISBT bridge, and Outer Ring Road from IP Flyover bypass to ISBT through Salimgarh. For north-south destinations, commuters will need to take alternative routes from: Aurobindo Marg-Safdarjung Road, Connaught Place-Minto Road, and Nizamuddin bridge to cross Yamuna-Pushta Road-GT Road. For the east-west corridor, commuters have been advised to follow alternative routes from DND-NH24-Vikas Marg, Vikas Marg-DDU Marg, and Boulevard Road-Baraf Khana.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/delhi-police-issues-traffic-advisory-ahead-of-independence-day/article35868614.ece
12 August 2021||New Delhi,||Chief Secretary bats for strict vigilance||Delhi Chief Secretary Vijay Kumar Dev on Wednesday held a meeting with top officials of the Vigilance Department and the Anti-Corruption Branch (ACB) regarding a soon-to-be-launched anti-corruption drive. Citywide surveillance and vigilance of all important departments will be part of the campaign, which seeks to identify field officers who are indulging in malpractices, patronising touts and harassing the public. According to the Delhi government, Mr. Dev said only those officers who have an “excellent track record” and have never been accused of corruption should be conducting the drive. “All departmental officers should instal CCTVs in their offices so that visitors can be closely monitored. Officers and employees found involved in corruption cases will be charged under various sections of the Indian Penal Code,” the government stated. Mr. Dev also directed the Divisional Commissioner, the appointing authority of sub-registrars, to give such posts to officials who have impeccable service records and integrity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/chief-secretary-bats-for-strict-vigilance/article35868380.ece
12 August 2021||New Delhi,||Kejriwal ‘locks’ transport office, launches online services||Terming it a gift for Delhiites ahead of the 75th Independence Day, the city government on Wednesday launched ‘faceless services’ related to the transport department. Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal inaugurated the initiative by putting a lock on the premises of the IP Estate Zone RTO. According to the government, the programme will initially cover 33 major transport-related services — covering almost 95% of the applications usually received by the department — with more services to be added soon. Only driving test and vehicle-fitness test will be done in person. Faceless services will provide “freedom from long queues, brokers and middlemen at the RTO office”, the government said, adding that people can now access “all the work of the transport department” while sitting at home. “ People would go, stand in lines every time and then someone would keep making objections in their application again and again. Eventually you’d get tired and get an agent to do it,” Mr. Kejriwal said. “All services of the transport department are now digital, no need to collect documents and stand in lines, no need to take a holiday, no need to hire a middleman or agent. Just turn the computer on and do it,” he added. Four RTOs were closed on Wednesday: IP Depot, Vasant Vihar, Sarai Kale Khan and Janakpuri. Helpdesk services will be available at these offices to ensure a smooth transition.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/kejriwal-locks-transport-office-launches-online-services/article35868381.ece
12 August 2021||Pune,||Maratha agitation forced Centre to introduce amendment: Raut||While crediting the tenacity of the Maratha quota agitation in Maharashtra for compelling the Centre to introduce the Constitution (127th Amendment) Bill 2021, which seeks to restore the power of State governments to identify and specify socially and economically backward classes, Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut expressed concern that the amendment would remain ‘half-baked’ unless the Union government lifted the cap on 50% reservation. Speaking in the Rajya Sabha on Wednesday, Mr. Raut targeted the Narendra Modi-led BJP government over the 102nd Amendment in 2018 for vesting all powers in the National Commission for Backward Classes for determining the backwardness of particular communities in States. “If this Bill [127th Amendment] is historic and revolutionary, then the credit must go to the sustained Maratha agitation which compelled the Centre to introduce it in the first place. Lakhs of Maratha community youth took to the streets for their rights, but in a disciplined fashion without causing any law and order problem … no one was harmed during these agitations nor was property damaged,” said Mr. Raut. However, he said he did not think that the path to Maratha reservation would be cleared even after the Constitution (127th Amendment) Bill was passed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/maratha-agitation-forced-centre-to-introduce-amendment-raut/article35868387.ece
12 August 2021||August 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Reaching out||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/reaching-out/article35868616.ece
12 August 2021||August 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Biden to host democracy summit in Dec.||In line with his campaign message on foreign policy, U.S. President Joe Biden will host a ‘Summit for Democracy’, virtually, on December 9-10, around three themes: defending against authoritarianism, fighting corruption, and promoting respect for human rights. The summit will gather together heads of state, civil society, philanthropy, and the private sector, the White House announced on Wednesday. A second summit, this time in-person, will follow about a year later, the White House said. “In his first six months in office, the President has reinvigorated democracy at home, vaccinating 70% of population, passing the American Rescue plan, and advancing bipartisan legislation to invest in our infrastructure and competitiveness,” it said. On foreign policy, the statement said Mr. Biden had rebuilt America’s alliances with other democracies, “rallying the world to stand up against human rights abuses, to address the climate crisis, and to fight the global pandemic, including by donating hundreds of millions of vaccine doses.” Mr. Biden ran for President on a platform that promised an American re-engagement with the world and to “renew” American democracy. In discussion with its foreign partners and on foreign visits, the U.S. messaging has included — sometimes pre-emptively — the idea that democratic norms are under threat domestically as well and they need fixing. The Summit is seen as one way to counter growing Chinese influence. In his March 2021 ‘Interim National Security Strategic Guidance’ to agencies and departments, Mr Biden had written: “I believe we are in the midst of an historic and fundamental debate about the future direction of our world. There are those who argue that, given all the challenges we face, autocracy is the best way forward. And there are those who understand that democracy is essential to meeting all the challenges of our changing world.” Wednesday’s announcement suggested that there would be country-wise commitments made at the first summit. “ Following a year of consultation, coordination, and action, President Biden will then invite world leaders to gather once more to showcase progress made against their commitments.,” it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/biden-to-host-democracy-summit-in-dec/article35867948.ece
12 August 2021||Washington,||Senate passes massive infrastructure Bill||U.S. President Joe Biden hailed the Senate passage on Tuesday of a “historic” $1.2 trillion infrastructure package, celebrating a major bipartisan win on a plan he vowed would “transform America.” By funding work on roads, bridges and ports, as well as clean water and high-speed internet, Mr. Biden said the Bill — which still needs House approval — would create thousands of high-paying jobs for people without college degrees. “This historic investment infrastructure is what I believe you, the American people, want,” he said in a White House address. “This Bill shows that we can work together,” he added. Some seven weeks after the Democratic leader stood with senators from both parties hailing a preliminary agreement, the bill received rare bipartisan support in Washington’s highly-polarized political atmosphere. Needing just a simple majority, it passed by 69 votes to 30 with backing from a third of Republican Senators. The measure now faces a make-or-break vote in the House of Representatives in coming weeks, where its future is less certain as divisions have sprung up in the Democratic majority. Democratic Senate majority leader Chuck Schumer credited Mr. Biden for winning approval of “the first major infrastructure package in over a decade on a bipartisan basis” after just seven months in office. “It’s been a long and winding road, but we have persisted,” Mr. Schumer said. The ambitious plan provides for $550 billion in new federal spending on transport infrastructure, but also for public transit, broadband internet, and clean water, as well as electric charging stations and other measures to fight climate change. The total price tag relies on other public funds that have already been appropriated. In a deeply divided Washington, the Bill’s final approval would mark a resounding victory for Mr. Biden, a former senator who touts his ability to reach across the aisle. In a sign of the continued influence wielded by former president Donald Trump, three Republican senators who participated in the negotiations announced they would not support the plan after Mr. Trump threatened reprisals for helping to hand Mr. Biden a political win.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/senate-passes-massive-infrastructure-bill/article35867940.ece
12 August 2021||Colombo,||Sri Lanka files charges against 25 people for Easter bombings||Sri Lanka has filed 23,270 charges against 25 people in connection with the 2019 Easter Sunday suicide bomb attacks on churches and hotels that killed 269 people, the President’s office said on Wednesday. The charges filed on Tuesday under the country’s anti-terror law include conspiring to murder, aiding and abetting, collecting arms and ammunition, and attempted murder, it said. The Attorney General also asked the Chief Justice to appoint a special three-member High Court Bench to hear the cases speedily, it said in a statement. Two groups blamed Two local Muslim groups that had pledged allegiance to the Islamic State group were blamed for the six near-simultaneous suicide bomb attacks on April 21, 2019. The blasts targeted three churches and three hotels. Another suicide bomber who had entered a fourth hotel left without setting off his bomb, but later committed suicide by detonating his explosives at a different location. Friction and a communication breakdown between then-President Maithripala Sirisena and then-Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe were blamed for the government’s failure to act on near-specific foreign intelligence warnings ahead of the attacks. That led to the election of President Gotabaya Rajapaksa on a platform of national security.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/sri-lanka-files-charges-against-25-people-for-easter-bombings/article35867943.ece
12 August 2021||August 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Canada slams China’s jailing of Michael Spavor as ‘unacceptable and unjust’||Canada on Wednesday slammed China’s sentencing of businessman Michael Spavor to 11 years in jail on spying charges, calling for his immediate release. Mr. Spavor and Michael Kovrig, a former Canadian diplomat, were both detained in 2018, in cases dubbed by Canada as “hostage diplomacy”. Their detentions in China shortly followed Canada’s arrest of top Huawei executive Meng Wangzhou at Vancouver airport, based on a U.S. warrant accusing the Chinese telecom company of violating Iran sanctions. The case of Ms. Meng, who is the daughter of Huawei founder Ren Zhengfei, is ongoing and she is facing extradition to the U.S. if found guilty, with a verdict expected in coming weeks. The 11-year sentence for Mr. Spavor came a day after another court in China upheld a death sentence for a Canadian accused of drug smuggling, in another case seen by Canadian officials as linked to Ms. Meng’s case. Robert Schellenberg had been arrested in 2014 and later sentenced to 15 years in prison. The verdict was changed to a death sentence in early 2019, also shortly after Ms. Meng’s arrest. Both verdicts this week came as hearings in Ms. Meng’s case reach their conclusion. On Wednesday, the court in Dandong, in northeastern Liaoning, said Mr. Spavor was convicted “of spying on China’s national secrets” and was ordered to be deported. Deportations of foreigners often follow the serving of their sentences, but the time served before deportation could be reduced at the discretion of judicial authorities. The courts in China are controlled by the Communist Party. Mr. Kovrig’s trial opened in March and he is awaiting a verdict. The Party-run Global Times said Mr. Kovrig “was accused of using an ordinary passport and business visa to enter China to steal sensitive information and intelligence through contacts in China since 2017, while Spavor was accused of being a key source of intelligence for Kovrig.” The three cases, and Ms. Meng’s ongoing trial, have strained Canada’s relations with China. The detentions of Mr. Spavor and Mr. Kovrig have been seen by Canada as pressure points being used by China on the Huawei case, and criticised as “hostage diplomacy”. Chinese officials have rejected that charge, and instead have accused Canada of taking Ms. Meng “hostage” at the behest of the U.S. and demanded her release. Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau, in a strong statement on Wednesday, hit out at Mr. Spavor’s conviction and sentencing, saying it was “absolutely unacceptable and unjust”. “The verdict for Mr. Spavor comes after more than two and a half years of arbitrary detention, a lack of transparency in the legal process, and a trial that did not satisfy even the minimum standards required by international law,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/canada-slams-chinas-jailing-of-michael-spavor-as-unacceptable-and-unjust/article35867945.ece
12 August 2021||Khartoum,||Sudan to hand Bashir over for genocide trial||Sudan will hand long-time autocrat Omar al-Bashir to the International Criminal Court along with other officials wanted over the Darfur conflict, Foreign Minister Mariam al-Mahdi said on Wednesday. Mr. Bashir, 77, has been wanted by the ICC for more than a decade over charges of genocide, war crimes and crimes against humanity in the Sudanese region. The “Cabinet decided to hand over wanted officials to the ICC,” Ms. Mahdi was quoted as saying.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/sudan-to-hand-bashir-over-for-genocide-trial/article35867939.ece
12 August 2021||Beijing,||China approves first mixed-vaccine trial as Delta variant spreads||China’s drug regulator has approved the country’s first mixed-vaccine trial, a company involved in the study said, as the rapid spread of the Delta variant raises concern about the efficacy of domestically produced jabs. The trial will test the efficacy of combining an “inactivated” vaccine made by China’s Sinovac with a DNA-based one developed by U.S. pharmaceutical company Inovio, a statement issued on Tuesday said. The statement was put out by Advaccine Biopharmaceuticals Suzhou, Inovio’s trial partner in China. Preclinical work has found that “two different vaccine applications... produce an even stronger and more balanced immune response”, Advaccine chairman Wang Bin said in the statement. There are several types of COVID-19 vaccines, including those using an inactivated or weakened virus to generate an immune response, and more cutting-edge RNA- or DNA-based jabs that use engineered versions of the coronavirus’ genetic code to create a protein that safely prompts an immune response. Five out of the seven vaccines approved in China are two-shot inactivated vaccines. Their published efficacy lags RNA jabs by Pfizer-BioNTech and Moderna, which have pre-Delta success rates above 90%. The World Health Organization has said there is still not enough data to say whether using two different vaccines together is safe or can boost immunity. China is battling its worst coronavirus outbreak in months, with officials saying many of those infected had already been vaccinated. Beijing is yet to approve any foreign vaccines for domestic use.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/china-approves-first-mixed-vaccine-trial-as-delta-variant-spreads/article35867941.ece
12 August 2021||Berlin,||Germany detains alleged Russian spy||German prosecutors said on Wednesday that they have detained a British citizen who is accused of spying for Russia while working at the British Embassy in Berlin. Federal prosecutors said the man was detained on Tuesday in the city of Potsdam based on cooperative investigations by German and British authorities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/germany-detains-alleged-russian-spy/article35867942.ece
12 August 2021||August 12 2021 00:00 IST,||A healthy ‘White Paper’ beginning||The Finance Minister of Tamil Nadu, Palanivel Thiaga Rajan, on Monday, unveiled a 112-page ‘White Paper’ (https://bit.ly/2Uen5oY) on the fiscal situation of the State. It is perhaps a first in recent times that a State government in India has published an erudite and honest analysis of its economic and financial situation, which is laudable. The lowdown But for citizens of the State, it was not good news. The report essentially said that the State is deep in debt, with falling revenues, rising expenditure and declining investment. The average family in the State pays roughly Rs. 1 lakh in all taxes every year to the State and the Union government and receives Rs. 1.6 lakh worth of subsidies and services (health care, transport, education, water, power, etc.) every year. The gap between revenues and expenditure is funded through loans and the State carries a consolidated debt of Rs. 2.6 lakh per family. Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M.K. Stalin has an onerous responsibility to pull the State out of this dire financial situation that has been made even worse by the COVID-19 pandemic. As the White Paper surmises, the only solution is for the State government to raise more revenues and be more efficient in expenditure. But that is easier said than done. Any State government raises revenues through tax and non-tax sources, with typically more than three-quarters coming from direct and indirect taxes. But after the introduction of the Goods and Services Tax (GST), elected State governments in India do not have the powers to raise income or sales tax revenues on their own and are beholden to the Union government. These constitute the bulk of tax revenues. Under State control Taxes on property, fuel and alcohol are the only remaining domains that are under the direct control of the State government. But the Narendra Modi government has already burdened the average Tamilian with Rs. 32-Rs. 33 of cess on petrol and diesel, which it collects for itself and does not share with the State government. It is thus virtually impossible for any State government to levy any more fuel taxes on people. So, realistically, the only immediate option available for Mr. Stalin to raise additional revenues is through property taxes, which is what the White Paper justifiably alludes to. Property taxes are progressive and fair since they do not impact the poor as much as the rich. The White Paper argues that there is gross under-collection of property taxes by the urban local bodies due to non-revision of property tax rates, improper assessments and under-valuation. The 2016-17 Economic Survey of India authored by the then Chief Economic Advisor to the Modi government and a current member of Stalin’s economic advisory council, Arvind Subramanian, had a detailed chapter on property taxes that used innovative techniques of satellite imaging of built-up areas of buildings in a city and estimated that in urban cities such as Chennai, there is a potential to collect four to seven times more in property taxes than is being collected today. The White Paper acknowledges such ‘a large untapped potential of property tax collection’ so vociferously, that it repeats this phrase multiple times. Focus on local bodies More encouragingly, the White Paper also highlights the importance of the devolution of powers to local bodies. The ‘Kerala model’ of efficient social welfare and disaster handling is much touted by policy economists. Much of it is owed to the robust local body governance infrastructure of Kerala. As the White Paper illustrates, it is no coincidence that Kerala has the highest allocation of expenditure for local body councils among all the States of India. Tamil Nadu ranks second and enabling local governments to garner additional resources through more property taxes will further strengthen local body administration in Tamil Nadu. Beyond improving property tax collections, there is not much else that the Tamil Nadu government can do to raise revenues on its own in a GST regime, save for some disinvestments over the longer run. COVID-19 has dented economic growth severely in Tamil Nadu and the rest of the country. Such crises typically call for an expansion of government spending to propel an economic recovery through what economists call a ‘Keynesian multiplier’ effect. Surprisingly, growth in Tamil Nadu’s revenue expenditure has been declining over the last five years while capital expenditure has been reasonably steady. Issue of subsidies, GST spoke The White paper raises concern over the large amount of subsidies incurred in power, water and transportation. While there may be some room for efficiency gains in subsidy expenditure through better targeting, it may perhaps be a bit risky to cut subsidies or expenditure drastically during a pandemic-induced economic crisis. COVID-19 has not only ravaged most economies across the world but also sharply exacerbated inequalities between the rich and the poor, within countries and across. Poor people have suffered far more than the well-to-do and it is the poor that benefit the most from subsidies. If any, most economists argue for greater capital expenditure by the government to tide over the current precarious economic situation. Higher public investment in infrastructure has been the time-tested economic cure for such crises. Expenditure management will call for a deft balancing act by Mr. Palanivel Thiaga Rajan to improve expenditure efficiency without sacrificing the positive ‘multiplier’ impact of government expenditure. The real bugbear in India’s fiscal federalism has been GST. It is now safe to conclude that GST has been a political, economic and administrative disaster, with none of the touted economic benefits coming to fruition and fracturing Union-State relations in the process. The White Paper is absolutely correct in questioning the future of GST and raising genuine concerns over its viability. The only case for GST to continue now seems to be similar to the Churchillian case for democracy — ‘it is the worst except for all other forms’. Ironically, it was Mr. Stalin’s father, M. Karunanidhi, as the Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu in 2009 who objected to the introduction of GST and warned of a ‘daring leap of faith about its potential’ in a letter to then Prime Minister, Dr. Manmohan Singh. Since the time of Chief Minister Kamaraj in the 1960s, Tamil Nadu has been the torchbearer of inclusive economic development in the country, with its unique model of generous State welfare, copious private investment and efficient public services. The White Paper clearly articulates how the last few years have been an aberration, causing Tamil Nadu to veer off that track. Chief Minister Stalin and his government have an enormous and an arduous responsibility to steer the State back on track. They are off to a sincere start, and hopefully, Mr. Palanivel Thiaga Rajan will be able to release a ‘Pink Paper’ in 2025 to showcase Tamil Nadu in the ‘pink of economic health’. Praveen Chakravarty is a political economist and Chairman of Data Analytics of the Congress party||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-healthy-white-paper-beginning/article35867927.ece
12 August 2021||August 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Odisha’s part in India’s hockey success||As the curtains came down on the Tokyo Olympics, the world of sports had many reasons to smile. Notwithstanding the challenges posed by COVID-19, the worst pandemic in a century, the planet’s biggest sporting event concluded rather successfully. Credit is due as much to Japan as it is to the global sporting community for its resilience. India, too, had reasons to cheer. It won seven medals, including one gold in field and track, which is a first for the country. This was the highest medal haul for India. The medal tally of seven, critics would say, dwarfs in comparison to what many countries with much smaller populations and economic resources have won. Nevertheless, coming as it did five years after a lacklustre performance at the Rio Olympics, the show in Tokyo surely brings some hope for India. A sport where India saw great zeal and success was hockey. An Olympic medal in hockey had eluded India for 41 years. The last time India won a medal was in 1980 (gold in men’s hockey). The wait has been rather painful given that India won as many as eight gold medals in hockey through the first eight decades of its participation in the Olympics. Breaking the jinx So, how did India finally break the jinx? The men’s team won a bronze medal and the women’s team put up a spirited show, missing a medal by a whisker. Was it good luck at play? Or was it something else? That’s where Odisha comes into the picture. Indian hockey’s slide at the Olympics coincided with a switch to a new format, from dirt to AstroTurf. Indian players found playing on AstroTurf challenging because there weren’t many such turfs available for practice at home. Sports authorities didn’t do enough to solve this problem. It was only in 2017 that a serious attempt was made when the Naveen Patnaik government became the principal sponsor of the Indian national hockey teams. The teams were earlier sponsored by Sahara India and the deal ended prematurely. This was the first time a State government was sponsoring a national team. The move gave not only a new lease of life to hockey but a patron too, who could give it what it deserved. Mr. Patnaik, an avid lover of the sport, had already got his government to undertake a massive renovation of the Kalinga Stadium in Bhubaneswar, to host the 2018 Men’s Hockey World Cup. In fact, Odisha had been preparing the ground since  2013, when it began promoting the Hockey India League and founded a team called the Kalinga Lancers. It has hosted a number of national and international tournaments. Having decided to bankroll the Indian hockey team, Mr. Patnaik’s next task was to ensure that the Hockey World Cup was held on a scale grand enough to capture the nation’s imagination. It was just a matter of time before Bhubaneswar became a sporting hub. The city today boasts of 10 High Performance Centres for sports ranging from hockey and football to athletics, shooting, weightlifting, badminton, etc. Each High Performance Centre is equipped with world-class coaches and state-of-the-art training facilities and is a public-private partnership involving the Odisha government, a corporate sponsor, and an academy manager. In the case of hockey and athletics, the corporate sponsors – the Tata Group and Reliance Industries, respectively – also double up as managers of the training academies. Moment of reckoning The successful hosting of the Men’s Hockey World Cup in 2018 not only brought a moment of reckoning for sports in Odisha but also marked the beginning of a new era for Indian hockey. On August 13, 2019, the Odisha Naval Tata Hockey Academy, the first High Performance Centre of its kind in the State, was launched as an initiative by the Odisha government in partnership with the Tata Group (Tata Steel and Tata Trusts). The Tata Group has always supported the development of sports in the country. The Odisha Naval Tata Hockey Academy has a technical tie-up with legendary Dutch drag flicker Floris Jan Bovelander. It caters to the best of talent (both boys and girls) under the age of 18 years from across the State. A small number of trainees is also drafted in from other parts of the country. The High Performance Centre, which is housed inside the sprawling Kalinga Stadium, offers excellent infrastructure including a gymnasium, a target performance centre and a swimming complex — everything that a modern-day athlete needs. Most importantly, through its Athlete Management System, it provides exposure to the different ways in which technology can be used. Top coaches, strength trainers, video analysts, mental trainers, nutritionists and educationists all work in tandem to ensure that the sporting talent get the best of grooming. The High Performance Centre also runs 12 grassroot centres across four districts — Sundargarh, Sambalpur, Deogarh and Dhenkanal — catering to more than 2,600 trainees. The first Odisha Naval Tata Hockey Grassroot League was held this year. Its aim is to hone and promote talent at the regional development centres before the players walk into the High Performance Centre in Bhubaneswar. The district of Sundargarh remains the epicentre, having produced the bulk of hockey players from Odisha including great players like former Indian hockey captain Dilip Tirkey and four members of the teams that went to Tokyo: Birendra Lakra, Amit Rohidas, Deep Grace Ekka and Namita Toppo. Plans are afoot to provide AstroTurfs in each of the 17 blocks of Sundargarh. A new state-of-the-art hockey stadium with a capacity to seat 20,000 is getting ready in Rourkela, Sundargarh’s main city, to co-host the Men’s Hockey World Cup 2023 alongside the Kalinga Stadium in Bhubaneswar. None of these would have been possible without the steadfast support and encouragement of Mr. Patnaik, who in 2017 took a bet that few were willing to take – to be a patron to Indian hockey. Five years on, that bet seems to be paying off handsomely – not just for Odisha, but for the nation as well. Odisha’s experience is quite instructive for the rest of the country. If other States follow suit, each adopting a particular sport or more in the same manner, India could very soon be scripting a new story on the global sporting stage. Rajiv Seth is Project Director, Odisha Naval Tata Hockey High Performance Centre||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/odishas-part-in-indias-hockey-success/article35867936.ece
12 August 2021||August 12 2021 00:00 IST,||The importance of the booster dose to plan ahead||The COVID-19 vaccination is relatively new to the world, but the history of vaccination goes back a few centuries. The Expanded Programme on Immunisation was launched by the World Health Organization in 1974 and since then all countries of the world have gained considerable experience in rolling out several vaccines for children and pregnant women. The immune response Broadly speaking, vaccines may be classified as replicating live infectious vaccines, and, non-replicating non-infectious vaccines. Currently used live virus vaccines inoculated by injection include measles, rubella, mumps and chickenpox vaccines. The inoculum dose contains a few thousands of live but attenuated viruses — they replicate in body tissues without producing overt disease. The final effective dose that stimulates the immune system may be billions or trillions of viruses and the stimulus sustained for days to weeks as the injected viruses continue to multiply within the human body. Therefore, immune responses to replicating live virus vaccines — both antibody and T-cell immunity — are robust and long-lasting. The non-replicating injected vaccines include nearly all others — the most common being diphtheria, pertussis (whooping cough), tetanus, hepatitis B, Haemophilus influenzae b, pneumococcal, human papilloma virus, inactivated poliovirus, inactivated hepatitis A vaccines. For them, the dose confronted by the immune system is what is injected. What is injected is a tiny amount of antigen, measured in micrograms, plus stabilisers and preservatives in some, and adjuvants in a few, all chemicals and salts in minute quantities. Why go in for a booster dose In order to get robust and long-lasting immunity with non-replicating vaccines, we need to give multiple doses — the initial one, two or three doses given in quick succession, at intervals of one or two months, are “priming doses” — meant to prime the immune system to the antigens in the vaccine. The immune system responds well, but with relatively low levels of antibody and subdued T-cell immunity. Over time, in a few months to one year, the antibody levels wane in almost all vaccinated individuals. To reach and maintain high and protective levels of antibody, we need one or more injected “booster dose(s)”. Every non-replicating vaccine requires priming and boosting. Influenza vaccine boosters are recommended annually; tetanus vaccine once in five to 10 years. For others such as human papilloma and hepatitis A and B vaccines, one booster dose may suffice for decades of protection. All current COVID-19 vaccines fall in the non-replicating category and for robust and long-lasting immunity, they require, quite predictably, priming doses to induce early immunity, and booster dose(s) to sustain, long-term, high antibody titres, overcoming waning immunity. The current schedules The current COVID-19 vaccination schedules are only priming doses — the immunity induced by one dose (Johnson & Johnson vaccine), Pfizer vaccine (two doses three weeks apart), all others (two doses at four weeks or more inter-dose interval) are expected to wane, as experience with all previous non-replicating vaccines have taught us. The usual interval between priming and boosting is six months to one year, because protective levels of antibodies will be present for at least that duration, when the priming doses include two or three injections. Limited experience with antibody titres after natural infection or after vaccination against COVID-19 informs us that the antibody titres decline such that a proportion does not have even detectable virus neutralising antibody levels after six months. There is further evidence that those who are elderly, men particularly, and those with organ transplants, cancer treatment or co-morbidity, have weaker primary antibody responses than their younger/normal counterparts. This implies that they may remain vulnerable to severe disease and death; they are in urgent need for booster dose(s) to ensure and sustain protective immunity. The initial expectation that the COVID-19 pandemic would be a short-lived one is proven wrong. It is now 20 months from the first case and numerous variants have emerged, and chains of transmission continue even in countries which have achieved wide vaccination coverage such as Israel and the United Kingdom. It seems inevitable the pandemic will evolve into a permanent ‘pan-endemic’ state and vaccination is here to stay for years to come, until we manage to eradicate the virus altogether using vaccines. It is apparently this realisation, that immunity wanes and the pandemic is evolving into endemic long-term prevalence, that prompted Pfizer Company to seek approval for a booster dose in the United States, and Israel’s Ministry of Health to start booster doses to all above 60 years of age. The strategy ahead In India, we have an ethical dilemma — as long as there is inadequate vaccine supply, everyone deserves priming doses before even the highly vulnerable early vaccine recipients are offered booster doses. The solution is to accelerate vaccine procurement without counting the cost.  For every country planning vaccine roll-out, the science of vaccinology demands that all those getting priming doses should receive at least one booster dose — at a well-chosen interval. The science of immunology teaches us that a booster dose delivered at an interval of at least four, preferably six to 12, months after the last priming dose, will stimulate the production of ‘long-lived’ antibody secreting cells, as well as ‘long lived (virtually life-long) memory cells’. Those who get a third dose one month after the second dose should count it as three-dose priming instead of a true booster which requires four months to one year of wait. India will do well to plan a vaccination strategy for completing two priming doses in all adults and children, third dose to the special category described above, and one booster dose to everyone one year later. Meticulous planning and the execution of such a vaccination campaign is what will get the country out of the stranglehold of this virus and its variants that have emerged and any that might emerge with higher transmission efficiency than even the Delta. Dr. T. Jacob John is a retired professor of Clinical Virology, Christian Medical College, Vellore, Tamil Nadu, and a former President of the Indian Academy of Pediatrics. Dr. M.S. Seshadri is a retired professor of Medicine and Clinical Endocrinology, Christian Medical College, Vellore, and currently Medical Director, Thirumalai Mission Hospital, Ranipet, Tamil Nadu||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-importance-of-the-booster-dose-to-plan-ahead/article35867931.ece
12 August 2021||August 12 2021 00:00 IST,||An urban jobs safety net||During the pandemic, we have again and again faced the difficult choice of saving lives versus protecting livelihoods. According to the World Economic Outlook report of April, 2021 of the International Monetary Fund (IMF), almost all countries, except China, experienced economic contraction last year. The global GDP shrunk by 3.3%. The contraction in the U.S., Brazil, Japan, Canada and Euro Area was in the range of 3.5%-7%. India’s GDP plummeted by 8%. China, on the contrary, posted a growth of 2.3%. The report stated that 95 million people have fallen into the ranks of the extreme poor category. The unemployment rate in the Euro Area, the U.S. and Canada shot up to 7.1%, 8.1% and 9.6%, respectively. Spain, Greece, Turkey, the Philippines, Argentina, Brazil, Colombia, and Peru among others are grappling with unemployment rates in double digits. As per the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy’s estimates, the unemployment rate in India peaked to 23.5% in April 2020 before falling to 6.9% in February 2021. Rural-urban livelihood divide In the wake of economic deceleration, the challenge is to minimise livelihood losses. Traditionally, governments have addressed this issue from a sectoral viewpoint. Given the contemporary realities, the need is to approach this from a rural-urban perspective for two reasons. First, when there is an economic shock, it is essential to provide people with formal access to a livelihood safety net. Second, the livelihood safety net must have comprehensive coverage. Such a net, provided by the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS), exists only in rural areas. Urban India does not have any such cushion. Though the Indian government operates the National Urban Livelihoods Mission, which is focused on self-employment through skill up-gradation and credit linkages through banks, the scheme does not have guaranteed wage employment provisions akin to what MGNREGS provides. During the lockdown last year, we saw migrant labour moving in large numbers from the urban to rural areas, which is symptomatic of the rural-urban livelihood security divide. This divide needs to be bridged if the livelihood loss is to be minimised. Policy experts have considered migration in India to be essentially a rural to urban phenomenon. This pandemic has demolished that myth. MGNREGS, designed to check such migration, provides a livelihood safety net in rural India. Last year’s migration tragedy and the economic slowdown have highlighted the need for a similar livelihood safety net in urban India. Insights from Himachal Pradesh A few States have experimented with a wage employment-based urban livelihood scheme. Himachal Pradesh (H.P.) launched the Mukhya Mantri Shahri Ajeevika Guarantee Yojana (MMSAGY) last year with the objective of enhancing livelihood security in urban areas by providing 120 days of guaranteed wage employment to every household at minimum wages in FY 2020-21. Any adult member of a household, less than 65 years of age, residing in the jurisdiction of the urban local body (ULB) and willing to engage in unskilled work at projects being executed or in sanitation services being provided by the municipality can register under the scheme. A job card is issued to the beneficiary within seven days of registration and employment is provided within a fortnight. Otherwise, the beneficiary is eligible to be compensated at a rate of Rs. 75 per day. Initially, when the scheme was conceived, there was scepticism due to lack of fiscal space during the pandemic to launch a new scheme. The government then decided to fund the wage component from the grants already available to ULBs under the State and Central Finance Commissions. In a year of its operation, a quarter million man-days, benefiting about 3% of the total urban households in H.P., were generated. If the scope of MMSAGY is broadened to include muster-roll based works, other municipal services, etc., it could enhance livelihood opportunities. H.P.’s experience has provided some crucial insights. One, an urban livelihood scheme can be launched within the existing fiscal space. If not, the Union and States can provide resources together. Two, separate minimum wages for rural and urban areas do not cause migration to urban areas since the higher cost of living in urban areas has an offsetting effect. Three, the focus must shift from asset creation to service delivery. Restricting it to asset creation or wage-material ratios may be sub-optimal in urban settings. The focus should be on enhancing the quality of municipal services. Four, such a scheme is like an ‘economic vaccine’ and will protect people against unemployment. It should be administered at the national level rather than at the State level. Rajneesh is a Principal Secretary, Urban Development, Government of Himachal Pradesh. Views are personal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/an-urban-jobs-safety-net/article35867938.ece
12 August 2021||August 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Safe at school||Almost every child got left behind for more than a year in India, as COVID-19 shuttered schools and forced pupils to study online at home, if they could. This long period of learning loss is a major setback in itself, affecting the physical and mental health of many students and depriving them of a year of vital skill development. It is understandable, therefore, that at least 14 States and Union Territories have tempered caution with calculated risk and opted to reopen campuses, mostly for secondary and higher secondary students. These governments are not alone in looking for the golden mean to manage the pandemic. In several countries, leaders are exploring ways to reduce the risk of coronavirus infection among pupils who are not yet eligible for vaccination, while getting them back on campus. At the end of the second wave, in July, Haryana and Nagaland went back to in-person teaching for higher classes, while Punjab, Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh, Puducherry and Lakshadweep are doing so this month. Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Uttar Pradesh and Odisha are to follow. As schools reopen, there are positive indicators available from countries experimenting with back-to-school decisions, and red flags, in the wake of the Delta variant’s wildfire spread. One study of a million students and staff members who returned to school this year in the United States, where children must be 12 years old to get a vaccine, showed that in spite of the resultant exposure to 7,000 COVID-19-positive children and adults, only 363 other children and adults acquired the infection. This is attributed to a universal mask mandate. In India, with a school student population of over 250 million, resumption of in-person schooling is advocated by some public health professionals based on the understanding that younger children are less at risk, as they do not have well-developed ACE-2 receptors in the lungs that enable the virus to enter. This must, of course, be considered along with the impact of the Delta variant on children who do get infected, sometimes severely, even though their numbers may be small. In Ludhiana, 20 students in two schools tested positive eight days after reopening on August 2, underscoring the need for strict protocols, testing and quarantining. Maharashtra has followed the textbook in setting up committees headed by Collectors and civic officials to decide on reopening, with optional student attendance. Such a decentralised effort is welcome, as it enables closures only in areas with high incidence. It is important to note that after 18 months of the pandemic, there is consensus on ventilation and distancing norms as low-cost interventions with efficacy next only to vaccination. In the Indian context, this should favour outdoor classes under natural or built shade, wherever possible. It is disappointing that teachers and staff have not been universally vaccinated yet, a lacuna that must be urgently filled.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/safe-at-school/article35867922.ece
12 August 2021||August 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Building consent||The Indian Medical Association (IMA), the largest organisation of doctors in India, has demanded that the National Medical Commission (NMC) withdraw the draft Postgraduate Medical Education Regulations 2021. In its current form, it notes that there shall be common counselling for admission in all medical educational institutions to all Post-graduate ‘Broad-Specialty’ courses (Diploma/MD/MS) on the basis of the merit list of the National Exit Test. Currently, admissions to such programmes are based on the post-graduate NEET. Half the seats to the various courses are based on the all-India quota and the rest are admitted by the State governments, which comply with reservation norms. The IMA contends that the draft regulations leave States with no power or discretion to manage admissions to State medical colleges, which rely on State funds. If States did not have the freedom to decide on student intake, they would find it hard to provide quality medical services to the local population. The proposed regulations follow from the provisions of the National Medical Commission Act, 2019, that itself replaced the Medical Council Act of India and was a subject of extreme friction between medical professionals and the Centre. In both instances, the heart of the objection is States’ discomfort with ceding powers to the Centre. The familiar argument of the States is that health care is a State subject. Through the decades, while the Centre plays the critical role of funding and conceiving targeted programmes to ameliorate disease and improve overall health-care standards, the matter of implementation has always been left to the States. The Centre has an important role in setting standards and amplifying best practices so that minimum — but ever improving — standards of health care are delivered across all States. Much like cadres of the IAS are deputed to States based on centralised examinations, there is, in principle, no reason for such a system not to be effective, but the Centre needs to be extremely responsive to States’ views on the same. The very real problem, laid bare during the pandemic, is the shortage and extremely uneven availability of quality health care. Through the years, attempts are being made to improve this by trying to bridge alternative systems of medicines with modern medicine, but these have always been marred by political and religious overtones, and a convergence seems unlikely in the near future. The import of the proposals should not be made hostage to a Centre-States power struggle. Efforts must be made to build more consensus involving stakeholders, such as the IMA, State medical councils and representatives of health-care groups.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/building-consent/article35867923.ece
12 August 2021||August 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Highest honour for a hockey icon||Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced on August 6 that the Rajiv Gandhi Khel Ratna Award will be renamed as the Major Dhyan Chand Khel Ratna Award as a tribute to the legendary hockey player. The Indian men’s hockey team clinched the bronze medal at the Tokyo Olympics and the Indian women’s hockey team finished fourth after a spirited fight. This was apparently the reason for the renaming exercise. The Prime Minister tweeted, “I have been getting many requests from citizens across India to name the Khel Ratna Award after Major Dhyan Chand. I thank them for their views. Respecting their sentiment, the Khel Ratna Award will hereby be called the Major Dhyan Chand Khel Ratna Award! Jai Hind!” He chose not to tweet the full name of the Khel Ratna Award, which led to some criticism. Two awards, one name Given that there already exists an award known as the Major Dhyan Chand Award for Lifetime Achievement in Sports and Games, the renaming is quite absurd. Now we have two prestigious awards named after the same sportsperson being given on the same day, August 29, which is Dhyan Chand’s birthday and also the National Sports Day. If the objective behind the renaming, as some believe, was to spite the Congress party or the Gandhi family, mere removal of Rajiv Gandhi’s name would have sufficed, and the award could have been known as Khel Ratna. Now that this decision has been taken, the government should consider renaming the Major Dhyan Chand Award for Lifetime Achievement in Sports and Games after the ‘Flying Sikh’, Milkha Singh, who passed away this year due to COVID-19-related complications. It was Singh’s dream that an Indian athlete get a gold medal at the Olympics and the national anthem be played in the stadium. Singh missed the bronze by one-tenth of a second during the 1960 Olympics in Rome in the 400 metres final. Sadly, he did not survive to see Neeraj Chopra bag the Olympics gold with a mighty hurl of the javelin to the 87.58 metre-mark in Tokyo. In a befitting tribute, Chopra dedicated the medal to Singh. Until 2011, when cricketer Sachin Tendulkar was conferred the Bharat Ratna, sportspersons were never considered for the highest civilian award. Soon after Tendulkar’s name was announced, many people appealed to the government to award the Bharat Ratna posthumously to Major Dhyan Chand. In fact, Singh, though happy that Tendulkar received the award, believed that the honour should have first gone to Major Dhyan Chand. Major Dhyan Chand was not only revered in our country but was also acknowledged as an international icon. With our Prime Minister choosing to respect the sentiments of our countrymen, it would be a great tribute to the hockey wizard if he awards the Bharat Ratna to Major Dhyan Chand on Independence Day this year. Thanking the Prime Minister for renaming the Khel Ratna Award after his grandfather, Major Dhyan Chand’s grandson Vishal Singh said that the hockey great deserved the Bharat Ratna. He added that Major Dhyan Chand’s patriotism and love for India could be gauged from the fact that he turned down the job he was offered in the German Army as well as German citizenship, to continue to play for India. Encouraging sports With an individual athletics gold added to our kitty of Olympic medals, there is now enormous interest amongst youngsters in various sports. We need to build up the tempo by encouraging them to take to sports seriously. While the Sports Ministry is playing its part, the Education Ministry too has to jump on to the bandwagon by including legendary sports figures such as Major Dhyan Chand, Sachin Tendulkar, Milkha Singh, Gurbachan Singh Randhawa, P.T. Usha and Hari Chand in the textbooks. The National Council of Educational Research and Training could play a pivotal role in this direction. M.P. Nathanael is Inspector General of Police (Retd), CRPF||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/highest-honour-for-a-hockey-icon/article35867933.ece
12 August 2021||August 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Message to Thant to save Mujib’s life||India has sent an urgent message to the United Nations Secretary General, U Thant, to use his influence on Pakistan and save the life of the Awami League leader, Sheikh Mujibur Rehman, now faced with a military trial. This was stated in the Rajya Sabha to-day [New Delhi, August 11] by the External Affairs Minister, Mr. Swaran Singh, while replying to a question from Mr. Man Singh Verma. The Minister said he had sent the message to Mr. Thant yesterday. Asked whether this issue was discussed with the Soviet Foreign Minister, Mr. Gromyko, Mr. Swaran Singh said Mr. Gromyko was strongly in favour of persuading Pakistan not to go ahead with this “type of sham trial.” He also told the House that the Government was greatly concerned at the threat held out by Pakistani President Yahya Khan about Sheikh Mujibur Rehman, “We have taken up the matter in the important world capitals. We have urged other Governments to use their influence and prevent such a tragedy (the Sheikh’s death from taking place),” the Minister said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/message-to-thant-to-save-mujibs-life/article35867932.ece
12 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||Govt. to completely exit erstwhile PSUs||The government is eyeing a sale of its residual stakes in erstwhile public sector firms like Paradeep Phosphates, Hindustan Zinc and Balco, which were privatised during the Atal Behari Vajpayee regime, a top finance ministry official said. “We intend to exit from Paradeep Phosphates, a disinvestment done way back in 2002,” Department of Investment and Public Asset Management Secretary Tuhin Kanta Pandey said on Wednesday. “We are retaining some stake that we will completely exit this year. We also have the intention to exit some of the other entities, subject to court rulings as there are some court stays out there,” he added. The government still owns 49% stake in aluminium producer Balco and 29.5% in Hindustan Zinc, with the latter’s sale held up since 2016 following a Supreme Court stay. With both the firms staying highly profitable after the transfer of management control to a private player, these stakes could yield a significant bonanza for the exchequer. “There is a very big privatisation agenda. Apart from the NCLT (insolvency process), there will be a lot of assets on offer from the public sector. COVID-19 had an impact… it is much more difficult to do a strategic sale as the due diligence process is extremely rigorous and there were controls on travel,” Mr. Pandey told industrialists at a CII national conclave, asserting that disinvestment was now ‘back on track’. EoIs for CONCOR Expressions of interest were expected to be invited soon for the sale of Container Corporation of India (CONCOR), once the government framed a land lease policy for the firm’s holdings, Mr. Pandey said. The IDBI Bank sale process had also begun. “We intend to complete the privatisation of Air India, BPCL, Shipping Corporation of India, BEML, Pawan Hans and Nilanchal Ispat Nigam Limited. These are the transactions where we have got sufficient interest from bidders and are now completing the second stage of the due diligence and financial bidding,” he informed. On asset monetisation, the Secretary said GAIL was likely to come up with an offering soon through the Infrastructure Investment Trust (InvIT) structure, though there were still some pending structural issues that needed to be smoothened as per the learnings of the maiden InvIT from PowerGrid Corporation. More airports would also be offered as public-private partnership ventures, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/govt-to-completely-exit-erstwhile-psus/article35867908.ece
12 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||Centre to soon free up untapped space in SEZs||The government will soon free up unused built-up area worth about Rs. 30,000 crore and idle land inside Special Economic Zones (SEZs) for other economic activity, Commerce Secretary B.V.R Subrahmanyam said on Wednesday at a CII event. The move to free up unutilised land parcels is likely to be operationalised by the end of August, as part of a simpler regulatory regime that the government is ringing in for SEZs, which account for about 30% of India’s exports. “There’s a lot of space within SEZs, including land that is free. We are going to ease up the process for denotification of that land. As long as you can use that land for some industrial purposes, we will allow SEZ land to be hived out,” Mr. Subrahmanyam said, adding that a similar change would be introduced later for denotifying unused space in SEZ buildings. “You built a building for an IT SEZ — half of it is being used and half is not. The figures are astounding. We have 10 crore square feet of space idle in built-up accommodation in over 250 SEZs. In money terms, at Rs. 3,000 per square foot, that is Rs. 30,000 crore of built-up area idle, which can be brought into play for anything else,” he pointed out. Import monitoring cell The top trade official also said an import monitoring cell had been set up this month to track any spurts in an item’s inflows and flag it to the concerned ministries. “We are not looking at controlling imports… but these can be potential areas for manufacturing within the country,” he asserted. The ministry has also kicked off a restructuring exercise for the Directorate General of Foreign Trade. “They should actually become a trade promotion organisation from an incentive-distribution one. I think a change in mental make-up is required,” Mr. Subrahmanyam said. Pending dues to be paid The government will remit about Rs. 50,000 crore of pending export benefits over a two-year period and notify the RoDTEP scheme rates awaited by exporters by Friday or the weekend, Mr. Subrahmanyam said, even as he red-flagged ‘a massive increase’ in incentives paid out on exports. “There is something that worries the government — how are export incentives being drawn at three times the figure over five years, with exports being roughly constant,” he wondered. “Any incentive should lead to better performance, so that genuine exports are promoted,” he added. Exporters have been complaining about their inability to price orders effectively in the absence of the notification of rates under the RoDTEP (Remission of Duties and Taxes on Export Products) scheme, which in January replaced the earlier export incentive schemes that were not compliant with WTO rules.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/centre-to-soon-free-up-untapped-space-in-sezs/article35867910.ece
12 August 2021||CHENNAI,||Valli Arunachalam seeks to file fresh waiver plea||The National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT), Chennai has directed Valli Arunachalam and her family to file a withdrawal plea on an earlier waiver petition, before filing a fresh one in its case against Ambadi Investments (AIL), the holding firm of the Murugappa Group and also its family members. Ms. Arunachalam had sought to file a fresh waiver plea to rectify the errors in the previous one. Ambadi strongly opposed the move in a hearing on Wednesday The earlier application had sought waiver of the minimum shareholding requirement of 10% for maintaining the alleged oppression and mismanagement case against AIL and also its family members. The family owns 8.21% in Ambadi and falls short of the minimum requirement as per Sec. 244 of the Companies Act, 2013. NCLT has posted the hearing for September 15. Ms. Arunachalam’s major charge is history of gender discrimination in the group and denial of equal representation in company affairs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/valli-arunachalam-seeks-to-file-fresh-waiver-plea/article35867912.ece
12 August 2021||new delhi,||PNB HF mulls raising Rs. 35,000-cr. debt capital||PNB Housing Finance is now looking to raise Rs. 35,000 crore debt, after facing legal hurdles in the Carlyle group deal, days after SAT gave a split verdict in the matter. The company will seek shareholders’ nod at its annual general meeting (AGM) on September 3, PNB Housing Finance said in a regulatory filing on Wednesday. The company said it will seek shareholders’ approval for further fund raising by way of debt issue. “Shareholders’ approval is being sought in the 33rd AGM for further fund raising by way of debt issue and the shareholders are being requested to authorise the board of directors to offer, from time to time, the subscription of redeemable, secured/unsecured non-convertible debentures aggregating to Rs. 35,000 crore in one or more tranches,” it said in the filing. On Monday, the Securities Appellate Tribunal (SAT) gave a split verdict in the firm’s appeal to the court in the matter related to Rs. 4,000 crore equity-fund infusion led by its existing investor Carlyle group and others through preferential allotment of shares and warrants.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/pnb-hf-mulls-raising-rs-35000-cr-debt-capital/article35867915.ece
12 August 2021||MUMBAI,||Exploring acquisitions, says ITC chairman Puri||ITC Ltd. is exploring inorganic opportunities as part of its vision for the next horizon, chairman Sanjiv Puri said, addressing shareholders online at the 110th Annual General Meeting on Wednesday. “This was manifest in the earlier acquisition of Savlon and Nimyle brands and... Sunrise Foods,” he said. “Business segments... incongruent to our growth aspirations, such as the Lifestyle Retailing Business, have been shrunk. Whilst existing growth platforms comprising megabrands will be scaled up..., new platforms, whether developed or acquired, will be nurtured to power growth across time horizons.” In hotels, ITC would pursue an ‘asset-right‘ strategy. New boutique brand, ‘The Storii’, will offer travellers “curated nature experiences.” In the medium term, the asset-right model is expected to double the number of properties and the firm will continue to examine alternative structures, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/exploring-acquisitions-says-itc-chairman-puri/article35867904.ece
12 August 2021||CHENNAI,||India Cements profit more than doubles||The India Cements Ltd. (ICL) said standalone net profit for the first quarter had more than doubled to Rs. 37.42 crore, due to steps taken to control fixed costs, administrative and marketing overheads, and other discretionary expenses. “The situation was more like Q1 of last fiscal,” said vice chairman and managing director, N. Srinivasan. “ICL’s plant capacity utilisation went up from 35% to 50% as we expanded the marketing zones to North, Northeast and Central India, which helped in improving the despatches during these tough times of severe lockdowns in the main markets,” he added. Revenue from operations grew 35% to Rs. 1,022 crore. Net plant realisation was 7% lower due to the impact on sales mix as home markets were affected. On the outlook, he said the Tamil Nadu government was expected to bolster housing and infrastructure development. Andhra Pradesh and Telangana had begun implementing irrigation, road-building and other infrastructure projects as well as new housing schemes, he added. These developments give room for cautious optimism for cement demand in the coming months, he said.  Revenue from operations climbed 35% to Rs. 1,022 crore||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/india-cements-profit-more-than-doubles/article35867906.ece
12 August 2021||New Delhi,||PwC India to create 10,000 additional jobs||Global consultancy firm PwC India on Wednesday said it will invest up to Rs. 1,600 crore and create additional 10,000 jobs in the next five years. Announcing a new business strategy — ‘The New Equation’ — PwC India said the firm would also increase campus hiring by more than five times in the same time period. The New Equation is based on analysis of trends and thousands of conversations with clients and stakeholders, the firm said. “India has strong economic fundamentals, a huge advantage in the form of its demographic dividend and an ecosystem to boost innovation,” said Sanjeev Krishan, Chairman PwC in India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/pwc-india-to-create-10000-additional-jobs/article35867916.ece
12 August 2021||Mumbai,||L&T unit sells hydel plant for Rs. 985 crore||Larsen & Toubro Ltd. (L&T) has announced the divestment of 100% stake in a hydroelectric power plant owned by a subsidiary to Renew Power Services Pvt. Ltd. for Rs. 985 crore. L&T Uttaranchal Hydropower Ltd. owns the 3 x 33 MW run-of-the-river hydroelectric plant. Renew Power Services Pvt. Ltd. is a wholly owned arm of Renew Power Pvt. Ltd. The divestment is in line with L&T’s intention to divest non-core assets and improve shareholder value. “This development is a significant step in our effort to unlock the value of our power-development assets,” said D. K. Sen, whole-time director, L&T.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/lt-unit-sells-hydel-plant-for-rs-985-crore/article35867905.ece
12 August 2021||New Delhi,||Franklin Templeton MF says returned Rs 21,000 cr to investors of 6 shuttered schemes||Franklin Templeton Mutual Fund (MF) on Wednesday said it has returned over Rs. 21,000 crore to unit holders of six shuttered debt schemes till date. This amounts to 84% of assets under management (AUM) as of April 23, 2020, when the fund house announced to shut its six debt mutual fund schemes, citing redemption pressures and lack of liquidity in the bond market.pti||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/franklin-templeton-mf-says-returned-rs-21000-cr-to-investors-of-6-shuttered-schemes/article35867913.ece
12 August 2021||New Delhi,||KFC, Pizza Hut operator Sapphire Foods files IPO papers with Sebi||Sapphire Foods India Ltd., which operates KFC and Pizza Hut outlets, has filed draft papers with capital markets regulator SEBI to raise funds through an initial public offering (IPO). The initial share-sale will be entirely an offer-for-sale (OFS) of 17,569,941 equity shares by promoters and existing shareholders, according to the draft red herring prospectus.pti||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/kfc-pizza-hut-operator-sapphire-foods-files-ipo-papers-with-sebi/article35867917.ece
12 August 2021||New Delhi,||I-T deptt to refund excess interest, late fee paid while filing FY21 ITR||The I-T Department on Wednesday said it will refund the excess interest and late fee paid by taxpayers due to software error while filing ITR for 2020-21. The last date for filing was extended till September 30. Some taxpayers complained that interest and late fee was charged while filing income tax return after July 31.pti||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/i-t-deptt-to-refund-excess-interest-late-fee-paid-while-filing-fy21-itr/article35867919.ece
12 August 2021||Bengaluru,||Lenskart to hire 2,000 employees in India, 300 overseas by 2022||Lenskart, an omnichannel eyewear brand, said it will hire more than 2,000 people by 2022 as part of its expansion plan. The firm was looking to add 1,500 retail staff to manage stores, 300 to support-supply chain and manufacturing operations, 100 techies, data scientists, data engineers, business analysts and other domain experts, 100 for corporate functions and 300 for international teams, it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/lenskart-to-hire-2000-employees-in-india-300-overseas-by-2022/article35867902.ece
12 August 2021||MUMBAI,||Sathiyan, Manika to team up||G. Sathiyan and Manika Batra have decided to reunite in mixed doubles in a bid to bring laurels to Indian table tennis at the Paris Olympics in 2024. The duo will start its second stint with the next week’s Hungarian Open, the first World Tour event in the new Olympic cycle. The development comes barely a fortnight after Manika and A. Sharath Kamal represented India at Tokyo. The duo, which fetched India a historic first Asian Games table tennis medal in the same event in 2019, had qualified for the Olympic after a heroic win over World No. 5 team of Lee Sangsu and Jihee Jneon in the qualifers. “Sathiyan and Manika discussed it after returning from Tokyo. We as personal coaches feel they have the best shot at all the multi-disciplinary games in the next three years,” S. Raman, Sathiyan’s personal coach, told The Hindu on Wednesday. Sathiyan, Raman, Manika and her personal coach Sanmay Paranjape had a round of discussion before both the players wrote to the Table Tennis Federation of India, Sports Authority of India and Target Olympic Podium Scheme officials last week. “We have written to all the relevant authorities about charting out a roadmap for their mixed doubles pairing leading up to Paris 2024,” said Raman, who will watch the duo in action in Budapest. Fruitful stint Sathiyan and Manika have had a fruitful stint as a combination early on in their career. In fact, in the last match they played as a team, the duo defeated Sharath and Mouma Das to win the bronze medal at the 2018 Commonwealth Games. Sharath, who wished the duo well, was a tad disappointed with the lack of communication. “I wish both of them well but it would have been better had either of them communicated their decision to me before I got to know it from the federation,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sathiyan-manika-to-team-up/article35868233.ece
12 August 2021||LONDON,||India looks for the right mix as the action shifts to Lord’s||Skipper Virat Kohli could consider playing his best spinner R. Ashwin while expecting a better show from the batsmen when India meets England in the second Test at Lord’s from Thursday. While India was in a better position to win the first Test before the heavens opened up on the final day, the first innings effort of 278 was below par as Virat Kohli, Cheteshwar Pujara and Ajinkya Rahane failed to get going. With Shardul Thakur’s hamstring injury ruling him out of the Test, the lower-order batting balance will suffer. Ashwin, who was dropped from the opening game in Nottingham, is back in the mix after Shardul’s injury. In case, the pitch is on the dry side, both Ashwin and Ravindra Jadeja could play. However, if Kohli is thinking of sticking with four pacers, Ishant Sharma or Umesh Yadav could replace Shardul. London has been recording a maximum temperature of 24 degrees and an average temperature of around 14 degrees, and it would be interesting to see if England opts for a green top like it did in 2018 when the Indian batsmen collapsed twice in two days. Mayank back With Mayank Agarwal available for selection again, he could open the innings and K.L. Rahul, one of the heroes at Nottingham, could bat in the middle-order. Though both Pujara and Rahane have not been in the best of form, they are likely to retain their spots. England opener Rory Burns might not be as lucky as he could be replaced by Haseeb Hameed, who scored a hundred opening the innings for County Select XI against the Indians in the tour game last month. The hosts’ batting relies heavily on skipper Joe Root, who came up with two good knocks in the first Test, including a century in the second innings. As the hosts will miss James Anderson and Stuart Broad due to injuries, seamer Saqib Mahmood was added to the squad on Wednesday. Root’s pace attack Mahmood will join Ollie Robinson, Mark Wood, Craig Overton and all-rounder Sam Curran in the pace attack.  The teams (from):   India: Virat Kohli (Capt.), Rohit Sharma, K.L. Rahul, Cheteshwar Pujara, Mayank Agarwal, Ajinkya Rahane (Vice-capt.), Hanuma Vihari, Rishabh Pant (wk), R. Ashwin, Ravindra Jadeja, Axar Patel, Jasprit Bumrah, Ishant Sharma, Mohammed Shami, Mohammed Siraj, Umesh Yadav, Wriddhiman Saha (wk), and Abhimanyu Easwaran.   England: Joe Root (Capt.), Jonny Bairstow, Moeen Ali, Rory Burns, Jos Buttler, Zak Crawley, Sam Curran, Haseeb Hameed, Dan Lawrence, Jack Leach, Ollie Pope, Ollie Robinson, Dom Sibley, Mark Wood, and Saqib Mahmood.   Match starts at 3.30 p.m. IST.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/india-looks-for-the-right-mix-as-the-focus-shifts-to-lords/article35868190.ece
12 August 2021||Chennai,||Vivek, Hari Nishaanth power Dragons to victory||It rained sixes at the M.A. Chidambaram stadium as Vivek Raj (52 n.o., 26b, 1x4, 6x6) and skipper C. Hari Nishaanth (59, 44b, 5x6) powered Dindigul Dragons to a five-wicket win over Lyca Kovai Kings in the Eliminator of the Tamil Nadu Premier League on Wednesday. Chasing 145, Dragons was struggling at 58/3 after 11 overs with Hari, not at his fluent best. Raining sixes The duo picked a six each off pacer R. Divakar in the 12th over before Vivek slammed left-arm spinner Ajith Ram over long-on and mid-wicket in the very next over. From there on, the floodgates opened as Hari and Vivek picked two more sixes each against pacers V. Yudheeshwaran and Divakar respectively during their 85-run stand for the fourth wicket. Dragons will now meet defending champion Chepauk Super Gillies in the second qualifier on Friday for a place in the final against Ruby Trichy Warriors. Earlier, B. Sai Sudharsan’s fifth half-century (57 n.o., 40b, 3x4, 2x6) helped Kovai Kings post a fighting total of 143/6 after a shaky start. Opting to field, Dragons’ pacers R. Suthesh and L. Vignesh did not allow the Kovai Kings openers to cut loose on a pitch that was on the slower side. Struggling to score The in-from V. Ganga Sridhar Raju struggled to score, playing 10 dot balls, including a maiden off Suthesh before he was dismissed. By the 11th over Kovai Kings had only 58/4 on the board. Sai Sudharsan and skipper M. Shahrukh Khan (28) then came together to resurrect the innings with a 62-run stand for the fifth wicket. Sudharsan started cautiously but did well to keep the strike moving with Shahrukh finding a few boundaries and a six to give the innings some momentum. In the 16th over, Sudarshan scored two sixes off R. Vivek with a flat pull over midwicket and a beautiful lofted drive over covers en-route to another well made fifty. Clever bowling Left-arm pacer Gurjapneet Singh, however, helped Dragons claw back with the wickets of Shahrukh and Abhishek Tanwar with cleverly disguised slower ones to restrict Kovai to a modest total.  The scores: Lyca Kovai Kings 143/6 in 20 overs (B. Sai Sudharsan 57 n.o., M. Shahrukh Khan 28, Gurjapneet Singh 3/22) lost to Dindigul Dragons 144/5 in 17.3 overs (C. Hari Nishaanth 59, Vivek Raj 52 n.o., V. Yudheeshwaran 2/22) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/vivek-hari-nishaanth-power-dragons-to-victory/article35868281.ece
12 August 2021||August 12 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Will first think about picking up 20 wickets’||India captain Virat Kohli said on Wednesday that Shardul Thakur’s injury-enforced absence will not force India “to plug in another guy who can give us some runs” in the second Test at Lord’s. The priority, he said, would be to field a combination that can take 20 wickets. “For us, it’s about finding that perfect balance,” Kohli said in a virtual media interaction. “But if someone like Shardul is not available, then we’ll definitely first think how to pick up 20 wickets ... and we’ll be very comfortable after how the first Test went.” Kohli said Shardul, preferred in the series-opener for his additional utility with the bat, “should be okay for the third Test” after suffering a “myofascial strain on his left hamstring”. On Trent Bridge’s pace-friendly track, India went with four seamers, bolstering its batting with Ravindra Jadeja, the lone spinner, at No. 7 and Shardul at No. 8. It will be interesting to see whether off-spinner R. Ashwin, unfortunate to have missed out last week, or Ishant Sharma, who was instrumental in India’s win at Lord’s in 2014, is included in the XI on Thursday. Kohli stressed that Jadeja coming good with the willow was one of the biggest gains from Nottingham. “The good thing is Jadeja has got runs in the first game already so he’ll go into the second game confident. That already makes our batting a bit deeper. Lower-order contributed with the bat as well,” Kohli said. “Shardul brings in more batting ability but having said that, from the batsmen’s point of view, we are well-placed because [Cheteshwar] Pujara, Jinks [Rahane] and myself, we did not score too many. Every game is an opportunity for the other batters to step up as well. Rohit [Sharma] and K.L. [Rahul] played really well. We are very comfortable where we are placed as a batting unit and we don’t feel we might be a batsman short if Shardul doesn't play.” Kohli also expressed his displeasure over India losing points in the new World Test Championship cycle for maintaining a slow over-rate in Nottingham. “You don’t want to be that far behind in the game that you are not able to catch up and cover your overs in time which could cost the points, which are very, very crucial,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/will-first-think-about-taking-20-wickets/article35868186.ece
12 August 2021||KOCHI,||Tennis star Tanvi passes away in Dubai||Tanvi Bhat, who was Kerala’s brightest tennis talent a few years ago before injury forced her to quit the sport, died in a road accident in Dubai on Sunday. She was 21 and is survived by her dad Dr. Sanjay Bhat, mother Lilan and brother Adithya who was also a former Kerala champion. Nine years ago, Tanvi won the under-14 Asian Series girls singles title in Doha. She was just 12 then and around that time, she had quit regular school to focus on her game. But just when the going appeared good, Tanvi suffered an ACL injury and had to undergo surgery twice, at 14 and 15 and then again at 17 for a spine problem. That forced to give up serious tennis. Fan of Nadal “Her hero was Rafa (Rafael Nadal),” said her mother Lilan as she showed the door to Tanvi’s room which was covered with nearly a 100 pictures of Nadal. “She was boisterous, had abundant energy...she used to play tennis for four hours every day and was then at the football ground playing with boys, racing against time, living her life in 21 years.” Tanvi, who did her schooling at Elamakkara’s Bhavan’s Vidya Mandir and later at the Choice School, was in her third year degree course in psychology and English at Dubai’s Heriot-Watt and Middlesex College, when the end came. “We had all moved to Dubai and she started playing for her college and went to Abu Dhabi once to play at the university level,” said her mother. “She was very talented, one of our best players and the only one from Kerala to win an Asian Series title,” said former Kerala men’s champion K. Shankar, who along with Mansingh Thapa, coached Tanvi for many years at the Mahesh Bhupathi Tennis Academy at Kochi’s Regional Sports Centre. Special talent Mansingh revealed that Tanvi was a very special girl who should have gone places with her tennis. “I’ve not seen such a talent in my 16 years of coaching. She was very dedicated and her dad was very supportive. She was very disciplined too,” he said. “I was shattered when I heard the news, even now, I’m unable to accept it.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/tennis-star-tanvi-passes-away-in-dubai/article35868620.ece
12 August 2021||KOCHI,||Celebrate Neeraj’s golden Olympic moment, but probe the poor performances too||Looking at the athletics medal table at the Tokyo Olympics one gets that hold-your-head-high feeling. For, India, with its 18th spot, finished above sporting giants like Great Britain, Australia, host Japan, France, Brazil and even Spain. That’s because, though many of them had more medals than India, none of them had a gold. Britain, incidentally, had six medals, including three silver. With its first-ever medal — the gold which javelin thrower Neeraj Chopra produced — this is certainly the country’s best Olympics in athletics. This also offered the Athletics Federation of India and other athletes a wonderful opportunity to closely study how Neeraj managed to stay so confident in Tokyo, something which we rarely see in other Indians, as he produced quality throws early in both the qualification round and final. Fine performances also came from discus thrower Kamalpreet Kaur, the only other athlete to enter the final where she finished sixth (63.70m) in rainy and slippery conditions, and Avinash Sable, who bettered his men’s 3000m steeplechase National record by more than two seconds, clocking 8:18.12s, and the men’s 4x400m relay team which broke the Asian record with 3:00.25s but missed the final after finishing ninth overall. But there were major disappointments which brought back familiar and bitter memories of past Olympics. Javelin thrower Annu Rani, the 2019 Worlds finalist who had been consistent over 60m this year raising her National record to 63.24m, finished more than nine metres behind that with a pathetic 54m that pushed her to the bottom of the pack. Asian shot put Asian record holder Tajinderpal Singh Toor (PB 21.49m, Tokyo 19.99m, 24th out of 31) and National record holders, long jumper M. Sreeshankar (PB 8.26m, Tokyo 7.69m, 25th out of 32) and Dutee Chand (100/200m PB 11.17/23s, Tokyo 11.54/23.85) produced some of their poorest performances this season on the biggest stage while seasoned discus thrower Seema Antil-Punia, javelin thrower Shivpal Singh and hurdler M.P. Jabir were also miles away from the personal bests. Nothing much was expected from the mixed 4x400m relay team since the since the squad’s two girls were slow and inexperienced. There was nothing special to talk about the six walkers too. “We need to sit down and discuss what exactly happened to them in Tokyo,” said Anju Bobby George, a senior vice-president of the Athletics Federation of India. “In Sreeshankar’s case, I feel his peaking was not correct. You have to do your best at the Olympics. You have to show it there,” said Anju. That applies to everybody else too.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/celebrate-neerajs-golden-olympic-moment-but-probe-the-poor-performances-too/article35868180.ece
12 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||WA puts Neeraj’s feat in top-10||Javelin thrower Neeraj Chopra’s historic gold-winning feat in the Olympics was listed as one of the 10 magical moments of track and field in the Tokyo Games by World Athletics (WA). “Most keen followers of the sport had heard of Neeraj Chopra before the Olympic Games. But after winning the javelin in Tokyo, and in the process becoming India’s first athletics gold medallist in Olympic history, Chopra’s profile sky-rocketed,” the global governing body said on its website. WA noted that the 23-year-old Chopra had 143,000 followers before the Olympics, but now has a staggering 3.2million (on Instagram), making him the most followed track and field athlete in the world.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/wa-puts-neerajs-feat-in-top-10/article35868182.ece
12 August 2021||London,||Broad out, Anderson doubtful||England could be without their two leading bowlers for the second Test against India at Lord's starting on Thursday, after James Anderson joined Stuart Broad in missing Wednesday's final pre-match practice session. Broad suffered a calf problem after pulling up during Tuesday's warm-up and has been ruled out of the Test. A thigh injury prevented Anderson taking part in Wednesday's net session. The veteran new-ball duo, who both featured in last week's drawn series opener at Trent Bridge, are England's two most successful Test bowlers of all time with a combined 1,145 wickets from 312 matches. England has not played a Test without either one of the pair since October 2016. Wicketkeeper-batsman Jonny Bairstow, meanwhile, said he did not have much knowledge about the extent of injuries suffered by Broad and Anderson. "We knew that Broad had gone for scans, we didn't know anything else," Bairstow said. Asked about the possibility of playing a Test without both Anderson and Broad, he said, "It's a big loss for the team — both have over 1000 wickets between them — but it's also an opportunity for others, just like it was against Pakistan recently," Bairstow said. "There is going to be injury, illness, you have to be adaptable within the group, we are playing a professional sport."||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/anderson-doubtful-broad-out/article35868183.ece
12 August 2021||Paris,||Messi, PSG eye Champions League glory||Lionel Messi said he’s “in the right place” to win another Champions League trophy and cited a reunion with Neymar as a key factor in his decision to sign with Paris Saint-Germain. The 34-year-old Argentina star spoke at his introductory news conference at Parc des Princes stadium on Wednesday. “My goal and dream is to raise another Champion’s (League Trophy) and I believe that I am in the right place to have the best chances to achieve that,” Messi said. “When you see this squad, you really want to play with them because there are so many possibilities,” he added. “We have the same goal. And Neymar of course did a lot and was important for my choice.”  Messi’s arrival gives PSG formidable attacking options as he links up with not only Neymar — his former teammate at Barcelona — but also France World Cup winner Kylian Mbappe. “I’m going to play with best players, it’s very nice, it’s incredible to be able to experience this,” said Messi, who also cited Argentina teammates and PSG players Angel di Maria and Leandro Paredes. “Obviously, one of the reasons (I came) was the locker room: Neymar, Di Maria, Paredes, whom I know.” Messi said he is “ready” to start playing with PSG, which hosts Strasbourg on Saturday night. “When I feel it, when the staff thinks I’m ok, I’ll be ready. I’m willing to play,” he said. PSG will be hoping not only that Messi helps the team regain the French title it lost to Lille last season but finally win the Champions League. Messi will wear the No. 30 jersey — the same number he wore in his first two seasons with Barcelona before switching to No. 19 and then the prized No. 10.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/messi-psg-eye-champions-league-glory/article35868192.ece
12 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||Was not really happy with the transition in 2018, says Marijne||Sjoerd Marijne played his part in scripting Olympic history but the outgoing women’s hockey team chief coach still has scars of what he feels was a “disrespectful” transition in 2018 when he was shunted out from the men’s side after the disappointment at the Commonwealth Games. The former Dutch player came to India to take over the women’s team in 2017 but was appointed chief coach of the men’s side later that year. In 2018, he was re-designated as the women’s coach in a rejig of roles, with Junior World Cup-winning coach Harendra Singh taking charge of the men’s side. Fresh in the memory But that episode is still fresh in Marijne’s mind as he left the country after a successful four-year stint. “I was not really happy with the transition. I was not really happy with what happened, the way it happened with the men’s team and I don’t think that was fairly respectful,” Marijne said. “The moment I returned back to the women’s team, Savita (goalkeeper) came to my room and said, ‘listen we are really happy you are back’. That was the changing moment for me. I felt ok, it’s good to be there again.” Marijne felt if he was given more time, he could have achieved more with the men’s side. “It was not that I was disappointed to go back to the women’s team. I was not happy the way they handled it with the men’s team because I left at a really good moment. “On one side you have the opportunity to work with the most challenging team in the world in Indian men and on the other, I was doing Indian women and we were just going up. So it was a really difficult decision and I am happy how it ended. I am happy with what I did with the women’s team, so no grudges.” Under Marijne, the Indian women made the semifinals for the first time at the Tokyo Olympics. The team narrowly missed out on a bronze, losing 4-3 to Great Britain in the third-fourth place play-off tie. “I am proud of what we have achieved as a team, the legacy we have created. I am extremely happy for the girls because they now can feel what it is to have success,” Marijne said. “The fighting spirit in the last match shows the new Indian women’s team. They never gave up and it is something that has changed over the years. That’s the effort put in by the girls and the whole staff. You need time for these kind of things.” The 47-year-old said he had decided to return home after the Games. “I wrote a post in my website on 7th of September 2020 where I already announced that after Olympics I will go home and spent time with my family.” Overwhelmed He is “overwhelmed” by the love and respect he received in India. “India is a different country than the Netherlands. The popularity of hockey in the Netherlands is big but we don’t have 1.3 billion people. Here it’s going crazy and I am overwhelmed with all the reactions.. “I wrote a book about my journey in India but it is not yet complete. The last chapter is there to be added, the Olympic chapter.” Marijne reiterated that the need of the hour for the women’s team is more high-pressure games on a consistent basis. “You believe in yourself and that’s where it starts. Then you have to work really hard, be disciplined in what you do, otherwise you are not achieving anything. And then it’s about dealing with the pressure. “The women’s team does not always face that pressure. The last was in Olympic Qualifiers two years ago. So we have come really far and that’s what makes me proud in what we achieved,” he said. “The girls are in my heart and I will never forget them.”  I wrote a book about my journey in India but it is not yet complete. The last chapter is there to be added, the Olympic chapter   I am extremely happy for the girls because they now can feel what it is to have success||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/i-was-not-happy-with-the-transition-in-2018-marijne/article35868240.ece
12 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||Leon Mendonca lone Indian in the fray||Leon Mendonca is the lone Indian in the reduced field of 16 players in the $15,000 Kramnik Challenge online rapid chess tournament, the third leg of the Julius Baer Challengers Tour beginning on Thursday. The field, reduced from 20 players seen in the first two legs, is without the cream of the Indian talent — R. Praggnanandhaa and D. Gukesh, winners on the Tour so far, and Nihal Sarin.   The teams:   Team Polgar: Vincent Keymer (Ger), Awonder Liang (USA), Polina Shuvalova (Rus), Volodar Murzin (Rus), Sarasadat Khademalsharieh (Iri), Marc Andria Maurizzi (Fra), Zhu Jiner (Chn) and Balaji Daggupati (USA).   Team Kramnik: Nodirbek Abusattorov (Uzb), Jonas Bjerre (Den), Leon Mendonca (Ind), Lei Tingjie (Chn), Dinara Saduakassova (Kaz), Christopher Yoo (USA), Carissa Yip (USA) and Yahli Sokolovsky (Isr) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/leon-mendonca-lone-indian-in-the-fray/article35868224.ece
12 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||Four Indians among nine leaders||S. L. Narayanan, Abhimanyu Puranik, Arjun Erigaisi and Nihal Sarin were among the nine leaders at three points after three rounds of RTU Open chess tournament in Riga, Latvia, on Tuesday.  Leading results (involving Indians): Third round: Nihal Sarin (3) bt Raja Harshit (2); S. L. Narayanan (3) bt Roshka Yevgeniy (Ukr, 2); Mark Plotkin (Can, 2) lost to Arjun Erigaisi (3); Abhimanyu Puranik (3) bt Ravi Haria (Eng, 2).   Tomas Laurusas (Ltu, 3) bt Raja Rithvik (2); N. R. Visakh (2.5) drew with N. R. Vignesh (2.5); V. Varshini (2) lost to Grigor Grigorov (Bul, 3); M. Karthik (2) drew with Kristaps Kretainis (Lat, 2.5).   Kirill Chukavin (Est, 1.5) lost to Aravindh Chithambaram (2.5); Justin Sarkar (USA, 1.5) lost to R. Praggnanandhaa (2.5); Rokas Klabis (Ltu, 1.5) lost to D. Gukesh (2.5).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/four-indians-among-nine-leaders/article35868225.ece
12 August 2021||Hyderabad,||Rajani heaves a huge sigh of relief||It was a big relief for E. Rajani, member of the Indian women’s hockey team which reached the semifinals at the Tokyo Olympics when Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy directed the officials to ensure that the house site allotted to her in Tirupati is removed from the ‘prohibited land’ category. The 30-year-old, who met the Chief Minister on Wednesday in Amaravati, told The Hindu that the officials concerned were asked to ensure that the process is completed. “It was originally allotted in 2016 but for some reasons which we don’t know was bracketed in the prohibited area. When I broached the subject, the CM spontaneously issued directions to change it. Cash incentive “He also gave me Rs. 40,000 per month as cash incentive besides a cash prize of Rs. 25 lakh for the Tokyo Olympics performance, apart from a job for one of my family members. I am grateful to him,” said Rajani, who works for Central Railway. Reflecting on the Tokyo Games experience, Rajani, the goalkeeper representing India since the 2009 including Asian Games, World Cup and Rio Olympics, said the performance of the women’s team was just what the sport needed to get the desired support from all quarters. “Though I was not in the first eleven right through the Games, it was a great feeling despite being on bench as the reserve goalkeeper. Hats off to my teammate and custodian Savita Punia for a terrific performance,” she said. “Yes, the focus for us now shifts to the Asian Games, Commonwealth Games and the World Cup. We are a much better side now with all-round improvement, thanks to the coach Sjoerd Marijne,” Rajani said. “All the efforts of continuous training even during the pandemic at the SAI Centre in Bengaluru helped us a lot in gelling as a complete unit,” said Rajani, who is the daughter of a carpenter. “I am sure with the CM insisting that a new sports policy be drafted for Andhra Pradesh with the specific intent of grooming young talent across the State in the remotest areas, many gifted sportspersons would be unearthed in different disciplines.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/rajani-heaves-a-huge-sigh-of-relief/article35868484.ece
12 August 2021||Toronto,||Bopanna-Dodig duo advances||Rohan Bopanna, seeded eighth in partnership with Ivan Dodig of Croatia, beat the Italians Fabio Fognini and Lorenzo Sonego 6-4, 7-6(4) in the doubles first round of the $3,487,915 ATP tennis here. In the pre-quarterfinals, Bopanna and partner were scheduled to meet Simone Bolelli and Maximo Gonzalez. In the $100,000 ITF women’s event in the US, Ankita Raina qualified into the main draw and will play her doubles partner Renata Zarazua of Mexico.  The results: $3,487,915 ATP, Toronto: Doubles: First round: Ivan Dodig (Cro) & Rohan Bopanna bt Fabio Fognini & Lorenzo Sonego (Ita) 6-4, 7-6(4).   $100,000 ITF women, Landisville, US: Doubles: Pre-quarterfinals: Renata Zarazua (Mex) & Ankita Raina bt Sophie Chang & Sophia Whittle (US) 6-3, 7-5.   Qualifying singles (second and final round): Ankita Raina bt Katie Boulter (GBR) 6-4, 6-1.   €31,440 Challenger, Prague: Doubles: Pre-quarterfinals: Yan Bondarevskiy (Rus) & Oleg Prihodko (Ukr) bt Sriram Balaji & Arjun Kadhe 6-4, 6-4.   $15,000 ITF men, Monastir: Doubles: Pre-quarterfinals: Mateo Nicolas Martinez & Santiago Fa Rodriguez Taverna (Arg) bt Rimpei Kawakami (Jpn) & Adil Kalyanpur 6-2, 7-6(4); Naoki Tajima (Jpn) & Siddhant Banthia bt Yuki Mochizuki & Makoto Ochi (Jpn) 7-5, 6-4; Jeremy Beale & Thomas Fancutt (Aus) bt Drew Baird (US) & Rishab Agarwal 6-4, 6-4.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bopanna-dodig-duo-advances/article35868232.ece
12 August 2021||CHENNAI,||Soumyadeep says he was given the responsibility by TTFI||When India’s star paddler Manika Batra made a reference to Soumyadeep Roy, India’s National coach, as “personal coach of Sutirtha Mukherjee” in a media interview during the Tokyo Olympics, it created ripples, forcing the Table Tennis Federation of India (TTFI) to issue a show-cause notice to Manika. However, Roy, a former National men’s singles champion remains unperturbed. “Why she (Manika) did that is best known to her. I was given responsibility by TTFI. I have been the National coach for the last four years, travelling with the team for Commonwealth Games (CWG), World Championships in Budapest with no foreign coaches. I know my duty,” said Roy in an interaction with The Hindu on Wednesday. Roy said if there is clear communication between all the parties concerned, things can be done in an amicable manner, like how it happened in the Asian Olympic qualification tournament in Doha in March this year. ‘I know my job’ “In the Olympic qualification, it was very clear that Manika’s personal coach [Sanmay Paranjape] will be allowed to sit for her match and I will sit for the mixed doubles (Sharath Kamal-Manika), and the singles matches of Sharath and Sathiyan. For me, it is better if I know my job. Whatever TTFI says, I will follow,” said Roy. Roy said he doesn’t have anything against personal coaches per se. “They have a huge role. There should be some guidelines. TTFI should take a call on it,” he said. “Suppose we go to CWG with 10 players, we can't have 10 personal coaches.” According to the 37-year-old from Kolkata, in the absence of a personal coach at the National camp, the National coach can coordinate with the personal coach and work with the concerned player on the areas prescribed by the personal coach. Not justified Roy, however, disagrees with the idea that those in the top 50 in the world be allowed to have a personal coach court-side during a major International tournament. “What’s wrong if somebody who is ranked 70 or 80 [in the world] wants a personal coach. They can still be a medal prospect in CWG or for that matter those ranked in 120s. How do we justify it?” he said. With the Asian table tennis championships scheduled in Doha from September 28 to October 5, it is incumbent on TTFI to come up with clear guidelines.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/soumyadeep-says-he-was-given-the-responsibility-by-ttfi/article35868235.ece
12 August 2021||CHENNAI,||Titles for Manikandan and Shristhi||D. Manikandan and Shrishti Selvam won the men’s and women’s Open titles in the first edition of the Covelong Classic National Surf and SUP championships, which concluded here on Tuesday. Arun Vasu, president of Surfing Association of India, gave away the prizes.  The results:   Men’s Open: 1. D. Manikandan, 2. T. Nithishvarun, 3. Babu Sivaraj.   SUP champion: 1. P. Sekar, 2. S. Santhosh, 3. Manikandan.   Women’s Open: 1. Shrishti Selvam, 2. Shanti Banarse, 3. Sinchana Gowda.   Groms under-16: 1. D. Srikanth, 2. Kishore Kumar, 3. Tayin Arun .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/titles-for-manikandan-shristhi/article35868229.ece
12 August 2021||Berlin,||Bayern aiming to complete a decade of domination||Fans are back but the fundamental question remains the same as the Bundesliga season begins on Friday. Who can stop Bayern Munich? The Bavarian powerhouse has won an unprecedented nine consecutive German league titles and looks likely to complete a decade of domination. “The chase is on. The team knows that the others have no great interest in seeing us at the top for the 10th time in a row. They’ll do all they can to get us down,” said Bayern chairman Oliver Kahn, who does not expect the challengers to be successful. “If we deliver on our potential, we’ll be champions again,” Kahn said. “The team has shown than it’s always capable of surpassing itself.” Bayern starts its record-extending title bid at Monchengladbach on Friday. The defending champion has a new coach in Julian Nagelsmann, poached from Leipzig to replace Hansi Flick, who cut short his tenure to take over the German national team.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bayern-aiming-to-complete-a-decade-of-domination/article35868656.ece
12 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||Arjun tops 50m free pistol||World junior champion Arjun Singh Cheema shot 564 to top the 50-metre free pistol open event in the shooting National selection trials at the Dr. Karni Singh Range on Tuesday. Nikhil Chandila took the second place with 549. In the combined event for men and women, Shikha Narwal was the best among the women as she placed eighth with 534. Esha Singh shot 530 for the 11th spot.  The results: 50m free pistol:   Open: 1. Arjun Singh Cheema 564; 2. Nikhil Chandila 549; 3. Ajinkya Chavan 543 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/arjun-tops-50m-free-pistol/article35868231.ece
12 August 2021||New Delhi,||BWF cancels Korea and Macau Opens||The Korea Open and Macau Open were on Wednesday cancelled by the game's governing body BWF due to rising cases of COVID-19 pandemic in the region. The apex body also postponed the World Junior badminton championships which was scheduled to be held in China. The Korea Open (August 31 to September 5), a Super 500 event, was scheduled to resume the BWF World Tour which was suspended after the All England Championships in March. The Macau Open Super 300, on the other hand, was scheduled to be held from November 2 to 7. A final decision on Malaysia Masters Super 500 event and Malaysia Open Super 750, which were postponed earlier, will come at a later date, BWF said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bwf-cancels-korea-and-macau-opens/article35868239.ece
12 August 2021||Kingston (Jamaica),||West Indies gears up for Pakistan Tests||West Indies and Pakistan commence a two-Test series at Sabina Park in Jamaica on Thursday with head coach Phil Simmons concerned about the readiness of the home players for what is expected to be a formidable challenge from talented but mercurial opponents. With the vulnerability of the hosts’ batting mercilessly exploited by South Africa two months ago in a similar two-Test duel in St. Lucia, Simmons made clear his displeasure on Monday that most of his Test match specialists did very little, if anything, while away from the international scene. “A lot of the players said they didn’t get any work done in their home territories before this camp and the four-day game,” said Simmons. “It’s disappointing to find out there’s nothing done and we have to start from scratch here.” On the back of four consecutive Test wins, Pakistan would not appear to be burdened by similar concerns. Back-to-back innings triumphs over an extremely weak Zimbabwe outfit in Harare in its last series could hardly be considered a reliable indicator of anticipated performance against a more formidable opponent. Simmons’ Pakistan counterpart Waqar Younis will be concerned about his team’s readiness for the traditional format even if recent history suggests that the side has the quality to overcome its beleaguered opponent.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/west-indies-starting-from-scratch-before-pakistan-test-series/article35868247.ece
12 August 2021||London,||England, India docked WTC points||England and India have both lost two World Test Championship points and each been fined 40 percent of their match fees for maintaining a slow over-rate in the series opener at Nottingham, ICC announced on Wednesday. ICC match referee Chris Broad, the former Test batsman and father of England paceman Stuart Broad, imposed the sanction after both sides were ruled to be two overs short of their targets after time allowances were taken into consideration. Under ICC regulations, players are fined 20 percent of their match fees for every over their side fails to bowl in the allotted time, with teams penalised one Test Championship point for each over short. England captain Joe Root and India counterpart Virat Kohli pleaded guilty and accepted the proposed sanctions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/england-india-docked-wtc-points/article35868184.ece
12 August 2021||August 12 2021 00:00 IST,||In vain||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/in-vain/article35868389.ece
12 August 2021||Dubai,||Shakib, Stafanie ICC players of the month||Bangladesh all-rounder Shakib Al Hasan and West Indies skipper Stafanie Taylor were on Wednesday named the ICC Player of the Month for July in the men’s and women’s categories respectively. Shakib’s contributions in all three formats of the game helped Bangladesh win its series against Zimbabwe last month. He is also the top all-rounder in the latest ICC men’s T20 rankings. “It is very humbling to be voted ICC Men’s Player of the Month for July 2021. There have been many outstanding performances during the month and that is why this is special for me,” said Shakib, who edged out Australia’s Mitchell Marsh and West Indies’ Hayden Walsh Jr, in an ICC release. West Indies all-rounder Taylor, who led her team in the ODI and T20I series win against Pakistan in July, was nominated for the award alongside teammate Hayley Matthews and Pakistan’s Fatima Sana, but her all-round performance helped her claim the most votes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/shakib-and-stafanie-are-icc-players-of-the-month/article35868237.ece
12 August 2021||Auckland,||Olivia Podmore, New Zealand 2016 Olympic cyclist, dies at 24||Olivia Podmore, a track cyclist for New Zealand who competed at the 2016 Rio Olympics, passed away on Monday. She was 24. Cycling New Zealand said Podmore died “suddenly” but did not disclose a cause or other details.AP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/olivia-podmore-new-zealand-2016-olympic-cyclist-dies-at-24/article35868242.ece
12 August 2021||August 12 2021 07:35 IST,||Sudoku — August 12, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-august-12-2021/article35868941.ece
12 August 2021||August 12 2021 00:00 IST,||And now, the joy of sultry dinners||Now, we burst out of home between lockdowns, measuring time in peaks and waves. After many months of solitude, it is comforting to sit in a restaurant again, revelling in the familiar ebb and flow of conversation around us, even if it is muffled by masks and visors. The hospitality industry, brought to its knees by the pandemic, is fighting back with energy and grit. Over the few months, every week has seen a new café, bar or diner launch. In response to the darkness of the pandemic, spaces are now bright and optimistic, filled with flowers, music and sunshine. Menus are comforting, but creative, starring local ingredients. And, most importantly, to reassure nervous customers who now prefer to eat outdoors embracing the city’s sultry warmth, restaurateurs are carving out joyful, greenery-draped oases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/and-now-the-joy-of-sultry-dinners/article35868135.ece
12 August 2021||August 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Kuruthi and a quiet Onam||Traditionally, watching a big Onam release is an inevitable part of the festivities. This year, however, the much-awaited Kuruthi , directed by Manu Warrier, dropped on Amazon Prime Video. The film, starring Prithviraj Sukumaran, Murali Gopy, Mamukoya, Srindaa and Roshan Mathew, was due for theatrical release in May, but took the OTT route due to the second wave of COVID-19. Prithviraj is the film’s producer; it is one of the many hats he wears including actor, director, distributor and sometimes singer. Kuruthi is Prithviraj’s third production after 9 and Driving License . Edited excerpts from an interview: What is Kuruthi about? The trailer is cryptic. It is because there is only so little we can say without giving away the plot. People should ideally discover it while watching the film.  For that reason my answer is also going to be cryptic. If you want to classify the film into a genre then it is a socio-political thriller. But that just makes it ‘flat’. It is about an unstoppable force of violence meeting an immovable object of faith. It is also about how a group of ordinary people who, when pushed to the limit, change and react. It is also about how dangerous hate is: it is something that feeds itself. What about the Kuruthi script piqued your interest as producer and actor? Every film I have produced till now has got me interested as an actor. I love the script for what it offers me firstly as a film lover and secondly, an actor. I have decided to produce the films I have because I had the opportunity. Also because I knew that if I produced them, I would have more control over the vision being executed properly.  Kuruthi came to me without a producer, cast or technicians attached to it. I had the privilege of taking Manu Warrier [director] and Anish Pallyal [scenarist] under my wing, like a big brother, and set up the team for them. They had no contacts in the Malayalam film industry. It was good to do this as a collaborative team effort to make sure that the vision behind the film doesn’t get diluted. Producing a film at a time like this is a logistical nightmare... It isn’t easy because we are constantly following the sanitisation protocols with masks and physical distancing. But now, the film industry has gotten used to the process and we know that we have to put aside a certain budget for COVID-19 protocol for each film.  Kuruthi was one of the films we were testing the waters with. Looking back, we feel we were too careful. First Cold Case and now Kuruthi ...what has been your experience with OTT? Cinema as an art form is primarily designed for community viewing, for theatres, where people come and view it as a very large group. Neither of these films is designed for personal viewing or an OTT premiere.    Kuruthi , we thought, might release on May 13, which didn’t happen. So what was the next best available option? A big OTT premiere for Onam in Kerala and 240 plus territories... This OTT phenomenon is here to stay, whether there is a pandemic or not. But the closure of theatres? That is not permanent. I disagree with people who tell me that the OTT phenomenon spells doom for theatre. Theatres will be back, up and running. What this pandemic has done for the entertainment industry in India is that it has given birth to an offshoot. And I foresee a future where content will be commissioned by stakeholders such as OTT platforms and satellite partners.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/kuruthi-and-a-quiet-onam/article35868116.ece
12 August 2021||August 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Follow the QR codes||In Puducherry’s Vambakeerapalayam, many homes now sport a QR code on their front doors. Sanitation workers scan them everyday before collecting segregated waste from each home, which is then deposited at a transfer station — a vehicle on which there are more codes — and taken to a recovery facility. All through this process, the collected waste is being digitally traced. A diverse group of urban planners, designers, journalists and individuals from the development sector that make up the collective, ReCity Network, has made its presence in the coastal city to tackle waste mismanagement and littering. Puducherry is just one of the many tourist locations that the collective is concentrating on, in the past four years of its existence. A need to contribute towards the cities they live in was ReCity Network’s driving point. Says co-founder Meha Lahiri, “We understood cities, we knew that the city’s waste, land, water, transport are all resources. The moment they are looked at as resources, citizens might feel an ownership towards their city.” Cut to 2021, they have multiple projects that span across Nainital, Goa, Mussoorie, Puducherry, Mahabaleshwar, Munnar, Konark, Dalhousie and more. “Most tourist cities in themselves are small but the influx they have to manage is at least 10 times more than the population. How does a city prepare itself to manage this much pressure, especially from a waste perspective?” asks Meha. The team believes that the way forward is to create circular waste management systems that would ensure that the waste diverted from landfills is reused. Now, they are bringing the material back to brand owners to reuse. With the help of technology, they measure the plastic movement from one’s door to when it is back into the product of one’s brand. Their work in Puducherry is part of a three-year project called Keep: Namma Pondy Clean. A wall mural activity in collaboration with Paint Puducherry group will also be executed in the city through August. Marina beach and Rock beach in Puducherry also sport isolated artworks that pin on the perils of littering. The project is now operational in six wards and works with 145 sanitary workers across the wards. “If you find a city so visibly clean and beautiful, your behavioural response will be to not litter. There need to be design changes in the city that propagate the idea of anti-littering,” she says. Initiatives like using multi-layered plastic waste of the city to make benches, help. In Mussoorie, Nainital and Dalhousie, there are 20 such benches for tourists. The long term goal for the collective is this: “We are looking at diverting 10,000 million metric tonnes of waste and have worked with at least 5,000 waste workers across cities,” Meha concludes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/follow-the-qr-codes/article35868128.ece
12 August 2021||August 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Head, shoulders and wheels above others||In the sea of snarling traffic on the bustling Nungambakkam High Road, G Rajendran stands tall... or rather rides tall. Seated atop a peculiar, large contraption, he glides past. His vehicle of choice is a cycle with three wheels, no chain, weighs 220 kilograms, and measures seven-and-a half-feet in height, slightly taller than most SUVs on the road. The 56-year-old from Villivakkam is a creator and a cycle enthusiast. He has been designing and putting together cycles of various shapes, sizes and styles for the last 25 years. “I just had so many ideas that I decided to give them shape,” says Rajendran who works in a lathe shop. “With the money I earn as salary, I buy metal waste and make these prototypes with them,” he says. His salary depends on the amount of work the small lathe factory gets. “Sometimes it could be Rs. 1,500 a month, at other times marginally more or even less. It took years of savings, and some donations from helpful people, to create this three-wheeled cycle which cost me Rs. 63,000,” he adds. A couple of years ago, actor Vijay Sethupathy happened to see Rajendran on his three-wheel cycle near Ega Theatre and apparently invited him to the sets in YMCA Royapettah, where he was shooting for a film. “He asked me if I would like to act in the role of a father. I said the only thing I can do is create,” claims Rajendran, who has created three versions of this large cycle purely out of interest. The other two have two wheels and measure four-and-a-half feet. Made of iron, these cycles are heavy and that is the reason they do not have any takers, says Rajendran. He has received requests to make them lighter. His next cycle will be made of stainless steel. “I received an order for a three-feet cycle, from a client in Anna Nagar,” he says. While the smaller ones can be made in a couple of weeks’ time, the larger ones took him nine months to a year and a half. With people experimenting with quirky home and restaurant decors now, has he received orders to create his unique cycles as installations? “Not yet. But a few people do rent it out for photo shoots, especially for weddings at Rs. 2,000 per day,” says Rajendran. Not many people know of his creations, he says. In an attempt to make his work known, Rajendran cycles from Villivakkam to Pattinapakkam and Marina Beach and then back. “It’s great exercise,” he says, explaining how the pedal is connected to the wheel. And is it legal on traffic-filled roads? “While as of now there are no such laws, I have often found cops looking at me. A few even stopped and wanted to see if the brakes work and seemed intrigued with the giant cycle,” he says.  Rajendran can be reached on 7358672253.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/head-shoulders-and-wheels-above-others/article35868141.ece
12 August 2021||August 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Big league||Pooja Hegde’s line-up of upcoming releases makes for almost intimidating reading: Most Eligible Bachelor , Radhe Shyam , Acharya , Cirkus , Beast and Bhaijaan . Her co-stars include the likes of Prabhas, Vijay, Ranveer Singh and Salman Khan, and recently this week, it was announced that she’s reuniting with director Trivikram Srinivas for Telugu superstar Mahesh Babu’s next project. Even though her last release was in January 2020, the pan-Indian star has been busy throughout the course of the pandemic, not only shooting for a series of big-budget projects, but also with her foundation All About Love, through which she pledges a portion of her salary to charity. Excerpts from an interview: It has been 18 months since your last release, but you have managed to stay relevant... I think I was one of the lucky ones who had a release just before the pandemic (Telugu filmAla Vaikunthapurramuloo). It was a huge success that lingered on in people’s minds. It also had a second coming of sorts on Netflix, where a lot of non-Telugu speaking viewers accessed, and likedme in it, and went on to watch some of my older films. A lot of other actors have taken on OTT projects over the last year and half. Have you consciously avoided that space?  Not at all. Last year, I had all these films lined up for theatrical release and the producers have stuck to their guns, instead of opting for an OTT release. When it comes to streaming content, I’m definitely open to doing it if something interesting comes my way. Your career stands out for its array of commercial hits, headlined by A-list male leads. How do you make an impact in films that cater to the hero’s fans? I stand by this rule: the time that you appear on-screen has to be memorable. The perfect example is Ala Vaikunthapurramuloo . The biggest part of the film was the songs — be it ‘Samajavaragamana’ or ‘Butta Bomma’ — and they were about the girl! So it’s about what I’m doing with the time that is given to me, be it half hour or 45 mins of screen space. Then, it’s about relationships, because sometimes you want to work with the director. If someone like a Raju Hirani or Sanjay Leela Bhansali or SS Rajamouli calls me tomorrow, I’m not going to ask them for a narration! In fact, that’s what happened when Rohit Shetty approached me for Cirkus . I was so excited that I forgot to ask him who the male lead was. Then when I found out it was Ranveer! Last year, a video of a fan who waited for five days on the road to meet you, went viral. Does stardom scare you? I come from a very academically-driven family. It’s because of fans that I’ve gotten so far in the industry. Whenever I hear that someone has driven for two hours to go to a theatre or spent their pocket money to watch a film of mine, I genuinely feel touched. What we do as actors actually affects people and that makes me feel responsible too. Though you have other projects in the pipeline, Radhe Shyam and Tamil film Beast are probably the most anticipated ones...  Radhe Shyam is a period flick with fashion and romance woven into it, and I love that the female lead’s role is phenomenal. As far as Beast goes, I really hope my director Nelson gives me some action sequences; I’d love to try them out! My co-star Vijay is so chill and calm; it’s something that really resonates with me. The best sets are those when you don’t want to say bye even after the shoot for the day is done, and you keep wanting to work more; Beast has been that kind of journey so far.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/big-league/article35868106.ece
12 August 2021||August 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Uke can do it too||A house under lockdown can get lonely. So when Kavya Ramachandran dusted the covers off her ukulele months after she bought it, repaired its strings nibbled away by rats in her absence, and sat down to play ‘Leaving on a Jet Plane’ by John Denver, it was for one reason: “I live alone and I just wanted to fill the house with some sort of sound.” The Chennai-based 26-year-old is not a professional musician, but nevertheless, has become attached to the small four-stringed instrument through the pandemic. “I don’t pack away my uke any longer. I sleep with it on my bed, and play it first thing in the morning. I owe my survival of the pandemic to it.” Dealing with pandemic-induced screen fatigue, people are showing an interest in exploring hobbies they would have normally picked up in their childhood, and learning musical instruments is a popular option. So much so that instrument sellers are now counting on beginners as a prime customer base. Kishore Das, CEO of Musee Musical, one of the oldest instrument stores in Chennai, says, “Before the pandemic, 50% of our business would come from amateurs and 50% from professionals.” Then two things happened — the number of concerts and live performances went down, while the number of hobbyists rose. “Today, the sales have shifted; 60%-70% comes from beginners,” he says. Noting this rise, Kishore has been working at making online shopping for beginners easier. “On our website, we have included experts who can explain to you how the instrument works. You can listen to it and watch how it is played, before buying,” he says. The music starter pack While guitars and keyboards are evergreen, stores have seen a rise in smaller, and relatively easier-to-play instruments, explaining the rising popularity of the ukulele. Yash Gupta of Kadence Music says that the number of ukuleles they sold has gone up from 20,000 in 2019 to over one lakh in 2021. “We are seeing the same numbers that we used to see with guitars, we believe that it will eventually surpass guitar sales,” says Yash, adding that after millennials, it is most popular among the retired age group. Pune-based Luv Mahtani, who teaches the ukulele online, says that in the past three years he has taught the three-month beginner course to over a 100 people, and 50 of those were in the last year alone. “I think it has become the kind of phenomenon it has, post-pandemic in India, partly because of social media. This may sound trivial...” he observes, with a laugh, “But instruments such as the uke fit better on a vertical video (on Tik Tok, Instagram Reels, and YouTube Shorts) than a bulkier instrument like the guitar. So the aesthetics may work in its favour.” It helps, of course, when the instrument is less intimidating for someone just starting out. The kazoo is a great example of this. Consisting of a hollow pipe with a hole in it, it modifies the players’ voice and turns it into a buzzing sound when they hum or sing into it. “The kazoo is an easy instrument to master. All you have to have is a sense of humming and possess basic breath control,” says Bengaluru-based kazoo player Harry D’Cruz, noting, “Ever since the pandemic, a lot of people have resorted to music as a stress-buster. For many music lovers, learning the kazoo was one such activity.” The American-made instrument developed to play Georgian strains in the late 1800s is now finding itself in places as varied as Carnatic, to beatboxing — Harry is in fact, one of India’s first kazoo beatboxers and throughout the pandemic phase, has been working on improving this musical marriage, making covers of ‘Pink Panther’ and ‘Mr Bean’. The instrument, handed out as party favours in the US, is cheap; a metal one costs less than Rs. 500. The economics of it And for a beginner, the question on investing in a musical instrument is a major one. “I am somebody who abandons hobbies easily,” shares Kavya, “A guitar would have cost me over Rs. 12,000, whereas I got the uke for Rs. 3,000.” The same logic applies to the percussion instruments like damru and dholak priced between Rs. 400 to Rs. 900, a tenth of their costlier cousins: the tabla and mridangam. Which is why, 32-year-old Aiyadurai Iyer, a Mumbai-based payroll manager in the HR industry, recommends bongo drums for anyone interested in rhythm patterns. “The bongo drum is a very user-friendly instrument that communicates music. Even a child with a liking for music can just hit it to produce a particular rhythm,” says Aiyadurai, who used the last year to master this Afro-Cuban instrument. Aiyadurai is self-taught, as is Kavya. “I learnt how to play through chord sheets and YouTube tutorials,” she says, “I am not sure if my technique is right. I don’t even know all the chords’ names; I know the finger positions instead. But all that doesn’t matter, because I am only playing for myself.”  With inputs from    Srinivasa Ramanujan    I don’t pack away my ukulele any longer. I sleep with it on my bed, and play it first thing in the morning. I owe my survival of the pandemic to it Kavya Ramachandran||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/uke-can-do-it-too/article35868139.ece
12 August 2021||August 12 2021 00:00 IST,||A passage through||In the late 17th Century, East India Company galleons sailed up the Bay of Bengal into the waterlogged delta of the Ganges-Brahmaputra and weighed anchor. Legend has it that administrator Job Charnock ‘established’ the city of Calcutta at the site of three extant villages, near the banyan tree where he liked to smoke his hubble-bubble. Over time, Calcutta became the hub for Company trade, the capital of the sub-continent and seat of the province of Bengal. Businessmen and soldiers, artists and memsahibs, all drawn to Bengal’s riches in wealth and culture, flocked to it. Among them was Flemish marine painter, printmaker and ethnographer, Balthazar Solvyns, perhaps the only European artist to have documented the people and material culture of Bengal in the decade he lived there. An exhibition by DAG featuring the 288 etchings of Solvyns that he titled Les Hindous opened recently in New Delhi. The works were published by the artist in Paris between 1808 and 1812. “What makes Solvyns exceptional, among foreign artists in India of his time, is his focus on the whole spectrum of society from high to low. Most British painters, for example, were portrait painters seeking patronage from the elites; or they portrayed architecture and landscape. Solvyns addressed Indian society as a whole, and did not neglect its less privileged members,” says Giles Tillotson, senior vice president, Exhibitions and Publications at DAG, in an email interview. Curated by Tillotson, the exhibition is accompanied by a book that introduces, illustrates and contextualises this body of work. Tillotson had earlier curated an exhibition based around a set of Oriental scenery by Thomas and William Daniell in the Red Fort. Les Hindous can be viewed in the high-vaulted halls of Bikaner House in the heart of Lutyens’ Delhi. The paintings are of individuals and of groups, a hat tip to Calcutta’s growth as a cosmopolitan city. So while a native, dhoti -clad man blows the ramsingha (serpent horn), women in flounces and petticoats stroll through the European quarters. The colours are muted, but the exposed brickwork and colonnades are stark. At the bazaar, palm trees are in the distance as men and women crowd the baskets selling wares, but it is the different types of clothing, the drape of the sari or the dhoti , indicating caste and class, that underline Solvyns’ keen powers of survey. “All the works are coloured etchings on paper and hence the works are rested in light and temperature-controlled environments between exhibitions,” says Tillotson, adding, “Each work in this series is based on close observation — of a person or an object such as a boat, cart, a musical instrument... It is also accompanied by text, written by the artist, describing the person or object, explaining them to Western audiences.” The storyteller The descriptive texts are quaint with phonetic spellings for a Parisian viewer, but they also reveal an ethnographic study of Bengal. The works also feature ‘nautch’ girls and fortune tellers apart from the gamut of weavers, boatmen and merchants, lending the portraits a touch of the exotic. “Inevitably, the gaze is in part European. Solvyns is attracted to some things that are strange to Western eyes. Some of the ceremonies and religious rites fall in this category — like the views depicting sati or charak puja. But one also gets a strong sense of Solvyns gathering information from the people he met, his informants, particularly Bengali Brahmins.” The series also covers carts and palanquins, apparatus for smoking and natural history. Solvyns did not arrive in India with the intent of portraying its people to Europe. In the early years, he decorated carriages and restored paintings for a living. It opened to him a world of customs, dress and character he may not have seen otherwise. Or, neither would have we, of that India veiled now by the mists of time.  The exhibition is on till August 20 at Bikaner House, New Delhi. It can also be viewed online at https://dagworld.com/ The_Hindus/||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/a-passage-through/article35868153.ece
12 August 2021||August 12 2021 00:00 IST,||A love letter to dance||Christopher Scott is “in love” — with In The Heights , specifically. The 37-year-old choreographer, known for the Step Up films, The LXD competition series and more, has pushed his creative envelope yet again on the set of In The Heights , produced by Lin-Manuel Miranda and directed by John M Chu. The film is an adaptation of the novel and Broadway show written by Quiara Alegría Hudes, who is also the feature film’s screenwriter. It would have been great to see some of the musical’s large-scale dance sequences on the big screen: 90 men in a New York public pool frugging, and an all-cast number in the neighbourhood of Washington Heights, New York. But owing to cinema halls shutdown across India as per the pandemic, In The Heights did not enjoy a theatrical release here. However the film is available for rent on most OTT and VOD platforms now. Over the phone from Los Angeles, Scott says In The Heights is “a love letter to dance, to the Latin and hip-hop culture, the specific styles of dance. It is also a love letter to a very specific neighbourhood that incorporates voices of the people who grew up and live there, directly into the choreography.” Indeed, it follows the daily challenges and triumphs experienced by Latin families in Washington Heights, New York City. The film stars Anthony Ramos, Melissa Barrera, Lin-Manuel Miranda, Leslie Grace, Stephanie Beatriz and more. Scott, who has worked with Chu for more than 10 years, says the director has “kind of raised me in my career as a choreographer where he opened my tours from the very beginning.” That said, Scott believes In The Heights is a culmination of that decade’s hard work and collaboration.   In The Heights marks a professional and personal level-up for Scott because of “the huge responsibility to deliver, because you are representing a neighbourhood and the creator grew up there so you better not mess it up!” Scott then drew from a personal love for the Latin culture through various dance styles such as Mambo on 2 and Litefeet, also onboarding respected choreographer Eddie Torres Jr (whose father created Mambo No 2). The team also infused a lot of rarely-seen street-styles in musicals. “Hip-hop is one of the stronger elements in the music so this film opened the door to showcase this. There was pressure where if this wasn’t a success, they wouldn't want to do it again.” The film tackles socio-economic themes of gentrification and dance has certainly been a vehicle for the character’s emotive responses to their neighbourhood being ‘white-washed’. Scott points out, “The number one thing is that there were so many conversations all the time with everyone involved, specifically people from the culture.”  Given his love for different cultures, Scott is more than ready to foray into Indian cinema. “Get me out there!” he laughs, “I almost got to work on Heartbeats (2017) and I researched about a lot of traditional Indian weddings where dance is such an integral part of the festivities.” In The Heights is available now on Apple TV, Book My Show Stream, Google and YouTube.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/a-love-letter-to-dance/article35868114.ece
12 August 2021||August 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Rewind with tea and biscuits||When a biscuit becomes a meme, you know it has struck a chord. “There is a deep-rooted emotion of growing up with Milk Bikis — a feeling that this biscuit is a marker of childhood,” says Vinay Subramanyam, VP – marketing, Britannia Industries. He adds that he has been seeing memes floating around social media, connecting the biscuit to children from the ’80s and ’90s. Now adults, but still chasing the comfort of simpler times by dipping ‘bikkis’ into tea. Vinay discusses the decision to cash in on this product’s emotional strength, particularly in Tamil Nadu, in the midst of a difficult year. The brand has relaunched its original, classic packaging and recipe, in a nostalgic bid to attract customers eager for familiar comfort. The focus of the launch is Tamil Nadu, a State where it boasts a 40-year-old legacy and a 95% market share. Foregoing decades of recipe updates and fortifications, the new launch features biscuits with the old taste — and familiar floral pattern — that children of the 1990s grew up with. A ’90s child himself, Vinay is enthusiastic about the relaunch. “We just casually did a campaign to check how many people wanted to have classic Milk Bikis, and got more than one million responses,” he says, adding, “Typically, innovations and brand moves like these are very internal decisions by the organisation. But here, the consumers decided this. That is what makes it special.” Some of these consumers, he adds, are closer to the office than others: old, retired employees of Britannia, as well as distributors and retailers, have been calling to check on the classic packaging.  The limited edition product is available in retail stores across the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/rewind-with-tea-and-biscuits/article35868119.ece
12 August 2021||August 12 2021 00:00 IST,||In Velu Nachiyar’s shoes||Against a smoky backdrop, Velu Nachiyar stands, spear and shield in hand. Adorned in a red sari and jewellery from a bygone era, her posture exudes power. For Tamils worldwide, Nachiyar is “veeramangai”; the first Indian queen to have waged a war against the East India Company. But in this frame, Chennai-based actor and theatre practitioner TM Karthik embodies the role. In an unusual series of photographs, to be launched around Independence Day, Karthik, takes on the roles of five women who rewrote India’s history. Done in collaboration with Pearls Beauty Academy, the series features the actor dressed as Velu Nachiyar, Rani Lakshmibai (Rani of Jhansi), Rani Padmini, Kittur Rani Chenamma and Begum Hazrat Mahal. With costumes and makeup by the Academy and pictures by Ashok, a freelance photographer, the project attempts to tell these stories again. “I wanted to do a series on Tamil women warriors, but realised that not many would know who they are. The aim was also to reach many. So we selected warriors across India,” says Karthik. Inspiration for poses, costumes and jewellery came from early paintings and images that Karthik found in books. While a few costumes were purchased, others were borrowed from her 91-year-old grandmother, says Aarthi Balaji, director of Pearls Beauty Academy. “We wanted to highlight Indian culture and heritage through the jewellery and makeup; things that are almost lost now,” adds Arthi.  The series will be launched on August 13, on Pearls Beauty Academy’s social media handles.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/in-velu-nachiyars-shoes/article35868144.ece
12 August 2021||August 12 2021 00:00 IST,||With the Mahatma into the millennium||Forty-one-year old Avyakta left New Delhi 10 years ago and began travelling across India to interact with students, discussing Mahatma Gandhi’s teachings on life and society. Currently living in a small village in Kangra valley of Himachal Pradesh, he is somewhat critical of how Gandhi’s ideas have been delivered to the last four generations. “Even the new generations are being subjected to the same misunderstandings about Gandhiji’s ideas both by supporters and opponents alike,” he says. “The true successor of Gandhiji was Vinoba Bhave. He proved that the Gandhian way of life will lead to the real freedom of India and the world. But as Gandhiji was politically misappropriated by many and even vilified by some, in the same way Vinoba was consciously ignored. Do you hear many people talking about Gandhiji’s 11 vrata or vows for living a harmonious life?” rues Avyakta. However, after his interactions with thousands of children and young adults across the country, he sees a silver lining. “I find young ones more discerning, intrepid and open to lead a Gandhian way of life. They will choose non-violence only if they survive the assault by overpowering consumerism,” he says. Sudarshan Iyengar, 67, who is talking to youth across the country on his latest project, “gram swaraj” about strengthening participatory democracy, is hopeful. “I notice that those in their teens and twenties are curious about Gandhi,” he says over phone from his home in Dharampur, in Valsad district of Gujarat, adding that in the last three decades “as we moved from an industrial economy to a knowledge economy and now to a tech world, Gandhi has been relegated to the moral science class. He is not for intellectual curiosity but for earnest practice.” As India celebrates 75 years of Independence, there are just a handful of these practising Gandhians left, a majority being seniors: Ghanshyam Shukla, for instance, who sweeps the premises of the Prabha Prakash Degree College in Panjwar village of Siwan district in Bihar every day. The 78-year-old Shukla, a retired teacher of Tari High School, founded the institution by urging people to donate land and build a college for girls. The practising Gandhian’s only possessions are two sets of clothes, a cot, cycle and an umbrella. “It is not totally appropriate to call me a practising Gandhian,” says Sudarshan who has devoted a large part of his life training Adivasi girls in agriculture, animal tending, and basic computer skills. Drawn to Gandhian ways as a youngster, he went on to serve the State in several capacities. The former Vice Chancellor of Gujarat Vidyapeeth is now active in running two schools under the Sarvodaya Parivar Trust. “A total of 90 girls are trained at the schools. Their attendance was down to 60 during the pandemic,” says Sudarshan. Sudarshan is supported by his wife Lakshmi, an Ayurvedic practitioner. Influenced by the JP Movement, (Sampoorna Kranti or Total Revolution) in 1973, he adopted the slogan humla chahe jaisa hoga, haath hamara nahi uthega (however violent the attack, we will not raise our hand). Championing a cause In October 2020, 94-year-old Professor Ramjee Singh of Munger, Bihar, a former parliamentarian, was awarded the Padmashri for social work. In 1942, as a student of Army School Jamalpur he led a student’s demonstration against British rule for which he was expelled. He continues to propagate Gandhian philosophy. “He led a padayatra in England on the 125th celebrations of Gandhi’s birth anniversary,” says his son Sarvodaya Sharma. Ramjee is responsible for the induction of Gandhian Studies as a post-graduate subject in universities, a cause he championed in Parliament. Former Professor of Gandhian Studies at MG University and member, Gandhi Peace Foundation, MP Mathai, says, “There is a problem in defining a practising Gandhian. You will not find another Gandhi, none practising the 11 vows to live by. These were for the inmates of the ashram. Gandhi’s ashram was neither isolated or insulated but existed in the heart of a thriving society.” Mathai has seen several communities practising a non-violent way of life. “They resort to prayer, meditation, manual labour... Others take to organic farming, wearing khadi and handspun, some practise naturopathy, consumption of electricity from alternative energy sources... There are umpteen number of ways that Gandhi’s principles and ideas are being practised,” says Mathai, pointing out it is time to look at Gandhi in a new context.  I find young ones more discerning, intrepid and open to lead a Gandhian way of life. They will choose non-violence only if they survive consumerism Avyakta||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/with-the-mahatma-into-the-millennium/article35868159.ece
12 August 2021||August 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Madras on your mind||If you are on the hunt for homegrown, small businesses in Chennai, then Nivedita Ganeshram’s Instagram page is a great find. The city-based digital strategist — who is gearing up for her first pop-up this weekend — hit upon the idea in August 2020. “Back then, a lot of my artiste friends started running their own small businesses, from baking to organic skincare. I wanted to cheer them on,” says Nivedita. The performing Bharatanatyam dancer adds that a video call with a friend, led to the idea of starting a separate page for artistes, @madrasfinds. “This is our humble journey towards bringing a ‘shop local’ revolution in our country,” she adds. The page is a good resource to find brands, artistes and influencers from the city. A pop-up, says Nivedita, seemed like a natural progression. Themed ‘Ancient Madras’, to commemorate Independence Day, the upcoming event features several brands such as cheesecake label 22 Roses, Hersh Calligraphy, Garden Store, Davrah (filter coffee), Sangiah (upcycled fashion), Qidhan (organic food staples), Studio Melt (artisan soy candles) and Hotchpotch (Resin home decor). “My top five finds would be food subscription service The Good Life Eatery, The Beachville Coffee Shop, Serious Sweets, Fuller Earth Botanicals, and granolas at Fruit Print.”  The pop-up is on August 14 and 15 at House of Chase, Alwarpet, 10.30 am.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/madras-on-your-mind/article35868125.ece
12 August 2021||August 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Kareena teams up with ‘Scam 1992’ filmmaker||Actor Kareena Kapoor Khan has announced her new project, in which she is collaborating with director Hansal Mehta and producer Ekta Kapoor. Hansal Mehta also posted on social media, “They are incredible women and I’m thrilled to be working with them (and to be in the same frame as them) Looking forward to this journey @kareenakapoorkhan and @ektarkapoor.” The yet-to-be-titled project will mark Kareena’s first film since the birth of her second son Jeh Ali Khan. She also has Laal Singh Chaddha with Aamir Khan in the pipeline. Meanwhile, Hansal Mehta is also busy with his film Faraaz , starring newcomers Aditya Rawal and Zahan Kapoor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/kareena-teams-up-with-scam-1992-filmmaker/article35868110.ece
12 August 2021||August 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Late actor Vivekh will be seen in ‘LOL: Enga Siri Paappom’||Here is an opportunity to seelate Tamil comedian Vivekhback in action. The actor will, along with actor Shiva, be seen as hosts and referees in a comedy reality series titled LOL: Enga Siri Paappom . Set to premiere on Amazon Prime Video on August 27, this series will feature 10 comedians including Maya S Krishnan,Abhisek Kumar, Premgi Amaren, Harathi Vignesh, RJ Vignesh Kanth, Sathish, Pugazh, Powerstar Srinivasan, Syama Harini and Baggy. Shiva, who is co-hosting the series, said, “This is very close to my heart since it was my last shoot with my favourite entertainer. With his versatility and charm, Vivekh sir has already added that extra dose of fun making this show a wholesome entertainer.” Actor Vivekh died on April 17, from a cardiac arrest the previous day, leaving fans and well-wishers shocked.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/late-actor-vivekh-will-be-seen-in-lol-enga-siri-paappom/article35868112.ece
12 August 2021||August 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Kuruthi and a quiet Onam||Traditionally, watching a big Onam release is an inevitable part of the festivities. This year, however, the much-awaited Kuruthi , directed by Manu Warrier, dropped on Amazon Prime Video. The film, starring Prithviraj Sukumaran, Murali Gopy, Mamukoya, Srindaa and Roshan Mathew, was due for theatrical release in May, but took the OTT route due to the second wave of COVID-19. Prithviraj is the film’s producer; it is one of the many hats he wears including actor, director, distributor and sometimes singer. Kuruthi is Prithviraj’s third production after 9 and Driving Licence . Edited excerpts from an interview: What is Kuruthi about? The trailer is cryptic. It is because there is only so little we can say without giving away the plot. People should ideally discover it while watching the film.  For that reason my answer is also going to be cryptic. If you want to classify the film into a genre, then it is a socio-political thriller. But that just makes it ‘flat’. It is about an unstoppable force of violence meeting an immovable object of faith. It is also about how a group of ordinary people who, when pushed to the limit, change and react. It is also about how dangerous hate is: it is something that feeds itself. What about the Kuruthi script piqued your interest as producer and actor? Every film I have produced till now has got me interested as an actor. I love the script for what it offers me firstly as a film lover and secondly, an actor. I have decided to produce the films I have because I had the opportunity. Also because I knew that if I produced them, I would have more control over the vision being executed properly.  Kuruthi came to me without a producer, cast or technicians attached to it. I had the privilege of taking Manu Warrier [director] and Anish Pallyal [scenarist] under my wing, like a big brother, and set up the team for them. They had no contacts in the Malayalam film industry. It was good to do this as a collaborative team effort to make sure that the vision behind the film doesn’t get diluted. Producing a film at a time like this is a logistical nightmare... It isn’t easy because we are constantly following the sanitisation protocols with masks and physical distancing. But now, the film industry has gotten used to the process and we know that we have to put aside a certain budget for COVID-19 protocol for each film.  Kuruthi was one of the films we were testing the waters with. Looking back, we feel we were too careful. First Cold Case and now Kuruthi ... what has been your experience with OTT? Cinema as an art form is primarily designed for community viewing, for theatres, where people come and view it as a very large group. Neither of these films is designed for personal viewing or an OTT premiere.    Kuruthi , we thought, might release on May 13, which didn’t happen. So what was the next best available option? A big OTT premiere for Onam in Kerala and 240 plus territories... This OTT phenomenon is here to stay, whether there is a pandemic or not. But the closure of theatres? That is not permanent. I disagree with people who tell me that the OTT phenomenon spells doom for theatre. Theatres will be back, up and running. What this pandemic has done for the entertainment industry in India is that it has given birth to an offshoot. And I foresee a future where content will be commissioned by stakeholders such as OTT platforms and satellite partners.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/kuruthi-and-a-quiet-onam/article35868604.ece
12 August 2021||August 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Big league||Pooja Hegde’s line-up of upcoming releases makes for almost intimidating reading: Most Eligible Bachelor , Radhe Shyam , Acharya , Cirkus , Beast and Bhaijaan . Her co-stars include the likes of Prabhas, Vijay, Ranveer Singh and Salman Khan, and recently this week, it was announced that she’s reuniting with director Trivikram Srinivas for Telugu superstar Mahesh Babu’s next project. Even though her last release was in January 2020, the pan-Indian star has been busy throughout the course of the pandemic, not only shooting for a series of big-budget projects, but also with her foundation All About Love, through which she pledges a portion of her salary to charity. Excerpts from an interview: It has been 18 months since your last release, but you have managed to stay relevant... I think I was one of the lucky ones who had a release just before the pandemic (Telugu filmAla Vaikunthapurramuloo). It was a huge success that lingered on in people’s minds. It also had a second coming of sorts on Netflix, where a lot of non-Telugu speaking viewers accessed, and likedme in it, and went on to watch some of my older films. A lot of other actors have taken on OTT projects over the last year and half. Have you consciously avoided that space?  Not at all. Last year, I had all these films lined up for theatrical release and the producers have stuck to their guns, instead of opting for an OTT release. When it comes to streaming content, I’m definitely open to doing it if something interesting comes my way. Your career stands out for its array of commercial hits, headlined by A-list male leads. How do you make an impact in films that cater to the hero’s fans? I stand by this rule: the time that you appear on-screen has to be memorable. The perfect example is Ala Vaikunthapurramuloo . The biggest part of the film was the songs — be it ‘Samajavaragamana’ or ‘Butta Bomma’ — and they were about the girl! So it’s about what I’m doing with the time that is given to me, be it half hour or 45 mins of screen space. Then, it’s about relationships, because sometimes you want to work with the director. If someone like a Raju Hirani or Sanjay Leela Bhansali or SS Rajamouli calls me tomorrow, I’m not going to ask them for a narration! In fact, that’s what happened when Rohit Shetty approached me for Cirkus . I was so excited that I forgot to ask him who the male lead was. Then when I found out it was Ranveer! Last year, a video of a fan who waited for five days on the road to meet you, went viral. Does stardom scare you? I come from a very academically-driven family. It’s because of fans that I’ve gotten so far in the industry. Whenever I hear that someone has driven for two hours to go to a theatre or spent their pocket money to watch a film of mine, I genuinely feel touched. What we do as actors actually affects people and that makes me feel responsible too. Though you have other projects in the pipeline, Radhe Shyam and Tamil film Beast are probably the most anticipated ones...  Radhe Shyam is a period flick with fashion and romance woven into it, and I love that the female lead’s role is phenomenal. As far as Beast goes, I really hope my director Nelson gives me some action sequences; I’d love to try them out! My co-star Vijay is so chill and calm; it’s something that really resonates with me. The best sets are those when you don’t want to say bye even after the shoot for the day is done, and you keep wanting to work more; Beast has been that kind of journey so far.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/big-league/article35868600.ece
12 August 2021||August 12 2021 00:00 IST,||A love letter to dance||Christopher Scott is “in love” — with In The Heights , specifically. The 37-year-old choreographer, known for the Step Up films, The LXD competition series and more, has pushed his creative envelope yet again on the set of In The Heights , produced by Lin-Manuel Miranda and directed by John M Chu. The film is an adaptation of the novel and Broadway show written by Quiara Alegría Hudes, who is also the feature film’s screenwriter. It would have been great to see some of the musical’s large-scale dance sequences on the big screen: 90 men in a New York public pool frugging, and an all-cast number in the neighbourhood of Washington Heights, New York. But owing to cinema halls shutdown across India as per the pandemic, In The Heights did not enjoy a theatrical release here. However the film is available for rent on most OTT and VOD platforms now. Over the phone from Los Angeles, Scott says In The Heights is “a love letter to dance, to the Latin and hip-hop culture, the specific styles of dance. It is also a love letter to a very specific neighbourhood that incorporates voices of the people who grew up and live there, directly into the choreography.” Indeed, it follows the daily challenges and triumphs experienced by Latin families in Washington Heights, New York City. The film stars Anthony Ramos, Melissa Barrera, Lin-Manuel Miranda, Leslie Grace, Stephanie Beatriz and more. Scott, who has worked with Chu for more than 10 years, says the director has “kind of raised me in my career as a choreographer where he opened my tours from the very beginning.” That said, Scott believes In The Heights is a culmination of that decade’s hard work and collaboration.   In The Heights marks a professional and personal level-up for Scott because of “the huge responsibility to deliver, because you are representing a neighbourhood and the creator grew up there so you better not mess it up!” Scott then drew from a personal love for the Latin culture through various dance styles such as Mambo on 2 and Litefeet, also onboarding respected choreographer Eddie Torres Jr (whose father created Mambo No 2). The team also infused a lot of rarely-seen street-styles in musicals. “Hip-hop is one of the stronger elements in the music so this film opened the door to showcase this. There was pressure where if this wasn’t a success, they wouldn't want to do it again.” The film tackles socio-economic themes of gentrification and dance has certainly been a vehicle for the character’s emotive responses to their neighbourhood being ‘white-washed’. Scott points out, “The number one thing is that there were so many conversations all the time with everyone involved, specifically people from the culture.”  Given his love for different cultures, Scott is more than ready to foray into Indian cinema. “Get me out there!” he laughs, “I almost got to work on Heartbeats (2017) and I researched about a lot of traditional Indian weddings where dance is such an integral part of the festivities.” In The Heights is available now on Apple TV, Book My Show Stream, Google and YouTube.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/a-love-letter-to-dance/article35868603.ece
12 August 2021||August 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Late actor Vivekh will be seen in ‘LOL: Enga Siri Paappom’||Here is an opportunity to seelate Tamil comedian Vivekhback in action. The actor will, along with actor Shiva, be seen as hosts and referees in a comedy reality series titled LOL: Enga Siri Paappom . Set to premiere on Amazon Prime Video on August 27, this series will feature 10 comedians including Maya S. Krishnan,Abhisek Kumar, Premgi Amaren, Harathi Vignesh, RJ Vignesh Kanth, Sathish, Pugazh, Powerstar Srinivasan, Syama Harini and Baggy.  Shiva, who is co-hosting the series, said, “This is very close to my heart since it was my last shoot with my favourite entertainer. With his versatility and charm, Vivekh sir has already added that extra dose of fun making this show a wholesome entertainer.” Actor Vivekh died on April 17, from a cardiac arrest the previous day, leaving fans and well-wishers shocked.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/late-actor-vivekh-will-be-seen-in-lol-enga-siri-paappom/article35868602.ece
12 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||Govt. schools to get world-class education||The newly formed Delhi Board of School Education on Wednesday signed an agreement with the International Baccalaureate (IB) to adopt global practices in the field of curriculum, pedagogy and assessment at 30 schools of Delhi government during the 2021-22 session. The Delhi government said that students studying at 10 Sarvodaya schools (Classes Nursery-8) and 20 Schools of Specialised Excellence, SoSE (Classes 9-12) that are affiliated to the DBSE will now be able to access the highest international standards of education. Highest standards Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal after announcing the tie-up, said that people used to undermine the Delhi government’s vision for education in the Capital. They thought that the DBSE was started just for the sake of it but through this collaboration, pedagogy of the highest standards will be inculcated in the curriculum of the DBSE schools in collaboration with the IB. “The biggest schools of the world and the country where the richest of rich children go to study dream of getting an affiliation of the IB, as their pedagogy is of the highest international standards. Across the world, the IB has collaborated with about 5,500 schools in 159 countries. They have collaborated with the governments of America, Canada, Spain, Japan and South Korea among other developed countries,” Mr. Kejriwal said. He said that in the last six years, the Delhi government has invested very heavily, both in terms of commitment and financial resources, that has led to a complete transformation of education in government schools. “We were standing at a juncture where we had to improve what is being taught, how it is being taught and we had to prepare our children for the international standards. When it succeeds, it will be a great model for the rest of our country and show that we can provide the best quality of education to the most underprivileged of the people,” Mr. Kejriwal said. Through the agreement, the IB will become a knowledge partner with a government board. This will translate into experts from foreign countries coming here to train the schools under the DBSE and improve their quality to international standards, the government said. Under the guidance of the IB, schools will be inspected, verified, and certified and they will tell what the school lacks and how it can be improved, the government said paving the way for more schools to get affiliated to the DBSE. Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia, also DBSE president, said that the government’s aim was to ensure that students from Delhi become global leaders. Development workshops Stefanie Leong, Head of Development and Recognition, Asia-Pacific, IB, who is based in Singapore said that the partnership entails that IB development workshops provide opportunities to engage in rich learning experiences for the school leaders and educators, and serve as a tool to help schools meet professional requirements of the highest quality. “IB education is designed to develop knowledgeable and caring young people who are dedicated to creating a better world,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/govt-schools-to-get-world-class-education/article35868369.ece
12 August 2021||New Delhi,||Amarinder meets Modi, seeks repeal of farm laws||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh called on Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday and urged him to repeal the farm laws and amend the relevant law to make farmers eligible for free legal aid. A statement from the Chief Minister’s Office (CMO) said Capt Singh had cautioned the Prime Minister that the farmers’ agitation had “the potential of posing security threat to Punjab and the country with Pak-backed anti-India forces looking to exploit the farmers who are disgruntled with the government”. He called for immediate review and revocation of the farm laws as they have triggered widespread resentment among farmers of Punjab and other States, who have been protesting at the Delhi’s borders since last November 26. Urging the Prime Minister’s intervention in finding a solution, the Chief Minister argued that the continued agitation was not only impacting economic activities in Punjab but also had the potential to affect the social fabric, especially when political parties and groups take strong positions. Paddy straw issue The Chief Minister also underlined the need to compensate farmers for the management of paddy straw at Rs. 100 per quintal and also to address the fears of DAP shortage that could aggravate the “crisis triggered by the three laws”. Earlier in the day, Capt. Singh also called on Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya to ask for increased allocation of vaccine supplies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/amarinder-meets-modi-seeks-repeal-of-farm-laws/article35868366.ece
12 August 2021||BHUBANESWAR:,||BJD demands caste-based enumeration in new Census||The Biju Janata Dal (BJD) on Wednesday demanded a caste-based Census be conducted for identifying and enumerating Socially and Educationally Backward Communities (SEBC) and Other Backward Classes (OBC), and increasing reservation beyond the 50% ceiling by enacting a Central legislation. Two BJP allies, the Janata Dal (United) and Apna Dal, have also raised similar demands in the recent past. A BJD delegation of MPs from both the Lok Sabha and the Rajya Sabha led by Pinaki Mishra met Home Minister Amit Shah at his Parliament chamber and apprised him of the need for a caste-based Census. They said it was necessary to insert appropriate columns in the format of the 2021 Census to get a clear picture of the socio-economic and educational statuses of the SEBC, OBC and other classes in order to formulate appropriate policies for their benefit. In the proposed formats for the General Census 2021, there is no provision to capture details of the SEBC and OBC. “A detailed scientific database is very much required with regards to the SEBC and OBC category for the formulation of accurate reservation policies for holistic development, welfare and upliftment of these categories of the population,” Mr. Mishra said. The memorandum submitted by the BJD MPs says no formal Census including caste details has been carried out since 1931. ‘Huge challenge’ The MPs observed in the memorandum: “Unavailability of reliable and authentic data about the exact numbers of the SEBC and OBCs, geographical area of their spread and density has been a huge challenge in ensuring focused and outcome specific planning.” “For a welfare government, it is a constitutional obligation and abiding commitment for inclusive growth of the weaker sections of the society,” they emphasised.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/bjd-demands-caste-based-enumeration-in-new-census/article35868365.ece
12 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||DU holds virtual open day for law aspirants||Delhi University on Wednesday conducted a virtual open day for aspirants seeking admissions to law courses in the varsity. Urging applicants to go through the bulletin of information before filling up the registration forms, senior DU officials reiterated that data, including bank details, documents and other details, once entered into the system, cannot be modified later. Pinki Sharma, Dean of Admissions in the university said, “I request applicants to please go through the bulletin of information provided on the DU website, carefully and then fill out the forms. All the eligibility criteria and details about colleges and courses are mentioned on the website. Students should ensure that they upload correct details and updated documents. Help desks have also been set up to assist students in resolving queries.” Professor Vandana, Dean Faculty of Law said, “Students can apply to us only after they have completed their graduation and have a certain percentages. An entrance test will also be conducted.” Stating that the university had devised an “almost full-proof system” of online admissions, Kirori Mal College principal Vibha Chauhan said, “This is the second time that the university is conducting online admissions. If aspirants follow instructions step-by-step, they should not be facing any issues.” Registrations for UG courses began on August 2 and will continue till August 31. Cut-off marks for merit-based undergraduate courses are expected to be out in September.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/du-holds-virtual-open-day-for-law-aspirants/article35868370.ece
12 August 2021||New Delhi,||‘Consider changes to MPD-2041 to make it children-friendly’||The Delhi Commission for Protection of Child Rights (DCPCR) has submitted its suggestions on the Master Plan 2041 to the Delhi Development Authority including, earmarking more spaces for children, more creches to enable women to join the workforce, reconsider land norms for educational institutes, and diaper-changing stations in men’s toilets. The recommendations made by DCPCR chairperson Anurag Kundu said that the government should build infrastructure, which would facilitate change in people’s mindset in terms of gender roles. “Toilets in some public places should have diaper changing facilities but not in women’s toilets only. It is time men change their children’s diapers. Master plan must account for it,” one of the suggestions read. Another recommendation was greater space for children to meet growing demands especially for children homes, hostels, pediatric wards, and colleges. “Facilities such as creches are key enablers for women to join the workforce. Similarly, availability of sanitary pads and robust disposal systems at public utility places is a key area of focus that the Commission recommends for the Authority,” read another recommendation. “The DDA should consider these changes and revise its Master Plan to make it a genuinely friendly city for children,” Mr. Kundu said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/earmark-more-space-for-children-creches-diaper-changing-stations/article35868371.ece
12 August 2021||GUWAHATI,||‘Save RTI applicants threatened by NSCN (I-M)’||A Manipur-based rights group has appealed to Home Minister Amit Shah to save and secure the lives of four Right to Information (RTI) applicants who have been “repeatedly threatened and intimidated” by members of an extremist group. The Movement for People’s Rights Forum, Manipur (MPRFM), said a local unit of the National Socialist Council of Nagaland (Isak-Muivah) had been issuing death threats to the RTI users of Senapati district, forcing them to go into hiding since March 2020. ‘House arrest’ The four are Kh. Inoch of Phaibung village, P. Johnson Samo of Taphou Phyamai village, S.P. Benjamin of Ngari Raidulomai village and P.R. Amose of Khabung Khunou village. The last three have been lying low in Manipur capital Imphal, about 60 km from their villages, while Mr. Inoch has been under “house arrest” in his village. The four apparently irked the local leaders of the NSCN (I-M) by seeking to know how funds received by the Phaibung, Phuba and Karong Autonomous District Councils under the 13th and 14th Finance Commissions since 2015 had been spent. The RTI applications had been submitted following reports that the funds were being misused by the district councils in collusion with certain agents without the projects being executed on the ground. Information declined While the information officers declined to provide the information, leaders of the NSCN (I-M)’s Shepoumaramth Region (encompassing the areas covered by the district councils) ordered them to withdraw their application or face stern action.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/save-rti-applicants-threatened-by-nscn-i-m/article35868364.ece
12 August 2021||New Delhi,||Hate slogans case: bail granted to ex-BJP leader||A Delhi court on Wednesday granted bail to former BJP spokesperson Ashwini Upadhyay, arrested in connection with the communal slogans allegedly raised during a protest at Jantar Mantar on August 8. Metropolitan Magistrate Udbhav Kumar Jain granted relief to Mr. Upadhyay on a bond of Rs. 50,000. The accused, an advocate, was sent to judicial custody on Tuesday, considering that his bail application was pending. A video showing anti-Muslim slogans being raised during a protest at Jantar Mantar was widely circulated on social media, following which Delhi Police registered a case in connection with the matter on Monday. Hundreds of people had attended the protest organised by ‘Bharat Jodo Aandolan’ on August 8. Shipra Srivastava, media in-charge of Bharat Jodo Aandolan, had said the protest was held under the leadership of Mr. Upadhyay. However, she denied any links to those who raised anti-Muslim slogans. Mr. Upadhyay too denied any involvement in slogan shouting incident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/former-bjp-leader-gets-bail-in-hate-slogans-case/article35868372.ece
12 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||Govt. resource centre for children with special needs||The Delhi government on Wednesday inaugurated a resource centre at R K Puram which will provide medical facilities like physiotherapy, occupational therapy, speech therapy and behaviour modification to children with special needs studying in government schools. The Delhi government said that 31 such resource centres will be launched by in all the education zones of the city. In the first phase, 14 resource centres will be launched while in the second phase we will see the launch of 17 resource centres. At least 12,705 children with special needs studying in government schools will benefit from these 17 resource centres. Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia said that the Delhi government is fully committed to providing inclusive education to children with special needs. “These resource centres will be run in partnership with organisations working in the field of disability rehabilitation,” Mr. Sisodia said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/govt-resource-centre-for-children-with-special-needs/article35868367.ece
12 August 2021||Jaipur,||7 labourers feared dead in Rajasthan mine collapse||Seven labourers, including three women, were feared dead when an illegal quartz mine in Rajasthan’s Bhilwara district, where they were working, caved in on Wednesday. Two bodies were pulled out while five were buried deep under the rubble till late evening. The mishap took place at an illegal mining site for quartz stones near Lachhuda village under the Asind Police Station area in Bhilwara. Though the Mines Department had seized the quarry and its equipment about three months ago, the owners restarted the operations after their release from jail last week. Efforts were underway to rescue the remaining workers or retrieve bodies, while officials feared that they could be buried at a depth of 50 to 80 feet from ground. Villagers stage protest The villagers staged a protest after the accident, alleging that the administration had failed to take timely action to stop illegal mining despite being informed about the resumption of activities at the mining site.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/7-labourers-feared-dead-in-rajasthan-mine-collapse/article35868363.ece
12 August 2021||New Delhi,||Cremation of remaining human tissue and feet of Dalit girl held: Delhi Police||The cremation of the remaining human tissue and feet of the Dalit girl, who was allegedly raped and killed in south-west Delhi’s Old Nangal, was conducted on Wednesday by her parents, the police said. The girl died under suspicious circumstances on August 1. Her parents alleged that she was raped and forcibly cremated by a crematorium’s priest.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/cremation-of-remaining-human-tissue-and-feet-of-dalit-girl-held-delhi-police/article35868373.ece
12 August 2021||New Delhi,||Delhi Urban Arts Commission gives approval for erecting entry gate at Tikri border||The Delhi Urban Arts Commission (DUAC) has given approval to a proposal to erect an entry gate at the Tikri border and beautify a 200-metre stretch at the entry point, government officials said on Wednesday. The proposal was prepared in December 2018 by the Tourism Department and later was announced in the 2018-19 budget presentations by the government.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/delhi-urban-arts-commission-gives-approval-for-erecting-entry-gate-at-tikri-border/article35868374.ece
