13 August 2021||Doha/Kabul,||Kabul offers to share power||Afghan government negotiators in Qatar have offered the Taliban a power-sharing deal in return for an end to fighting, a government negotiating source said on Thursday. “Yes, the government has submitted a proposal to Qatar as mediator. The proposal allows the Taliban to share power in return for a halt in violence in the country,” the source said. The Taliban seized the strategic city of Ghazni on Thursday, just 150 km from Kabul. Later in the day, the Taliban claimed that they captured Herat, Afghanistan’s third largest city. In a week, the militants have overrun 11 provincial capitals. The Interior Ministry confirmed the fall of Ghazni, which lies along the major Kabul-Kandahar highway and serves as a gateway between the capital and militant strongholds in the south. “The enemy took control,” spokesman Mirwais Stanikzai said in a message to media, adding later that the city’s Governor had been arrested by the Afghan security forces. Pro-Taliban Twitter feeds showed a video of him being escorted out of Ghazni by militants and sent on his way in a convoy, prompting speculation in the capital that the government was angered with how the provincial administration capitulated. In less than a week, the insurgents have taken 10 provincial capitals and encircled the biggest city in the north, the traditional anti-Taliban bastion of Mazar-i-Sharif. ‘Government of peace’ As security forces retreated across the country, Kabul handed the power-sharing proposal to Taliban negotiators. A second negotiator, Ghulam Farooq Majroh, said the Taliban had been given an offer about a “government of peace” without providing more specifics. Authorities in Kabul have now effectively lost most of northern and western Afghanistan and are left holding a scattered archipelago of contested cities. The conflict has escalated dramatically since May, when the U.S.-led forces began the final stage of a troop withdrawal due to end later this month following a 20-year occupation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/to-end-violence-kabul-offers-power-sharing-deal-to-taliban/article35888981.ece
13 August 2021||MANGALURU,||Govt. to organise health camps for children in a big way across State||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai said here on Thursday that the government has instructed the departments concerned to organise general health check-up camps for children across the State. It is in view of some COVID-19 cases detected among children especially in Bengaluru and in some other districts in the past few days, he said. Speaking to reporters on his arrival at the international airport here, Mr. Bommai said that such camps will not only help detect COVID-19 cases but also check instances of malnutrition and other problems among children. The Health Department will conduct these camps in association with the Education Department. “It will be conducted in a big way,” he said. Incidentally, Karkala MLA and Energy Minister V. Sunil Kumar initiated such a special drive in his constituency in Udupi district in July. Mr. Bommai arrived here on a two-day visit to Dakshina Kannada and Udupi districts. It was his first visit after taking charge as Chief Minister. He was accompanied by Health and Family Welfare Minister and Minister for Medical Education K. Sudhakar, Energy Minster Mr. Kumar and Social Welfare Minister Kota Srinivasa Poojary. Later, speaking at the COVID-19 management meeting here, the Chief Minister asked the Dakshina Kannada administration to complete these camps within one-and-half months. “No child should be left unchecked by then,” he said. To a question from reporters, the Chief Minister said that he had spoken to BJP MLA from Mudigere M.P. Kumaraswamy who staged a protest in front of Vidhana Soudha in Bengaluru on Thursday. The MLA has raised issues relating to flood relief measures. These issues will be addressed as after a meeting on Friday, he added. Referring to BJP national general secretary C.T. Ravi reportedly stating that Indira Canteens should be named as Annapoorna canteens, the Chief Minister said that it is not the view of the government. It is his opinion, Mr. Bommai added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/govt-to-organise-health-camps-for-children-in-a-big-way-across-state/article35889549.ece
13 August 2021||MANGALURU,||Shift patients to care centres or hospitals through triaging: CM||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Thursday asked the Dakshina Kannada district administration to shift those who test positive for COVID-19 to the COVID Care Centres or hospitals by triaging. Speaking at a meeting on COVID-19 management here, the Chief Minister noted that as 80% of patients in the district are under home isolation, it gave scope for the infection to spread. The district administration should form micro containment zones to prevent the spread of the infection, he said and added that not forming the micro containment zones could also be the reason for the infection spreading. Asking the administration to reverse the percentage of patients under home isolation, he said that only 25% to 30% of patients should be allowed to be under home isolation by triaging. It should be done within the next 10 days, the Chief Minister said. Referring to a majority of patients being allowed to remain under home isolation, Minister for Health and Family Welfare and Medical Education K. Sudhakar said: “It is not conducive for today’s scenario.” The Chief Minister said that all health infrastructure projects related to COVID-19 management such as setting up of medical oxygen manufacturing units and arranging for more beds with oxygen supply will be completed within the next 20 days. “The entire government machinery should work in co-ordination. It is the collective responsibility of all. The impact of the meeting should be shown on the field,” he said. The Chief Minister asked the administration to ensure that the COVID Care Centres have all the facilities required for treatment. The health of the patients in these centres should be checked twice daily, he said. Mangaluru MLA U.T. Khader said that if the patients are made to go to COVID Care Centres compulsorily, many will not turn up for swab testing. Hence, it should be done by studying each case. When Mr. Khader pointed out the shortage of masks, hand gloves and PPE kits in the government health facilities, a visibly upset Chief Minister took Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra and Health and Family Welfare Officer Kishor Kumar to task for not ensuring these basic requirements. He asked the Deputy Commissioner to purchase them locally without expecting everything to be supplied from Bengaluru.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/shift-patients-to-care-centres-or-hospitals-through-triaging-cm/article35889551.ece
13 August 2021||CHENNAI,||Scattered rainfall to continue across districts in Tamil Nadu till weekend||Scattered rainfall over the State would continue till the weekend, bringing respite from humid weather. Some districts such as the Nilgiris and Coimbatore may experience heavy rain till Friday, according to the Meteorological Department. Thunderstorms during evening hours are here to stay for a few more days. Convective activity triggered by strong westerlies and shear zone filled with opposing winds prevailing in mid-atmosphere would favour rainfall over the State, said S. Balachandran, Deputy Director General of Meteorology, Chennai. From Friday, a few places over the State, Puducherry and Karaikal are likely to have thunderstorms with light to moderate rain till Monday. One or two places in districts such as the Nilgiris, Coimbatore, Tiruppur and Dindigul districts might have heavy rain till the weekend. During the past 24 hours ending 8.30 a.m. on Thursday, several weather stations in the State recorded rainfall. Thanjavur received the heaviest rainfall of 10 cm for the day. Similar rain patterns may continue on Friday, officials said. On Thursday, Kodaikanal, Vellore and Valparai received light rain till evening. Chennai, which has been experiencing an uncomfortable, humid weather for the past few days, may have some respite. The city had recorded a maximum temperature that was consistently above two degree Celsius than the average for a few days. Thunderstorms during evening hours have brought down temperature for two days. On Thursday, Nungambakkam and Meenambakkam recorded a day temperature of 34 degree Celsius, which is close to normal for the day, and 36.2 degree Celsius respectively. Mr. Balachandran said this was a seasonal pattern of weather and such a spike in temperature followed by evening thunderstorms was typical for August. There had been instances when the day temperature had gone above 38 degree Celsius in this decade. The Meteorological Department predicts cloudy sky over the city and thunderstorms with light rain in some areas till Saturday. The maximum temperature will be around 36 degree Celsius.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/scattered-rainfall-to-continue-across-tn/article35889056.ece
13 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Outsiders brought inside House to manhandle MPs’||A day after dramatic scenes were witnessed in the Rajya Sabha during the passage of the General Insurance (Amendment) Bill on the last day of the monsoon session, top Opposition leaders on Thursday charged that “outsiders” were brought in, in the guise of marshals, to “manhandle” MPs, including women members. The Rajya Sabha Secretariat, however, denied the allegation, and sources told The Hindu that Parliament security staff of the Rajya Sabha and the Lok Sabha were deployed, with their number being scaled up from 14 to 42 as the intensity of the protests increased. A march and a memo The day saw intense political activity as Opposition leaders first gathered at the office of the Leader of the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha, Mallikarjun Kharge, and then marched from the Mahatma Gandhi statue inside Parliament complex to Vijay Chowk, next to the Parliament building, where the leaders addressed mediapersons. After the protests, a 14-member delegation of senior Opposition MPs called upon Mr. Naidu to hand over a memorandum on the manner in which the General Insurance (Amendment) Bill was passed. The delegation also flagged the issue of Rajya Sabha TV blacking out Opposition protests. “This is a matter which I will investigate,” Mr. Naidu is reported to have told the delegation, asserting that he never instructed the channel to black out Opposition protests. The joint protest march earlier was a show of strength by the Opposition parties against the curtailment of the monsoon session.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/outsiders-brought-in-as-marshals-to-manhandle-mps/article35888979.ece
13 August 2021||Kolkata,||COVID-19 curbs extended till August 30 in Bengal||The West Bengal government on Thursday extended restrictions due to COVID-19 till August 30. While the State government relaxed the night curfew, it has not taken any decision on the resumption of local trains. The curbs during the night will now be from 11 p.m. to 5 a.m., instead of 9 p.m. to 5 a.m. Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee said so long as half the population remains unvaccinated, it would be unwise to allow local trains services to resume. “I understand that people are facing difficulties and have grievances as the local trains have not been resumed. But people will have to suffer a little more. If we are able to vaccinate 50% of the population then we can resume the train services,” Ms. Banerjee said, announcing the extension of curbs. Ms. Banerjee said the State government was being cautious given the possibilities of the third wave, which according to experts may affect the health of children. Left in the lurch While Metro services have been resumed in the city, local train services are still not fully operational. Lakhs of passengers from districts of Howrah, Hooghly, North 24 Parganas and South 24 Parganas use local trains to commute to Kolkata, but since the services are not available, many are unable to resume work or business. Earlier, the State government had allowed cinema halls to operate at 50% capacity. The Chief Minister said the COVID-19 situation in the State is under control with the number of daily cases ranging from 600 to 800. “The case positivity ratio, which had shot up to 33% at the end of the eight-phase elections, has come down 1.5%. We are administering 3.5 to 4 lakh vaccines daily, but the problem is that we are not getting enough vaccines,” she said. Ms Banerjee added that State government has so far been able to administer 3.32 crore doses of vaccines. Decongesting prisons The Chief Minister also announced the release 73 life convicts in an attempt to decongest prisons. The 73 convicts include 66 men of over 60 years and seven women above 55 years. A few days ago, the government had announced the release of 63 other life convicts to decongest prisons in the State. Meanwhile, along with the demand of resumption of local trains, students have also been protesting demanding that physical classes be allowed in universities. Open-air classes For the third consecutive day on Thursday, a section of students and professors of Kolkata’s Jadavpur University held classes under open skies on the main road in front of Gate Number 4 of the university. The students sat on the road as vehicles passed by, while the teacher took a microphone to give the lessons. All educational institutions, including universities, are closed in the State. Ms. Banerjee said that schools can open after Durga Puja on alternate days.  People are facing difficulties as train services have not resumed. If we are able to vaccinate 50% of the State’s population then we can resume services Mamata Banerjee Chief Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/covid-19-curbs-extended-till-august-30-in-bengal/article35889163.ece
13 August 2021||YADGIR,||State govt. seeks Centre’s help to develop Bulk Drug Park at Kadechur-Badiyal||Large and Medium Industries Minister Murugesh Nirani on Wednesday met Union Minister of State for New and Renewable Energy, Chemicals and Fertilizers Bhagwanth Khuba and sought the Centre’s approval for the development of the Bulk Drug Park at Kadechur-Badiyal Industrial Area in Yadgir district under the Centre’s Promotion of Bulk Drug Parks Scheme. While briefing the Union Minister of State, Mr. Nirani said that the State government has notified more than 1,500 acres of land for the development of the proposed Bulk Drug Park at Kadechur-Badiyal Industrial Area. Mr. Nirani also emphasised on the need to promote a Pharma Park in Yadgir district, which is one of the backward districts in Kalyana Karnataka. He said that the proposed location of the park will help promote industries and attract investors and give fillip to tier II and III cities in the State. Mr. Nirani further said that the proposed project will attract more than Rs. 6,000 crore investment and create over 10,000 jobs in the region. “The State government intends to give Rs. 1,000 crore for this project, which will be transformed into the pharma hub of India thereby, helping realise Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s dream of making our country Aatmanirbhar in the pharma sector,” he said. Mr. Bhagwanth Khuba responded positively and promised to consider the State government’s request for in-principle approval for the development of the Bulk Drug Park in the proposed area.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-govt-seeks-centres-help-to-develop-bulk-drug-park-at-kadechur-badiyal/article35889108.ece
13 August 2021||New Delhi,||SDM acts against rules, draws court’s ire||The Delhi High Court has taken exception to the action of a marriage officer who, against the rules, dispatched notices to the residences of an interfaith couple who had applied for registration of their marriage under the Special Marriage Act. Following the notice sent by the officer — a Sub-Divisional Magistrate (SDM) — the father and brother of the woman, a Muslim, detained her and restrained her from contacting the man, a Hindu. “The issuance of notice is in clear breach of this court’s directions dated April 08, 2009. Prima facie, the court is of the view that the respondent (SDM) has committed contempt of court,” Justice Nazmi Waziri said. Show-cause notice “Issue notice to the respondent (SDM) to show cause why contempt proceedings be not initiated against him for obstructing the administration of justice and for committing contempt,” the court said in its August 10 order. In its April 2009 judgment, the High Court had stressed, “Unwarranted disclosure of matrimonial plans of two adults entitled to solemnise it may, in certain situations, jeopardise the marriage itself. In certain instances, it may even endanger the life or limb of one or the other party due to parental interference.” The court had ordered all marriage officers not to dispatch notices to the residence of applicants seeking to solemnise their marriage under the Act. It, however, said the marriage officer can display the notice on the office board. The interfaith couple had applied for registration of their marriage in February last year. After the woman was restrained from contacting the man, he moved a habeas corpus petition before the High Court seeking direction to produce the woman before the court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sdm-acts-against-rules-draws-courts-ire/article35889486.ece
13 August 2021||CHENNAI,||‘Water utilities’ losses due to gross under-recovery of operational cost’||The White Paper on Tamil Nadu’s finances has cited the gross under-recovery of operational costs as the reason for the huge losses incurred by the Tamil Nadu Water Supply & Drainage (TWAD) Board and Chennai Metrowater. Operational cost In the case of the 50-year-old TWAD Board, which is responsible for the development of the water supply network and sewerage across the State except in the Chennai Metropolitan Area (CMA), the operational cost is about Rs. 20.81 per kilo litre (KL), of which only Rs. 10.42 per KL is levied from urban local bodies (ULBs) and Rs. 8.11 per KL from rural local bodies (RLBs) towards water charges during 2020-21. Based on the revised estimates for the year, the cost recovery, excluding items like government grants, interest and depreciation, worked out to only 44.21%. Delay in paying dues A substantial portion of the dues from the local bodies was not paid on time. The water charge payments due from the local bodies, as of March 31, 2021, was Rs. 484.1 crore. The rise in the deficit was caused by the “high increase” in the pension cost and the maintenance cost of the combined water supply schemes (CWSS) which have, of late, gone up as more and more water supply schemes of that kind are being maintained on outsourcing contract basis and not by employees of the Board. To underscore the growing pension cost, the White Paper mentioned that while the total number of TWAD Board employees was 2,583, as of March 31, 2021, the number of pensioners was 9,101 — over three times the number of serving employees. As for the 43-year-old Chennai Metrowater, the operational cost is about Rs. 36.58 per KL, of which only Rs. 14.08 per KL, accounting for about 38%, is being recovered. This does not include government grants. For supplying water to tenements of the Tamil Nadu Slum Clearance Board, Metrowater gets only Rs. 36 crore as a grant from the government despite incurring an expenditure of Rs. 100 crore annually. While the total demand raised during 2020-21 was Rs. 1,061.74 crore, the total amount collected was Rs. 512.83 crore till the end of March 2021. Mounting losses As in the case of the other water utility, Metrowater’s mounting losses have been caused by the huge increase in employee cost, pension cost and operation and maintenance cost. As of March 31, 2021, the total number of employees of the utility for the city was 2,621, whereas the total number of pensioners was 5,818. Pointing out that the operational cost of Metrowater is higher than that of TWAD Board, the document attributes this to the higher cost incurred on the purchase of water produced from seawater desalination plants and the higher distribution cost, which occurs as the former distributes treated water to households whereas the latter supplies water in bulk to ULBs and RLBs for further distribution to end-consumers. In the last four years, the water tariff revision was carried out twice for consumers of Metrowater — once in October 2017 for commercial and institutional consumers with an annual increase of 10%, and then in May 2018 for domestic and partly commercial consumers with an annual increase of 5%. However, the annual tariff revision was not made in May 2019 for domestic and partly commercial consumers due to a drought, and again in 2020 due to the COVID-19 pandemic. ‘Inherently regressive’ Terming as “inherently unfair and regressive” the Metrowater’s scheme of getting the bulk of its receipts from water and sewerage tax and flat charges for domestic connections, the White Paper said this favoured those who lived in large houses and bungalows and paid a flat fee without a meter, rather than the middle class who lived in apartments and made payments on the basis of bulk water metering, let alone the poor who used much less water per-capita, independent of metering.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/water-utilities-losses-due-to-gross-under-recovery-of-operational-cost/article35889462.ece
13 August 2021||KOCHI,||Innovative floating pontoons arrive at Water Metro jetties||Even as the first Water Metro ferry, which is undergoing basin trials at the Cochin Shipyard, is getting ready trials, prior to commencing service on the Vyttila-Kakkanad route, floating pontoons have arrived at the terminals on either end. A first-of-its-kind initiative in India, the Rs. 747-crore Water Metro will have concrete floating pontoons at all boat jetties. They enable convenient and safe boarding and de-boarding, irrespective of high or low tide, said a press release from Kochi Metro Rail Limited (KMRL). Aluminium gangways will connect each Water Metro jetty to the pontoons, for ‘easy transition’. Pontoon systems are widely used in western countries, but this will be the first-of-its-kind in India to be implemented in a public water transport system. The pontoons for the Water Metro are designed and manufactured by Marinetek, Finland (and assembled at Cherthala). A total of 64 such berths will be readied at the 38 Water Metro jetties. Pontoons are especially convenient for aged and disabled passengers, since the boarding level will always be at the same level as the boat deck, irrespective of tidal variations. A person with motor disability on a wheelchair can thus board the ferry without assistance. It will be the first time in the country that a water transport system is complying with the Rights of People with Disability Act (RPwD Act). The size of pontoons are 20 m x 4.8 m, with provisions for water and electricity supply, ferry chargers, passenger and navigation lighting, and passenger information and surveillance systems. The floating concrete pontoons have significant advantages over conventional fixed jetties, since they are economical and have low maintenance cost. Trials After the final trials, testing, and mandatory certification, the first ferry will be handed over to KMRL for service trials. KMRL managing director K.R. Jyothilal had visited the Cochin Shipyard a week ago to evaluate the progress of the construction of Water Metro ferries. A detailed review of the electric hybrid propulsion, navigation and communication systems installed on board the vessels was also done.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/innovative-floating-pontoons-arrive-at-water-metro-jetties/article35889515.ece
13 August 2021||CHENNAI,||GSLV-F10 satellite launch fails||A technical anomaly preventing the ignition of the GSLV-F10 rocket’s cryogenic upper stage spelt disappointment for the Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) on Thursday as the national space agency could not accomplish the mission to launch earth observation satellite EOS-03 into the intended orbit. Though the lift-off at the scheduled time of 5.43 a.m. from the Satish Dhawan Space Centre at Sriharikota, some 100 km from here, was successful, the anomaly was realised only after a few minutes. “The performance of the first and second stages was normal. However, cryogenic upper stage ignition did not happen due to a technical anomaly. The mission couldn’t be accomplished as intended,” the ISRO said in a statement. It did not elaborate any further. EOS-03, intended to be positioned in the geostationary transfer orbit initially, was supposed to reach the final geostationary orbit. It was expected to provide near real-time imaging, which could be used for quick monitoring of natural disasters, episodic events and any short-term events. The mission life of the satellite was 10 years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/gslv-f10-fails-to-put-satellite-into-orbit/article35888978.ece
13 August 2021||Chennai,||Union Sports Minister to interact with Tamil Nadu youth today||Union Minister of Youth Affairs & Sports Anurag Singh Thakur would virtually interact with youngsters from Tamil Nadu from the office of the Press Information Bureau (PIB) in Shastri Bhavan here on Friday. The interaction would commence at 7.30 a.m. at the PIB video conference hall, an official release stated. On the same day, Tamil Nadu Minister for Youth Welfare and Sports Development Siva V. Meyyanathan would flag off Fit India Freedom Run 2.0 at 7 a.m. at Bharathiyar House in Triplicane here. Participants Apurva Varma, Additional Chief Secretary, Government of Tamil Nadu, Youth Welfare and Sports Development and Ramesh Chand Meena, Member Secretary, Sports Development Authority of Tamil Nadu would also attend the event. Freedom Run would also be held in Vellore Fort, Kattabommam Fort, Ottapidaram, Bharathiyar House at Ettayapuram and Vanchi Maniyachi Railway Station in Thoothukudi district, Marudupandiyar Fort in Karaikudi, Ramalinga Vilasam Palace in Ramanathapuram, Tirunelveli and Puducherry. In Tamil Nadu, Freedom Run will be conducted in all the districts between August 13 and October 2 this year. 75 villages and 75 youths Each district will select 75 villages and each of the villages would select 75 youths, who will run for the celebration of 75th anniversary of Independence, it said. Thirty from Nehru Yuva Kendra Sangathan (NYKS), 25 from Sports Development Authority of Tamil Nadu and 25 from NSS would also take part in the run. They will march with the national flag and slogans, it added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/union-sports-minister-to-interact-with-tn-youth/article35889058.ece
13 August 2021||KOCHI,||KUFOS graduates give ‘no dowry’ declaration||In a first, 386 students of the Kerala University of Fisheries and Ocean Studies (KUFOS) submitted a declaration that they would not give or take dowry, ahead of receiving degrees at the seventh convocation of the university held here on Thursday. Governor Arif Mohammed Khan, who is also the Chancellor, received the declaration from Vice Chancellor K. Riji John. The declaration was given by students on Mr. Khan’s recommendation against the backdrop of the recent incidents of dowry-related crimes in the State. A meeting of Vice Chancellors convened by the Governor here in July had ratified his suggestion to collect declaration from students against dowry. Mr. Khan had also recommended collecting anti-dowry bonds from parents at the time of admitting their children to educational institutions. In his convocation address, the Governor praised the new graduates for their firm resolve to say ‘no’ to dowry and their exemplary courage to speak out against the social evil. “By signing the affirmation against dowry, you stand out as leaders of the campaign against a nefarious practice that robs young men and women of their sense of honour and self-respect,” he said. He observed that students had become shining examples of what education truly meant. “Education is not about accumulating information. It blesses one with the knowledge and wisdom to make the distinction between right and wrong,” he said.  As many as 32 students received degrees from the Governor, while the rest attended the convocation online in view of pandemic curbs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/kufos-graduates-give-no-dowry-declaration/article35889146.ece
13 August 2021||Bengaluru,||Study finds lower levels of IgG seroprevalence||Lower levels of IgG (antibody) seroprevalence were found duringthe second round of the serial cross-sectional sentinel-based population survey to assess active infection, seroprevalence, and their evolution in the general population across Karnataka. This is being attributed to antibody waning. A preprint of the study showed that the overall seroprevalence of IgG was 15.6%, while the State-wide infection fatality rate (IFR) was estimated at 0.11%. The study of 41,228participants across 290 healthcare facilities in 30 districts estimated the COVID-19 burden to be between 26.1 and 37.7%. The study was done among three groups of participants (low, moderate, and high-risk) from January 25 to February 18, 2021. They underwent both RT-PCR and antibody (IgG) testing. A longitudinal study among participants identified as COVID-19 positive in the first survey round was also conducted to assess the clinical sensitivity of the testing kit used. According to the study, which was supported by the Karnataka National Health Mission, the Department of Health and Family Welfare, and the Directorate of Medical Education, in the first round of the survey in Karnataka, the estimated total burden was 27.7% as of September 16, 2020. All States in India, including Karnataka, showed a decreasing trend from mid-October 2020 to January, 2021. “The study found lower levels of IgG seroprevalence, mostly due to antibody waning. A sub-study was done to confirm the antibody waning. This study was delayed due to the rapid surge of cases in April. The study findings enabled identification of districts that needed better testing, reporting, or clinical management. The State was far from attaining natural immunity at the time of survey. The Department of Health and Family Welfare of Karnataka has used the data from this round of serosurvey in late March to update testing and surveillance strategies,” Siva Athreya from the Indian Statistical Institute, one of the authors, told The Hindu . The study showed that while the total prevalence of IgG was 15.6%, demography-wise, the total prevalence was higher among males than females. It was higher among the elderly population when compared with those aged below 30. In a reversal from Round-1, the rural population had a higher total prevalence (15.4%) compared to the urban population (14%). The high-risk (vulnerable) segment of the population continued to be at higher risk (16.8%), followed by the moderate risk (14.3% ), and then the low-risk population (11.2%). As for cases-to-infections ratio (CIR), at the State level, for every RT-PCR confirmed case, there were 12 infected individuals with detectable IgG levels, which was estimated using the 9,46,860 reported cases in Karnataka as of February 18, 2021. “The Infection Fatality Rate (IFR) was estimated to be 0.11% Statewide and ranged from 0.02% (Chitradurga) to 0.50% (Dharwad), with 19 out of 38 units below the state IFR. As in Round 1, Dharwad had the highest IFR. The IFR of Bengaluru Urban Conglomerate was 0.17%,” the study said. Corresponding author Giridhara R. Babu from the Indian Institute of Public Health, Bengaluru, tweeted: “We found near 0 prevalence of active cases during mid-February, 2021. There was a subsequent surge seen in Karnataka state due to a mix of alpha, delta which was picking up speed in April, and a large susceptible population were infected.” Asked what the results mean for the State with an impending third wave, he added, “In anticipation of the third wave, districts with high CIR and low IFR should consider re-evaluating their testing strategies and death reporting. Vaccination coverage should be stepped up as is being done. A third serosurvey is being planned and will provide valuable information for vaccination prioritisation and revision of testing strategy.”  Mysuru district shows highest total prevalence of antibodies  Districts/unit variations across the State showed that the total prevalence was the highest in Mysuru (33.6%), followed by Mandya (31.9%), Kodagu (27.1%), Chamarajanagar (22.6%), and Kolar (20.8%). “Within the Bengaluru metropolitan area (Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike, the total prevalence varied from 13.8% (BBMP R.R. Nagar) to 24.3% (BBMP Dasarahalli). The CIR ranged from 4–8 and the IFR from 0.11% -- 0.28%,” the study said. Mr. Athreya said, “The higher risk for rural areas suggests that the infection continued to be active in the rural areas after it had subsided in the urban areas during October 2020 – February 2021.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/study-finds-lower-levels-of-igg-seroprevalence/article35889406.ece
13 August 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Class XII marks for KEAM engineering list||The Higher Education Department has decided to retain the weightage given to Class XII marks in the KEAM entrance examination for admissions to engineering courses. In a statement on Thursday, Higher Education Minister R. Bindu said the current method of standardisation of Class XII marks for preparing the engineering rank list, as done last year, would continue. The decision was taken in view of the declaration of results of Class XII examinations conducted by the CBSE and ICSE. Order issued An order has been issued to the Commissioner for Entrance Examinations (CEE) in this regard. Following a CEE proposal, the government had toyed with the idea of scrapping the 50% weightage given to Class XII marks this year. However, it was compelled to persist with the existing system amid demands by students and teachers of State board schools. Social aspects such as the inability of meritorious students to enrol for entrance coaching were factored in to arrive at the decision, sources said. HC directive The Kerala High Court had restrained the CEE from publishing the results of the entrance examination held on August 5. The government will now inform its decision to the court. The court issued the order on a petition by the Kerala CBSE School Managements Association and two students who sought a directive to provide admission to professional courses solely on the basis of the marks secured by candidates in the entrance examination.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/class-xii-marks-for-keam-engineering-list/article35889226.ece
13 August 2021||MANGALURU,||Six deaths in Udupi, Dakshina Kannada||With no let-up in the spread of COVID-19 positive cases in Dakshina Kannada, the district reported 475 new cases and five deaths on Thursday. With 354 patients being discharged from hospitals, the number of active cases stood at 3,595. The positivity rate was put at 4.25 %. Udupi district reported one death and 191 new cases. With 136 patients getting discharged from hospitals, the number of active cases in the district stood at 1,259. The district has six mucormycosis cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/six-deaths-in-udupi-dakshina-kannada/article35889553.ece
13 August 2021||BHAWANAGAR,||Kinnaur landslip toll rises to 14; 16 missing||It has been a grim morning for Karam Singh outside the Community Health Centre at Bhawanagar in Himachal Pradesh’s Kinnaur district. Sitting on a low wall outside the Centre, he has been trying to calm his anxious father as they wait for news of his brother, who was on the ill-fated Himachal Road Transport Corporation bus that was hit by the landslip on National Highway 5 at Nigulsari on Wednesday. As an ambulance ferrying bodies recovered from the landslip site approaches, Mr. Singh and his father rush towards it to identify the body. Both take a thorough look, and see the clothes and other items of the victim. “It’s not him,” says Mr. Singh. Both move to the wall, resuming their vigil for the next ambulance. With four more bodies recovered on Thursday, the toll in the accident has gone up to 14. Thirteen people have been rescued while 16 are still missing. “My elder brother Suryavanshi boarded the bus from Nigulsari and there’s no information about him. We kept trying to call him but his phone is ‘out of network coverage’. We are anxiously waiting to hear about him,” Mr. Singh told The Hindu . Mr. Singh and his father are among the hundreds of people at the Health Centre, anxiously waiting for the ambulances that have brought in the victims of the devastating landslide. The rescue, being carried out jointly by the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF), ITBP, police and home guards, resumed at 6 a.m. on Thursday, State Disaster Management Director Sudesh Kumar Mokhta said. The HRTC bus was on its way from Reckong Peo to Haridwar via Shimla when it was hit by the landslide. Kyali Devi of Sungra village said her brother-in-law Rakesh had boarded the bus to Rampur for routine work and is missing. “We have not told anything about the tragedy to his wife,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/kinnaur-landslip-toll-rises-to-14-16-missing/article35889020.ece
13 August 2021||CHENNAI,||T.N. Budget session from today, likely to be stormy||The Budget session of the Tamil Nadu Assembly will start at Kalaivanar Arangam here on Friday. It is expected to be stormy in the wake of the action by the Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption and the Enforcement Directorate against leaders of the main Opposition AIADMK and the ruling DMK. Finance Minister Palanivel Thiaga Rajan will present the revised Budget for 2021-22, which will be paperless, a first in the history of the Assembly. Computers have been installed for the presentation of the e-budget. Chief Minister M.K. Stalin visited Kalaivanar Arangam on Thursday to oversee the arrangements made for the session, which will conclude on September 21. Minister for Water Resources Duraimurugan, Higher Education Minister K. Ponmudi, Minister for PWD E.V. Velu and IT Minister T. Mano Thangaraj accompanied him. Despite the White Paper concluding that the State’s finances were “in dire circumstances”, expectations are high since the DMK’s election manifesto had promised welfare schemes for several segments of the population. As per the agenda, the government will present the revised Budget for 2021-22 on Friday. The following day, a budget for agriculture will be presented. On August 16, obituary references will be made and condolence resolutions adopted for the passing of former members and public personalities. The debate on the revised Budget and the agriculture budget will start that day. The replies will be made on August 19. From August 23, the debate on the demands for grants for departments will begin. Bills will be taken up and will likely be passed on the last day of the session.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tn-budget-session-from-today-likely-to-be-stormy/article35889018.ece
13 August 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||Complete comprehensive land survey by 2023: CM||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Thursday directed the officials to expedite the works pertaining to the YSR Jagananna Saswatha Bhoomi Hakku-Bhoomi Rakshana scheme and ensure its completion by 2023, without leaving any scope for corruption. Reviewing the progress achieved in the Comprehensive Land Survey, he instructed the officials to procure equipment and resources like drones and the related software and impart the best training to the staff. The villages should be mapped after completion of the survey and records updated, he said and directed the officials to prepare a fool-proof action plan and complete the project that would be of immense benefit to the farming community. He said the Cabinet Sub-Committee constituted for monitoring the land survey should meet every week and review the progress. Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy suggested that the officials coordinate with the Survey of India and take their assistance. He would review the progress every month, he said. Responding to his directive to the officials of the mining wing that there should be no shortage of survey stones, the latter informed him that the survey stones would be manufactured in four plants from November and 16,000 stones would be prepared per day. Deputy Chief Minister (Revenue) Dharmana Krishna Das, Ministers Peddireddy Ramachandra Reddy and Botcha Satyanarayana, Chief Secretary Adityanath Das, Land Administration Chief Commissioner Neerab Kumar Prasad, Panchayat Raj Principal Secretary Gopala Krishna Dwivedi, Principal Secretary, Department of Revenue, V. Usha Rani, Commissioner Siddhartha Jain, Vice-Chairman and Managing Director of Andhra Pradesh Mineral Development Corporation Venkat Reddy and other officials were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/complete-comprehensive-land-survey-by-2023-jagan-tells-officials/article35889296.ece
13 August 2021||August 13 2021 00:00 IST,||Bunch of lies, says Goyal||Leader of the House in the Rajya Sabha Piyush Goyal on Thursday called the Opposition’s charges on Wednesday’s Parliament proceedings “a bunch of lies”, and said the latter behaved like violent hooligans in India’s “temple of democracy” to stop the passage of the insurance Bill. “I think it is a big blot on them,” the Minister said at a CII conclave.page 15||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bunch-of-lies-says-goyal/article35888976.ece
13 August 2021||CHENNAI,||Nalini for release before Governor nod||The Madras High Court is slated to hear on Friday a writ petition by S. Nalini, who was convicted for former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi’s assassination, to declare as unconstitutional the Governor’s “failure” to release her by acting on a recommendation made by the State Cabinet on September 9, 2018, in favour of all seven convicts in the case. She sought a consequential direction to the State government to release her without waiting for the Governor’s nod. The case has been listed before the first Division Bench of Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice P.D. Audikesavalu. In an affidavit, Nalini said she was sentenced to death by the trial court on January 28, 1998. The Supreme Court confirmed the death penalty on May 11, 1999. However, it was commuted to life sentence under Article 161 (Governor’s power to suspend, remit or commute sentences) on April 24, 2000. After such commutation, about 3,800 life convicts, who served either 10 years of imprisonment or less, were released under Article 161 of the Constitution. Referring to the 2018 Cabinet decision to release all seven convicts in the case, Nalini said the decision was binding upon the Governor, who had “no discretion whatsoever” but to act in accordance with the advice of the Council of Ministers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/nalini-wants-govt-to-release-her-without-awaiting-governors-nod/article35889454.ece
13 August 2021||Tiruppur,||Eight charcoal units sealed in Tiruppur||Officials from the Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board (TNPCB) intensified the crackdown on charcoal units causing pollution in Tiruppur district, with eight units sealed near Kangeyam on Wednesday. Sources in the TNPCB said on Thursday that eight charcoal units, in Alambadi and Pappini village panchayats in Kangeyam block, were sealed. These units were producing charcoal by burning coconut shells in underground pits, resulting in pollution of air and groundwater. Residents living close to these units have previously petitioned the district administration several times in the past few years to initiate action. The eight units have not been functioning since December 2020, the sources said. As per the directions of District Collector S. Vineeth, based on a recent National Green Tribunal order, the charcoal units were sealed on Wednesday in the presence of officials from TNPCB and Revenue Department to prevent any resumption of operations that could cause further pollution. The district administration and the TNPCB have been identifying similar charcoal units across the district that cause pollution and will crack down on these units soon, the TNPCB sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/eight-charcoal-units-sealed-in-tiruppur/article35889015.ece
13 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||Retail inflation eases to 5.6% in July||Retail inflation cooled slightly to 5.6% in July, slipping below the central bank’s upper tolerance threshold of 6% for the first time in three months, even as industrial output growth halved from 28.6% in May to 13.6% in June, as base effects from the lockdown of 2020 begin to fade. Food prices at the consumer level played a substantive role in moderating the pace of price rise in July, with the National Statistical Office (NSO) estimating an inflation of 3.96%, compared to 5.15% in June. Vegetables, fruits, oils and fats, pulses, sugar and spices experienced significant tempering in inflation, an indication that some of the government measures to correct edible oil and pulses prices are kicking in. The respite notwithstanding, DBS Group Research economist Radhika Rao said that latent pressure points remained, as inflationary expectations had firmed up further as per the latest RBI survey. “While off the highs, inflation has stubbornly remained north of the 4% midpoint target since late 2019, driven by a mix of sticky drivers during and after COVID-19 spells,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/retail-inflation-eases-to-56-in-july/article35888982.ece
13 August 2021||August 13 2021 00:00 IST,||Afghans still have time: U.S.||Afghans still have time to save themselves from final defeat, chief Pentagon spokesman John Kirby said. “It really depends on what kind of political and military leadership the Afghans can muster to turn this around,” he said. U.S. President Joe Biden made a similar point a day earlier, telling reporters that U.S. troops had done all they could over the past 20 years to assist the Afghans.page 11||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/afghans-still-have-time-us/article35888977.ece
13 August 2021||GUWAHATI,||At least 6 from extremist group in Manipur dead||At least six members of a Manipur extremist group have been killed in a factional fight in Myanmar, officials said. The decision of some cadre to desert with weapons led to the infighting, in which “six to eight” members of the People’s Liberation Army were killed and three injured, a spokesperson of a security agency confirmed. The infighting occurred on August 10 near Nanyang Wakathan camp of the National Socialist Council of Nagaland (Khaplang-Yung Aung) in Sagaing region of Myanmar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/at-least-6-from-extremist-group-in-manipur-dead/article35889164.ece
13 August 2021||KALABURAGI,||Kalaburagi city corpn. polls on Sept. 3||Elections to the 55 wards of Kalaburagi Municipal Corporation will be held on September 3 and the model code of conduct will be enforced between August 16 and September 6, said Kalaburagi Deputy Commissioner Vijaya Jyothsna.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/kalaburagi-city-corpn-polls-on-sept-3/article35889105.ece
13 August 2021||KALABURAGI,||Ashtagi welcomes Hosabale’s statement||State Vice-president of BJP’s SC Morcha Ambaraya Ashtagi has welcomed the remarks of Sarkaryavah (general secretary) of the Rashtriya Swayamsewak Sangh (RSS) Dattatreya Hosabale on the Constitutional provisions for reservation for socially oppressed communities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ashtagi-welcomes-hosabales-statement/article35889106.ece
13 August 2021||HUBBALLI,||Panchamasali awareness campaign from Aug. 26||The Lingayat Panchamasali community will organise an awareness campaign called Panchamasali Pratijnya Panchayat from August 26 to September 30 in every taluk of the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/panchamasali-awareness-campaign-from-aug-26/article35889110.ece
13 August 2021||LUCKNOW,||Over 1,200 villages hit by floods in Uttar Pradesh||The number of villages in Uttar Pradesh affected by floods doubled over the past 24 hours from 605 to 1,243 across 23 districts, affecting the lives of over 5.46 lakh people, officials said on Thursday. Of these, 104 villages remain cut off, while in 361 villages, both residents and farming were affected, said the Uttar Pradesh Disaster and Relief Department.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/over-1200-villages-hit-by-floods-in-uttar-pradesh/article35889263.ece
13 August 2021||New Delhi,||Twitter blocks Congress’ official handles, accounts||Days after Twitter India locked former Congress president Rahul Gandhi’s account, the social media platform blocked the party’s official handle and accounts of several senior leaders. It also blocked the party’s Tamil Nadu, Rajasthan, Gujarat and Maharashtra handles, besides that of the Mumbai Regional Congress Committee and the Daman & Diu Congress Committee.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/twitter-blocks-congress-official-handles-accounts/article35889265.ece
13 August 2021||Bengaluru,||MLA stages protest over neglect of constituency||M.P. Kumaraswamy, MLA of the ruling BJP from Mudigere constituency in Chikkamagaluru, on Thursday staged a protest in Bengaluru accusing the government of “discrimination” in releasing funds to his constituency that has been devastated by rain, floods for the last two years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/mla-stages-protest-over-neglect-of-constituency/article35889234.ece
13 August 2021||Hubballi,||Quota: Panchamasalis set Sept. 15 deadline||The Panchamasali community, the numerically strong subsect among Lingayats, has set September 15 as deadline for the State government to decide on the issue of including the community under 2A category of backward classes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/quota-panchamasalis-set-sept-15-deadline/article35889235.ece
13 August 2021||LUCKNOW,||‘Cow slaughter in secret doesn’t stir public order’||An act of slaughtering a cow in the secrecy of one’s own house in the early hours — probably because of poverty, lack of employment or hunger — may be described as a case involving law and order but not a matter affecting public order, the Allahabad High Court has noted. The court made the observation while quashing a detention order dated August 14, 2020 under the National Security Act against three men in Sitapur district of U.P.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cow-slaughter-in-secret-doesnt-stir-public-order/article35889487.ece
13 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||Jantar Mantar incident: police identify 10 persons||The Delhi police have identified 10 persons involved in the incident wherein inflammatory slogans were raised at Jantar Mantar on Sunday. Raids are being conducted to nab them, said police sources. “There are also others whose names we have received. We will ask them to join the probe to ascertain their roles,” an officer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/jantar-mantar-incident-police-identify-10-persons/article35889489.ece
13 August 2021||Bengaluru,||Wait for textbooks for students continues||Though online classes began a month and a half ago, students enrolled in schools affiliated to the State board are yet to receive their textbooks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/wait-for-textbooks-for-students-continues/article35889408.ece
13 August 2021||Pune,||‘Will thwart any move to merge Ranade institute’||With Pune’s student outfits up in arms against the proposed merger of the Ranade Institute of Journalism with the Pune University’s Media and Communication Department, Minister Uday Samant said the government would thwart any political ploy behind the move.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/will-thwart-any-move-to-merge-ranade-institute/article35889569.ece
13 August 2021||MANGALURU,||Govt. to take over hospital in Udupi||The government will take over the Koosamma Shambhu Shetty Memorial Haji Abdullah Mother and Child Hospital, Udupi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/govt-to-take-over-hospital-in-udupi/article35889548.ece
13 August 2021||MANGALURU,||Bommai inaugurates Ambedkar Bhavan||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Thursday inaugurated a district-level Ambedkar Bhavan at Urwa Store here. It has been built on 1.61 acres of land at a cost of Rs. 17 crore at Angadigudde.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bommai-inaugurates-ambedkar-bhavan/article35889555.ece
13 August 2021||Coimbatore,||CM inaugurates Amazon centre in Coimbatore||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Thursday inaugurated through video conference a fulfilment centre of Amazon India in Coimbatore. Minister for Industries Thangam Thennarasu told reporters that the centre would create job opportunities for 2,000 people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cm-inaugurates-amazon-centre-in-coimbatore/article35889022.ece
13 August 2021||New Delhi,||Landslips in Himachal Pradesh cause concern||The story so far: A bus accident killed at least 14 following a landslip in Kinnaur, Himachal Pradesh on Wednesday. It was the second landslip this month, raising concern that they are part of a larger climate shift. How vulnerable is Himachal Pradesh? The mountainous terrain of Himachal Pradesh means that erosion and geological forces will always be at work making the region particularly prone to natural disaster. Between July and the first week of August, the State has experienced four major natural disasters and over the past three months, at least 200 have lost their lives to natural disasters, according to a report by the Centre for Science and Environment. In 2012, the State Environment Division prepared a State Climate Change Strategy and Action Plan as part of the National Climate Change Action Plan. “Deforestation, landslips, land degradation, desertification and Glacier Lake Outbursts Floods (GLOF) are some of the common but critical environmental issues in the Himalayan regions. The major challenges currently faced by the Himalayan environment are the escalation of such issues through atmospheric as well as man-made interferences,” the report noted. “Himachal Pradesh, though a small Himalayan State, is nevertheless playing a very crucial role in sustaining the livelihoods of downstream areas. “The conservation, sustenance of these ecologically fragile regions is the biggest challenge being faced at the moment, which can get further aggravated due to financial constraints and limited resources.” Is climate change to blame for the landslips? Attributing single events to climate change is hard because the latter refers to a broader shift in the average weather over a region. The most recent report by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) while pointing out that a global rise of 1.5 degrees Celsius (from pre-Industrial times) was inevitable in the next two decades, it also references studies that show rising temperatures would lead to increased glacier melt as well as snowlines (the portion of mountain tops that are perennially snowy) rising higher. This ties into forecasts of extreme events being on the rise — that is longer, more intense bouts of droughts as well as short, intense spells of rain. This implies that activities such as road-building, heavy-concrete constructions at higher elevation are all at increased risk at being besieged by natural disasters and will have knock-on effects on people and their habitations. Have impacts of climate change manifested in Himachal Pradesh? The environment report has already noted such effects. The temperature in the north-west Himalayan Region has risen by 1.6 degrees Celsius in the last century. The warming rate of Shimla was higher from 1991 to 2002 as compared to earlier decades. About 17% decrease in rainfall in Shimla was observed from 1996 onwards. The decreasing trend in seasonal snowfall in Shimla has been very conspicuous since 1990 and it was lowest in 2009. Monsoon discharge in the Beas has shown a significant decrease. Winter discharge in the Chenab too has shown a significant increase. The Sutlej is showing an increasing trend in winter and spring discharge. The quality of apples, a major crop, has been affected and cultivation has shifted upwards. Areas that traditionally grew apples are being diverted to vegetables due to rising temperature. Incidence of pest and disease had also increased.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/landslips-in-himachal-pradesh-cause-concern/article35888892.ece
13 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||Union Ministers demand action against Opposition MPs||A day after the monsoon session of Parliament was adjourned amid scenes of chaos over the pushing through of the General Insurance Bill, senior Ministers in the Union government on Thursday demanded that Rajya Sabha Chairman M. Venkaiah Naidu initiate strong action against Opposition MPs who, they said, violated rules on the floor of the House. Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi, Leader of the House in the Rajya Sabha Piyush Goyal, Information and Broadcasting Minister Anurag Thakur, Education Minister Dharmendra Pradhan, Labour Minister Bhupendra Yadav and others addressed a joint press conference, castigating the Opposition for what they termed obstructionist behaviour and alleged manhandling of the marshals. “The Opposition’s approach of ‘my way or highway’ is extremely condemnable,” said Mr. Goyal, adding that the group of Ministers met Mr. Naidu and Deputy Chairman of the House Harivansh, and made an earnest appeal that the strongest possible action be taken against the Opposition MPs for their deplorable behaviour and manhandling the marshals. Mr. Thakur said “the Secretary-General’s table in the Rajya Sabha is not meant for dancing and protesting”, referring to an incident when an Opposition leader was seen atop a table inside the Upper House. “We demand that Rajya Sabha Chairman should take stringent action against those Opposition MPs who broke rules,” Mr. Joshi said, alleging that it was “pre-decided by the Congress and its friendly allies” that they would not allow Parliament to function. Mr. Thakur alleged that “anarchy from streets to Parliament” was the Opposition’s only agenda during the monsoon session. He said the Opposition should apologise to the nation for what happened in Parliament. A group of Opposition leaders also met Mr. Naidu and complained against the alleged heckling of MPs, including women members. Earlier on Wednesday, Mr. Naidu broke down over the huge ruckus in the House, and equated the act of some Opposition MPs to “sacrilege in the temple of democracy”. The monsoon session was later cut short by two days. Leaders of several Opposition parties on Thursday held a rally in protest against the government on several issues, including Pegasus snooping, farm laws, and alleged manhandling of their MPs in the Rajya Sabha, with Congress leader Rahul Gandhi saying the voice of people was crushed in Parliament and democracy was “murdered”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/union-ministers-demand-action-against-opposition-mps/article35888913.ece
13 August 2021||New Delhi,||Stressed healthcare workers turn to NIMHANS helpline||In over a year after it was established, the Health Ministry’s COVID-19 mental health helpline number, set up through the National Institute of Mental Health and Neuro Sciences (NIMHANS), Bengaluru, received 13,451 calls from healthcare workers up to July 2021. The Health Ministry told Parliament that the 24x7 helpline was set up in March 2020 to provide professional psychosocial support to those in need. Counselling services through this helpline are being provided in nine languages. A report by NIMHANS says that the facility was set up anticipating the impact that COVID-19 may have on the mental health of people, including doctors. Minister of State for Health Bharati Pravin Pawar said in her written reply, “The said psychosocial support targeted different groups, namely children, adults, elderly, women and healthcare workers. In addition, NIMHANS, Bengaluru, has also issued detailed guidelines for hospitals for ‘Mental Health in the times of COVID-19 Pandemic - Guidance for General Medical and Specialised Mental Health Care Settings’.” She added that health was a State subject and the primary responsibility of engagement for different categories of healthcare workers, including doctors, and the terms and conditions for such engagement, including wages/ remuneration and working hours, is that of States and Union Territories. Her statement added, “The Central Government, on its part, supplements the efforts and extends financial support towards wages of different categories of healthcare workers including doctors under different schemes like the National Health Mission (NHM).” Vaccine update On the COVID-19 vaccine drive, the Health Ministry on Thursday said that more than 54.04 crore (54,04,78,610) vaccine doses had been provided to stakeholders so far through all sources, and a further 1,09,83,510 doses were in the pipeline. The Ministry’s statement said, “Of this, the total consumption, including wastage, is 52,00,96,418 doses (according to data available at 8 a.m. on Thursday). More than 2.55 crore (2,55,54,533) balance and unutilised COVID vaccine doses are still available with the stakeholders and private hospitals.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/healthcare-workers-seek-stress-relief-from-nimhans-helpline/article35888923.ece
13 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||Merit should come first: Nariman||Justice Rohinton Fali Nariman, the Supreme Court judge whom Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana described as “one of the lions guarding the judicial institution”, has said that merit should be the predominant factor in judicial appointments. Justice Nariman, who retired on Thursday, agreed with the Supreme Court Bar Association president, senior advocate Vikas Singh, that the time had come for more direct appointments to be made from the Bar to the Supreme Court Bench. Justice Nariman himself was only the fifth lawyer in the court’s history to be directly appointed as apex court judge from the Supreme Court Bar. The judge said nobody, according to him, should nurse a “legitimate” expectation from the Supreme Court to be made a judge. In fact, the only “legitimate expectation” should be that of the people to get quality justice from the Supreme Court. “I believe there is a legitimate expectation in the people of India and the litigating public to get a certain quality of justice from this final court. For that, it is very clear, merit must predominate, subject of course to other factors. But merit always comes first,” Justice Nariman said in his address at the Supreme Court lawns. Justice Nariman said lawyers should not hesitate when called to the Bench. They should give back to the institution after having “reaped” so much from it. The judge, who delivered around 350 judgments and disposed of nearly 13,565 cases, recalled his tenure as the “most gruelling, difficult years of my life, though I certainly enjoyed writing judgments”. “I have mixed feelings today as I leave this fantastic institution. Relief because there won’t be a pile of briefs waiting for me at 6 a.m. tomorrow. I can wake up tomorrow at six and do what an ordinary citizen does,” Justice Nariman said. The judge, who the CJI said has left an “indelible mark on the jurisprudence of the country”, bid his farewell, saying, “God bless the Supreme Court, now and always.” Chief Justice Ramana, in his address, said little is known about the sacrifices judges make or the hours they put in. The CJI said there is a popular misconception that judges don’t work and only enjoy their holidays and perks. On the contrary, Chief Justice Ramana said, judges burn the midnight oil or wake up early to read and study the piles of cases before them. “When false narratives are created about the supposed easy life led by judges, it is difficult to swallow. We cannot defend ourselves. It is the duty of the Bar to refute these false narratives and to educate the public about the work put in by judges with the limited resources given to them,” Chief Justice Ramana said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/merit-should-come-first-nariman/article35888902.ece
13 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||New Union Ministers to tour 212 LS constituencies||Newly sworn-in Ministers in the Narendra Modi government and those elevated to Cabinet status will be covering 212 Lok Sabha constituencies and travel over 19,567 km in what is being termed as a “Jan Ashirwad” (People’s Blessing) Yatra to be organised by the BJP from August 16. Prime Minister Narendra Modi was unable to introduce his Council of Ministers to Parliament at the start of the monsoon session as is customary because of the Opposition’s protests on the Pegasus snooping scandal and the three contentious farm laws. At that time, Mr. Modi had decried the fact that his newly inducted Ministers, who hailed majorly from marginalised communities, were not being given the usual courtesies by the Opposition. Soon after that, the BJP decided that a “Jan Ashirwad Yatra” to “introduce” these Ministers directly to the people would be undertaken. According to party sources, a schedule has been drawn up for each Minister and the area he or she will have to cover. “For example, in western Uttar Pradesh seats, we will have B.L. Verma, S.P. Singh Baghel, in Kanpur, Bhanu Pratap Verma, and in Awadh, Ajay Mishra and Kaushal Kishore. The Kashi area will have NDA ally Anupriya Patel, Gorakhpur will have a yatra by Pankaj Choudhary,” a source said. The idea is to create a buzz around the fact that the new Council of Ministers has 27 Ministers from the Other Backward Classes, 12 belonging to the Scheduled Caste category, eight from tribal communities and 11 women, and that these Ministers were not accorded even the usual courtesies by the Opposition. The party hopes that with the Assembly polls in Uttar Pradesh, the ministerial appointments and identity issues will get a boost in public perception.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/new-union-ministers-to-tour-212-ls-constituencies/article35888911.ece
13 August 2021||Chennai,||Satellite mission: two stages completed but third failed||The story so far: India’s attempt to place a geoimaging satellite (GISAT-1) with its GSLV-F10-EOS-3 mission did not succeed. The GSLV-F10 rocket, which blasted off from the Satish Dhawan Space Centre at Sriharikota on Thursday, with the purpose of launching the Earth Observation Satellite EOS-3 into space, failed in its mission due to a “performance anomaly”. What caused the failure of the mission? According to the Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO), GSLV-F10 launch took place at 5.43 a.m. as scheduled. Performance of the first and second stages was normal. However, the cryogenic upper stage ignition did not happen due to a technical anomaly. Chris Bergin of NASASpaceFlight.com tweeted that the mission suffered a major failure in the third stage: “2-3 sep looked fine but the third stage started to roll after ignition and then it progressively worsened. Then the telemetry lines diverged.” It appears that while the first two stages separated without a hitch, the ignition of the third stage did not take place as programmed. According to a video of the Doordarshan presentation posted on YouTube by RocketGyan — a channel that posts details of all rocket launches — the deviation from plan appears to have taken place around 352 seconds after launch, after the separation of the stages two and three, at an altitude of about 139 km. What was the supposed function of the satellite that the rocket was about to launch? EOS-3 was the first state-of-art agile Earth Observation Satellite which would have been placed in a geo-synchronous orbit around the Earth. The objectives of the Earth Observation Satellite were to provide real-time imaging of large areas of the planet; to monitor natural disasters from its position in the sky and to provide warnings for natural disasters, observe cyclones, cloudbursts, thunderclouds etc. What do we know about the GSLV rocket? The GSLV Mark II is the largest launch vehicle built by India. The GSLV expands to geosynchronous satellite launch vehicle. As its name suggests, it can launch satellites that will travel in orbits that are synchronous with the Earth’s orbit. These satellites can weigh up to 2,500 kg and are first launched into transfer orbits that have a distance from Earth of 170 km at closest approach and about 35,975 km at furthest approach which is close to the height of the geosynchronous orbit. From this transfer orbit, the satellite is set free into a geosynchronous orbit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/satellite-mission-two-stages-completed-but-third-failed/article35888933.ece
13 August 2021||New Delhi,||Sonia to talk to top Oppn. leaders||Congress president Sonia Gandhi will hold a virtual interaction on August 20 with top Opposition leaders like West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray and Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M.K. Stalin among others, a senior Congress leader said on Thursday. Other invitees include NCP chief Sharad Pawar, Jharkhand Chief Minister Hemant Soren, CPI general secretary D. Raja and CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury. Though the agenda is not known, the senior leader said Ms. Gandhi wanted to keep the momentum going in terms of Opposition unity, and the virtual meeting was likely to be followed by a physical meeting in September, either as a dinner or a lunch get-together. The meeting is a signal that the Congress is keen to be a rallying point for the Opposition parties in the run-up to the 2024 Lok Sabha polls. Sibal’s dinner meeting Her virtual interaction with Opposition leaders comes in the wake of a dinner hosted by senior Congress leader Kapil Sibal, one of the Congress’s group of 23 dissenters who had asked Ms. Gandhi for reforms within the Congress. Though Mr. Sibal’s dinner on August 9 was meant to celebrate his 73rd birthday, an impressive line-up of heavy weights gave it distinct political flavour. Among the leaders who attended it were Mr. Pawar, Rashtriya Janata Dal patriarch Lalu Yadav, Samajwadi Party's Akhilesh Yadav, Mr. Yechury, Mr. D. Raja, Omar Abdullah of the National Conference, Sanjay Raut of the Shiv Sena, Pinaki Misra of the Biju Janata Dal, Derek O'Brien of the Trinamool Congress, Tiruchi Siva of the DMK and Naresh Gujral of Akali Dal. In political circles, Mr. Sibal’s dinner was being interpreted as a challenge to the leadership of the Gandhis, as at least two members were reported to have been critical of the Congress leadership. The Congress president’s interaction with the Opposition heavyweights would add to the party’s efforts to keep the Opposition flock together.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sonia-to-talk-to-top-oppn-leaders/article35888918.ece
13 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||Opposition anti-people and anti-development, says Goyal||Leader of the House in the Rajya Sabha Piyush Goyal on Thursday called the Opposition’s charges about Wednesday’s Parliament proceedings “a bunch of lies”, and said the latter had behaved like violent hooligans in India’s “temple of democracy” in a bid to block the Insurance amendment Bill’s passage. Blaming the “arrogance” of some Opposition leaders who had showed “their mindset in Parliament over the past few days”, Mr. Goyal said their obstructive approach to legislative business was just driven by the need to “try and prove a point and make the session a washout”. The Minister was addressing the national conclave of the Confederation of Indian Industry on Thursday afternoon. “If Parliament is not allowed to function, if our temple of democracy is converted into a platform for hooliganism and violence, I think it is a big blot and a shame for people who have used our temple of democracy to play out very petty politics and a mindset which is anti-progress, anti-development and anti-people,” said the Minister in charge of Commerce and Industry, Textiles, Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution. Stating that the government was pushing through laws for “the good of the nation and people at large”, Mr. Goyal said the changes introduced in the session would help children, small enterprises and bank depositors in troubled banks such as PMC Bank. “The biggest issue that they (Opposition) were literally fighting for, was to block a Bill which would have given our insurance companies power to serve the people better,” he said. “We saw such unsavoury instances being played out in Parliament. And to top it off, the bunch of lies that were played out today on television. Really, one feels ashamed how a very poor leadership over the past many decades, largely revolving around a few people and their families, has actually killed Indian enterprise and Indian animal spirits,” Mr. Goyal said, adding he does not know how the mindset of such ‘negative thinking’ politicians can be changed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/opposition-anti-people-and-anti-development-says-goyal/article35888921.ece
13 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||Quad officials discuss holding leaders’ summit||Senior officials of Australia, India, Japan and the U.S. met in a video conference on Thursday for the first Quad meeting since March, when the leaders of the grouping had decided on a number of initiatives including cooperation on countering the COVID-19 pandemic. As The Hindu had reported earlier, an “in-person” Quad Foreign Ministerial meeting, as well as the possibility of a Quad summit involving Prime Minister Narendra Modi, U.S. President Joe Biden, Australian PM Scott Morrison and Japanese PM Yoshihide Suga are being discussed for September this year. “The [officials] welcomed the opportunity to continue regular consultations at the ministerial, senior official, and working levels and to hold a second Leaders’ Summit this fall,” a U.S. State Department statement said. The Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) spokesperson declined to comment on the date of the meetings. Diplomatic sources confirmed that all four leaders are expected to attend the UN General Assembly meeting in New York this year, and discussions are under way for them to meet in Washington during that visit, but their travels and the summit is contingent on the COVID situations in each of the four countries. Regional issues During the meeting, Quad country officials talked about the decision to launch working groups on other areas of emerging technologies and climate change, and “exchanged views” on regional issues such as East and South China Seas, where the Chinese Navy has had conflicts over territorial rights with other countries, North Korean actions, and military rule in Myanmar. Making a particular mention of the Quad as a grouping of “four democracies”, the U.S. statement said officials discussed “strategic challenges confronting the region, countering disinformation, promoting democracy and human rights”, and, in a veiled reference to China, said they would “support countries vulnerable to coercive actions in the Indo-Pacific region”. The officials also discussed plans to cooperate on COVID vaccines.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/quad-officials-discuss-holding-leaders-summit/article35889398.ece
13 August 2021||New Delhi,||Common survey to count elephants and tigers||From December, India will move to a system that will count tigers and elephants as part of a common survey. The tiger survey is usually held once in four years and elephants are counted once in five years. According to the most recent 2018-19 survey, there were 2,997 tigers in India. According to the last count in 2017, there were 29,964 elephants in India. Environment Minister Bhupender Yadav on Thursday, which is marked as World Elephant Day, made public the population estimation protocol to be adopted in the all-India elephant and tiger population estimation in 2022. At a meeting, he said there had been a “pressing need to improve and harmonise the population estimation methods along more scientific lines in various States across India” to estimate animal numbers. Since 2006, the Wildlife Institute of India (WII), Dehradun, which is affiliated to the Environment Ministry, has a standardised protocol in place that States then use to estimate tiger numbers. Based on sightings in camera traps and indirect estimation methods, tiger numbers are computed. Elephant numbers, said Qamar Qureshi, wildlife scientist at the WII, largely rely on States directly counting the number of elephants. In recent years, techniques such as analysing dung samples have also been deployed to estimate birth rates and population trends in elephants. Saving costs “Given that 90% of the area occupied by elephants and tigers is common, and once estimation methods are standardised, having a common survey can significantly save costs,” Mr. Qureshi told The Hindu . In 2017, the Union Environment Ministry reported that there were 27,312 elephants on average in the country, according to figures collated from 23 States, a decline from the 29,576 elephants recorded as the mean figure in 2012. However, in 2019, it emerged that Kerala may have under-counted almost 2,700 elephants in the latest elephant census and the updated 2017 figures showed 29,964 elephants on average, or a slight increase from the mean of 2012. This was because Kerala initially relied on a direct count method and then switched to an indirect method when the count showed a decline in its elephant population. Asian elephants are listed as “endangered” on the IUCN Red List of threatened species. More than 60% of the world’s elephant population is in India, said a statement from the Environment Ministry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/common-survey-to-count-elephants-and-tigers/article35888930.ece
13 August 2021||New Delhi,||Twitter blocks Cong. official handles, leaders’ accounts||A war of words erupted between Twitter India and the Congress on Thursday after the social media platform blocked the party’s official handle and the accounts of several senior leaders. It also blocked the party’s Tamil Nadu, Rajasthan, Gujarat and Maharashtra handles, besides that of the Mumbai Regional Congress Committee and the Daman & Diu Congress Committee. The move comes just days after Twitter blocked former Congress president Rahul Gandhi for posting a photograph of the parents of a nine-year-old girl who was allegedly raped and murdered in Delhi. In defiance, party general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra changed her display picture to Mr. Gandhi’s, while others like Youth Congress chief B.V. Srinivas changed both his display picture as well the name of his handle to Rahul Gandhi. By Thursday evening, prominent leaders whose handles had been suspended by Twitter for violating its policy included Randeep Surjewala, K.C. Venugopal, Ajay Maken, Sushmita Dev, Bhanwar Jitendra Singh and Lok Sabha member Manickam Tagore among others. All these leaders’ as well as the Congress’s handle had shared the same photograph in solidarity with Mr. Gandhi. Breaking his silence on the Twitter episode, Mr. Gandhi said on Instagram, “If fighting for justice for murder and rape victim is a crime, then I am guilty. They can lock us out on a platform but they can’t lock our voice for the sake of the people.” Last week, Twitter removed Mr. Gandhi’s tweet along with the photo, as sharing of photos of a victim or her relatives is barred under the Indian Law.  However, the Congress targeted Twitter for adopting “double standards”, since functionaries of the National Commission for Scheduled Castes (NCSC) had shared similar photos with the parents of the victims but no action was taken against them. Ms. Vadra said on Twitter, “Is Twitter following its own policy for the suspension of Congress leaders’ accounts or the Modi government’s? Why hadn’t it locked the account of SC commission that had tweeted similar photos before any of our leaders did? By locking Congress leaders’ accounts en masse, Twitter is blatantly colluding with the stifling of democracy by the BJP government in India.” Replying to a query on the development, a Twitter spokesperson said the ‘Twitter Rules’ were enforced judiciously and impartially for everyone on its service.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/twitter-blocks-cong-official-handles-leaders-accounts/article35888916.ece
13 August 2021||LUCKNOW,||Cow slaughter in secret does not affect public order, says HC||An act of slaughtering a cow in the secrecy of one’s own house in the early hours — probably because of poverty, lack of employment or hunger — may be described as a case involving law and order but not a matter affecting public order, the Allahabad High Court has noted. “...an act of slaughtering a cow in the secrecy of one’s own house , would perhaps only involve a law and order issue and could not be said to stand on the same footing as a situation where a number of cattle have been slaughtered outside in public view and the public transport of their flesh or an incident where aggressive attack is made by the slaughterers against the complaining public, which may involve infractions of public order,” the court said. The court made the observation while quashing a detention order dated August 14, 2020 under the National Security Act against three men in Sitapur district of Uttar Pradesh. A Division Bench of Justices Ramesh Sinha and Saroj Yadav ordered the forthwith release of the accused unless they were wanted in connection with some other criminal case. An FIR was lodged under Sections 3, 5, 8 of the U.P. Prevention of Cow Slaughter Act, 1955 and Section 7 of the Criminal Law Amendment Act, 2013 against five accused persons Parvez, Irfan, Rahamtullah (petitioners), Rafi and Kurban at Talgaon police station in Sitapur. Detainees Parvez and Irfan were arrested on the same day of the incident July 12, 2020, while Rahmatullah was attested a day later. Another FIR under the U.P. Gangsters and Anti-Social Activities (Prevention) Act, 1986 was later lodged against the accused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cow-slaughter-in-secret-does-not-affect-public-order-says-hc/article35889396.ece
13 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||NIA keeping watch on global terror units||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) is keeping a close watch on global terrorist organisations that have been making attempts to recruit Indians through radicalisation via different social media platforms, said an agency official on Thursday. These outfits have also been roping in translators to disseminate propaganda materials in local languages, the official said. While probing an Islamic State-inspired module, the agency recently found that an Instagram channel named “Chronicle Foundation” was being used by elements located overseas to spread propaganda and recruit people. The group had more than 5,000 members. The NIA has identified several members from India, who were allegedly in touch with operatives based in Syria, Iraq and Africa, besides the IS-Khorasan (Afghanistan) based handlers. They were instigated to join the outfits and also raise funds for them. .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nia-keeping-watch-on-global-terror-units/article35888898.ece
13 August 2021||New Delhi,||‘Will ensure safety of Afghan Hindus, Sikhs’||India will take all necessary steps to ensure safety of Hindu and Sikh minority community members in Afghanistan, said an official of the Ministry of External Affairs on Thursday. Addressing the weekly media interaction, official spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said India was keenly watching the unfolding situation in Afghanistan, and argued that “external malign influences” should be stopped from taking over the country. “We have facilitated the return of a large number of members of the Hindu and Sikh communities last year. Our mission continues to remain in touch with them and we will ensure the provision of all necessary assistance to them,” said Mr. Bagchi, who reiterated that Indian nationals in Afghanistan should return home. He also maintained that reports of India considering shutting down the Embassy in Kabul were incorrect. In response to a viral video of Taliban fighters inspecting an Mi-35 Hind helicopter after taking over the Kunduz airport near the border with Tajikistan, the Indian official said, “It was not an Indian Air Force helicopter.” India evacuated a number of citizens on Wednesday morning from Mazar-e-Sharif. Officials however maintained that, as of now, there is no plan to evacuate the remaining Indians through a government-sponsored initiative, suggesting that as of now, the advisory is for citizens to return using commercially available flights. “We are concerned about the deteriorating security situation. Last year, our mission in Kabul had facilitated the return of 383 members of the Hindu and Sikh communities,” Mr. Bagchi said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-will-ensure-safety-of-afghan-hindus-and-sikhs-mea/article35888900.ece
13 August 2021||Srinagar,||Kargil leaders to fight for Article 370 in SC||Three top leaders from Ladakh’s Kargil district, who challenged the Central government’s August 5, 2019 move in the Supreme Court earlier this week, on Thursday said the leadership of the region had decided “to launch a legal battle against the dilution of Article 370 and express desire to see the pre-August 5 position”. Sajad Kargili, one of the petitioners, said the Kargil Democratic Alliance, a grouping of regional parties and local seminaries, had always held that the 2019 decisions were “illegal and unconstitutional”. “The Kargil leadership has now decided to start a legal fight in the Supreme Court, as a false narrative is being woven that the people of Ladakh are happy with the status of Union Territory (UT). We are hopeful the court will do justice. We desire for the pre-August 5 position,” Mr. Kargili told The Hindu . KDA leaders, during a meeting with Union Minster of Home G Kishan Reddy on July 1 last, conveyed the stand on the revocation of special provisions of Article 370 and 35A. “||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/kargil-leaders-to-fight-for-article-370-in-sc/article35888914.ece
13 August 2021||August 13 2021 00:00 IST,||SDM acts against rules||When the woman was produced before the court on March 19, 2020, she categorically conveyed to the presiding judges that she wanted to marry the man and live with him as his wife. After she made the statement, the High Court interacted with her father and counselled him about the fact that both the man and his daughter were adults and entitled to take their decisions. The father then assured the court that he will not create any hindrance or give any threat to the couple. The woman told the court that she did not want to return to her parental home and proceed with the man from the court itself. The High Court then directed the police to ensure a safe passage for the couple from the court to the residence of the man. It also directed the Station House Officer of the local police station to ensure strict vigil and to provide protection to the couple.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sdm-acts-against-rules/article35889490.ece
13 August 2021||GUWAHATI,||At least 6 from extremist group in Manipur dead||At least six members of a Manipur extremist group have been killed in a factional fight in Myanmar, officials said. The decision of some cadre to desert with weapons led to the infighting, in which “six to eight” members of the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) were killed and three injured, a spokesperson of a security agency confirmed. The infighting happened on August 10 near the Nanyang Wakathan camp of the National Socialist Council of Nagaland (Khaplang-Yung Aung) in the Sagaing region of Myanmar. The camp is across the Pangsau Pass in Changlang district of Arunachal Pradesh. “We confirmed the deaths with the family members of three of the cadre killed. The three were from Kakching and Thoubal districts of Manipur,” the spokesperson said. According to intelligence officials keeping tabs on the extremist groups, trouble had been brewing within the PLA for some time because of pressure from the Myanmar Army to either pay for lying low in the country or join the soldiers in fighting the pro-democracy forces.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/at-least-6-from-extremist-group-in-manipur-dead/article35888931.ece
13 August 2021||August 13 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Outsiders brought in to manhandle MPs’||At the subsequent presser, the leaders accused the Narendra Modi government of not allowing the Opposition to raise issues such as snooping by Pegasus spyware, the farmers’ agitation, price rise and the economic situation among others. “For the first time in Rajya Sabha, MPs were beaten up, after bringing people from outside,” former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi told reporters. “It is the Chairman’s and Speaker's responsibility to run the House,” he added. “Who is stopping the Opposition in the House? I will tell you: India’s Prime Minister is doing the work of selling this country. He is selling the soul of India to two-three industrialists and that is why the Opposition is not allowed to speak inside Parliament,” the Congress leader alleged. The voices of the 60% of the country [represented by the Opposition parties] has been “crushed and humiliated”, Mr. Gandhi said. Alleging that the Opposition was not allowed to speak inside Parliament, Mr Gandhi said, “this is nothing short of murder of democracy”. In a joint statement, signed by leaders of the Congress, NCP, Shiv Sena, SP, DMK, CPI-M, CPI, RJD, IUML, RSP, and Kerala Congress (M), Opposition parties accused the government of having ‘scant’ regard for democracy, ‘derailing’ the Parliament session and reiterated the allegations of ‘outsiders’ assaulting MPs. “What happened in Rajya Sabha yesterday was shocking, unprecedented, sad and an insult to the very dignity of the House and humiliation of the members of the august House,” read the statement. “Without any provocation from the Opposition, outsiders who were not part of Parliament security, were brought in to manhandle the Opposition leaders and members, including women Parliamentarians who were only protesting against the Government’s conduct, high handedness and muzzling of the voice,” the statement added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/outsiders-brought-in-to-manhandle-mps/article35888905.ece
13 August 2021||August 13 2021 00:00 IST,||Retail inflation eases to 5.6% in July||Food prices at the consumer level played a substantive role in moderating the pace of price rise in July, with the National Statistical Office (NSO) estimating an inflation of 3.96%, compared to 5.15% in June. Vegetables, fruits, oils and fats, pulses, sugar and spices experienced significant tempering in inflation, an indication that some of the government measures to correct edible oil and pulses prices are kicking in. The respite notwithstanding, DBS Group Research economist Radhika Rao said that latent pressure points remained, as inflationary expectations had firmed up further as per the latest RBI survey. “While off the highs, inflation has stubbornly remained north of the 4% midpoint target since late 2019, driven by a mix of sticky drivers during and after COVID-19 spells. As the States ease restrictions, there is likely to be a shift away from goods to services-led inflation, with firmer demand to also encourage producers to increasingly pass on higher input prices,” she said. The government and the Reserve Bank of India have labelled the recent inflation spurt as ‘transitory’, although the latter has raised its forecast for 2021-22 to 5.7% from 5.1%. ICRA chief economist Aditi Nayar said it was increasingly difficult to characterise inflationary pressures as transitory in nature, as inflation was expected to remain sticky in the 5%-6% range over the next three quarters. “A small disruption could push inflation back above the 6% threshold,” she noted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/retail-inflation-eases-to-56-in-july/article35888906.ece
13 August 2021||August 13 2021 00:00 IST,||Kinnaur landslip toll rises to 14; 16 missing||As an ambulance ferrying bodies recovered from the landslip site approaches, Mr. Singh and his father rush towards it to identify the body. Both of them take a thorough look, and see the clothes and other items of the victim. “It’s not him,” says Mr. Singh. Both move to the wall again, resuming their vigil for the next ambulance. Mr. Singh and his father are among the hundreds of people at the Health Centre, anxiously waiting for the ambulances that have brought in the victims of the devastating landslide. The rescue, being carried out jointly by the National Disaster Response Force, ITBP, police and home guards, resumed at 6 a.m. on Thursday, State Disaster Management Director Sudesh Kumar Mokhta said. The HRTC bus was on its way from Reckong Peo to Haridwar via Shimla when it was hit by the landslide. Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur who visited the site of the disaster, said the State government will provide Rs. 4 lakh each to the next of kin of the dead.  (With PTI inputs)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/kinnaur-landslip-toll-rises-to-14-16-missing/article35888908.ece
13 August 2021||August 13 2021 00:00 IST,||GSLV-F10 fails to put satellite into orbit||“The mission couldn’t be accomplished as intended,” the ISRO said in a statement. It did not elaborate any further. The EOS-03, intended to be positioned in the geostationary transfer orbit initially, was supposed to reach the final geostationary orbit. It was expected to provide near real-time imaging, which could be used for quick monitoring of natural disasters, episodic events and any short-term events. The mission life of the satellite was 10 years. Soon after the 51.70 metre-tall GSLV-F10’s went up, a live telecast on Doordarshan showed scientists in the Mission Control Centre (MCC) eagerly waiting and hoping for its smooth and successful functioning. The launch resembled a routine affair until the rocket’s second stage, some five minutes after the lift-off. A sense of suspicion and uncertainty descended upon the MCC as the graph on the screens showed a slight deviation of the rocket’s path. A few minutes later, some ISRO officials were seen discussing with ISRO chairman K. Sivan. After a few rounds of discussions, the Range Operations Director announced: “Performance anomaly [was] observed in the cryogenic stage. [The] mission could not be accomplished fully.” Mr. Sivan too made a formal announcement that the mission could not be accomplished, “mainly because it is a technical anomaly observed in the cryogenic stage.” GSLV-F10 was ISRO’s eighth flight with indigenous cryo, 14th GSLV flight and 79th launch from Sriharikota. A 4-metre diameter Ogive-shaped payload fairing was flown for the first time in this GSLV flight.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/gslv-f10-fails-to-put-satellite-into-orbit/article35888909.ece
13 August 2021||New Delhi,||‘Modi must emulate Manmohan, Gowda’||Two former Prime Ministers Manmohan Singh and H.D. Deve Gowda came to vote on the Constitution Amendment Bill, popularly referred to as OBC Bill, in the Rajya Sabha, while Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah were “absconding”, the Trinamool Congress said on Thursday. At a press conference a day after the General Insurance Bill was passed by the Rajya Sabha amid a scuffle between members and the marshals deployed in the House, party leader Derek O’Brien said the Opposition had no choice but to protest vociferously. “What option did the Opposition have in a parliamentary democracy where the government crosses all limits? Do we still sit on our seats and suck lollipops? They must remember that we represent more than 60% of the people of India. The BJP had got 37% of vote in the 2019 election and the remaining people voted for the Opposition parties,” Mr. O’Brien said. The entire Opposition wanted a debate on the internal security, but Mr. Modi and Mr. Shah were missing, he said. Mr. Modi has only made one appearance each in both Houses at the beginning of the session to introduce his expanded Cabinet. Mr. O’Brien said both Mr. Modi and Mr. Shah should learn parliamentary etiquette from the former Prime Ministers. “Why has the Prime Minister of India not answered a single question on the floor of Parliament for the last four to five years. Don’t ask us why we disrupted Parliament. It is you who disrupted Parliament with your boorish behaviour,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/modi-must-emulate-manmohan-gowda/article35888920.ece
13 August 2021||LUCKNOW,||Muslim man assaulted, made to chant Jai Shri Ram||A Muslim e-rickshaw driver was paraded through a street, assaulted and allegedly forced to chant “Jai Shri Ram” by a group of men in Kanpur on Wednesday. An FIR was lodged at the Barra police station against five named persons and eight to 10 unidentified persons for rioting, criminal intimidation and voluntarily causing hurt. A video of the incident was widely shared on social media. Afsaar Ahmad is seen being paraded through a street and being heckled and assaulted by the group and forced to chant “Jai Shri Ram”. Some of the miscreants are seen wearing saffron scarves. His young daughter is seen clinging on to him as she pleads with the assailants to spare him. In his police complaint, Mr. Ahmad said he was driving around 3 p.m. on Wednesday when the accused persons started abusing and beating him. He said he was saved by the police. Mr. Ahmad says he was assaulted over an old dispute by people living in the same locality near Ramgopal Chauraha. He names Ajay “band wala”, Ajay’s son Don, Keshu Neta, Ramesh, Rani and others as accused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/muslim-man-assaulted-made-to-chant-jai-shri-ram/article35888903.ece
13 August 2021||August 13 2021 00:00 IST,||He washes away sins||In his Varadaraja Stavam, Kooratazhvan gives niravadhi and niramha as qualities of Lord Varadaraja of Kanchi. Niramha means absence of undesirable qualities. Nirvadhya means He has no doshas. So both niravadhi and niramha mean the same. So why did Kooratazhvan use two different words to describe the same quality? He was a great scholar, and unless the two words could be explained differently, he would not have used them, said Valayapet Ramachariar in a discourse. Niravadhi means Varadaraja is blemishless. Niramha means that those who worship Him also end up blemishless. In his Meivrata Mahatmyam, Vedanta Desika records Brahma’s reaction upon seeing Lord Varadaraja. Brahma said he could no longer find his terrible sins (kadu vinaikal) the moment he saw Varadaraja. So, the moment one sees Varadaraja, one’s sins vanish. Kooratazhvan attributes to Varadaraja all qualities of the Supreme One, thus indicating that Varadaraja is Brahman. Kooratazhvan uses the word ‘sadaa’ (always) in verse 12, while describing His qualities, and sadaa can be prefixed before every quality of His. So He is sadaa niravadhi, sadaa niramha and so on. The Supreme One is unchanging, in terms of appearance and qualities. Varadaraja too is unchanging in any respect. Those who have witnessed His festivals know this. Suppose a regular visitor to temple is unable to go to a festival one year, he can visualise the entire procession, for he knows that nothing will vary. The alankara of the deity for each day remains fixed. So, if He is on the hamsa vahana, the absent devotee knows He will be clad in white, with the crown made by His devotee Venkatadri. Decorations remain the same every year, and so here we find changelessness.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/he-washes-away-sins/article35888924.ece
13 August 2021||Mumbai,||Maharashtra government to schools: waive fees by 15%||The Maharashtra government on Thursday directed school managements across all boards and mediums to waive fees by 15% for 2021-22. As per a Government Resolution issued by the school education department, fees if paid fully should be refunded by schools or the excess amount should be utilised for the next academic year. In case of a dispute, a petition should be filed with the divisional fee regulatory authority and its decision will be binding on all, the order stated. The government has directed school managements not to prevent students from availing of online or offline education, or bar them from sitting for exams and withhold results if they haven’t paid their fees. All school boards and mediums will implement the order with immediate effect, it stated. Parents’ bodies have been demanding some relief in terms of school fees in view of the COVID-19 pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/maharashtra-government-to-schools-waive-fees-by-15/article35889165.ece
13 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||India, Saudi Arabia begin naval exercise||The maiden bilateral naval exercise between India and Saudi Arabia named ‘AL–Mohed AL–Hindi’ got under way on Thursday, the Navy said. “The sea phase of the exercise began on Thursday,” a Navy officer said. The Indian Navy’s visit to the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia was set rolling with the Flag Officer Commanding Western Fleet (FOCWF), Rear Adm Ajay Kochhar, visiting the Fleet Cdr of Royal Saudi Navy’s Eastern Fleet, Rear Adm Majid Al Qahtani, on August 10, a statement issued by the Navy said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-saudi-arabia-begin-naval-exercise/article35888934.ece
13 August 2021||August 13 2021 00:00 IST,||On the draw||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/on-the-draw/article35888897.ece
13 August 2021||Srinagar,||CRPF jawan, 2 civilians hurt in Kulgam||One CRPF jawan and two civilians were injured in an encounter that broke out after militants attacked a BSF convoy in Kulgam on Thursday afternoon. Police officials said the militants, likely two, took shelter inside a multi-storey building “forcing the security forces to slow down the operation”. “The two trapped terrorists were still alive. We are taking all precautions for lesser collateral damage as target building is huge,” IGP Vijay Kumar said. According to the police assessment, the militants are affiliated to the LeT. Earlier in the day, IGP Kumar said terrorists had fired upon a BSF convoy on the national highway in Kulgam’s Mir Bazaar area. Eyewitnesses said the firing was fierce and people were seen running for safety.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/crpf-jawan-2-civilians-hurt-in-kulgam/article35888907.ece
13 August 2021||KOLKATA,||Mamata flags question in CAPF test||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday raised strong objection to reports of a question asked in the CAPF (Central Armed Police Force) recruitment examination on “poll violence in West Bengal”. She accused the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) of using the Central forces to serve its political interests. “I was shocked to see that politically-motivated questions were asked in an exam conducted by the UPSC. It shows how the BJP has politicised the Central forces to serve its political interests,” she said. The Chief Minister went on to allege that the CAPF was used to “capture booths and kill people at Sitalkuchi in Coochbehar during the Assembly poll in West Bengal”. Ms. Banerjee said, “This is too much and completely unacceptable. What is the message the Centre is trying to send out?... That if you want to work in the Central forces, you have to be a ‘yes man’ of the BJP and believe whatever canards they are spreading.” The Chief Minister said such questions were an attempt at politicising the recruitment process. “They [the UPSC] are supposed to be neutral. It is an effort to malign all people who are in the Opposition,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mamata-flags-question-in-capf-test/article35888919.ece
13 August 2021||Mumbai,||Lookout notice issued against Param Bir Singh||The Thane police have issued a lookout notice against senior Maharashtra IPS officer Param Bir Singh in connection with an extortion case, an official said on Thursday. The notice was issued in the case registered at the Thane Nagar Police Station against Mr. Singh, and 27 others on July 30 on a complaint of businessman Ketan Tanna. A lookout notice is issued to prevent a person from leaving the country. Besides Mr. Singh, who served as the Thane Police Commissioner, the extortion FIR names several police officers.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/lookout-notice-issued-against-param-bir-singh/article35888994.ece
13 August 2021||IMPHAL,||Insurgent groups in Manipur give call to boycott Independence Day celebrations||Insurgent groups in Manipur have given calls to boycott Independence Day celebrations this year. The Corcom, the apex body of six major insurgent groups, and the United People’s Revolutionary Front of Manipur in their separate press releases said that there shall be total shutdown on August 15. The timings of the boycott are meant to disrupt the official functions by ensuring that people stay indoors. Some essential services, including social and religious functions and the press, will be exempted. Police say that in the past, almost all insurgent groups have given boycott calls. Other major underground organisations in the Northeast, except those which are holding peace talks with the government, boycotted national events.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/insurgent-groups-in-manipur-give-call-to-boycott-independence-day-celebrations/article35888899.ece
13 August 2021||Lucknow,||Over 1,200 U.P. villages hit by floods||The number of villages in Uttar Pradesh affected by floods doubled over the past 24 hours from 605 to 1,243 across 23 districts, affecting the lives of over 5.46 lakh persons, officials said on Thursday. Of these, 104 villages remain cut off, while in 361 villages, both residents and farming were affected, said the U.P. Disaster and Relief Department. Mirzapur (404 villages), Prayagraj (169), Jalaun (114), Banda (79), Hamirpur (76), Ballia (68) and Varanasi (58) were among the worst hit. The State recorded 13.1 mm average rainfall over the past day’s, which was 154% of the normal rainfall. According to the Irrigation Department, the Ganga was flowing above the danger mark in Budaun, Mirzapur, Prayagraj, Varanasi, Ghazipur and Ballia, while the Yamuna was above the red mark in Auraiya, Jalaun, Hamirpur, Banda and Prayagraj. Eleven districts received more than 25 mm rainfall over the past 24 hours, officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/over-1200-up-villages-hit-by-floods/article35888936.ece
13 August 2021||New Delhi,||Doctor gets aid after NHRC intervention||The National Human Rights Commission said on Thursday that the Delhi government had reimbursed a contractual doctor his COVID-19 treatment costs after the commission intervened. The NHRC said in a statement that the Delhi government reimbursed Amit Gupta Rs. 83.43 lakh. Hired on contract as a senior resident (paediatrics) at Satyavadi Raja Harishchandra Hospital, Dr. Gupta had not been extended any financial assistance after contracting the virus. The NHRC issued a notice to the Union Health and Family Welfare Ministry and the Delhi government on May 16, acting on a complaint, and asked for immediate aid to be extended to the ailing Dr. Gupta. The two governments were also asked to formulate a policy for all medical and paramedical staff engaged on contract. “In response, the Delhi government has also informed that they have further requested the Director General of Health Services to frame a policy for providing adequate medical care to the doctors and paramedical staff hired on contract basis. This may include medical insurance for them,” the NHRC said. The NHRC asked the Chief Secretary to ensure the policy is framed and a report submitted within six weeks. “However, having received no response from the Union Health and Family Welfare Ministry to its notice, the Commission has also sent a reminder to its Secretary to inform within six weeks about the action been taken in the matter,” the NHRC said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/doctor-gets-aid-after-nhrc-intervention/article35888925.ece
13 August 2021||Aruppukottai,TAMIL NADU||‘Police biased in Dalit murder case’||The Tamil Nadu Untouchablility Eradication Front has charged the Virudhunagar district police with acting in favour of caste Hindus in connection with an honour killing reported under Pandalgudi police station limits on August 4. Its State general secretary, K. Samuelraj, who visited the house of the Dalit murder victim, P. Palani, 50, of Kurunthamadam, said the daughter of Karuppaiah, the accused, went to Palani’s house. She was in love with Palani’s son Kaleeswaran of the village and wished to marry him. When Palani’s wife went to Karuppaiah’s house to inform them about their daughter, the accused attacked Palani with a machete and murdered him. “However, the police, who have to uphold the law, has left the girl in her house against her wishes. The murder took place only for the girl and now the family of the deceased has suffered dual loss,” Mr. Samuelraj said. The district administration should conduct an inquiry with Mr. Kaleeswaran and the girl and fulfill their wish as per law, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/virudhunagar-police-accused-of-bias-in-dalit-murder-case/article35889067.ece
13 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||City will get more CNG outlets by end of the year||By the end of this year, the city is likely to have 100 fuel outlets that will be vending compressed natural gas (CNG). The latest fuel to be available in Tamil Nadu is expected to be a game changer primarily because it is half the current price of petrol and diesel, since it is sold at 5% VAT per kg. In the city, it costs Rs. 51.35 a kg, which is the second lowest in the country after Delhi. For industrial uses, it is priced at Rs. 48 per kg. Recently, Chief Minister M.K. Stalin inaugurated 26 pumps in and around the city, and in anticipation of these and other pumps to be opened in the State, several vehicle manufacturers have brought out company-manufactured CNG variants in the market. Maruti Suzuki has six passenger vehicles in CNG, four in the fleet segment and one in the commercial segment. A company source said conversion kits were not permitted, according to an order of the Supreme Court. “And in India, certified conversion kits are not available in the petrol vehicle segment. From the point of safety, what is preferable is to get a vehicle that is fitted from the original equipment manufacturer (OEM) from the factory,” he explained. “We expect the CNG market to do extremely well in Chennai since a lot of customers are showing considerable interest in the CNG variant,” he added. In other markets like Mumbai, Pune and Gujarat, large conversions have already happened in the call taxi fleet segment. Taxi owners are opting for the CNG variant. “It is a more affordable fuel since there is no cess attached to it like petrol or diesel. The price is controlled under the Administered Price Mechanism and Torrent Gas, which supplies CNG to the city, said it would ensure that the price was retained at this level till December this year,” an oil industry expert explained. Besides being cleaner, since it has no lead, it has better mileage when compared to fuels being sold at present. “If it is a new vehicle, it will give at least 10-12 km or more per kilo than petrol and in the long run, it will still remain at some 7-9 km more than petrol. CNG is more suitable for cars that are driven inside cities like call taxis. For vehicles that travel for 700-800 km, liquefied natural gas is more suitable since it can be stored at minus 160 degree Celsius and will take lesser space,” an industry insider explained. Latha Krishnan, a resident of Perambur, began reading up on CNG while checking for fuel prices recently. She said with the governments using fuel as a revenue generating mechanism, LPG and CNG looked tempting. “The CNG option seems more tempting since it is cleaner. Since many of us cannot afford to buy new vehicles, the government should bring out a list of approved conversion kit vendors,” she added. Sources in oil companies said in Salem and Namakkal, where compressed biogas obtained from chicken waste is available, some 200 vehicles had converted to the cleaner fuel. Similarly, in Ramanathapuram and even in Tiruvallur, several vehicles had converted to CNG. R. Parandhaman of SMR Bus Services in Rasipuram, Namakkal, who has converted one of his buses to CNG on a trial basis, said he was willing to convert his entire fleet to CNG. “We are waiting for the government to permit the conversion of heavy vehicles,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/city-will-get-more-cng-outlets-by-end-of-the-year/article35889436.ece
13 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Water utilities’ losses due to under-recovery of operational cost’||The White Paper on Tamil Nadu’s finances has cited the gross under-recovery of operational costs as the reason for the huge losses incurred by the Tamil Nadu Water Supply & Drainage (TWAD) Board and Chennai Metrowater. In the case of the 50-year-old TWAD Board, which is responsible for the development of the water supply network and sewerage across the State except in the Chennai Metropolitan Area (CMA), the operational cost is about Rs. 20.81 per kilo litre (KL), of which only Rs. 10.42 per KL is levied from urban local bodies (ULBs) and Rs. 8.11 per KL from rural local bodies (RLBs) towards water charges during 2020-21. ‘Dues not paid on time’ Based on the revised estimates for the year, the cost recovery, excluding items like government grants, interest and depreciation, worked out to only 44.21%. A substantial portion of the dues from the local bodies was not paid on time. The water charge payments due from the local bodies, as of March 31, 2021, was Rs. 484.1 crore. The rise in the deficit was caused by the “high increase” in the pension cost and the maintenance cost of the combined water supply schemes (CWSS) which have, of late, gone up as more and more water supply schemes of that kind are being maintained on outsourcing contract basis and not by employees of the Board. To underscore the growing pension cost, the White Paper mentioned that while the total number of TWAD Board employees was 2,583, as of March 31, 2021, the number of pensioners was 9,101 — over three times the number of serving employees. As for the 43-year-old Chennai Metrowater, the operational cost is about Rs. 36.58 per KL, of which only Rs. 14.08 per KL, accounting for about 38%, is being recovered. This does not include government grants. For supplying water to tenements of the Tamil Nadu Slum Clearance Board, Metrowater gets only Rs. 36 crore as a grant from the government, despite incurring an expenditure of Rs. 100 crore annually. While the total demand raised during 2020-21 was Rs. 1,061.74 crore, the total amount collected was Rs. 512.83 crore till the end of March 2021. As in the case of the other water utility, Metrowater’s mounting losses have been caused by the huge increase in employee cost, pension cost and operation and maintenance cost. As of March 31, 2021, the total number of employees of the utility in the city was 2,621, whereas the total number of pensioners was 5,818. Pointing out that the operational cost of Metrowater is higher than that of TWAD Board, the document attributes this to the higher cost incurred on the purchase of water produced from seawater desalination plants and the higher distribution cost, which occurs as the former distributes treated water to households whereas the latter supplies water in bulk to ULBs and RLBs for further distribution to end consumers. In the last four years, the water tariff revision was carried out twice for consumers of Metrowater — once in October 2017 for commercial and institutional consumers with an annual increase of 10%, and then in May 2018 for domestic and partly commercial consumers with an annual increase of 5%. However, the annual tariff revision was not made in May 2019 for domestic and partly commercial consumers due to a drought, and again in 2020 due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Terming as “inherently unfair and regressive” the Metrowater’s scheme of getting the bulk of its receipts from water and sewerage tax and flat charges for domestic connections, the White Paper said this favoured those who lived in large houses and bungalows and paid a flat fee without a meter, rather than the middle class who lived in apartments and made payments on the basis of bulk water metering, let alone the poor who used much less water per-capita, independent of metering.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/under-recovery-of-operational-cost-does-water-utilities-in/article35889453.ece
13 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Masking inadequate in most public places, says study||The usage of masks is inadequate in public places, such as bus stands and railway stations, in Chennai while very few commercial establishments have facilities in place for their safe disposal, according to a survey carried out by the Government Medical College Hospital, Omandurar, here. A cross-sectional survey on adherence to COVID-19 appropriate behaviour was taken up by the Department of Community Medicine of the college. A 22-member team, led by Arun Murugan, professor of community medicine, and assistant professors Arvind and Rajesh, surveyed 11,737 individuals and 1,045 public places, including commercial establishments, shops, tea shops, shopping malls, hotels and Metro Rail stations from July 23 to 31. R. Jayanthi, Dean of the hospital, said the survey team found 38% overall compliance with the mask norm. “However, mask compliance was inadequate in public places, including bus stands and railway stations. Adherence to masking was good in Metro Rail stations, where the usage was up to 76%. There was 68%-70% compliance in hospital spaces and laboratories,” she said. Physical distancing saw an overall compliance of 49%. However, adherence was low — 5% to 23% — at roadside shops and bus stands. Shopping malls and star hotels had high compliance of 67% to 88%, she said. Compliance with handwashing and sanitation practices was found to be 54% in places that had facilities. “However, only a few commercial establishments had facilities for safe disposal of masks. Disinfection of frequently touched surfaces was poor in small and mid-level hotels,” she said. Dr. Jayanthi said while adherence to COVID-19 appropriate behaviour had improved compared to the period before the second wave, it left a lot to be desired. “More awareness is needed. Proper disposal of masks is needed. At the hospital, we have provided signage. As a part of the survey, we also distributed handouts on the proper disposal of masks,” she added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/masking-inadequate-in-public-places-says-study/article35889016.ece
13 August 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Scattered rainfall to continue across Tamil Nadu till weekend||Scattered rainfall over the State would continue till the weekend, bringing respite from humid weather. Some districts like Nilgiris and Coimbatore may experience heavy rains till Friday, according to the Meteorological Department. Thunderstorms during evening hours are here to stay for a few more days. Convective activity triggered by strong westerlies and shear zone filled with opposing winds prevailing in mid-atmosphere would favour rainfall over the State, said S. Balachandran, Deputy Director General of Meteorology, Chennai. From Friday, a few places over the State, Puducherry and Karaikal are likely to receive thunderstorms with light to moderate rains till Monday. Rainfall may be heavy over one or two places in districts such as Nilgiris, Coimbatore, Tiruppur and Dindigul districts till the weekend. During the past 24 hours ending 8.30 a.m. on Thursday, several weather stations in the State received rainfall. Thanjavur received the heaviest rainfall of 10 cm for the day. Similar rain patterns may continue on Friday, officials said. On Thursday, places like Kodaikanal, Vellore and Valparai received light rains till evening. Chennai that has been experiencing an uncomfortable, humid weather for the past few days may have a respite. The city had recorded a maximum temperature that was consistently above two degree Celsius than average for a few days. Thunderstorms during evening hours have brought down temperature for two days now. On Thursday, Nungambakkam and Meenambakkam recorded a day temperature of 34 degree Celsius, which is close to normal for the day and 36.2 degree Celsius respectively. Mr. Balachandran said this was a seasonal pattern of weather and such a spike in temperature followed by evening thunderstorms was typical for August. There have been instances when the day temperature had touched above 38 degree Celsius in this decade. Chennai had experienced an all-time high temperature on August 5, 1918 when the day temperature peaked to 40 degree Celsius.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/scattered-rainfall-to-continue-across-tamil-nadu-till-weekend/article35889026.ece
13 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘More awareness of bone donation is needed in city’||Awareness on bone donation continues to be low in the city. While doctors pointed out that bone donations could improve the quality of life of patients, including those diagnosed and operated for bone cancers, they have not taken off to a large extent. According to the Transplant Authority of Tamil Nadu’s website, there were 46 bone donations in 2019 and 48 in 2020. The western zone accounted for a significant number of donations and procedures. In Chennai, two major hospitals have bone banks — Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital and Cancer Institute (WIA). Health officials as well as doctors pointed out the need for more awareness on bone donations. “We have been visiting various hospitals in the city and interacting with their doctors seeking their support to increase awareness of bone donations,” Chandra Kumar Krishnan, associate professor, Orthopaedic Oncology and in-charge of the bone bank at Cancer Institute. The bank was set up in 2019. 12-hour duration “Families are willing to donate after the death of a person. We need to harvest the bones within 12 hours of death but we need a sterile environment. This is a limitation. When there is a brain dead donor, an operation theatre is where teams harvest organs such as lungs, liver, kidney and heart. Awareness and time are limiting factors. We need to sensitise families and transplant coordinators,” he said. He said that most people assumed donation of bones would result in mutilation of the limbs of the deceased. “The donor is respected at all times. Tissues are procured in a manner similar to that used during surgery. The procedure can take anywhere between 2-3 hours. Wooden dowels will be used to reconstruct the limbs. The bones of the upper limb, lower limb and the hip bones will be retrieved. Time is the limiting factor in the number of bones that will be retrieved,” he said. The institute had conducted awareness initiatives on the need for bone donation among nodal officers and transplant coordinators of the north zone. The main thrust is on preserving bone, large quantities of which are required in managing bony defects following surgery for bone cancers, or bone loss during trauma, or bone fusion in spinal surgery, or even during revision joint replacement surgery, he added. In patients with bone cancer, the first part of the surgery consists of removal of the portion of the bone containing the tumor. In reconstructing the bone gap/defect, bridging bone defects is one of the most challenging problems, he said, adding, “Broadly, they are metal prosthesis or allografts or a combination of both. Since the tumor occurs in the first two decades and the survival of the patients have improved to nearly 80% at five years, biological options of reconstruction where feasible should be considered. The best method of reconstructing a bone defect would be by using bone because bone will unite with bone tissue itself. Prosthesis use has its own demerits such as mechanical failure, infection and need for revision as and when necessary.” Bones, once processed, can be stored for up to three to five years. Bridging gap “At the bone bank at RGGGH, we have been preserving bones from surgeries. This is beneficial for patients as we can bridge the gap in case of defects in the bone such as when we perform total hip replacement. We can fill up for the bone loss. This way, it is more biological than metallic, the advantage being it incorporates into the native bone,” Deen Mohammed Ismail, director of the Institute of Orthopaedics and Traumatology, RGGH, said. Cadaveric donations have slowed down in the last one-and-a-half years due to the pandemic, doctors said. Health officials said there was a need for awareness on bone donation while hospitals were lacking in initiatives. “Every family that consents for organ donation is asked for not only the major organs but also skin, bone and tissues. A continuing medical education programme was organised for transplant coordinators on bone donations, ” an official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/more-awareness-of-bone-donation-is-needed-in-city/article35889456.ece
13 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Reforms, delivering on promises will be watched||The DMK government’s first Budget after the election, to be presented today, will be keenly watched for measures to fix the issues raised in the White Paper, and for announcements on its poll promises. The White Paper released on Monday had shown that the State’s finances are in a bad shape. It called for course correction to reform the processes and systems. Finance Minister P.T.R. Palanivel Thiaga Rajan has ruled out immediate steps to tax the rich more and increase the property and motor vehicle taxes as proposed in the White Paper. However, he has hinted at some structural changes, and to look at things like revenues from mining. Plugging leakages Mr. Rajan has also called for better targeting of subsidies and measures to plug revenue leakages. Amid a stressful state of finances, the way the DMK fulfils its poll promises too will be keenly watched. As part of its vision statement for 10 years, the party had promised Rs. 1,000 a month for housewives. A waiver on jewel and education loans are among its other promises. The Finance Minister has also ruled out an immediate cut in VAT on petrol and diesel, another poll promise, citing that the State is getting a lower share from the Central taxes. However, he has said the points made in the White Paper will not, in any way, dilute the commitments made to the people by the DMK during the recent Assembly election. The forecast made in the interim Budget 2021-22 was prior to the impact of the second wave of COVID-19. So the revised Budget will show how deep the impact of the second wave has been on the economy. The interim Budget had estimated a debt of Rs. 5,70,189 crore as on March 31, 2022. Cause for concern Any upward revision in the revenue deficit, fiscal deficit and debt numbers will be a cause for concern. Tamil Nadu has already borrowed Rs. 36,000 crore so far in 2021-22, and is the top borrower among the States. With local body elections on the cards, it has to be seen how many reforms are announced in the Budget. “Overall, the changes in the revised Budget may not be significant, and will be more towards setting the tone for the future. There could be a roadmap for fiscal consolidation, that is, for reducing the revenue deficit and debt levels of the State, accompanied by structural reforms,” Kavita Chacko, senior economist, CARE Ratings, said.  Overall, the changes in the revised Budget may not be significant, and will be more towards setting the tone for the future. There could be a roadmap for fiscal consolidation... Kavita Chackosenior economist, CARE Ratings||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/reforms-delivering-on-promises-will-be-watched/article35889050.ece
13 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK forms legal advisory panel following DVAC searches||The AIADMK on Thursday announced the constitution of a six-member legal advisory committee in the light of a couple of its office-bearers having experienced searches by the Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption (DVAC) on their premises in the past month. In a statement, O. Panneerselvam, coordinator, and Edappadi K. Palaniswami, co-coordinator, said the panel would have former Ministers D. Jayakumar, C.Ve. Shanmugam, and MLAs N. Thalavai Sundaram, P.H. Manoj Pandian, and former MLAs I.S. Inbadurai and R.M. Babu Murugavel. The committee would facilitate all the necessary legal assistance in the event of the party’s members having to face false cases filed against them, the statement said. DA hike In a separate release, Mr. Panneerselvam wanted Chief Minister M.K. Stalin to announce a hike in the dearness allowance for employees of the government and pensioners, from 17% to 28% for the six-month period from July 1, on the lines of the Central government announcement that was followed by the State governments of Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, Haryana, Karnataka, Jharkhand and the administrations of the Union Territories of Puducherry and Jammu & Kashmir.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aiadmk-forms-legal-advisory-panel-following-dvac-searches/article35889072.ece
13 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Unlicensed M-sand units mushrooming’||Nearly 400 unlicensed M-sand manufacturing units are functioning in Kancheepuram and Chengalpattu districts, leading to sub-standard material reaching the market, alleged members of the Tamil Nadu M-sand Lorry Owners’ Welfare Association. On average, Chennai and its fringes alone need 8,000 loads of M-sand daily. As there were not enough river sand quarries in the State, the demand and supply of M-sand had gone up over the past few months. M-sand is now priced at Rs. 5,000 per unit. Charging that there were no proper checks on such units by government agencies, including the Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board, members said this led to the mushrooming of unlicensed crusher units. Association president S. Yuvaraj said most of these units were concentrated around Uthiramerur. A similar situation prevailed in other parts of the State too as most of these units went unchecked. While 353 units had been provided licences to operate, he alleged that about 4,000 units were functioning in the State. Though there was a court directive in 2019 against transport of M-sand to other States, the practice continued in the districts bordering Kerala and Karnataka. Members also complained that the vehicles were overloaded with up to six units of M-sand at the source point. This often led to vehicle seizures. They demanded that such unlicensed units operating in many parts of the State be sealed. Pointing out that the draft M-sand policy recommended imprisonment and fine for operation without licence, Mr. Yuvaraj said the policy which provided more powers to the Public Works Department was yet to be implemented in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/unlicensed-m-sand-units-mushrooming/article35889439.ece
13 August 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Additional bus routes launched from Saidapet and Tondiarpet||Transport Minister R.S. Rajakannappan on Thursday launched bus services from East and West Saidapet and Tondiarpet. The bus services were inaugurated on the basis of a request from Health Minister Ma. Subramanian to help residents of the thickly-populated localities of West Saidapet suffering from poor public transport facilities. Similarly, the Transport Department, as per the request of the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowment Minister P.K. Sekarbabu, would be operating four buses from Tondiarpet. Mr. Rajakannappan said a total of 30 buses on 22 routes were being introduced on Thursday. He said of the 22 routes to be operated by the Metropolitan Transport Corporation, 10 were new and 12 were old services, which were stopped by the previous regime. The new routes include bus services to Chengalpattu, Kovalam, Sriperumbudur, Central railway station and Koyambedu bus terminus. The MTC would be plying seven small bus services and 23 normal buses. Mr. Subramanian, Mr. Sekarbabu and senior officials of the MTC participated in the event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/additional-bus-routes-launched-from-saidapet-and-tondiarpet/article35889442.ece
13 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Scattered rain will continue over T.N. till weekend||Scattered rainfall will continue in the State till the weekend, bringing some respite from the humid weather. Some places like the Nilgiris and Coimbatore may experience heavy rain till Friday, according to the India Meteorological Department. Thunderstorms during evening hours are here to stay for a few more days. Convective activity triggered by strong westerlies and shear zone filled with opposing winds prevailing in the mid-atmosphere favour rainfall over the State, said S. Balachandran, Deputy Director General of Meteorology, Chennai. From Friday, a few places over the State, Puducherry and Karaikal were likely to receive thunderstorms with light to moderate rain till Monday. Rainfall may be heavy over one or two places in places, including the Nilgiris, Coimbatore, Tiruppur and Dindigul, till the weekend. In 24 hours ending 8.30 a.m. Thursday, several weather stations in the State received rainfall with Thanjavur recording the highest amount of 10 cm for the day. Similar rain patterns could continue on Friday, officials said. Kodaikanal, Vellore and Valparai received light rains till Thursday evening. Chennai, which has been experiencing an uncomfortable, humid weather for the past few days, may get a respite. The city had recorded a maximum temperature that was consistently above two degree Celsius than average for a few days. Thunderstorms during evening hours have brought down the temperature for two days now. On Thursday, Nungambakkam recorded 34 degree Celsius, which is close to normal for the day, and Meenambakkam 34 degree Celsius. Mr. Balachandran said this was a seasonal pattern of weather and such a spike in temperature followed by evening thunderstorms was typical for August. There had been instances when the day temperature touched above 38 degree Celsius in this decade. Chennai had experienced an all-time high temperature on August 5, 1918, when the day temperature hit 40 degree Celsius.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/scattered-rain-will-continue-over-tn-till-the-weekend/article35889460.ece
13 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Ban on prison interviews lifted||Three months after suspending prisoners’ interviews in view of the second wave of COVID-19, the Department of Prisons and Correctional Services has decided to resume them with some restrictions. Interviews were suspended on April 27 to protect inmates from the contagion. Instead, they were allowed to make video-calls, besides regular phone calls. Acting on requests from the families and friends of inmates for resuming physical interviews and considering the decline in the number of cases, Sunil Kumar Singh, Director-General of Police, Prisons and Correctional Services, met senior prison officials and issued a standard operating procedure for the interviews. Under the new arrangement, relatives and friends should request for interviews at least 24 hours in advance through the ePrisons Visitors Management System or on telephone and arrive 30 minutes before the appointment. Each prisoner will be permitted one interview in 15 days, and not more than two visitors will be allowed at a time. Visitors should produce proof of two-dose vaccination or the report of the RT-PCR negative test taken within 72 hours of the interview. The timings will be between 9 a.m and 2 p.m. on all days, except weekends and holidays. Forms for requesting interviews can be downloaded from www.prisons.tn.gov.in  Under the new arrangement, relatives and friends should request for interviews at least 24 hours in advance   Forms for requesting interviews can be downloaded from www.prisons.tn.gov.in.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ban-on-prison-interviews-lifted/article35889042.ece
13 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||1,942 people test positive for COVID-19 in State||Tamil Nadu recorded 1,942 fresh COVID-19 cases and 33 deaths on Thursday. As cases continued to fluctuate in a number of districts, Coimbatore recorded the most number of infections at 249, when compared with 229 on Wednesday. Chennai’s daily count dropped to 217 from 243 the previous day. Tiruvallur also registered a small dip from 98 to 85 cases. While cases marginally rose to 183 in Erode, Chengalpattu recorded 119 cases. Thanjavur, which recorded 77 cases on Wednesday, went on to record 102. There was a small rise in cases in Salem and Tiruppur, as 94 and 83 people tested positive respectively. Four districts — Perambalur, Ramanathapuram, Tenkasi and Virudhunagar — saw fewer than 10 cases each. The fresh cases took the State’s tally to 25,83,036. Its toll touched 34,428. Another 1,892 people were discharged. They included 196 people in Coimbatore and 188 in Chennai. A total of 20,399 people are under treatment. These include 2,308 people in Coimbatore and 2,081 in Chennai. Twenty-two districts reported no deaths due to COVID-19. Of the 33 deaths, Coimbatore recorded six, followed by Salem with five. There were four deaths in Tiruppur and three in Kanniyakumari. Chennai recorded two deaths. These included deferred reconciled death reports. Among the deceased was a 26-year-old man from Tiruvallur, who had no co-morbidities. He had tested positive for COVID-19 on July 27, and was admitted to the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital on August 10. However, he died on the same day due to COVID-19 pneumonia. In the last 24 hours, 1,60,528 samples were tested, taking the overall count to 3,93,26,076. Tamil Nadu received 7,65,170 doses of Covishield and 1,33,360 doses of Covaxin on Thursday. Daily vaccination coverage dropped below one lakh after several days — 92,334 people, including 56,056 in the 18-44 age group and 25,284 aged 45 to 59, were inoculated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/1942-people-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-state/article35889053.ece
13 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘No data to render aid to differently abled’||The Madras High Court on Thursday lamented the absence of a database regarding the number of differently-abled people in the State, the kinds of disability suffered by them, their age and financial status so that those in need of long-term and short-term government assistance, especially during a pandemic such as COVID-19, can be provided benefits in no time. Passing interim orders on a batch of cases, Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice P.D. Audikesavalu said the focus of the cases pending before them, in public interest, was the need for assistance for the differently abled. Though the government had filed quite a few status reports, “it does not appear that appropriate assistance is reached to the extent necessary,” they said. The judges said not all differently-abled people in the State might be in need of government assistance. While various difficulties were faced by the State during the pandemic, they said it nevertheless had a separate department to look after the needs of the differently abled. Yet, “it does not appear that adequate attention has been given to problems faced by persons with disabilities who may not be able to fend for themselves or even have access to basic amenities,” the court said. Though the government claimed to have distributed COVID-19 cash relief of Rs. 1,000 to the differently abled, the judges wrote: “Even to the most needy, Rs. 1,000 as assistance may be of little meaning in this day and age.” Conceding that the court might not have the wherewithal or the domain knowledge in specific fields, the judges said the administrators too might not always have expertise in every area. However, good administration calls for engaging the experts and chalking out plans, the judges observed and granted four weeks’ time for the government to come up with a “more acceptable” plan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-data-to-render-aid-to-differently-abled/article35889055.ece
13 August 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK forms legal advisory panel||The AIADMK on Thursday announced the constitution of a six-member legal advisory committee in the light of a couple of its office bearers having experienced searches by the Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption (DVAC) on their premises in the last one month. In a statement, O. Panneerselvam, coordinator, and Edappadi K Palaniswami, co-coordinator, said the panel would have former Ministers D. Jayakumar, C.Ve. Shanmugam, N. Thalavai Sundaram, and former MLAs, P. H. Manoj Pandian, I.S. Inbadurai and R.M. Babu Murugavel. The committee would facilitate all the necessary legal assistance in the event of the party's members having to face false cases filed against them. In a separate release, Mr Panneerselvam wanted Chief Minister M. K. Stalin to announce a hike in the dearness allowance for employees of the government and pensioners from 17% to 28% for the six-month period from July 1, on the lines of the Central government which was followed by State governments of Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, Haryana, Karnataka, Jharkhand and the administrations of Union Territories of Puducherry and Jammu & Kashmir.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aiadmk-forms-legal-advisory-panel/article35889024.ece
13 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Union Sports Minister will interact with youth from Tamil Nadu today||Union Minister of Youth Affairs and Sports Anurag Singh Thakur will virtually interact with youngsters from Tamil Nadu at the office of the Press Information Bureau in Shastri Bhavan on Friday. The interaction will commence at 7.30 a.m., an official release stated. The same day, State Minister for Youth Welfare and Sports Development Siva V. Meyyanathan will flag off the Fit India Freedom Run 2.0 at 7 a.m. at Bharathiyar House in Triplicane. Apurva Varma, Additional Chief Secretary, Youth Welfare and Sports Development, and Ramesh Chand Meena, Member Secretary, Sports Development Authority of Tamil Nadu, will attend the event. The Freedom Run will be conducted in all districts between August 13 and October 2. Each district will select 75 villages and the villages will select 75 youth, who will run for the celebration of the 75th anniversary of Independence, it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/union-sports-minister-will-interact-with-youth-from-tamil-nadu-today/article35889430.ece
13 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Differently abled woman reunited with family||A 20-year-old speech and hearing impaired woman was reunited with her family in Asansol, West Bengal, after being rescued a few months earlier in the city. On Wednesday, the staff of the Shelter for Homeless Women with Disabilities and the Nungambakkam police came together to trace her family. Nausaba Khatoon was found at the Central railway station on June 24 during a special drive conducted by the Railway Police. She was rescued and handed over to the shelter run by the Dorcas Research Centre in Kamdar Nagar, Nungambakkam. Aiswarya Rao, founder of the shelter, said Ms. Khatoon was lost. They initially did not have any details other than her name. “She was having some difficulty communicating with us and was angry, uncooperative and agitated. Following sustained support and care, she opened up,” she said. Ms. Rao said Ms. Khatoon enjoyed playing with a smartphone and would search for places. “Through this, we were able to find out that she was from West Bengal, and she also pointed to pictures of Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee. She identified pictures of her local leaders and we were able to narrow it down,” she added. The Nungambakkam F3 police station personnel whom the shelter staff reached out to, worked with the West Bengal police and were able to get in touch with her parents by looking through missing persons reports. Ms. Rao said her staff from the shelter accompanied Ms. Khatoon to Asansol.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/differently-abled-woman-reunited-with-family/article35889433.ece
13 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Metro yet to resume last-mile connectivity||Nearly a year since stopping share cars as a last-mile connectivity option for commuters, Metro Rail still has not resumed it. On Thursday, the number of people travelling on the Metro network was nearly 80,000. Despite the gradual increase in ridership, last-mile connectivity services, like share cars and share autorickshaws, are unavailable to commuters. But now, they are mulling another option to have autorickshaws in some stations, which commuters can take to their destination. According to officials of Chennai Metro Rail Limited (CMRL), they are in talks with companies such as Ola and Uber to provide space in the parking area for their autorickshaws. “In five stations, including the Airport, Central, Alandur and Koyambedu, we will give them space in the parking lot and whoever wants can use the service. We are in talks with them to finalise this soon,” an official said. But this is not sufficient and a full-fledged last mile connectivity is needed if the passenger traffic touches pre-pandemic levels. “We were be able to get the traffic to touch 1.25 lakh a day primarily because there was a dedicated last-mile connectivity option plying from most stations,” another official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/metro-yet-to-resume-last-mile-connectivity/article35889438.ece
13 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Piped natural gas project moves forward slowly||Even as compressed natural gas outlets are coming up in petrol bunks, the other avatar of natural gas, piped natural gas (PNG), meant for supply to homes, is moving forward slowly. Torrent Gas, the company that has won the bid to provide PNG, has already begun laying underground pipelines that will run for a distance of 660 km. “Our target is to provide PNG connections to 33 lakh homes over a period of eight years. We have already begun discussions with residential associations of apartment complexes. We hope to provide connections in Chennai and Tiruvallur soon,” said R. Sitharthan, vice-president (operations), Torrent Gas. PNG is considered a cleaner and better cooking fuel when compared to LPG and comes at a different pressure than CNG. The advantage is that PNG does away with cylinders, saving space, and will be offered on a pay-after-use basis with metering. However, despite the advantages, oil industry sources said obtaining permissions from various civic bodies and government agencies would not be an easy task since roads have to be cut. During the laying of pipelines, traffic, water and power supply could be disrupted. In cities, it would be challenging to lay pipes in congested localities, an industry insider explained. “CNG is not a new fuel to the country. However, even States like Gujarat that lead the CNG revolution are yet to achieve a complete shift. All the energy sources are expected to go hand-in-hand. As far as Tamil Nadu is concerned, even if companies can cover 20% of the set target of households, it would be a success,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/piped-natural-gas-project-moves-forward-slowly/article35889443.ece
13 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Actor fails to appear for inquiry||Model-turned-actor Meera Mitun failed to appear before the cyber crime police on Thursday for inquiry in connection with a case filed against her. Instead, she released a video on social media countering the charges. Recently, the police booked her for allegedly using a casteist slur against Scheduled Caste people. During an interview with a YouTube channel, she said that all Scheduled Caste people working in the film industry should be kicked out of the industry. Based on a complaint from Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi, the police summoned her for inquiry on Thursday. In the video, the actor talked about the challenges she faced in the film industry. “I am a Tamil woman. Here, no one likes the development of Tamil women and those from other States alone can prosper,” she claimed in the video.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/actor-fails-to-appear-for-inquiry/article35889440.ece
13 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK forms six-member legal advisory committee||The AIADMK on Thursday announced the constitution of a six-member legal advisory committee in the light of a couple of its office-bearers having experienced searches by the Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption (DVAC) on their premises in the last one month. In a statement, O. Panneerselvam, coordinator, and Edappadi K. Palaniswami, co-coordinator, said the panel would comprise former Ministers D. Jayakumar, C.Ve. Shanmugam, N. Thalavai Sundaram, and former MLAs P.H. Manoj Pandian, I.S. Inbadurai and R.M. Babu Murugavel. The committee would facilitate all necessary legal assistance in the event of party’s members having to face false cases filed against them. In a separate release, Mr. Panneerselvam wanted Chief Minister M.K. Stalin to announce a hike in the dearness allowance for government employees and pensioners from 17% to 28% for the six-month period from July 1, on the lines of the Centre which was followed by States of Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, Haryana, Karnataka and Jharkhand and the administrations of the Union Territories of Puducherry and Jammu & Kashmir.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aiadmk-forms-six-member-legal-advisory-committee/article35889622.ece
13 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||38 new cases reported in Vellore||The total number of COVID-19 cases in Vellore district reached 48,386 with 38 new cases being reported on August 12. While 46,973 patients have been discharged, the active cases in the district stood at 315. The district’s death toll is 1098. In Ranipet district, 16 cases were reported positive and in Tirupattur district, 11 new cases were reported on Thursday. In Tiruvannamalai district, the number of new cases was 42, taking the total to 52,635.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/38-new-cases-reported-in-vellore/article35889623.ece
13 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Will wait for DVAC chargesheet on Velumani before commenting’||To mark 75 years of Independence, BJP leaders of the State unit will visit 75 locations of historic importance, BJP State president K. Annamalai said on Thursday. At a press conference, he said he would go to Vellore for instance, while BJP leader L. Ganesan would go to Mahakavi Bharathiar’s residence in Triplicane. Asked about the DVAC raids at former Minister S.P. Velumani’s properties, he said he would wait to see a proper chargesheet, before commenting. “Our party won’t stand in the way of DVAC doing its duty. DVAC is an institution beyond politics and should function accordingly. We hope a proper chargesheet is filed,” he said. Mr. Annamalai said Chief Minister M.K. Stalin, during his election campaign had repeatedly assured of action against Mr. Velumani and that was why there was suspicion of political vendetta, which a few BJP leaders have pointed out. To a question on the DMK government on course to complete 100 days, he said he would give the government six months’ time before commenting on its performance. “They [DMK] have not implemented their poll promises. Let us wait and watch if it gets announced in tomorrow’s budget,” Mr. Annamalai said. He also said Union Minister for State, L. Murugan, will take out a Makkal Aasi Yatra (People’s Support Yatra) from August 16-18. Starting from Coimbatore he will cover Udhagamandalam, Salem, Erode and Namakkal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/will-wait-for-dvac-chargesheet-before-commenting-annamalai/article35889073.ece
13 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Alagiri blames PM Modi for Twitter blocking Cong. handles||Tamil Nadu Congress Committee president K.S. Alagiri called the Narendra Modi government as “autocratic” and alleged it to be behind Twitter’s action of blocking the accounts of Rahul Gandhi and the official handle of the Congress and its leaders. “The Modi government is taking away the freedom of expression given to every citizen by the Constitution. They are acting against whoever is criticising the government and it is against the principles of democracy,” he said. Mr. Alagiri called for uniting all forces who believe in democracy to fight against the autocratic moves of Mr. Modi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/alagiri-blames-pm-modi-for-twitter-blocking-cong-handles/article35889451.ece
13 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Doctor dies in accident near Cheyyur||A city-based woman doctor was killed in a road accident in Chunambedu, near Cheyyur, and another doctor who travelled with her was critically injured on Wednesday. The police said Esther Anitha, 36, of Noombal, and Srikrishna, 29, of Virugambakkam, were travelling from the Chidambaram Medical College on Wednesday. The car swerved off the road and turned turtle. While Esther died on the spot, Srikrishna was critically injured and was admitted to a hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/doctor-dies-in-accident-near-cheyyur/article35889437.ece
13 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CWC member arrested; hunt on for brother||The all-women police, Sembium, on Thursday arrested a 56-year-old Child Welfare Committee (CWC) member and launched a hunt for her 51-year-old brother in a case pertaining to the rape of two inmates of a home. The police said Isabel Richardson was the executive secretary of the organisation which shelters women and children rescued from trafficking and sexual abuse. She had allegedly allowed her brother to stay at the home in violation of rules. Isabel Richardson was picked up by police from her house in Thiruvottiyur and remanded in judicial custody, said police sources. Her brother Bennet Richardson, 51, who had been in Puducherry for many years, joined the home as a caregiver with the help of his sister last year. He was asked to stop working there for reasons unknown, the police said. Again, he returned in June and using her official position, Isabel Richardson allowed him to stay at the home. Sources said that on June 23, Bennet Richardson raped a 20-year-old woman who had already been sexually assaulted by her uncle and was sheltered at the home for rehabilitation. He also allegedly committed sexual assault on a 15-year-old girl. When the matter was reported to Isabel Richardson, she reportedly told her brother to go back to Puducherry. Later, the matter came to the notice of the management of the home and an internal inquiry was conducted. When the committee recommended her suspension, she said she would resign from the post in two weeks and did so on Wednesday. She was also suspended from the Child Welfare Committe member post on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cwc-member-arrested-hunt-on-for-brother/article35889449.ece
13 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Job racket unearthed, seven arrested||The job racket wing of the Central Crime Branch (CCB) busted a job racket and nabbed a seven-member gang that cheated unemployed youth under the pretext of providing them jobs in the Railways. The fraud came to light when Purushothaman of Sivasakthi Nagar lodged a complaint alleging that the gang received Rs. 12 lakh from him and gave him a fake appointment order in the Railways. Later, they failed to return the amount. On his complaint, the CCB constituted a special team and deployed decoys to approach the accused. Impersonating staff The police said the gang members posed like employees of the Railways and promised jobs on payment. The police arrested Paulin Dominic alias Jayaseeli, 47, of Ambattur, who claimed that she was a high-ranking official in the Railways, and G. Dillibabu, 47, of Kolathur, who was dismissed from the ICF. P. Prithviraj, 36, of Tondiarpet; A. Sundaram, 38, of Narimedu in Madurai; Srija, 46, and Surendren, 59, of Alappuzha; and Kanava Bir, 39, of Dindigul, were arrested. The police seized fake appointment orders and hard drives from them. The gang members were remanded in judicial custody after being produced in court. Investigation is on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/job-racket-unearthed-7-held/article35889431.ece
13 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Kamal slams DMK over grama sabhas||Makkal Needhi Maiam (MNM) founder Kamal Haasan on Thursday slammed the State government for not holding grama sabhas on August 15. Mr. Haasan, who sought to popularise grama sabhas in Tamil Nadu since his party’s inception, said there was no difference between the DMK and the AIADMK, as both were united in not holding grams sabhas. “During COVID-19, elections will be conducted, swearing-in ceremony will held, the Assembly will function and preparations for local body elections will take place. But only grama sabhas will not be held. In this, there is no difference between the DMK and the AIADMK,” he said. Mr. Haasan criticised the DMK for withdrawing the case against the previous government to hold grama sabhas. “When the DMK secretly withdrew the earlier case they filed to hold grama sabhas, we realised that this State government too is afraid of holding the meetings. The DMK’s colours have faded,” he said. Mr. Haasan also welcomed the Bill that allows States to prepare the OBC list.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kamal-slams-dmk-over-grama-sabhas/article35889045.ece
13 August 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Eight T.N. inspectors get medal||Eight inspectors in the State have been awarded the Union Home Minister’s Medal for Excellence in Investigation for 2021. The list includes M. Saravanan, Crime Branch CID, Nagapattinam; A. Anbarasi, all-women police station, Thiruvannamalai district; P. Kavitha, Pudhuchatram police station, Cuddalore; R. Jayavel, Vengal police station, Tiruvallur; K. Kalaiselvi, Thiruporur circle police station, Chengalpattu; G. Manivannan, intelligence section, east zone, Greater Chennai City police; P.R. Chidambaramurugesan, Greater Chennai City police; and C. Kanmani, special branch, Nagercoil, Kanniyakumari district. An eligibility condition was that the officer should be clear from a vigilance point of view. No judicial proceeding/departmental enquiry should have been initiated or pending against them. The recommendee should not have been convicted in a criminal case or awarded penalty in any departmental enquiry in the last five years. Use of innovative methods and scientific aids, among other things, were considered for selection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/eight-tn-inspectors-get-medal/article35889051.ece
13 August 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||State government plans industrial park in Coimbatore: Thangam Thennarasu||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin will soon announce the State government’s plan regarding an industrial park in Coimbatore district, Minister for Industries Thangam Thennarasu said here on Thursday. Speaking to the media after an interaction session with industry and trade representatives, he said that one of the main demands placed before him was the need for an industrial park. “The government has plans regarding the industrial park. The Chief Minister will announce it soon,” he said. The government led by Mr. Stalin is taking steps to attract new investments and create job opportunities. Even during the pandemic, it permitted export units to operate so that the exporters are able to meet their order commitments. One of the main demands of the industries here on Thursday was the need for an industrial park. The government has plans regarding it, he said. Similarly, another demand is for a Centre of Excellence for the foundries as Coimbatore is a hub for foundries. This will also be taken up, he said. Minister for Rural Industries T.M. Anbarasan said that when the DMK was in power between 2006 and 2011, 316 acres were identified for an industrial park, which will have 585 plots. However, the AIADMK government did not develop the park. Nearly Rs. 18 crore is needed to create basic amenities at the park. “We will create the facilities and industries will come up on the park and will provide jobs to nearly 50,000 people,” he said. Regarding an industrial park for micro units, he said that 30 % of plots in a SIDCO park is reserved for micro units. The Ministers distributed Rs. 21.44 lakh financial support to 18 beneficiaries under the Ungal Thoguthiyil Muthalamaichar scheme for self-employment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/govt-plans-industrial-park-in-coimbatore/article35889079.ece
13 August 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore district registers further increase in cases||Coimbatore district on Thursday registered a further increase in the number of daily caseload of COVID-19. The district reported 249 new cases on Thursday against the 229 cases it had on Wednesday. There was a slight increase in the number of cases on Wednesday too. According to the Health Department, Coimbatore district had 2,308 active cases of the disease on Thursday and 196 persons recovered. The district’s death toll rose to 2,207 after six more persons died of COVID-19 in the last few days. Tiruppur district reported four deaths and 83 fresh cases, taking the overall tally to 88,841 cases. The four deaths reported by Health Department took the overall toll to 880. A total of 878 patients were active cases and 62 patients were reported to have recovered from COVID-19 in Tiruppur district. In the Nilgiris district, 46 people tested positive on Thursday. With the latest infections, the total number of confirmed cases in the district stands at 31,084. The number of deaths in the district stood at 186 on Thursday while 491 people are undergoing treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-district-registers-further-increase-in-cases/article35889482.ece
13 August 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||CM inaugurates Amazon India’s fulfilment centre||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Thursday inaugurated through video conference a fulfilment centre of Amazon India in Coimbatore. Minister for Industries Thangam Thennarasu told mediapersons that the centre would create jobs for 2,000 people. According to a press release from Amazon India, Mr. Stalin said, “The State has always been a favoured destination for investments among multinational companies. We welcome investments in logistics infrastructure, such as Amazon’s. Tamil Nadu is among the States that have the largest number of MSMEs in the country and a diverse talent pool of skilled youth. I am confident that these facilities will help MSMEs in the State expand the market for their products and pave way for generating greater employment.” The press release further stated that Amazon India would also quadruple the storage capacity of an existing fulfilment centre in Chennai. With this, the company will now have six fulfilment centres and double its storage capacity in Tamil Nadu. All these buildings will be ready and operational ahead of the upcoming festive season to support more than 50,000 sellers in the State. Two of these in Tamil Nadu are specialised buildings and will house tens of thousands of products in the large appliances category.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-inaugurates-amazon-indias-fulfilment-centre/article35889044.ece
13 August 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Industries warned of action||The district administration has warned industries of action if the units failed to comply with the standard operating procedures to control the spread of COVID-19. An official press release said that recently 26 workers of a textile unit had tested positive and were admitted to the COVID care centre. As many as 310 workers at the unit were tested for COVID-19 and the premises was disinfected. Further, 465 workers were given vaccination. In another incident, since the crew of an upcoming movie had not complied with the safety norms, they were asked to pay a fine of Rs. 19,400. The industries in the district should follow all the COVID-19 management protocols prescribed by the government. The workers should wear masks, follow physical distance, and wash hands frequently. The premises should be cleaned with disinfectants every day and all those working in industries, commercial establishments and offices should take the vaccination. The accommodation facility for the workers should also adopt prevention measures. The officials will inspect the premises of industries, offices, and shops and if there are violations, action will be initiated under the Disaster Management Act, 2005.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/industries-warned-of-action/article35889472.ece
13 August 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||HR&CE Dept. retrieves 8.8 acres temple land in Thadagam valley||Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments (HR&CE) Department officials on Thursday retrieved 8.8 acres of temple land in Thadagam valley in Coimbatore district by removing encroachments allegedly belonging to brick kilns. Sources in the HR&CE Department told The Hindu that the 8.8 acres belonging to Mariamman Angalamman temple in Chinna Thadagam had remained encroached for over five years. It was a non-listed temple until 2019, when the HR&CE Department formally took over the maintenance of the temple, after which the officials sent notices to the encroachers. The encroachers had erected two units that were used to dry the bricks on the temple land and these were not used to manufacture bricks, the sources said. With the encroachers not handing over the land to the temple despite the notices, HR&CE Joint Commissioner for Coimbatore Zone R. Senthilvelavan ordered the removal of encroachments as per Section 78 of the HR&CE Act, 1959, the sources said. The officials arrived at Chinna Thadagam at around 9 a.m. and commenced the demolition of the two structures. Revenue Department officials and the police along with the HR&CE Department officials were present at the spot. The Department will soon take a decision on using the retrieved land for the temple-related purposes, according to the sources. S. Ganesh, an activist from Thadagam involved in the fight against unauthorised brick kilns and illegal red earth mining in the region, said that he along with other activists had submitted multiple petitions to the HR&CE Department regarding retrieval of temple lands in the past two years. “Over 200 acres of temple lands in the Thadagam valley still remain encroached,” he claimed. The authorities must ensure the retrieval of the remaining temple lands in the coming days too, Mr. Ganesh said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hrce-dept-retrieves-88-acres-temple-land-in-thadagam-valley/article35889475.ece
13 August 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Bid to break open ATM, two held||The Sulur police late on Wednesday arrested two persons hailing from Bihar on the charges of attempting to break open an ATM of a private bank at Thennampalayam junction. The arrested have been identified as Bijendra Urow (19) from Garhia Baluwa and Govinda Urow (24) from Betauna villages in Purnia district in Bihar. According to the police, Bijendra was standing outside the ATM in suspicious circumstances. He attempted to flee after seeing a police patrol team at the area. While he was caught, Govinda, who was inside the ATM counter, managed to escape. Bijendra, who was taken into custody, told the possible location of his counterpart who had escaped. A police team led by Sub-Inspector Rajendra Prasad managed to apprehend Govinda soon. Further investigations are on into the incident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bid-to-break-open-atm-two-held/article35889080.ece
13 August 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Use scientific tools in elephant conservation: forest official||The Forest Department should make use of more scientific tools in the conservation of elephants and the protection of their habitats, said Shekhar Kumar Niraj, Principal Chief Conservator of Forests and Chief Wildlife Warden, on Thursday. Citing the successful treatment and the release of the wild elephant ‘Rivaldo’ in the Mudumalai Tiger Reserve as an example, Mr. Niraj urged the Forest Department staff and conservationists to apply more scientific knowledge in conservation. He wanted the Department to scientifically examine the reasons for the deaths of elephants and use the findings in further conservation efforts. Online lectures Mr. Niraj was addressing the inaugural of online lectures organised by the Tamil Nadu Forest Academy (TNFA), Coimbatore Forest Division, the Anamalai Tiger Reserve (ATR) and Osai, on the occasion of World Elephant Day. Noted elephant expert Raman Sukumar said the elephant population in Tamil Nadu was stable now with more number of male individuals as against the scenario in the 1980s. Mr. Sukumar wanted the Forest Department to protect elephant transit routes and use cost-effective measures to prevent the elephants from entering human habitations and get habituated to them. TNFA director T.V. Manjunatha, Additional Principal Chief Conservator of Forests (Coimbatore Circle) I. Anwardeen and K. Kalidas of Osai environmental organisation also spoke. The World Elephant Day was celebrated at Kozhikamuthi camp of ATR on Thursday. A puja was held for the captive elephants after which pongal, sugarcane and jaggery were given to the elephants.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/use-scientific-tools-in-elephant-conservation-forest-official/article35889098.ece
13 August 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Man stabs father to death||A 34-year-old man from Chettiyar Thottam at Sokkampudur near Selvapuram was arrested by the police on Thursday on the charges of stabbing his father to death The incident occurred on Wednesday night when the accused demanded his father R.G.R. Ramachandran (63) father to build him a separate house. According to the police, Govindaraj came home in inebriated state and quarrelled with his father. Ramanchandran turned down his son’s demand, following which the latter picked up a pair of scissors and stabbed his father on neck. Ramachandran died on the spot. The Selvapuram police rushed to the house and shifted the body of the deceased to the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-stabs-father-to-death/article35889480.ece
13 August 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Raids against Velumani not vindictive, says Velu||The raids conducted against former AIADMK Minister S.P. Velumani and his associates were not vindictive action, Minister for Public Works A.V. Velu said here recently. “The case is based on a complaint and the raids are a part of the investigation in the case. The law is common for all and there is no vindictive action,” he told reporters. “Just as the AIADMK co-coordinator Edappadi K. Palaniswami had said, the law would take its course, the former Minister would have to face it legally.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/raids-against-velumani-not-vindictive/article35889078.ece
13 August 2021||DHARMAPURI,TAMIL NADU||District-level committee reviews social audit reports||The social audit reports on Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MNREGS) works undertaken in various blocks were tabled before the district level high-level committee headed by Collector S. Dhivyadarshini. The social reports for 592 panchayats in the blocks of Karimangalam, Paapireddipatty, Eriyur, Kadathur, and Palacodde were tabled for perusal. Addressing the meeting, Ms. Dhivyadarshini sought special attention to those panchayats where the social audit had flagging concerns in the works undertaken. Block development officers, assistant block development officers (MNREGS), assistant block development officers (audit), executive engineers, panchayat secretaries and field supervisors were directed to address the issues flagged in the social audit. Further, resource officers were asked to prepare a report on the social audit summarising the key findings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/district-level-committee-reviews-social-audit-reports/article35889082.ece
13 August 2021||DINDIGUL,TAMIL NADU||PM interacts with SHG women from Dindigul||For the women belonging to a self-help-group (SHG) from N. Panjapatti panchayat in Athur block, Dindigul district, Thursday was an important day. The members were chosen to interact with Prime Minister Narendra Modi, virtually, from New Delhi. As part of the Prime Minister’s monthly interactive session, aired on All India Radio, the SHG women shared their experience. In the presence of Dindigul Collector S. Visagan and other officers from the District Rural Development Agency, Mahalir Thittam, among others, SHG coordinator S. Jayanthi told Mr. Modi that the group was engaged in recycling plastic waste. “We have so far produced 32 tonnes of plastic and sold them at Rs. 30 a kg, which is being used to lay roads...” she added. Ms. Jayanthi said hard work since 2006 had helped them achieve the goal. With an investment of Rs. 5 lakh, they had made a revenue of Rs. 30 lakh so far, and 32 members of the SHG had permanent jobs. She also spoke about their role in keeping their hamlets clean and green. With support from the State government and financial institutions like NABARD, they now plan to enhance their business. Mr. Modi said Tamil Nadu was a role model. The Prime Minister assured the State of all possible help from the Centre for the development of SHGs. Union Ministers Giriraj Singh and Bhagavathi Kumar Paras took part in the video-conference session, which went on for about 90 minutes. Tamil Nadu Rural Development Minister K.R. Periakaruppan and senior officers K. Gopal and Pallavi Baldev from Chennai congratulated Ms. Jayanthi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pm-interacts-with-shg-women-from-dindigul/article35889047.ece
13 August 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Street sealed after 11 persons test COVID-19 positive in Erode||A street in Kollampalayam Housing Unit in Zone IV in corporation limits was sealed after 11 COVID-19 positive cases were reported on Thursday. Corporation officials said that all the cases were reported from four families and the street with 29 houses was sealed. They suspect that infection could have spread through a youngster from one of the houses in the street who recently went out to play. Swab samples were collected from 103 persons in the street and results were awaited. Corporation Commissioner M. Elangovan, who inspected the barricading process, said that seven medical teams were screening the people in the area and swab samples of over 650 people were taken. “Workers were posted to attend to the needs of the residents in the containment zone”, he added. On an average, 150 to 180 cases per day were reported in the district in the past three weeks as the active cases in the district is around 1,700. On Wednesday, 29 cases were reported in the corporation limits. However, this is the first containment zone in the city after many months.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/street-sealed-after-11-persons-test-covid-19-positive-in-erode/article35889084.ece
13 August 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Elephants wait for sugarcane-laden lorries near check-posts at STR||Incidents of wild elephants in Sathyamangalam Tiger Reserve (STR) intercepting sugarcane-laden lorries and feeding on the dumped sugarcane on the Dindigul – Mysuru National Highway 948 are on the rise in the past one year, triggering panic among motorists. On Wednesday morning, three elephants with a calf were waiting on the road for the lorries to arrive near Karapallam forest check-post at Hasanur. This resulted in vehicles lining up on both the sides disrupting vehicle movement between Tamil Nadu and Karnataka. An elephant pushed a car and damaged it. Further damage was averted as the car driver applied reverse gear. Many incidents, including a lorry driver and his assistant climbing up a tree after wild elephants started dragging sugarcane from the lorry near the check-post, were reported in the past one year. The ghat road with 27 hairpin bends on the highway passes through the STR and lorries carrying sugarcane from Talavadi and Chamarajanagar in Karnataka use the road to reach a sugar mill at Appakudal in Bhavani taluk. Since breakdown and accidents involving heavy vehicles with excess loads were frequent on the ghat road, height restriction bars were installed at the forest check-posts at Bannari and Karapallam. Vehicles with over 4.2 metre height cannot use the road and lorry drivers dump the excess sugarcane along the national highways near the check-posts. Also, excess load from the vehicles falls while crossing the bars and sugarcane gets dumped along the road near the check-posts. “Initially, wild elephants started consuming sugarcane that were dumped on the road. But, now they have started intercepting sugarcane-laden lorries”, said S. Manickam, a farmer at Talavadi. Since elephants wait on the road, movement of vehicles was frequently disrupted between the two States. Devendra Kumar Meena, District Forest Officer, Hasanur Division and Deputy Field Director, STR, told The Hindu that most of the incidents were reported between 5 a.m. and 6 a.m. when the lorries pass through the check-post. “Since elephants started waiting for the lorries, we have requested lorry drivers to postpone their trip after 10 a.m. so that elephants wait for an hour and leave the place,” he said. The DFO also added that forest staff and anti-poaching watchers have been deputed near the check-post to drive elephants, if they disrupt vehicle movement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/elephants-wait-for-sugarcane-laden-lorries-near-check-posts-at-str/article35889094.ece
13 August 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Collector inspects accident zones on highways||With frequent accidents taking place at many junctions on the Salem – Kochi National Highway 544, District Collector H. Krishnanunni inspected the junctions and held discussions with officials on the measures that need to be taken to reduce accidents. Many junctions on the national and State highways, Chellapampalayam Road, Tayirpalayam at Chithode – Kavindapadi Road, Lakshmi Nagar on the Coimbatore – Salem Road and Konavaikal Junction were the spots identified as accident zones. Though it was proposed to install high mast lights and flickering lights at all the accident-prone areas, the project was yet to be completed, he said. Hence, they continue to be accident zones and also pose hardship to motorists while crossing the road. Mr. Krishnanunni inspected the spots and held discussions with officials on the vehicle movement, illumination during night hours, presence of speed breakers, flickering lights, high mast lights and other safety aspects. He also discussed various steps that need to be taken to reduce accidents and turn the junctions safer for motorists. Kuppusamy, Zonal Engineer (Construction and Maintenance, Gobichettipalayam), Ramanathan, Assistant Director, Karthikeyan, Deputy Superintendent of Police, Bhavani Division, and other officials were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/collector-inspects-accident-zones-on-highways/article35889089.ece
13 August 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Tribal women ensured better livelihood by marketing broomsticks||A marketing initiative taken by the District Administration has paved way for the upliftment of tribal communities in the Ramaranai tribal settlement at Talamalai Panchayat in the Talavadi Hills. The tribal women here make broomsticks and have now started to earn Rs. 750 to Rs. 1,000 a day. Until now, the women harvested broom grass from the forest area, dried it, and sold it through the Village Forest Committee (VFC) for Rs. 20 a kg, with which three broomsticks could be made. Intermediaries purchased from the VFC and sold it at Rs. 60 a kg in Sathyamangalam and Bhavanisagar areas, after which it is converted as a broomstick and sold for over Rs. 150 apiece. The Ramaranai settlement — with 22 families comprising 67 members — belongs to the Sholaga community and depends on Minor Forest Produce (MFP) and farm produce from their smallholdings. The settlement is located one km away from Talamalai – Dhimbam forest road inside the Sathyamangalam Tiger Reserve (STR). Collector H. Krishnanunni visited the hamlet twice and discussed measures to improve their livelihood. He instructed officials of the Tamil Nadu Corporation for Development of Women (TNCDW) to conduct a study and take measures for their livelihood upliftment. Later, Ramaranai Self-Help Group for Women (SHG) was formed and training was provided to them on making broomsticks by TNCDW. A loan of Rs. 75,000 was provided to the SHG under the Community Investment Fund for purchasing twine, knife, and other raw materials. The first batch of finished products was purchased by District Supply and Marketing Society (DSMS), a unit of TNCDW, last week for Rs. 22,530, and they were paid within two days. Officials said that a person can make a minimum of 15 to 20 broomsticks a day and can earn up to Rs. 1,000 in a day. Mr. Krishnanunni told The Hindu that it is a unique project that will enhance their standard of living and also improve their economic growth. He said that four tribal settlements in Hasanur, one in Germalam, and three in Thingalur were identified for expanding the project.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tribal-women-ensured-better-livelihood-by-marketing-broomsticks/article35889096.ece
13 August 2021||Karur,TAMIL NADU||Tough action will be taken against usurers: Collector||In the wake of repeated incidents of harassment by usurers, Karur Collector T. Prabu Shankar has warned of tough action against those charging exorbitant interest rates. The Collector said that he had received reports that some of them had been harassing the customers by collecting heavy penal interest on loans. Many people who had taken loans from the lenders found it difficult to come out of the debt. No one should be harassed by the moneylenders, Mr. Shankar said and added that some indulged in ‘kandhu vatti’, ‘meter vatti’ and ‘vattikku vatti’. The district administration would take severe action against the usurers. He said that a complaint box would be placed in all taluk offices for receiving complaints from the affected persons. He had discussed the issue at a recent meeting with the police personnel. Instructions had been given to them to take immediate action against the usurers under the usury prevention and money lending regulation acts in 1957 and 2003. The Collector said that a district-level committee would be constituted to deal with the cases. In addition to it, divisional and taluk level committees would also be formed to receive complaints. The affected people could post their complaints to him on WhatsApp at 9489840055 and Twitter handleTwitter@Collectorkarur. They could also reach out to the Superintendent of Police, Deputy Superintendent of Police, Revenue Divisional Officers, Tashildars, Village Administration Officers and Inspectors of the respective police stations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tough-action-will-be-taken-against-usurers-collector/article35889031.ece
13 August 2021||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Officials told to install CCTV cameras in public places||Collector V. Jayachandra Bhanu Reddy presided over a law and order meeting with the police department and the related line departments at the Collectorate on Thursday. A range of issues were discussed including allegations of discrimination and exclusion of right to passage to graveyards levelled in some villages, human-elephant conflict, installation of CCTV cameras in ATMs, and installation of LED lights to avert accidents on the roads. Dr. Reddy also discussed with the departments of revenue, health and public works on the preparedness on disaster management, and emergency relief and rehabilitation, and setting up a standard response protocol to meet any kind of emergency during the North-East monsoon. Further, officials were urged to set up CCTV cameras in places of public congregation to avert law and order issues. The officials were also urged to crackdown on illegal manufacture and stock of firecrackers in the district. District Revenue Officer R. Satish, Additional Superintendent of Police Anbu, and Sub-Collector, Hosur, Nishant Krishna were among the officials presen at the meetingt.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/officials-told-to-install-cctv-cameras-in-public-places/article35889081.ece
13 August 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Public opinion divided over plan to fix water meters||While thanking the Madurai Corporation for organising a public hearing on the proposed drinking water project for Madurai City from Mullaperiyar reservoir, the participants were divided over the proposal to fix water meters. Commissioner Karthikeyan presided over the hearing. Deputy Commissioner Sangeetha, City Engineer (in charge) Suganthi and senior officials were present. Representatives of resident welfare associations and the general public from 57 wards of the 100-ward city were present. They felt that the new drinking water project would fulfil their long-pending demand at last. When the city limits was increased from 72 wards to 100 wards during the last AIADMK rule, the then Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami had laid the foundation stone for the Mullaiperiyar project on an outlay of Rs. 1,100 crore. After the initial survey and detailed project report, tenders were floated. While a public hearing was held in the Collectorate last year, farmers from many southern districts, including Theni and Sivaganga, had opposed the project as they apprehended that it would affect their farming activities and over a period of time the crop coverage area may shrink. However, the officials had then clarified about the numerous steps taken, including the kudimaramathu work and eviction of encroachments from waterbodies and construction of farm ponds, to protect their interests. Since then the drinking water project has been getting into a shape towards implementation. 135 litres a day The Corporation authorities explained that the project would not only assure quality potable water with high pressure, but also ensure 135 litres/day per person in over 50 wards. About 7.80 lakh people would benefit from the project, they said. The participants raised queries on the need for replacing worn-out motors at pumping stations and also suggested stepping up surveillance as there were complaints of low pressure in some of the wards which they suspected could be due to water theft through illegal means by some residents. The officials said that the public may send their suggestions to the Corporation Commissioner by post or mail tomducorp@gmail.combefore August 20.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/public-opinion-divided-over-plan-to-fix-water-meters/article35889543.ece
13 August 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||‘Given its finances, T.N. will have to increase taxes’||Taxes in Tamil Nadu have to be upwardly revised, given the State’s finances. But if someone says it will be increased today or tomorrow, it is wishful thinking, Finance Minister P.T.R. Palanivel Thiaga Rajan said on Thursday. He said the State had gone bankrupt as it could not mobilise the revenue it had to. To a question whether the White Paper was presented only to increase taxes and not to fulfil the DMK’s election promises, Mr. Rajan said the exercise was part of the government’s efforts at transparency. Besides, it was to inform the people of Tamil Nadu’s economic situation. “Please wait for the Budget to be presented. Till then, I cannot answer hypothetical questions,” he said. However, he clarified that the DMK would not go back on its poll promises. Chief Minister M.K. Stalin has advised the Ministers to first understand the real situation of the State, he said. “He asked us to then tell the people about the reality to trigger a civil discourse. Based on experts’ opinions and the people’s discourse, the government can chalk out its plan for course correction and then execute it. This is the democratic way [of handling important issues],” he said. The Minister said he could not fully understand the schemes announced by former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa in the Assembly under Rule 110. “I don’t understand why there was 30% to 40% variation between the revised estimates and the final accounts,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/given-its-finances-tn-will-have-to-increase-taxes/article35889049.ece
13 August 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||After Tokyo what?||Ever since Revathi Veeramani came back home on Saturday after participating in the Tokyo Olympics, her phone is being flooded with wishes from everyone. “I have been getting congratulatory messages from so many people. I feel so blessed and excited,” the elated sprinter said at a felicitation event organised by Lady Doak College. Ms. Revathi who lost her parents at a young age was raised by her grandmother Arammal. “My grandmother and my coach K. Kannan are the two main reasons why I am here today. Though my grandmother wanted me to quit my studies after Class XII, my coach convinced her that I could get into college in sports quota and do well in athletics. With support from him and my college, I excelled in running. I was in preparation mode for the past four years. It was unbelievable and truly emotional when I got a chance to represent India at the Olympics. I broke into tears when I got into the field in Tokyo,” she said. This young gun from Madurai has also set her eyes on winning medals at Asian Games and Commonwealth Games in the coming years. “I have been training hard and I will continue to do so. Even those relatives who wanted me to get married soon are now encouraging me to focus on athletics. I hope to bring more laurels to our country,” she said. Mr. Kannan who identified her talent at a young age and helped her reach great heights, handed over the Rs. 1-lakh purse on behalf of the college.  Even those relatives who wanted me to get married soon are now encouraging me to focus on athletics Revathi Veeramani Olympian||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/after-tokyo-what/article35889535.ece
13 August 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Plea in HC to prevent discrimination in appointment of Bishops||Alleging discrimination faced by Dalit Christians and lack of representation for them in the Roman Catholic church, a petition was filed before the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court seeking a direction to the Centre and the State to prevent the discrimination. A Division Bench of Justices M. Duraiswamy and K. Murali Shankar ordered notice to the Centre and the State. The court also ordered notice to the Apostolic Nuncio to India and the Tamil Nadu Bishops Council. The case was adjourned by six weeks. The court was hearing a petition filed by M. Anbarasan of Srivilliputtur in Virudhunagar district. The petitioner said that more than 60% of the Catholic population in Tamil Nadu and Puducherry consists of Dalits. But the Dalit Christians faced discrimination. In India, out of the 170 Bishoprics, there were only 11 Dalit Bishops and out of the 18 Archdiocese in Tamil Nadu, only one Dalit Bishop was consecrated. Though there is a demand for equal representation, the voices were not heeded by the Catholic hierarchy. The names of Dalit candidates were rejected. If equality was followed in the appointment of Bishops all other forms of discrimination like a divided church, segregated seats, segregated cemetary and discrimination in employment opportunities in institutions could be eradicated, the petitioner said. He said that he had sent several representations in this regard to the authorities concerned. But they were not looked into. Therefore, he sought a direction to the Centre and the State to prevent discrimination in appointment of Bishops in the Roman Catholic church.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/prevent-discrimination-in-appointment-of-bishops/article35889461.ece
13 August 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Olympian Revathi is an inspiration for girls’||“We will take care of all the sports expenses of Olympian Revathi Veeramani,” said Ministers P. Moorthy and P. T. R. Palanivel Thiaga Rajan at a felicitation ceremony organised by Lady Doak College here on Thursday. The college gave a purse of Rs. 1 lakh to the 23-year-old athlete who was one of the 4x400m mixed relay squad at the Tokyo Olympics 2021. Mr. Moorthy said, “The whole of India has been celebrating Ms. Revathi for her participation in the Olympics. We must thank her coach, professors and her family for the support they gave her. Participating in Olympics is a huge achievement in itself, but a girl from an under-privileged rural background doing it is something stupendous. It does not matter that she hasn’t won a medal. I am sure she will clinch gold in the next Olympics. I promise to provide her with financial support of any kind, to help her achieve her dream,” the Minister for Commercial Taxes, Registration and Stamp Law said. Mr. Palanivel Thiaga Rajan said that taking part in Olympics itself was the pinnacle of all achievements in the world of sports and games. The story of Ms. Revathi is inspiring. She has instilled hope in girls, not just in her college, but across the country. Her achievement is path-breaking as she comes from a disadvantaged background. We are also glad that the number of sports achievements from the State is increasing every passing day. Improving the sports infrastructure and facilities is not an easy task, but people like Ms. Revathi inspire us to work towards it,” the Minister for Finance and Human Resources Management said. College Principal and secretary Christianna Singh said that Ms. Revathi’s was one of the most significant achievements in the history of Lady Doak College and it was her perseverance that had brought her this far.  Taking part in Olympics itself is the pinnacle of all achievements in the world of sports and games Palanivel Thiaga Rajan Finance Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/olympian-revathi-is-an-inspiration-to-all-girls/article35889537.ece
13 August 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||21 goats struck dead by lightning||Twenty one goats were struck dead by lightning in a pen at Gopalapuram near T. Kallupatti on Wednesday evening. Police said that C. Marichamy and K. Selvam had put up the pen for the goats on the farm of one Karuppasamy. When it started raining on Wednesday evening, lightning struck and all the 21 goats were electrocuted and died on the spot.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/21-goats-struck-dead-by-lightning/article35889544.ece
13 August 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||New DRM takes charge||P. Ananth has assumed office as the new Divisional Railway Manager of Madurai division on Thursday. Mr. Ananth belongs to the 1989-batch of Indian Railway Service-Mechanical Engineer. He has worked as Director, Manpower Planning in the Railway Board from 2002 to 2008. During 2012-2017, he worked as Chief Mechanical Engineer in Banaras Locomotive Works (BLW), which was earlier known as Diesel Locomotive Works, Varanasi. Before coming to Madurai, he was the General Manager of Coach Maintenance Management System, Centre for Railway Information System, New Delhi. He succeeds V. R. Lenin, who has been transferred to the Transportation department of Southern Railway’s headquarters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/new-drm-takes-charge/article35889061.ece
13 August 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Hospital bags award||Meenakshi Mission Hospital and Research Centre here has bagged ‘Excellence in COVID-19 Management for 2021, and award instituted by the Association of Healthcare Providers of India. It is in recognition of the hospital’s adoption of innovative and latest technologies to provide a safe hospital environment and use of effective protocols for the treatment of COVID-19 patients. According to its chairman S. Gurushankar, the hospital focused on providing the highest possible protection to staff and patients through a unique six-stage, ultra-safety programme which included contactless detection of potential carriers of the coronavirus; 100% sterilisation of the indoors with a disruptive water-based antimicrobial surface treatment technology from New Zealand; minimising physical contact during treatment by using an advanced robotic technology. The safety programme helped to create a multi-layer protection against the virus so that the services could be delivered and received without fear. “The COVID-19 pandemic is far from over and the award will inspire our staff to continue to improve and implement patient safety and treatment protocols,” Dr. Gurushankar said. The award was received by General Manager (Operations) J Adele on behalf of the hospital in the presence of Ravi P. Singh, Secretary-General, Quality Council of India, and Abhijat Sheth, president, National Board of Examinations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/madurai-hospital-bags-award-for-its-covid-19-management-practices/article35889546.ece
13 August 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Water level||The water level in Periyar dam stood at 136 feet (maximum permissible level is 142 ft) with an inflow of 641 cusecs and a discharge of 1,800 cusecs. In Vaigai dam, the water level stood at 67.78 feet (71 ft) with an inflow of 852 cusecs and a discharge of 1,199 cusecs. The combined storage in Periyar credit was 10,186 mcft.    Twenty-one goats were struck by lightning and died on the spot in a pen at Gopalapuram near T. Kallupatti on Wednesday evening, according to police||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level/article35889063.ece
13 August 2021||NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||Survey to identify school dropouts to continue till August 31||The district administration will be conducting a survey to identify school dropouts, differently-abled children and children orphaned due to COVID-19 pandemic till August 31. District Collector Shreya P. Singh said in a press release issued here that the survey to identify school dropouts, children of guest workers, differently-abled children and children orphaned due to COVID-19 disease would continue till August 31 and a review meeting in this regard was conducted by the Collector with respective officials here on Thursday. Officials from school education department, national child labour project, labour department, district child protection unit, differently-abled welfare department and police are involved in the survey. Ms. Singh advised officials to visit bus stands, railway stations, hotels, shops, construction work sites, agriculture fields, and sand quarries as part of the survey. The Collector advised officials to ensure that children identified through the survey be admitted to schools immediately. Appeal Ms. Singh appealed to the public to inform the nearest school or the district education office here regarding any such children in their locality.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/survey-to-identify-school-dropouts-to-continue-till-august-31/article35889091.ece
13 August 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Removing hurdles in the way of aspiring sportspersons||India’s performance in Tokyo Olympics has spurred many children and youth to try and make a mark in sports. To maintain the momentum, creating good infrastructure and training facilities are essential, say local sports enthusiasts. “As of now, the city has only one stadium, that too with limited facilities. The stadium is only now being provided with a synthetic track. Poor maintenance is another issue at the Indira Gandhi Sports Stadium at Uppalam,” said Govindasamy, secretary, Pondy Athletic Association. There are several students in government schools who have shown promise. “Unfortunately, schools have no mechanism or people to hunt for talent. But even if schools identify the students, they lack facilities to practise and improve their game,” said R. Renjith, a resident of Madagadipet. According to Mr. Govindasamy, students from small centres show keen interest in athletics and volleyball. “The need of the hour is to have stadiums in places such as Bahour, Villianur and Madagadipet. The Directorate of Sports and School Education Department should create a pool of coaches and physical training teachers to identify potential talents in schools,” he said. Pondicherry Roller Skating Association president G. Sri Ram Prasad said merely building stadiums or creating facilities will not be sufficient. These also need to be maintained well. “The skating rink has developed cracks and it has become a haven for tipplers at night,” he said. A senior official in the Directorate of Sports told The Hindu that lack of infrastructure alone was not the issue. “Our approach has to change, especially in identifying talent and quality trainers,” he said. A ray of hope The establishment of Khelo India State Centre of Excellence (KISCE) in Puducherry offers hope. “We are converting the Rajiv Gandhi Sports School to KISCE. It will concentrate on talent hunt, training and infrastructure,” he said. Athletics, badminton and weightlifting have been identified as three disciplines to be promoted in Puducherry. KISCE will provide high-performance managers, coaches, physical trainers, sports medicine specialists and dieticians to create a talent pool in each of the disciplines. A group of 20 boys and 20 girls would be selected and groomed in the three disciplines through talent hunt programmes in schools and colleges, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/removing-hurdles-in-the-way-of-aspiring-sportspersons/article35889322.ece
13 August 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Eviction drive triggers protest||Tension prevailed as authorities removed encroachments, primarily petty shops and bunks, on Ambour Salai on Thursday morning. In spite of protests, a team of officials from the Revenue, Public Works and Police departments cleared 13 illegal shops on the road that flanks one side of the Grand Canal. The drive was based on the directions of the Road Safety Committee. According to a PWD official, the action followed after notices were duly served on the encroachers to remove the structures. As an hydraulic crane moved in, some traders lay down on the road in protest. They demanded two more weeks to remove the shops. The police removed the protesters and released them later in the day. The police barricaded Ambour Salai, which is one-way, for a few hours. According to a PWD official, 16 other shops on the stretch from the Uzhavar Santhai (farmers market) to the South Boulevard had been served notice for encroaching on public space and action would be initiated if they failed to comply.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/eviction-drive-triggers-protest/article35889316.ece
13 August 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||‘Centre’s attitude towards AINRC is no different’||The attitude of the Centre towards the All India N.R. Congress-led National Democratic Alliance government is almost the same as it was towards the previous Congress government, former Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy has charged. In an audio clip on Wednesday, he said the Prime Minister and the Home Minister were “still neglecting the Union Territory”. Drawing attention to Chief Minister N. Rangasamy’s statement that his government was waiting for the Centre’s approval to present the Budget, the former Chief Minister said the file seeking sanction was sent a month ago. Now, nobody knew where the file was, Mr. Narayanasamy said and added that the situation was similar when he was the Chief Minister. “There is no difference (in the Centre’s attitude) towards the previous and present governments,” he said. The former Chief Minister flayed Mr. Rangasamy for keeping quiet on the long-pending demand of Statehood for Puducherry. Recalling the Congress government’s decision to implement 10% reservation for government school students in private medical colleges, the former Chief Minister said the Centre scuttled the proposal. “When the neighbouring State can implement the same policy without any hurdles, what is preventing the Centre from allowing the U.T. to provide quota for poor students from rural areas? The present government should persuade and implement the decision at the earliest,” the former Chief Minister said. Mr. Narayanasamy urged the government to oppose the move to privatise the Electricity Department.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/centres-attitude-towards-ainrc-is-no-different/article35889319.ece
13 August 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||109 fresh cases in U.T.||The daily tally of new COVID-19 cases stayed above 100 for the third successive day as the Union Territory registered 109 cases, 59 recoveries and two deaths on Thursday. Puducherry and Mahe each reported a death to take the toll to 1,803. The region-wise toll is 1,428 in Puducherry, 231 in Karaikal, 105 in Yanam and 39 in Mahe. Puducherry accounted for 77 of the new cases, which were detected from 5,554 tests, followed by Karaikal (10), Mahe (21) and Yanam (1). The test positivity rate was 1.96%, case fatality rate 1.48% and recovery rate 97.77%. The number of active cases stood at 914 with 200 patients in hospitals and 714 in home isolation. Meanwhile, the number of people vaccinated against COVID-19 aggregated 7,50,665 with 3,313 people taking the shot on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/109-fresh-cases-in-ut/article35889314.ece
13 August 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Tamilisai calls on Prime Minister||Lieutenant Governor of Puducherry Tamilisai Soundararajan called on Prime Minister Narendra Modi in Delhi on Thursday. According to a Raj Nivas press release, Ms. Soundararajan, who is also Telangana Governor, had discussions with Mr. Modi relating to the development of Puducherry and Telangana, especially the implementation of Centrally-sponsored schemes. The Prime Minister assured her of extending all possible support, the press note said. She also lauded the passage of the OBC Bill in Parliament. Later, Ms. Soundararajan, in a tweet, said she had presented two books edited by her summarising the response to COVID-19 by the teams at Raj Bhavan in Hyderabad and Raj Nivas in Puducherry to the Prime Minister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tamilisai-calls-on-pm/article35889317.ece
13 August 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Salem Town railway station to get facelift||The works for renovation and improving amenities at the Salem town railway station is progressing and are expected to be completed by end of this year. The town railway station is one of the important railway stations here and trains towards Egmore junction in Chennai, Mangaluru, Puducherry, Coimbatore and Virudhachalam were operated via this route. However, a few of the services have been suspended due to the COVID-19 pandemic. The Salem Railway Division is carrying out renovation works at the station at a cost of Rs. 98.5 lakh. The works include improving the facade of the station and constructing perimeter walls. According to railway officials, modern construction materials are being used to improve the appearance of the station’s facade. Railway officials said that aluminum composite panel sheets are being used to change the look of the facade. The panels are being set up over the old structure to give it a modern look, officials said. As part of the station development, officials said that tensile fabric roofs supported by steel cables would be set up over the ramps leading to the station’s entrance. Officials also said that compound wall has been constructed at rear end of the station as part of the works.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/salem-town-railway-station-to-get-facelift/article35889076.ece
13 August 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Irregularities in lift irrigation schemes alleged||An anti-corruption group '5th pillar' has petitioned with the Chief Minister, District Collector and other senior officials alleging irregularities in setting up of lift irrigation schemes by three farmer associations here. In the petition, I. Selvam, a member of the association, charged that the three farmer organisations are drawing water directly from Cauvery river by setting up pipelines and this was against government norms. The petitioner charged that the alleged unauthorised drawal of water could affect irrigation in Delta region and drinking water supply to four districts. The petitioner alleged that former Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami’s relative K. Venkatachalam was involved in this and took money from farmers for setting up the water pipelines. Mr. Selvam urged the authorities to conduct a thorough inquiry in the matter and take necessary action in this regard.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/irregularities-in-lift-irrigation-schemes-alleged/article35889077.ece
13 August 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Women who lived as a couple return home||Two young women who recently went missing from their homes at Thalaivasal in the district were traced by the police. The college students, who were reportedly in a same-sex relationship, returned home a couple of days ago. After the women, aged 19 and 20, went missing, their families lodged a complaint with the Thalaivasal police, who said one of the women was married. The police found them staying together in Chennai and brought them back. The mother of one of the women said her daughter had gone missing after saying she was going to college. “The two girls were only friends. We have brought my daughter back. She can continue her studies or get married.” Salem district police officers insisted that no pressure was mounted on the women to separate. Superintendent of Police M. Sree Abhinav said an inquiry was conducted based on the missing person complaints filed by relatives and to ensure that the women were safe. Their statements were taken and they were allowed to return home on their own, he said. Advocate Sudha Ramalingam said there seemed to be a presumption among the police that every woman needed a custodian. “If the women want to live elsewhere, they must be allowed to do so,” she said. She suggested that in such cases, an NGO representative or lawyer must be present when the women were questioned about their choices. “In their presence, these women will have the confidence to talk boldly about their preferences.” It was doubtful that the two women, who had walked out of their homes to live elsewhere, would want to return, she said. Ms. Sudha said that if a missing person complaint was filed by relatives about adults in a consensual relationship, the police could take a statement from the women from wherever they were residing and there was no need to take them home.  If a missing person complaint is filed about adults in consensual relationship, the police can take a statement from the women from wherever they live Sudha RamalingamAdvocate||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/women-who-lived-as-a-couple-return-home/article35889041.ece
13 August 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Man found murdered||A guest worker from West Bengal was found murdered near Anadhanapatti here during the late hours of Wednesday. According to the police, the deceased was identified as Prasan Kumar (37). He was working as a construction worker here. Prasan Kumar had developed acquaintance with Sundaram, a mason here. On Wednesday, while Prasan Kumar and Sundaram where consuming liquor at the latter’s house, Prasan Kumar allegedly misbehaved with Sundaram’s wife. Irked, Sundram attacked Prasan Kumar with a log and he succumbed to the injuries. Anadhanapatti police rushed to the spot and recovered the body. The police have registered a case and are investigating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-found-murdered/article35889090.ece
13 August 2021||Srivilliputtur,TAMIL NADU||DVAC conducts search||Sleuths of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption, Virudhunagar unit, has conducted a search at the local residence of R. Rajendran, 54, who works as junior assistant in the office of Sub-Registrar at Idaikal in Tenkasi district. The move comes following registration of a case against Rajendran under the provisions of the Prevention of Corruption Act. Acting on specific information, the DVAC team on Wednesday registered a case of disproportionate assets against Rajendran and his wife Guruvammal. The case is that Rajendran, while holding additional charge as Sub-Registrar between October 2017 and October 2020, abused his official position and accumulated, possessed pecuniary resources and bought properties in his name and that of his wife. The properties were suspected to be disproportionate to his/her (a home-maker) known sources of income during the period.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dvac-conducts-search-at-sub-registrar-office-junior-assistants-house/article35889059.ece
13 August 2021||TENKASI,TAMIL NADU||Couple held for murder||The Kuruvikulam police have picked up three persons including a couple for allegedly murdering a youth. Police said K. Lakshmanadurai, 38, a widower and father of a child from Malaippatti near Kuruvikulam in the district, who was working as a driver in a textile mill in Rajapalayam, had developed illicit affair with A. Deivanai, 45, a widow and mother of two children from Kulasekaramangalam near Sernthamaram, who was also working in the same mill. When Lakshmanadurai eloped with Deivanai a few days ago, her brother Desingu Raja, 35, filed a complaint with Sernthamaram police. Even as the police were investigating the case, Desingu Raja found that his elder sister had eloped with Lakshmanadurai and were living in Kulasekaramangalam. As Desingu Raja, his wife Rajeshwari, 33 and his friend Kumar went to Kulasekaramangalam in a car on Wednesday, they found that Deivanai and Lakshmanadurai had gone to Kuruvikulam to buy new clothes. When the trio met Deivanai at Kuruvikulam and asked her to come with them, she refused and it led to heated argument between both sides. Agitated over this, Desingu Raja allegedly hacked Lakshmanadurai in which he sustained grievous cut injuries. After being admitted to Sankarankovil Government Hospital, Lakshmanadurai was referred to Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital where he succumbed to his injuries on late in the night.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/couple-held-for-murder/article35889613.ece
13 August 2021||THENI,TAMIL NADU||Theni Collector hands over Rs. 5 lakh aid to orphaned boy||In a kind gesture, Theni Collector K.V. Muralidharan on Thursday visited the house of a young boy, Veerabalamurugan, who lost his parents to COVID-19 recently, and handed over a fixed deposit receipt for Rs. five lakh. Chief Minister M.K. Stalin had announced a scheme to protect children who lost their parents to the viral infection. In Theni district, according to officials, 99 children were found to have lost either both their parents or one of them to the virus. So far, the district administration had deposited Rs. 3 lakh each directly in the name of 21 children who lost their parents (either one of them). In a brief interaction with the boy, the Collector shared his personal mobile number and requested him to get in touch for any assistance. The boy was also assured about the government’s help in pursuing his education. Mr. Muralidharan presented a set of new clothes to the boy and took photographs with him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/theni-collector-hands-over-rs-5-lakh-aid-to-orphaned-boy/article35889070.ece
13 August 2021||THENI,TAMIL NADU||Chinnamanur Municipality bags third prize||Chinnamanur in Theni district has been awarded the third prize in Tamil Nadu for the best municipality. With 27 wards, the municipality, which has a little over one lakh population, provides potable water to all its residents. The sewage connections are well maintained and the roads well laid with no complaints of stagnation. The municipal authorities swung into action when COVID-19 broke out and contained the spread. To continue the momentum, vaccination camps are being held in many locations to cover qualified people. Municipal Commissioner Shyamala says the State government’s recognition will make the employees work harder and deliver better practices for the community. The staff at Kottayur Panchayat in Sivaganga district are in upbeat mood after the announcement that the civic body has been placed third in the State. After Kallakudi in Tiruchi and Melpattampakkam in Cuddalore, Kottayur is the third best panchayat in the State. With an area of 6.75 sq km, the panchayat has 15 wards. While the 2011 Census puts the population at 14,766, it may be a little over 20,000 now, officials says. Executive Officer Kavita describes the Rs. 3 lakh prize money to be received from the Chief Minister on Independence Day in Chennai as a feather in the cap. “We will strive hard and achieve the number one position soon.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/chinnamanur-bags-third-prize-for-well-maintained-municipality-in-state/article35889065.ece
13 August 2021||THENI,TAMIL NADU||Estate workers’ agitation halts traffic on TN-Kerala border||Continuing their agitation for the second consecutive day, a large number of workers from Theni district resorted to a wait-in stir at Bodi Mettu and Mundal check posts here on Thursday. As a result, vehicular movement on the ghat section was affected. The long queue of vehicles on both sides could be cleared only after three hours. Police said the workers, who travelled in jeeps from different locations in the district, worked for daily wages in private cardamom estates in Idukki district in Kerala. As many as 500 jeep drivers depended on the movement of the daily wage earners from Tamil Nadu to Kerala. The daily trips were affected due to COVID-19 pandemic and the subsequent lockdown. When the Tamil Nadu government relaxed the curfew, officials at the State border, however, refused to permit movement, S. Mathivanan, a jeep driver, claimed. The officials insisted on vaccination and urged the travellers to display the certificates on their mobile phones. “If they do not possess the vaccine certificates, they want a RT-PCR negative test report," he said. If the travellers told them they had taken the first dose and awaited the second one, health officials insisted on the negative report. The protesters said they had no money and the daily wages assured them of food at home and refused to leave. Senior officials from the police department and the district administration held talks with their counterparts in Idukki and it was decided to permit the vehicles in phases on Thursday. ‘No compromise’ From Friday, the workers were told that permission would be accorded only for those with two doses of vaccination to proceed to Kerala. There would be no compromise on letting people criss-cross without vaccination, the health officials told the workers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/estate-workers-agitation-halts-traffic-on-tamil-nadu-kerala-border/article35889066.ece
13 August 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,TAMIL NADU||3 in custody over Kerala Bank ATM fraud||The Kerala Police have taken three persons into custody in connection with an ATM fraud that allegedly preyed into the “compromised cybersecurity system” of the Kerala Bank. Three days after the recently formed scheduled State cooperative bank alerted the police of an ATM loot of at least Rs. 2.4 lakh, the Cyber Crime police nabbed two Kasaragod natives from Tirupur in Tamil Nadu late Wednesday and another from Kozhikode on Thursday. The police remained on the lookout for the involvement of more hands in the case, sources said. Officials involved in the investigation said the bank raised an alert after finding large sums of cash missing from its ATMs in some districts, including Thiruvananthapuram and Kasaragod, on Monday. In Thiruvananthapuram, the fraud is suspected to have taken place from two ATMs, in East Fort and Nedumangad. Software drawbacks The gang is suspected to have exploited the failure of the Kerala Bank to evolve a common software for its banking network. Despite amalgamating the district cooperative banks in the State around two years ago, the bank continued to run on separate softwares in each district. This anomaly could have been factored in by the gang while hatching the conspiracy. A senior police officer said ATMs usually relied on a switch application server to communicate with the core banking system to validate the bank account details for a requested transaction. In India, the National Payments Corporation of India (NPCI) facilitates the core banking operations of financial institutions, while its National Financial Switch (NFS) links ATM networks. Normally, the ATM software accepts or declines transactions after receiving information from the NPCI through the switch application server. The NPCI, which serves to ensure that the user possessed the required balance in his account, also oversees the transfer of the withdrawn money from the user’s account to the bank that manages the ATM. Home bank bypassed However, in the Kerala Bank case, the fraudsters are believed to have used an ATM card issued by a bank account based in Uttar Pradesh to fool the Kerala Bank ATMs to spit out large amounts without notifying their home bank. Investigators suspect that the perpetrators managed this by hacking the Kerala Bank’s software and intercepting the transaction request before it reached the NPCI system.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/3-in-custody-over-kerala-bank-atm-fraud/article35888948.ece
13 August 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||33 school dropouts identified||A survey in the hamlet of Terespuram here on Thursday to identify school dropouts revealed that there were 33 who had stopped going to the schools. As Terespuram area is a hamlet housing poor fishermen, the children are often taken to the sea for fishing along with the elders. Unfortunately, the lockdown has accelerated the rate of dropouts. Since the families, mostly got entangled in loans availed from moneylenders, get revenue through their children going for fishing, the practice of sending the children for fishing is on the rise, the officials say. As the survey was started by Block Education Officer Jayabalan and his team with the help of EMIS (Educational Management Information System) in Terespuram area on Thursday, the officials found 33 school dropouts had not been readmitted in the schools. The team that visited the homes of these children successfully persuaded a few parents and ensured the readmission of 14 students immediately. “We are taking steps to readmit the remaining 19 students also,” said the officials. The Special Training Centre volunteers have been entrusted with the job of ensuring the early readmission of the dropped-out children. The teacher educators, special trainers, a physiotherapist and a speech therapist have also been deployed in this backward area to check the dropouts in future also.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/33-school-dropouts-identified/article35889619.ece
13 August 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Contract workers want regularisation of service||Contract sanitary workers and drivers working with the Corporation on daily wages basis staged a demonstration here on Thursday demanding the regularization of their work. Led by V. Karuppasamy, president of Rural Development Employees’ Union, they submitted a petition in the Corporation. They said the services of contract labourers working as sanitary workers and drivers should be regularized. Besides giving Rs. 624 as daily wages, the contract labourers should be included in social security schemes like employees’ provident fund and Employees’ State Insurance Corporation. Instead of the pushcarts, the sanitary workers should be given battery-operated vehicles to collect garbage. Contract labourers working on holidays should be given ‘double wages,’ they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/contract-workers-want-regularisation-of-service/article35889617.ece
13 August 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||MSME sector pins hope on Defence Industrial Corridor||The MSME sector in the region has urged the State Government to establish an office in Tiruchi for facilitating the integration of the plethora of fabrication units into the Tamil Nadu Defence Industrial Corridor encompassing five nodes. The corridor consists of five nodes: Chennai, Coimbatore,Tiruchi, Salem and Hosur each having it's own unique strengths and capabilities to cater to aerospace and defence manufacturing. While there has been perceptible progress in identification of land in Coimbatore district for establishment of defence industrial parks, industry representatives in Tiruchi are in the dark about the progress of the project in the areas covered by Tiruchi node. “We plan to approach the State Government soon seeking transparency on investments in Tiruchi node under the project,” R. Ilango, president of Tiruchi District Tiny and Small Scale Industries Association said. The only available official information so far is that the TIDCO has earmarked around 700 acres in five locations for the aerospace and defence industries. The emphasis of the MSME sector in the region is that Tamil Nadu must not lag behind Uttar Pradesh in implementation of the Defence Industrial Corridor project against the backdrop of the Ministry of Defence (MoD) setting a target of doubling value of defence production to 180,000 crore by 2025. The UP Expressways Industrial Development Authority the nodal agency for implementing the Defence Corridor Project has taken strides by completing land allotment for investors in Aligarh. Last September, the UPEIDA invited Expression of Interest from Indian agencies for undertaking setting up of Common Facility Centre in Lucknow as part of the UP Defence Industrial Corridor. The Common Facility Centre will support MSMEs with facilities for testing, designing and prototyping as well as providing skill development training to youth.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/msme-sector-pins-its-hope-on-defence-industrial-corridor/article35889534.ece
13 August 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Free travel scheme for women hits autorickshaws the hardest||The fortunes of autorickshaws and share autorickshaws seem to have dwindled in Tiruchi after the introduction of free travel scheme for women in the State-owned transport corporation buses. Free travel for women was among the major poll promises implemented by the DMK government soon after assuming office. Though women were permitted to travel free in government buses from the second week of May, they could hardly enjoy the benefit due to the lockdown. Once the State government granted a green signal to operate buses after lifting the lockdown partially, women began to travel in city and town buses free of cost. While the move was well received by women commuters, it has had its impact on the patronage of autorickshaws and share autorickshaws. It is said that the number of women travelling in share autos and autorickshaws has come down by nearly 50%.and 25% respectively. Before the introduction of the free travel scheme, many women workers, mainly construction workers, servers and cooks working in restaurants and housemaids, travelled in share autos. Now, most of them have switched over to government buses to reach their destinations. Similarly, a section of women office goers, who had no personal vehicles, preferred autorickshaws before the free travel scheme. They too have began using the free travel benefits. “We clearly notice a drop in women passengers. Except for relatively affordable customers, others invariably prefer to travel in government buses. It is a blow to us particularly when our revenue has come under severe strain due to the lockdown restrictions,” says R. Durai, an autorickshaw driver in Srirangam. A share auto operator at Central Bus Stand said that he used to transport more than 120-130 women a day from Central Bus Stand to K.K. Nagar before the scheme was introduced. Now, it has come down to 20 to 30 a day. S. Rengarajan, district secretary, Centre of Indian Trade Unions, Tiruchi, said that while the free travel scheme had benefited women in general, it had severely affected the revenue of autorickshaws and share autos. The State must come forward to compensate the loss by way of diesel subsidy, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/free-travel-scheme-for-women-hits-autorickshaws-the-hardest/article35889030.ece
13 August 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||‘Positive aspects of organ donation should be reiterated’||Though COVID-19 has overshadowed nearly every aspect of life, the need to raise awareness about organ donation remains as valid as ever, say medical professionals in the city. Speaking to The Hindu ahead of World Organ Donation Day (August 13), physicians said that the positive aspects related to the process should be reiterated as often as possible. “Awareness of organ donation has definitely increased in Tiruchi. It is a voluntary act that can benefit many people; how we put this across to the public is also important. Telling the family of the patient that he or she is brain dead, but their organs could be harvested for the benefit of others, is a very delicate matter. It has to be conveyed with sensitivity,” said Senthilkumar Nallusamy, chief cardiologist, Rana Hospital. Dr. Senthilkumar, who holds a 2017 Guinness world record for conducting a 50-minute lecture on organ donation awareness with the largest attendance of 1,000 people in Tiruchi, says: “There are many myths and fears related to organ donation that we need to overcome. Organs retrieved from one brain dead donor can save up to 10 lives. The commonest cause of brain death is road traffic accidents, which is one of the situations when organ donation can be considered, but only with the consent of the relatives,” he said. In 2020, Tamil Nadu was adjudged the best in organ donation in the country for the sixth consecutive year, with 8,245 organs harvested and distributed to eligible recipients from 1,392 donors. Despite this, there is a mismatch between the demand and supply for organs. “The paucity of live organ donors has turned the focus on deceased organ donation,” said C. Alagappan, urologist and transplant surgeon at Apollo Speciality Hospitals, Tiruchi. “We have to raise awareness about organ donation at a young age, and make it a subject in the educational curriculum,” said Dr. Alagappan. Medical advancements have also made it easier for live organ donation. In the case of kidney transplants, for example, laparoscopic donor nephrectomy, which is a minimally invasive procedure, has replaced the earlier method. “In this routine procedure, we retrieve the kidney with a 4-5 centimeter incision, (instead of 60 centimeters earlier), and discharge the patient by the second or third day. Quick recovery is reassuring for the donor, and motivates others to consider donation,” said Dr. Alagappan. Enquiries about eye donation have gone up in recent years, said Shibu Varkey, ophthalmic surgeon and regional medical director at Vasan Eye Care. “Eye donation can be done only after the demise of a person. People who pledge their eyes must ensure that they convey their intention to do so, to their family members or in legal form, so that there are no conflicts later on,” he said. Besides corneal ulcers (caused by fungal infections or eye injuries), keratoconus (a condition where the cornea thins and gradually bulges outward into a cone shape) requires transplant surgery, said Dr. Varkey. “Paediatric keratoplasty cases are slowly increasing in my practice, perhaps due to the excessive time spent on electronic devices. Unlike earlier, one cornea can be used to help three people. We still need to increase awareness of eye donation, because corneal blindness is a huge problem in our country,” he said. While organ donation has assumed precedence in public opinion, concrete steps are still needed to make it a reality for people in remote areas, said M. A. Aleem, former vice-principal, head of department and professor of Neurology at KAPV Government College. “An air ambulance for people living in interior places would help them to get medical attention faster and also streamline the organ retrieval process. Harvested organs should be available to everyone irrespective of caste, creed or financial status,” Dr. Aleem said.  Giving life Organs retrieved from one brain dead donor can save up to 10 lives One cornea donated can be used to help three people Medical advancements have also made it easier for live organ donation||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/positive-aspects-of-organ-donation-should-be-reiterated/article35889595.ece
13 August 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||347 fresh cases in central region||The central region reported 347 fresh cases of COVID-19 on Thursday. While the number of cases continued to reflect an upward trend, Thanjavur district reported a significant increase in the number of daily cases reported. Five deaths were reported in the region, an increase compared to recent days. Two deaths each were reported in Tiruvarur and Nagapattinam, while one was reported in Tiruchi. Thanjavur reported a marked spike in cases, with 102 patients testing COVID-19 positive. Tiruchi reported 70 fresh cases of COVID-19. Tiruvarur reported 46 fresh cases and Nagapattinam, 37. Pudukottai reported a slight dip with 31 fresh cases. Meanwhile, 19 fresh cases were reported in Ariyalur, 18 in Mayiladuthurai and 17 in Karur. Perambalur continued to retain its spot as the district with the least number of fresh cases with seven cases reported on Thursday. Screening of passengers Meanwhile, the district administration has begun lifting COVID-19 test samples from all passengers arriving here from Kerala by trains. While the passengers would be allowed to travel home after the test sample was lifted, depending upon their results, the district administration would contact them, M. Subramani, Deputy Director of Health Services, Tiruchi said. “For now we are testing only passengers from Kerala, but depending upon the number of cases reported, we will extend it to other States as well,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/347-fresh-cases-in-central-region/article35889034.ece
13 August 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Govt. school conducts online tests on a trial basis||The Panchayat Union Middle School (PUMS), Pirattiyur, conducted tests for the students online on a trial basis. The method has been received well by students and their parents, and the school plans to conduct all tests in this format. Of the 200 students at PUMS, Pirattiyur, around 70% of the students were able to attend online classes and 20% had access to video recordings sent by the teachers. For these students, M. Ramesh Kumar, Assistant Headmaster and science teacher, set up a Google Forms test. The test is devised in such a manner that it allows the student to take the test any time of the day, and provide immediate results. “I send the students a voice message on our WhatsApp group giving them details about how to answer the questions and the students were able to grasp it quickly,” Mr. Ramesh said. All communication is on WhatsApp, including assignments and project submissions. Students are asked to take a photograph and send it to the teachers. The students can click on the Google Form link sent on the group any time during the day to answer the questions. “In many households, the father is the only person with a smartphone and the children have to wait till they return home from work. For their benefit, this has been devised,” he said. The question paper contains one-word multiple choice answers, two-mark questions and descriptive answers of five marks. “For the one-mark questions, marks are given immediately. This way the students, teachers and parents know what they have answered right, and where they must improve,” the teacher said. Mr. Ramesh, along with other teachers conduct online classes on Sundays as parents would be available. A feedback session is conducted after the classes to take stock of the parents’ concerns. “Many parents welcomed the online test and were also impressed with the idea that the teachers were dedicating their weekends to the students. All the effort would be worth it if other schools across the State take PUMS, Prattiyur, as a role model and focus on children’s needs,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/govt-school-conducts-online-tests-on-a-trial-basis/article35889032.ece
13 August 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Brick structure found during excavation at Pudukottai village||A small portion of a brick structure, possibly the mouth of a drain, has been unearthed at Porpanaikottai, near Pudukottai, where Tamil Nadu Open University (TNOU) had recently begun excavation looking for possible archaeological remains of the Sangam Age. The structure was found at a depth of 73 centimetres in one of the trenches, said E. Iniyan, excavation director and assistant professor of archaeology, School of History and Tourism Studies, TNOU. “It will take another four or five days of excavation to determine the nature of the structure. We can state it accurately only after more excavation to expose the remaining portion of the structure,” he told The Hindu . The excavation was inaugurated by Siva V. Meyyanathan, Minister for Environment, on July 30. TNOU Vice-Chancellor K. Parthasarathy subsequently inspected the progress. Potsherds found The Archaeological Survey of India permitted Dr. Iniyan to carry out an excavation at the site where some suggest a Sangam Age fort had existed. Potsherds and other evidences had been found during field studies in the area, he said. This phase of excavation is expected to go on till the first week of September. “We will submit a report to the ASI thereafter and subsequently send a proposal for the next phase of excavation to be taken up next year,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/brick-structure-found-near-pudukottai/article35889039.ece
13 August 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Dhanalakshmi Srinivasan University becomes third private varsity in State||Dhanalakshmi Srinivasan University in Tiruchi has become functional from 2021-22 as the third State Private University in Tamil Nadu. Two other private varsities in the State are Shiv Nadar University and Sai University, both in Chennai. Passage of the Tamil Nadu Private Universities Act in 2018 and 2019 paved way for the three universities to take shape as greenfield projects with a multi-disciplinary outlook. The State Government issued notification for the commencement of the three private universities after the sponsoring bodies transferred contiguous land of 100 acres and above in the name of the varsities. Academics exude hope that the start of the private universities will pave way for multi-disciplinary research and improved world-level ranking in the years to come. “Presence of private universities in Tamil Nadu is a welcome development. The UGC is keen on scaling up the number of universities. The start of private universities with a multi-disciplinary outlook augurs well with the National Education Policy 2020,” G. Thiruvasagam, president of the Association of Indian Universities said. These universities are competent to award degrees as specified by UGC under Section 22 of the UGC Act with the approval of the statutory councils, wherever required through their main campus. Wherever the approval of the statutory council is not a pre-requisite to start a programme, the universities are required to maintain the minimum standards regarding academic and physical infrastructure as laid down by the concerned statutory council, according to the UGC. Though the private universities cannot affiliate an institution/college, they can establish off-campus centre(s) within the State after their existence of five years and with the prior approval of the University Grants Commission. “Only those entities with a real service motive can run private universities. The outcome is bound to be good,” Prof. Thiruvasagam, who is also Vice-Chancellor of AMET University, Chennai, said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dhanalakshmi-srinivasan-university-becomes-third-private-varsity-in-state/article35889593.ece
13 August 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||BHELSIA reaches out to Centre once again||Having made repeated representations over the last two years, BHEL Small Scale Industries Association (BHELSIA) has reached out yet again to the Central Government to safeguard the interests of the Tiruchi MSME engineering cluster encompassing about 450 units. Earlier this week, president of BHELSIA Rajappa Rajkumar called on the Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman at New Delhi and invited her to Tiruchi for an interaction meeting with the MSME units. The BHELSIA delegation also submitted a memorandum to the Minister for MSME Narayan Tatu Rane and urged him to take up their cause with the Chairman and Managing Director of BHEL. As ancillaries to BHEL, the Tiruchi MSME Engineering Cluster Units that have been in existence for four decades started facing problems from 2014 due to the Coal Contract Cancellation by Honourable Supreme Court of India. Survival of the MSME sector in Tiruchi hinges on revival of units categorised as Non-Performing Assets, change in the Public Sector Procurement Policy by Heavy Industry Ministry, handling of the problems in GST (Goods and Services Tax) by Finance Ministry, and handling of issues pertaining to Provident Fund and Employee State Insurance by Labour Ministry, Mr. Rajappa Rajkumar said. In a memorandum, the BHELSIA urged the Ministry to enable MSME units to undertake orders from Defence and Railways. MSME sector being the backbone of India, a meeting with the ministries concerned must be arranged to sort out the various issues faced by the MSME cluster in Tiruchi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bhelsia-reaches-out-to-centre-once-again/article35889594.ece
13 August 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Vaccine camps in city today||COVID-19 vaccines will be administered at the following camps in the city on Friday: Covishield vaccines would be administered at Varaganeri Pharmacy, TELC BHM School, Melapudur, Srimad Andavan Arts and Science College, Thiruvanaikoil, Quaid -e-Milleth Girls' School, Palakkarai, Rockfort Pharmacy, Community Hall in Khajamalai Colony, SBIOA High School, K.K. Nagar, Papankuruchi Government Primary School, Kalaimagal Matriculation & Higher Secondary School, Thillai Nagar Anganwadi, Sacred Heart High School, Ponmalai, Mukkulathor High School, Renganathan Park, Mela Kasipalayam. The camps will commence at 9.30 a.m, according to a press release from the Tiruchi Corporation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vaccine-camps-in-city-today/article35889596.ece
13 August 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Kani tribal students visit nuclear power plant||The Kani tribal youth, who hitherto have seen the hydroelectric project close to their hamlets situated in dense jungle of the Western Ghats, had the opportunity to visit the nuclear power plant on Thursday. When Collector V. Vishnu recently delivered motivational address to the Kani youth during the coaching class being organised in the Western Ghats itself to get them prepared for cracking the competitive examinations of the State and the Central Governments the youths wanted to visit his office here. Their desire got fulfilled recently as they were brought here in a chartered vehicle. As they spent nearly an hour with the Collector in his chamber and interacted with him, they were very much inspired on understanding the Collector’s duties and the power the coveted post carries. They also met Superintendent of Police N. Manivannan at the District Police Office wherein he inspired the visitors to become police officers. “After this, I wanted to get them exposed to a most-modern scientific complex of our district and they are being taken to the Kudankulam Nuclear Power Project, where 2 X 1,000 MWe reactors with Russian assistance are humming while 4 more massive reactors are coming up. These exposure visits should make them aware of avenues waiting here,” Mr. Vishnu said. Accompanied by Assistant Director of Employment, Antony, 29 Kani students including 23 girls visited on Thursday the sprawling KKNPP complex at Koodankulam where they were taken to the desalination plant, supplied by Israel to feed the reactor with desalinated water, dyke, simulator and also the KKNPP Information Centre situated outside the reactor complex and close to the East Coast Road. “The students were very attentive until they leave the complex. As our technicians explained to them the principle of nuclear power generation, the technology we’ve employed here and the role of every hi-tech section of this complex, they were so enthusiastic in understanding it by raising questions,” the KKNPP officials said. Mr. Vishnu is now making arrangements for taking this youths to V.O.C. Port, Thoothukudi, next week to sensitise them to maritime trade and fishing operations being carried out by Thoothukudi Fishing Harbour-based 250-odd mechanised boats.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kani-tribal-students-visit-nuclear-power-plant/article35889539.ece
13 August 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Case against Sub-Registrar, 5 others booked||The anti-land grabbing cell police have filed case against six persons including the Sub-Registrar of Palayamkottai in connection with the alleged sale of a land with forged documents. The police said Nataraja Sankaralingam, 50, of Samathanapuram, who is now living in Chennai as he is working with a private firm there, owned 75 cents of land in V.M. Chathram here. When he came to take a look at the land on February 25, he found that his land had been sliced into plots and fenced. Moreover, the sliced plots had been sold to a few others without the knowledge of Mr. Nataraja Sankaralingam. As he filed a complaint with Tirunelveli City Police Commissioner N.K. Senthamaraikannan, he forwarded it to Subbulakshmi, Inspector of Police, anti-land grabbing cell. Forged documents The Inspector found that five persons including Subramanian and Vasantha of Coimbatore and Krithiga, Rajarathinam and Vinu of Palayamkottai had prepared forged document and allegedly sold the property. This was done with the assistance of Sub-Registrar of Palayamkottai Shanmugasundaram. Subsequently, the police have filed case against all the six.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/case-filed-against-five-including-sub-registrar-of-palayamkottai/article35889540.ece
13 August 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Govt. nurses allege they were mistreated by senior doctors||Over 100 staff nurses working at the Government Medical College Hospital (GMCH) in Tiruppur staged a demonstration on Thursday alleging mistreatment by the senior doctors. C. Geetha, a staff nurse at the hospital for around 20 years and State treasurer of the Tamil Nadu Government Nurses’ Association, alleged that Dean R. Murugesan and two Assistant Resident Medical Officers have been overburdening the staff nurses and were allegedly using inappropriate words towards them. The hospital administration has not provided a separate changing room for the 170-odd women nurses working in the hospital, she alleged. “All of these have caused distress to us,” Ms. Geetha said. When contacted, Dean of GMCH Dr. Murugesan denied the allegations made by the nurses and claimed that they have neither approached him in person to discuss their grievances nor have they submitted any written petition. “Whatever [demands] they might have, we will consider,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/govt-nurses-allege-they-were-mistreated-by-senior-doctors/article35889477.ece
13 August 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Four held for illegal sale of liquor||The Anupparpalayam police on Thursday arrested four persons on the charges of illegally selling liquor at bars attached to two Tasmac outlets in the city, following raids by the Excise and Tasmac officials. Assistant Commissioner (Excise) for Tiruppur district Sukumar, Tasmac district manager S. Soundarapandian along with the police searched two bars attached to outlets in Gandhi Nagar and seized 3,120 liquor bottles worth Rs. 5 lakh from the bars that were kept for illegal sales. Investigations revealed that the workers in the bars were allegedly engaged in sales from 5 p.m. to 10 a.m. when the outlets remain closed. While the bar owners Mahalingam and Dhanapal were absconding, the police nabbed the workers from both the bars Mahadevan, Anandan, Kannan and Vijayakumar. They were booked under provisions of the TN Prohibition Act and remanded in judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/four-held-for-illegal-sale-of-liquor/article35889469.ece
13 August 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Applications invited from ex-servicemen||The district administration has invited applications from ex-servicemen for enrolling in Temple Protection Force. According to a press release, they can contact 0421 - 2971127 and e-mailexweltup@tn.gov.in.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/applications-invited-from-ex-servicemen/article35889484.ece
13 August 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Two arrested for murder||The Mulanur police on Wednesday arrested a senior citizen and a woman on the charges of murdering the woman’s husband and another person at Mulanur in Tiruppur district. The arrested were Muthusamy (77) and Amsaveni (42).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-arrested-for-murder/article35889485.ece
13 August 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Two arrested under POCSO Act||Tiruppur district police on Wednesday arrested two persons in Dharapuram and Udumalpet on the charges of sexually assaulting two minor girls. The Dharapuram All Women Police arrested a 25-year-old man on charges of molesting a 17-year-old girl and the Udumalpet police arrested a 19-year-old youth for allegedly abducting and raping another 17-year-old girl. The accused were booked under Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act and remanded in judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-arrested-under-pocso-act/article35889470.ece
13 August 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Tiruppur briefly||District Collector S. Vineeth said on Thursday that all non-essential shops, which were previously allowed to function from 6 a.m. to 5 p.m. in the district, will now be allowed to function till 6 p.m. In a statement he said that except for pharmacies and other shops that sell essential goods such as milk, the rest of the shops will now be allowed to remain open only from 6 a.m. to 6 p.m. across the district.     Department of Social Welfare has introduced the helpline service for senior citizens in Tiruppur district, Collector S. Vineeth said on Thursday. A release said that senior citizens in distress shall contact the toll-free helpline 14567 from 8 a.m. to 8 p.m. for assistance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tiruppur-briefly/article35889478.ece
13 August 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Male elephant dies of electrocution in forest||A male elephant believed to be around 4 to 5 years old died of electrocution after it came into contact with an illegally set up electric perimeter fence set up around a farm at Vattakulli near Murukkambadi in Bitherkad forest range on Thursday morning. Forest Department officials said that the elephant had tried to enter the farm of V. Saji, an area resident who was growing tea and areca nut on a four-acre plot which is under dispute, and is believed to have been encroached. C. Manoharan, Forest Range Officer, Bitherkad range, said that Saji had seen that the elephant had died and had fled to his hometown in Kerala with his family on early Thursday morning. “We have registered a case under the Wildlife Protection Act based on the instructions of the District Forest Officer, Gudalur Division, Kommu Omkaram, and are on the lookout for Saji,” he said. Mr. Manoharan said that Saji had illegally connected electricity directly from his house to the electric fence. Farmers and residents have been directed to use energisers for fences, to prevent such incidents, but in many cases, these directions are ignored, officials said. Forest Department officials said that they would recommend that power connection to Saji’s house be disconnected, due to his illegal use of the electric fence around his farm. This is the second death of a wild animal resulting from electric fences in the last few days. On Tuesday, a sloth bear died after getting trapped in a fence in the buffer zone of the Mudumalai Tiger Reserve. N. Sadiq Ali, Founder of the Wildlife and Nature Conservation Trust (WNCT), said that the use of any kind of electric fencing in ecologically-sensitive areas posed a threat to wildlife. “The TNEB should be held liable in instances where fences are powered illegally, and action should be taken against workers and officials responsible,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/elephant-dies-of-electrocution/article35889101.ece
13 August 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Renovated casualty ward of Lawley Hospital inaugurated||The refurbished casualty ward of the Lawley Hospital in Coonoor was inaugurated by Nilgiris District Collector J. Innocent Divya on Thursday. The project, which cost Rs. 10 lakh, was funded by Kalyan Krishnamoorthy and his wife Soumya, of Coonoor. In a press release, it was said that the refurbishment project was initiated on July 13. “The casualty unit will have two beds for emergency care, an examination / suturing bed, wheel chair, crash carts and trolleys,” the press release said. The Lawley Hospital was inaugurated in 1914 by Sir Arthur Lawley, the then Governor of Madras. The hospital was considered to be the best equipped and among the most spacious in the Madras Presidency, the press release said. Recently, a six-bed dialysis unit was gifted to the hospital by the Rotary Club as well as an oxygen generator plant by ACT Grants.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/renovated-casualty-ward-of-lawley-hospital-inaugurated/article35889483.ece
13 August 2021||VILLUPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Official holds meeting on local body polls||State Election Commissioner V. Palanikumar chaired a review meeting at the Collectorate here on Thursday to review arrangements made for the rural local body elections in Villupuram and Kallakurichi districts. In the meeting with District Collectors of Villupuram and Kallakurichi, Mr. Palanikumar discussed implementation of the model code, surveillance and appointment of officers. Mr. Palanikumar discussed with officials the schedule of elections and arrangements to be made in line with the COVID-19 protocol. State Election Commission Secretary A. Sundaravalli, Collectors D. Mohan (Villupuram) and P.N. Sridhar (Kallakurichi), and Superintendents of Police N. Shreenatha (Villupuram) and Ziaul Haque (Kallakurichi) were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/official-holds-meeting-on-local-body-polls/article35889324.ece
13 August 2021||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Ex-Minister puts an end to rumour||Putting an end to the rumour mill that speculated that former State Minister, K.T. Rajenthra Bhalaji, was planning to join Bharatiya Janata Party, Mr. Bhalaji, met AIADMK co-coordinator, Edappadi K. Palaniswami, at Chennai on Thursday. Mr. Bhalaji, who is also AIADMK Virudhunagar West district secretary, said in a statement that he met the former Chief Minister at Chennai on his return from New Delhi. Mr. Bhalaji recalled that Mr. Palaniswami had exuded confidence in him saying that Mr. Bhalaji, a staunch party cadres since the days of party founder, M.G. Ramachandran, would not leave the party for BJP.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/former-minister-puts-an-end-to-rumour/article35889028.ece
13 August 2021||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Former Minister puts an end to rumour||Putting an end to the rumour mill that speculated that former State Minister, K.T. Rajenthra Bhalaji, was planning to join Bharatiya Janata Party, Mr. Bhalaji, met AIADMK co-coordinator, Edappadi K. Palaniswami, at Chennai on Thursday. Mr. Bhalaji, who is also AIADMK Virudhunagar West district secretary, said in a statement that he met the former Chief Minister at Chennai on his return from New Delhi. Mr. Bhalaji recalled that Mr. Palaniswami had exuded confidence in him saying that Mr. Bhalaji, a staunch party cadres since the days of party founder, M.G. Ramachandran, would not leave the party for BJP.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/former-minister-puts-an-end-to-rumour/article35889597.ece
13 August 2021||August 13 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||183 new cases in Erode district||Erode district reported 183 new cases on Thursday taking the total cases to 95,726. While 159 persons were discharged, 1,718 persons continue to be under treatment. A total of 94 positive cases were reported in Salem. According to the health officials, all cases were indigenous and 28 new cases were reported in Salem Corporation limits. Five deaths were reported in Salem. In Namakkal, 53 cases were reported. As per bulletin, all cases were indigenous. As per bulletin, a 33-year-old man died at Namakkal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/183-new-cases-in-erode-district/article35889086.ece
13 August 2021||August 13 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Assembly session begins today, likely to be stormy||The session will conclude on September 21. Minister for Water Resources Duraimurugan, Higher Education Minister K. Ponmudi, Minister for PWD E.V. Velu and IT Minister T. Mano Thangaraj accompanied him.  Despite the White Paper concluding that the State’s finances were “in dire circumstances”, expectations are high since the DMK’s election manifesto had promised welfare schemes for several segments of the population. As per the agenda, the government will present the revised Budget for 2021-22 on Friday. The following day, a budget for agriculture will be presented. On August 16, obituary references will be made and condolence resolutions adopted for the passing of former members and public personalities. The debate on the revised Budget and the agriculture budget will start that day. Replies will be made on August 19. From August 23, the debate on the demands for grants for departments will begin. Bills will be taken up and will likely be passed on the last day of the session.  As per the agenda, the government will present the revised Budget for 2021-22 on Friday. The following day, a budget for agriculture will be presented||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/assembly-session-begins-today-likely-to-be-stormy/article35889448.ece
13 August 2021||August 13 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Star power||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/star-power/article35889445.ece
13 August 2021||August 13 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Marching ahead||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/marching-ahead/article35889615.ece
13 August 2021||August 13 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore – Engagements||Tamil Nadu Agricultural University: State-level meeting on the implementation and execution of PPV&FR Act (2001) and Farmers' Rights, Video Conference Hall, Dean (Agri.), RI Building, 10 a.m.  D.J. Academy for Managerial Excellence: Student Development Programme on Emotional Branding, 11 a.m.  Coimbatore Speakers Forum of Toastmasters International: Online meeting on communication skills, 6.30 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-engagements/article35889479.ece
13 August 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Body, organs donated||Basawaraj Veerabradrappa Kadannavar (76), a retired police sub-inspector, died in Belagavi on Thursday. And, as per his wishes, his relatives donated the body to Chikkodi-based KLE Ayurveda Medical College, the skin to KLE Rotary Skin Bank and the eyes to KLE Eye Bank.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/body-organs-donated/article35889111.ece
13 August 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Eatery issues apology for advertisement||Niyaaz group, a restaurant chain famed for its Belagavi Biriyani brand, offered a public apology and deleted a meme from its advertisement campaign following complaints that it hurt Hindu sentiments. This follows the release of an advertisement campaign meme purportedly released by the group about its signature dish. Hindutva activists were upset as they said it hurt their sentiments and insulted their seers. Some activists of the Bajrang Dal and the VHP held a protest in front of the eatery near the bus stand on Thursday. “The hotel is owned by a Belagavi-based Muslim family. They are free to create memes about their own religious leaders. They should seek a public apology for such mischief,” said Sadashiv Gudagagol, Bajrang Dal regional coordinator. Bavakanna Lohar, district coordinator, threatened to hold a Statewide protest if the management did not seek an unconditional apology and give an undertaking that such attempts will not be made in future. They also submitted a petition to the Deputy Commissioner of Police Vikram Amathe and demanded action against the hotel management and those involved in creating the advertisement.  They also submitted a petition to the Deputy Commissioner of Police Vikram Amathe and demanded action||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/eatery-issues-apology-for-advertisement/article35889116.ece
13 August 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||SI post aspirants caught cheating||The police caught two candidates who were trying to hoodwink examiners during the Police Sub-Inspector selections in Belagavi on Thursday. Balesh Sannappa Duradundi of Jaganur used a wig stuffed with polystyrene pieces to increase his height. His bluff was called off and he admitted to cheating. A case was filed against him. A similar attempt was made by Umesh N. of Kulgod village. He attached artificial hair to increase his height. He also faces a case now, said a release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/si-post-aspirants-caught-cheating/article35889112.ece
13 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Students will have to wait for a few more weeks for textbooks||The new academic year appears to be off to a rocky start yet again much to the dismay of students and teachers. Though online classes began a month and a half ago, students enrolled in schools affiliated to the State board are yet to receive their textbooks. School managements and teachers are worried that along with the uncertainty of the pandemic and the predicted third wave, the delay will derail the academic year and cause immense hardship to students. According to details provided by the Karnataka Textbook Society (KTBS), as of August 10, only 42% of the textbooks have been distributed to students so far. A senior official admitted that all students across the State would get their study material only by mid-September. “Around 75% of the textbooks will be distributed by the month-end, while the entire process will be completed by September 15. We have, however, ensured that school libraries and gram panchayat libraries have book banks. There are nearly 1.75 crore old textbooks in these banks that students can use,” said the official. But with online classes still the norm, most students do not have easy access to the textbooks. Education experts said this delay would only further widen the digital divide. ‘Will add to stress’ Lokesh Talikatte, State unit president of the Recognised Unaided Private Schools’ Association, Karnataka, said the delay by several months was unacceptable. “While some students have access to gadgets and can download PDF versions of textbooks, many are unable to access soft copies,” he said, adding that it was putting undue stress on students who were already struggling with learning loss in the previous academic year. Citing a survey conducted by the Department of Public Instruction, he said 31 lakh students from classes I-X did not have access to any device. In other words, 33% of the total students enrolled, as per the department’s data, did not have access to gadgets. “By the department’s own admission, such a large number of students will be unable to download the soft copies of the textbooks,” he said. The lack of textbooks so late into the academic year is because the Department of Primary and Secondary Education delayed issuing work orders to printers. While the process of issuing work orders is usually undertaken in January, this year, they were issued only in July. The printers have been asked to submit the textbooks within a hundred days. The first and second waves of COVID-19 saw the government diverting all resources to mitigate the toll and curtail the spread. However, principals and school managements said there was no reason for the work orders to be delayed, especially as the second wave of COVID-19 began much after January. While State board schools are in a fix, those affiliated with Central boards have also been affected as students are yet to receive the Kannada language textbooks. The principal of a CBSE school in Bengaluru said, “Kannada is not the mother tongue for a majority of our students. Studying without textbooks is a difficult task.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/students-will-have-to-wait-for-a-few-more-weeks-for-textbooks/article35889420.ece
13 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||BJP MLA stages protest over ‘neglect’ of flood-hit Mudigere||M.P. Kumaraswamy, three-time MLA of the ruling BJP from Mudigere constituency in Chikkamagaluru, on Thursday staged a protest in Bengaluru accusing his party’s government of “discrimination” in releasing funds to his constituency that has been devastated by torrential rain, floods, and landslips for the last two years. Speaking to The Hindu , the MLA, who was denied Cabinet berths in the BJP governments headed by B.S. Yediyurappa earlier and now by Basavaraj Bommai, said the State government had not released funds to his constituency under the National Disaster Response Fund and State Disaster Response Fund . The government released Rs. 20 crore in 2019 when the JD(S)-Congress coalition government was ruling the State and after that his constituency had received funds in 2020 and 2021. Roads, bridges and other public infrastructure in the constituency was totally damaged by heavy rain, he said, and accused the government of neglecting the constituency which falls in the Malnad region. Mr. Kumarasamy staged a protest alone, with a placard, in front of the Mahatma Gandhi statue at Vidhana Soudha. In 2019, Mudigere constituency received heavy rain and claimed the lives of six persons. Several houses and coffee plantations were destroyed due to landslips. “We asked for compensation, we were completely neglected, we remained quiet,” Mr. Kumaraswamy said. Noting that the constituency had received heavy rain in 2020 and 2021 too, the MLA said he was unaware of the reasons why his constituency was not considered and others were. He claimed that Rs. 300 crore to Rs. 500 crore had been released to some constituencies while his was “totally neglected”. Simmering discontent The protest by the BJP MLA against the government is being seen as the continuing simmering discontent within the ruling BJP after formation of the Cabinet by Mr. Bommai. Till Wednesday, Minister Anand Singh had been openly airing dissatisfaction over not being given the portfolio of his choice, compelling Mr. Bommai to summon the Minister and pacify him. Mr. Kumaraswamy, who was a ministerial aspirant, had recently openly expressed anger against Ministers for not attending offices in the State Secretariat. Ministers visit the Secretariat only during the Cabinet meetings and they were not available even for MLAs to give petitions, Mr. Kumaraswamy had said. After Mr. Bommai and Revenue Minister R. Ashok gave assurance of releasing funds to the constituency, the MLA withdrew the protest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bjp-mla-stages-protest-over-neglect-of-mudigere-constituency/article35889138.ece
13 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||More students want to improve on SSLC marks||Every year, the SSLC examination sees a section of students perform brilliantly, much better than their peers. This year, however, with the new multiple choice format, a large number of students scored high marks, and not everyone is happy about it. Many students are itching to remain ahead of the pack, and want to appear for the improvement examination in September. V. Sumangala, director of the Karnataka Secondary Education Examination Board, said two candidates had taken the improvement examination last year. This year, based on student response, officials were expecting the number to be much higher. Flexibility Students who opt to appear for the betterment or improvement examination can choose to appear for any number of subjects they wish to, and the board will consider the best marks. “If students appear for six subjects, they can keep the marks of three subjects in the improvement examination in which they scored higher and retain the marks they score in three subjects in the main SSLC examination. We will allow students flexibility on this matter,” said Ms. Sumangala. D. Shashi Kumar, general secretary of the Associated Managements of Primary and Secondary Schools in Karnataka, said students were feeling the pressure to get higher scores as their peers have scored very well due to the new question paper pattern. “Students are keen to learn about the modalities of the improvement examination,” he said. In 2020, 301 students scored 620 marks and above, out of the total 625. In 2021, 925 students have managed to score above 620 marks. Out of 8.71 lakh candidates who appeared for the examination, barring one student, the remaining candidates were deemed pass. New pattern The principal of a school in Bengaluru said they had received several enquiries from students on how to appear for the improvement examination. “They have been preparing since June 2020, but the pattern of the question paper was changed a month prior to the examination. Students had to quickly adapt to the new pattern. If they are given an option to appear for the improvement examination, they can better their performance,” he said. Students can choose to take the improvement examination within two years after they clear the scheduled examination. Should they decide to attempt the exam in September, they will answer the same papers as candidates who have registered for the supplementary examination. The pattern for the supplementary examination will be multiple choice format.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/more-students-want-to-improve-on-sslc-marks/article35889417.ece
13 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||C.T. Ravi wades into controversy with remarks on Nehru, Indira Gandhi||BJP national general secretary C.T. Ravi waded into controversy on Thursday by saying that the Congress was free to open a canteen in the name of former Prime Minister Indira Gandhi in party office or “open a bar or a hookah bar” there in the name of the country’s first Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru. This comes a day after RDPR Minister K.S. Eshwarappa drew ire by using an expletive to describe Congress leaders. Mr. Ravi’s statement triggered sharp reactions from Congress leaders, who said it reflects badly on him rather than the late leaders he is referring to. Mr. Ravi has been demanding that Indira Canteens, which provide free food to the poor, started during the time of the Congress government led by Siddaramaiah, be renamed “Annapoorneshwari Canteen”. Mr. Ravi said naming of the canteen was aimed at getting “political mileage” and “loot money in the name of Indira Gandhi”. He went on to say that he would have no problem if the Congress opens a canteen in the name of Indira Gandhi or Nehru on the party office premises or name a hookah bar after Nehru. Claiming that he or his party had no prejudice against Indira Gandhi or Nehru, Mr. Ravi said his objection was to giving them credit for everything. Reacting sharply to the statements of Mr. Ravi, KPCC president D.K. Shivakumar told presspersons that Mr. Ravi’s remarks reflect the culture of the BJP. It does not behove Mr. Ravi, who was Kannada and Culture Minister once, to make futile attempts to bring a bad name to tall national leaders like Nehru or Indira Gandhi, he said. Mr. Shivakumar said that one of the Ministers in the current Cabinet had back then led the initiative to collect signatures of legislators to name the canteen after Indira Gandhi. He, however, did not name the Minister. ‘Act according to position’ Congress Working Presidents Ramalinga Reddy, Saleem Ahmed, and Ishwar Khandre also took objection to the statement. Mr. Reddy said: “Indira Canteen was started to address poor people’s hunger and the BJP is only politicising the matter. Mr. Ravi is the BJP national general secretary and should not speak in such a manner.” Mr. Siddaramaiah said Mr. Ravi should act according to his position and not with utter ignorance about history. “He should read history and learn to accord respect to national leaders,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ct-ravi-wades-into-controversy-with-remarks-on-nehru-indira-gandhi/article35889133.ece
13 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘SIT probe conducted in absence of its chief not vitiated’||The State government on Thursday told the High Court of Karnataka that investigations carried out by the Special Investigation Team (SIT) into the alleged CD scandal involving former Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi is not vitiated merely because of absence of head of SIT due to medical reason. Also, both the government and the SIT, in their separate statements, pointed out to the court that the two First Information Reports (FIRs) – one based on Mr. Jarkiholi’s complaint and another on the woman’s complaint – were entrusted to the individual Investigation Officers (IOs) by the Commissioner of Police as per the provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure. It was contended in the statement that while entrusting the FIRs to the separate IOs, the Commissioner asked them to carry out the investigation under the supervision of the Deputy Commissioner (Central Division), who is a member of the SIT. The head of the SIT and other senior police officers in the team were asked to carry out overall supervision of the investigation of all the cases related to the CD scandal, it was claimed in the statements. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice N.S. Sanjay Gowda, which took statements on record, had asked the SIT’s counsel whether IPS officer Soumendru Mukherjee, head of the SIT, was prepared to review the investigations carried out during the period he was on leave. However, the SIT’s counsel, after speaking to Mr. Mukherjee over phone, told the Bench that the SIT head would confine to what has been said in the written statement, which he admitted that he had not supervised probe when on leave. Following this, the Bench said that only inference that can be drawn from the response of the SIT head was that he is not willing to look into the probe conducted when he was on leave. The Bench also made it clear that it posed the question to the SIT head only in the light of the fact that he had not supervised probe when on leave and to ascertain whether any effort made to find out proper conduct of investigation in his absence. Meanwhile, in their statements, both the government and the SIT denied having leaked details of investigation to any media while clarifying that media reports, published based on “sources”, could have been based on certain submissions made on behalf of SIT before the trial court during the hearing of bail petitions of some of the persons named as accused in these cases. The Bench adjourned hearing till September 3 stating that it would consider all the issues raised in the petitions, including the legality of setting up of SIT.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/sit-probe-conducted-in-absence-of-its-chief-not-vitiated/article35889136.ece
13 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Govt. bans gatherings, public observation of festivals||Considering that COVID-19 cases are seeing an upward trend in some districts and with the festival season from August to October, the State government has ordered a ban on large-scale social, political, religious, and cultural congregation of people. A string of festivals, including Muharram, Krishna Janmashtami, Ganesh Chaturthi, and Durga Puja are celebrated in these months. The government has directed the district authorities to decide on enforcing restrictions locally on the festival days. In a fresh set of guidelines, the State government said that no public observation of festivals or mass gatherings would be permitted in the State during the festive season. No processions It listed out elaborate restrictions on the celebration of the Muharram and Gowri-Ganesha festivals and banned all kinds of processions associated with both festivals. It said that prayers should be held at masjids strictly adhering to COVID-19 appropriate behaviour. The order issued by Principal Secretary, Revenue, Tushar Girinath said places of worship such as temples, mosques and churches would be allowed to open by strictly adhering to the COVID-19 appropriate behaviour. But taking out processions, annual jatras, and holding public meetings had been banned. Installation of Alams during Muharram in public places has been banned. All those aged 60 and above and children aged 10 and below have to conduct prayers at home. Prayers have been banned at community halls, shadi mahals, and other public places during Muharram. No pandals Similarly, the order has banned the public celebration of the Ganesha festival by setting up pandals. People must celebrate the festival in their homes and no procession would be allowed while bringing the Ganesha idol or during the immersion of the idols, the order said. Wearing masks and maintaining social distance have been made mandatory during the festivals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/govt-bans-gatherings-public-observation-of-festivals/article35889127.ece
13 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Two cars of Bommanahalli MLA Satish Reddy set on fire||The police have launched a massive manhunt for the unidentified men who broke into the residence of Bommanahalli MLA Satish Reddy and set fire to two cars around 1.25 a.m. on Thursday. Home Minister Araga Jnanendra, after visiting Mr. Reddy at his residence, said strict action would be taken against the arsonists, and announced that three special teams had been set up to track them down. “We have the best police teams on the job and I am confident that the case will be cracked soon,” Mr. Jnanendra said. At the time of going to press, the police had detained a few suspects for questioning and taken two into custody. “We have obtained CCTV camera footage from in and around the area. The initial probe revealed that there were three accused involved in the incident. They came on bikes, purchased petrol from a bunk nearby and then headed to Mr. Reddy’s house,” a police officer said. The men carrying the cans jumped over the gate into the premises. They poured petrol on the vehicles and set them on fire, before fleeing the spot. Though there was a guard and a policeman was deployed in front of the MLA’s house, the accused entered from the back wall. There were many vehicles parked but the perpetrators left them untouched as there was a CCTV camera directed towards them. “ Prima facie investigation reveals that it was a premeditated plan and the accused were aware of the security arrangements. We are probing several angles, including political and personal rivalry,” the police officer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bommanahalli-mlas-cars-set-on-fire/article35889250.ece
13 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Microfinance loan portfolio likely to grow at 10-15% in current fiscal: Report||The gross loan portfolio of Non-Banking Finance Companies-Microfinance Institutions (NBFC-MFIs) is likely to grow at 10%-15% in the current fiscal year, aided by an expected pick-up in disbursements and the expected recovery in economic activity, said a report on Tuesday. The gross loan portfolio of NBFC-MFIs is expected to grow largely owing to expansion plans that were halted due to COVID-19 and increased need for credit among low-income segments, according to a report of Bengaluru-based Brickwork Ratings. However, the second wave of COVID-19, which has spread faster in rural areas and has resulted in much higher infections, and the resultant local lockdowns, may restrict fresh disbursements as well as collections, although normalcy is expected to resume in the financial year 2021-22, which will also result in release of pent-up demand for credit. However, the Portfolio At Risk of NBFC-MFIs may inch up to 5.5-6% this fiscal from 5.4% in the previous fiscal due to uncertainties over the pandemic in India, it said. The Gross Loan Portfolio or NBFC-MFIs had grown only 11% year-on-year in 2020-21.  RBI announcement The report said the recent RBI announcements on increasing the flow of credit to Micro, Small and Medium Enterprise borrowers, along with allowing loans given to MFIs for onward lending by small finance banks to be treated under priority sector lending, will give impetus to growth in credit by MFIs. As transactions with microfinance customers are cash-intensive, requiring field visits, the lockdown had a strong impact on asset quality as their collections were badly hampered, it said. Additionally, with the absence of a moratorium and other measures, livelihood in rural areas has been badly hit. “These factors may result in MFIs facing challenges in collection and recovery of loans, thereby resulting in higher credit costs for players,” the report said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/microfinance-loan-portfolio-likely-to-grow-at-10-15-in-current-fiscal-report/article35889128.ece
13 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Kaggadasapura lake encroachment cleared||The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) on Thursday cleared encroachments on 22 guntas of Kaggadasapura lake. It had identified encroachments on 2 acres and 0.8 gunta of the lake spread over 47 acres in Varthur/Marathahalli hobli of Bengaluru East taluk. Of this, the BBMP has begun clearing encroachments on 1 acre and 5 guntas. The encroachment clearance drive was taken up following an interim order of the High Court. In a press release, the BBMP said the decision on clearing the house of the priest of Jalakanteshwari temple was yet to be taken, with local residents claiming demolition may hurt their religious sentiments. The BBMP has written to the Deputy Commissioner to present the case at the district-level committee, as per the instructions of the High Court and the government. Clearing encroachment by Swami Vivekananda Yoga centre, BBMP dry waste centre, and few others would be done after alternative arrangements are put in place.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kaggadasapura-lake-encroachment-cleared/article35889425.ece
13 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Demolition of structures: BBMP move questioned||The High Court of Karnataka on Thursday questioned the conduct of the Bruhat Bangalore Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) demolishing only five illegally constructed religious structures even after identifying 277 such structures built after September 29, 2009, the cut-off date set by the apex court for preventing such constructions. “Shockingly, as per the affidavit filed on August 10, 2021, it has been stated that only five of such illegal structures have been demolished so far...” the court observed. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice N.S. Sanjay Gowda made these observations during the hearing of PIL petitions initiated suo motu by the court to monitor implementation of apex court’s 2009 and 2010 directions to prevent illegal construction of religious structures on public land. Even the BBMP has not taken any step to relocate 105 illegal structures, among the religious structures built prior to the cut-off date of 2009, which were identified for relocation based on the guidelines of the apex court, the Bench observed. The Bench also noted that the affidavit filed by the Chief Commissioner of the BBMP is silent on the outer limit for demolition of all the 277 illegal structures as well as for relocating 105 illegal structures. Though the affidavit states that there are disputes over another 379 religious structures on whether they are built on public or private lands, the Bench said that the affidavit has not set any deadline for completing the process of verification.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/demolition-of-structures-bbmp-move-questioned/article35889426.ece
13 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||2023 elections: JD(S) to hold training workshop||Setting a target of securing a majority on its own in the 2023 Assembly elections, the Janata Dal (Secular) will identify and train its probable candidates in a two-day workshop. Former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy told reporters here that 100 candidates will be identified and trained in the workshop shortly. “We have set Mission 123 for 2023. Besides the sitting legislators, we will identify 100 more,” he sai, and added that the date for workshop will be announced later.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/2023-elections-jds-to-hold-training-workshop/article35889134.ece
13 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||BBMP sero survey results likely next week||The sero survey taken up by the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike earlier this month is likely to be completed next week. According to sources, the objective is to survey 2,000 people — 1,000 vaccinated and 1,000 non-vaccinated individuals — to determine the extent of antibodies present, infection resistance, and severity. Around 1,500 samples, including blood serum and throat swabs, have been collected from as many people. The remaining samples will be collected from individuals already identified through door-to-door surveys by the civic body. “By the end of next week, we may get the results of the sero survey,” the source said, and added that based on the results, the civic body would determine measures to be put in place to check the spread of COVID-19 in the city. Chief Commissioner Gaurav Gupta had launched the sero survey on August 4.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bbmp-sero-survey-results-likely-next-week/article35889418.ece
13 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||10 kg of marijuana seized||The Kengeri police Wednesday arrested two Bangalore Metropolitan Transport Corporation (BMTC) employees, a driver and a conductor, and recovered 10 kg of marijuana from them. The accused, Vittal Bajantri, 32, and Sharanabasappa, 40, hail from Vijayapura. “The accused used to source the drug from their native town and sell it to their customers in the city,” said a police officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/10-kg-of-marijuana-seized/article35889423.ece
13 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||New cases: DK tops for third day in a row||For the third consecutive day, Dakshina Kannada district, bordering Kerala, topped the daily COVID-19 cases in Karnataka. With 475 new cases, Dakshina Kannada outnumbered Bengaluru Urban which reported 321 cases. The State reported a total of 1,857 fresh infections and 30 deaths on Thursday, taking the tally to 29,24,732 and the toll to 36,911, the Health and Family Welfare Department bulletin said. Bidar, Yadgir, and Koppal reported no fresh cases. The day also saw 1,950 recoveries, taking the total number to 28,65,067.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/new-cases-dk-tops-for-third-day-in-a-row/article35889424.ece
13 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Diploma course with exit option launched||The Higher Education Department has launched admissions to diploma courses for the current academic year with exit option as per the National Education Policy (NEP) guidelines. A press release issued by Higher Education Minister C.N. Ashwath Narayan stated that students who get admission to diploma courses across the State will have the option to exit after completion of one year along with a certificate which is associated with National Skill Qualification Framework (NSQF) level one, which will help students start working. The department introduced this as there was a decrease in admissions to diploma courses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/diploma-course-with-exit-option-launched/article35889139.ece
13 August 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||11 new branches||Axis Bank opened 11 branches in Karnataka – 10 in Bengaluru and one at Mulki in Dakshina Kannnada district. Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai virtually inaugurated the branches.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/11-new-branches/article35889129.ece
13 August 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||KLE Society’s school gets NCC junior wing||Naval NCC Junior Division/Junior wing was inaugurated at KLE Society’s school at Nagarabhavi on August 11. Inspector-General of Police Chandra Sekhar and Commanding Officer B.N. Ravikiran were the chief guests at the event. Mr. Chandra Sekhar told the gathering that in order to forge ahead towards success, one must overcome fear. He also said that introspection was needed to better oneself. One must have the courage to speak the truth and take the right action, he said. Mr. Ravikiran said students need to imbibe discipline in every sphere of life and take up NCC for committed service to the nation, according to a release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kle-societys-school-gets-ncc-junior-wing/article35889412.ece
13 August 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Training programme||The inaugural programme of a six-month basic training course for 24 instructors, eight assistant instructors, and 13 sainiks selected for the Department for Home Guards and Civil Defence was held on August 11 at the head office of the Home Guards and Civil Defence. DGP Amar Kumar Pandey presided over the programme. ADGP Sunil Agarwal, DIG K.T. Balakrishna, DCG Renuka Sukumar, and KSPS Academy Commandant Samiulla Khan participated at the event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/training-programme/article35889413.ece
13 August 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Women’s coop. society facing hurdles in Pavitra Vastra project||Citing bureaucratic hurdles in utilising the funds granted for its ambitious Pavitra Vastra project, Charaka Women’s Multi-purpose Cooperative Society of Bheemanakone in Sagar taluk has urged the Chief Minister to take back the amount. The office-bearers of the organisation, on Thursday, returned the cheque books and other bank documents related to Rs. 33 lakh to the Deputy Director of the Department of Handloom and Textiles in Shivamogga as a mark of protest. They have written a letter to Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai in this regard. The project was proposed by the society for which the State government gave support. The objective was to supply handloom products for religious institutions in the State. It is a project with a total investment of Rs. 1.5 crores. The society would spend Rs. 57 lakh towards basic infrastructure and the State government would provide equipment, training, market development among others at Rs. 93 lakh. “The State government granted Rs. 33 lakh to the society. The amount was released and kept in a joint account of the society and the department. However, for a year, we have not been able to draw the money. Even after submitting necessary documents, the officers have not allowed drawing the money”, said Gowramma, chairperson of the society at a press conference in Shivamogga. Documents returned After the press conference, the office-bearers returned the bank documents. “As a mark of protest we have submitted cheque books to the officer”, said Padmashree, marketing executive of the society. Prasanna, theatre personality and founder of the society, told The Hindu that this had been the practice of most of the government departments. The officers deny the benefits to beneficiaries, besides bringing bad name to the government. “The project was in the pipeline for many years, but no funds were released. Only after I staged a protest last year, then Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa invited me. He was impressed by the project and enhanced the funds. He also instructed his secretary to follow it up. Even then, things did not move further”, he said. The organisation has appealed to the public to purchase handloom products to encourage rural women engaged in the production.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/womens-coop-society-facing-hurdles-in-pavitra-vastra-project/article35889237.ece
13 August 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Clear encroachments on tanks: Shivamogga DC||Shivamogga Deputy Commissioner K.B. Shivakumar has instructed officers to clear the encroachments upon tanks in the district. He held a video conference with taluk officers on this issue at his office in Shivamogga on Thursday. Following the direction of the National Green Tribunal a district-level committee had been constituted to clear tank encroachments. The officers should conduct a survey of tanks and clear the encroachments. Later, the tanks should be handed over to the departments concerned. A nodal officer would be appointed to each tank. If the tanks were encroached upon further, the nodal officer concerned would be held responsible. At the taluk level, tahsildars should form a committee of officers to clear the encroachments. An action plan should be prepared to achieve this. The committee could initiate legal action against the encroachers if they refused to budge after issuing them notices, the DC said. Shivamogga district has a total of 6,803 tanks spread over 51,368 acres. So far the survey of 1,373 tanks has been completed and an area of 11,152 acres had been identified. The survey of the remaining 5,430 tanks, spread over 39,801 acres, was yet to be done, officers said in the meeting. Additional SP H.T. Shekhar and Additional DC Nagendra Honnalli were present at the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/clear-encroachments-on-tanks-shivamogga-dc/article35889247.ece
13 August 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Girl assaulted||A group of six people, allegedly into timber smuggling, assaulted a 16-year-old girl at Hirebidare in Chikkamagaluru taluk on Wednesday accusing her of informing the Forest Department officials on their illegal activities. Lakshmi, who passed SSLC this year, was beaten with sticks and slapped repeatedly. She is undergoing treatment at a hospital in Chikkamagaluru. Meenakshi, Punit, Narayan, Venkatesh, Sudhi and Shiva entered her house on Wednesday morning and snatched her phone and assaulted her. It is said the previous night the group was transporting trees cut in the nearby forest illegally. The girl had come out of the house in the dark and spotted their activity. Incidentally, the forest officials had stopped their consignment later. “I had gone out as dogs were barking in the night. I did not call any official to inform him about any activity. However, they did not believe me”, she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/girl-assaulted/article35889238.ece
13 August 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Man arrested on charge of shooting son||A 30-year-old person was shot dead allegedly by his aged father at Gonibeedu in Mudigere taluk on Wednesday night. Kiran, unmarried, was shot at as he returned home from the farm. When the neighbours gathered after hearing the gunshot, Kiran’s father Lakshmana Gowda allegedly admitted that he killed his son. Gonibeedu police reached the spot and took the accused into custody. Lakshmana Gowda had health issues and he often had heated arguments with his son. Gonibeedu police have registered a case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/man-arrested-on-charge-of-shooting-son/article35889248.ece
13 August 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Man murdered||A person was found murdered at Karehatti village near Arsikere town on Tuesday night. The police gave the name of the deceased as Navaz, 27, of Srinivas Nagar in Arsikere. Navaz’s mother Arshaf Unnisa, in her complaint to the police, named Yashwanth Naik, Tejas, Gururaj, Manu, Swamy and Sharat as accused. They were all once friends of Navaz. Recently they had differences over financial transactions. They had met Navaz on Tuesday evening and had heated arguments near Shiva Temple in Arsikere town. Arshaf Unnisa had pacified both. However, later, the accused asked Navaz to meet them at Karehatti, where he was hacked to death, the complainant said.  The police have taken up the investigation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/man-murdered/article35889239.ece
13 August 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Panchamasali awareness campaign from Aug. 26||The Lingayat Panchamasali community, which had earlier launched Panchamasali Padayatra to press for inclusion under 2A category of Backward Classes, will organise an awareness campaign called Panchamasali Pratijnya Panchayat from August 26 to September 30 in every taluk of the State. Addressing presspersons here on Thursday after a round table conference of the community, seer of Lingayat Panchamasali Peetha at Koodalasangama Sri Basava Jaya Mrutyunjaya Swami said that the awareness campaign will begin at Male Mahadeswara Hills in Chamarajnagar district and will cover the entire State. The swami said that the campaign is to remind the State government of its assurance to decide on the reservation issue within six months and also to sensitise the community members on the developments so far and prepare plans for further agitation if the government fails to keep its promise. The swami said that the main demand of the community is inclusion under 2A category of the State and OBC category of the Union government. This apart, the community will urge the government to consider and fulfil the reservation demands of the Kuruba, Valmiki, Madivala, Gangamata, Adi Banajiga, Kudu Vokkaliga and other communities. To a query, the swami clarified that right from the beginning the agitation was aimed at getting reservation and was not meant for any leader from the community to become a Minister or th Chief Minister. He further clarified that after developments indicated a change in the BJP leadership in the State, it was true that the community sought that post for the numerically strong Panchamasali community. “While the community is pained that a leader from the community has not been made Chief Minister, it is a matter of consolation that a Lingayat has been made the Chief Minister,” he said. National president of Lingayat Panchamasali Samaj Vijayanand Kashappanavar said that the objective of the agitation is not political representation but getting due reservation for the community. He said that if the government fails to keep its promise, then the indefinite agitation in Bengaluru will be even bigger this time with an expected participation of over 20 lakh people. Regarding efforts to set up another platform for the community, Mr. Kashappanavar said that they will be least bothered even if 10 more peethas (religious chairs) are established. “We will continue fighting till we get reservation,” he said. The former legislators from the community H.S. Shivashankar, Somanna Bevinamarad, Nandihalli Halappa and legal advisor Dinesh Patil, who participated in the conference, said that their primary objective is getting reservation and the community is united on the issue. Mr. Dinesh Patil said that there is no legal hurdle for the government to include the community under 2A category and they have urged the Backward Classes Commission to submit its report to the government at the earliest.  ‘The community will also urge the government to consider and fulfil the reservation demands of the Kuruba, Valmiki, Madivala, Gangamata, Adi Banajiga, Kudu Vokkaliga and other communities’||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/panchamasali-awareness-campaign-from-aug-26/article35889115.ece
13 August 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Heritage walk held in Dharwad dist.||Students and officials from various departments took part in the heritage walk, organised as part of the 75th Independence Day celebrations, in Dharwad on Thursday. The district administration, in association with the Department of Kannada and Culture, the Department of Archaeology and Museums, the Archives Department, and the Tourism Department, jointly organised the event, which is part of a series of programmes to mark the occasion. As Karnatak College in Dharwad has witnessed historical events related to freedom struggle, the walk was flagged off on the college premises. In 1944, the college had hoisted the tri-colour and eminent personalities in the college had worn khadi clothes. Apart from the college, several other important places were part of the walk. Additional Deputy Commissioner Shivanand Karale flagged off the walk and called on students to read history to know the contribution of the freedom fighters. General Secretary of Karnataka Vidyavardhaka Sangh Prakash Udakeri said that it was a good move to introduce historical places to the students and sensitise them about the contribution of places and personalities. The walk reached Boys Training Institute, where the participants were briefed about Deputy Chennabassappa and Jeevan Shikshana monthly magazine, which is 150-years-old. A banyan tree, which was planted in 1903 by Rodda Srinivas Rao here, was also introduced to the students. Later, the students were taken to the Khilafat movement memorial at Jhakani bhavi in the heart of Dharwad. This memorial has built as a tribute to three Khilafat activists who were martyred during a peaceful protest in front of a liquor shop at Jhakani Bhavi in 1921. The students were then taken to Karnatak Vidyavardhakh Sangh, established in 1890. The sangh nurtured scores of freedom fighters, Gandhians, and is considered a voice of Kannada and Kannadigas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/heritage-walk-held-in-dharwad/article35889125.ece
13 August 2021||Hubballi,KARNATAKA||2A reservation: Panchamasalis set September 15 deadline||The Panchamasali community, the numerically strong subsect among Lingayats, has set September 15 as deadline for the State government to decide on the issue of including the community under 2A category of backward classes. Addressing presspersons in Hubballi on Thursday along with Panchamasali leaders Vijayanand Kashappanavar and Basanagouda Patil Yatnal, H.S. Shivashankar and others, seer of Lingayat Panchamasali Peetha Basava Jaya Mrutyunjaya Swami said this decision was taken in the roundtable conference of the Panchamasali community in Hubballi on Thursday. The conference, in which Panchamasali leader and Public Works Minister C.C. Patil also took part, passed five resolutions, including the September 15 deadline, for fulfilment of long pending demands. “A decision to launch an indefinite agitation from October 1 at Freedom Park in Bengaluru if the government failed to fulfil the demand was also taken at the conference,” he said. The seer said after the “Panchamasali Padayatra” and subsequent raising of the issue during the legislative session by Mr. Yatnal early this year, the then Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa had sought six months to decide on the issue of providing 2A reservation to the community and the then Home Minister and present Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai had mediated on the issue. “Subsequently, the Chief Minister referred the matter to the Backward Classes Commission. As per the government’s assurance, six months will be completed on September 15. We want the government to decide before that,” the seer said. He said the conference expressed trust in Mr. Bommai as he was the one who mediated and was supportive of the community’s demand. Expedite report As the Backward Classes Commission had not been able to hold further meetings due to the COVID-19 pandemic, it had been requested to submit its report to the government at the earliest, the seer said. To a query, he said Mr. C.C. Patil, who attended the conference in Hubballi, had been authorised to mediate between the State government and the community on the issue. He has promised to arrange a meeting with the Chief Minister at the earliest, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/2a-reservation-panchamasalis-set-september-15-deadline/article35889131.ece
13 August 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||GP employees plan strike on Aug. 17||Seeking minimum wages and other facilities, the State Gram Panchayat Employees Association will launch an indefinite agitation in Bengaluru on August 17. Association president B.I. Iliger told presspersons in Dharwad on Thursday that despite a strict direction to provide minimum salary to gram panchayat employees, the State government has not implemented it. Mr. Iliger said that for the last 10 months, the State government has not released salaries causing inexplicable problems to the employees and their families. The association will also demand that the State government amend the Cadre and Recruitment rules to consider data entry operators, pump operators and other office aides as gram panchayat employees. He said that 1,500 employees from Dharwad will take part in the agitation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/gp-employees-plan-strike-on-aug-17/article35889114.ece
13 August 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Kalaburagi civic body polls to be held on September 3||The elections to the 55 wards of Kalaburagi Municipal Corporation will be held on September 3 and the model code of conduct will be enforced between August 16 and September 6, said Kalaburagi Deputy Commissioner Vijaya Jyothsna. Addressing a press conference at her office here on Thursday, Ms. Jyothsna said that she would issue an election notification soon to mark the enforcement of the poll code and the commencement of filing nominations. As per the calendar of events she released, the last date for filing nomination papers is August 23 and the last date for withdrawal of nomination papers is August 24. The polling will be held between 7 a.m. and 5 p.m. on September 3. The re-election, wherever required, will be held on September 5 between 7 a.m. and 5 p.m. The votes would be counted on September 6 and the results announced immediately after the completion of vote-counting. Briefing on the poll code, Ms. Jyothsna made it clear that the candidates wishing to contest the elections can submit their nominations papers to the election officers designated to each ward between August 16 and 23. Only five people, including the candidate, will be allowed inside the office of the election officer and only two vehicles are allowed in the radius of 100 metres from the election officer’s office, she added. “As many as 533 polling stations would be opened for 55 wards. There are 5,19,464 voters in the corporation limits including- 2,58,775 men, 2,60,543 women, and 146 others. The critical polling stations would shortly be identified and measures required for fair and free elections would be taken,” Ms. Jyothsna said warning the violators of stringent action.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kalaburagi-civic-body-polls-to-be-held-on-september-3/article35889123.ece
13 August 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Hosabale’s statement welcomed||State Vice-president of BJP’s SC Morcha Ambaraya Ashtagi has welcomed the remarks of Sarkaryavah (general secretary) of the Rashtriya Swayamsewak Sangh (RSS) Dattatreya Hosabale on the Constitutional provisions for reservation for socially oppressed communities. In a media release, Mr. Ashtagi said that the Congress had been propagating that the RSS and the BJP are against reservation and Mr. Hosabale has now made it clear that his organisation will support caste-based reservation. “The Congress, which ruled the country for decades, never made any serious efforts to develop the oppressed Dalit communities. It used them as its vote-bank and Dalits are slowly deserting it now,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hosabales-statement-welcomed/article35889113.ece
13 August 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||‘Lessons from COVID-19 waves reason for enhanced vigil’||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Thursday justified curbs on travellers from neighbouring Kerala and Maharashtra to enter the State saying that the government has learnt lessons from the spread of COVID-19 first and second waves. “Both the waves entered Karnataka from Kerala and Maharashtra and spread across the State. As such, I held meetings with experts and the Health Minister to assess the situation immediately after taking the oath of office. It was decided to exercise absolute precaution in the border areas,” he told media persons after inaugurating a new Intensive Care Unit at the District Government Wenlock Hospital here. Therefore, Mr. Bommai said, the government has made it mandatory for people from these two States to produce COVID-19 RT-PCR test negative certificates not older than 72 hours before entering the State. “This has been done to ensure the safety of our people,” he said. Speaking about the ICU he inaugurated, Mr. Bommai congratulated the Health Department, the district administration and the Confederation of Indian Industry for joining hands to augment health infrastructure. “Every district and taluk hospital in the State will be equipped with adequate infrastructure so as to face any kind of situation,” Mr. Bommai said. The CII chipped in with about Rs. 42 lakh donated by its members towards equipment required for the state-of-the-art 32-bed ICU at the Wenlock. United Breweries, Diya Systems, CII Foundation, Delhi, Symnox Solutions, Gwasaf, Baikampady, Konkan Speciality Polyproducts, Novigo Solutions, Areva, Kalbhavi Cashews, Specgtrum Industries, MMPS, Aruna Masala, Amit Cashews, Kanara Small Industries Association and District Small Industries Association contributed the amount. The ICU was built at a cost of Rs. 1.24 crore from the State Disaster Relief Fund. The hospital already has a 35-bed ICU provided by Mangalore Smart City Ltd. Ministers Kota Srinivas Poojari, S. Angara, K. Sudhakar, V. Sunil Kumar, Member of Parliament Nalin Kumar Kateel, MLAs and others were present.  Basavaraj Bommai congratulated the Health Department, the district administration and the Confederation of Indian Industry for joining hands to augment health infrastructure ‘Every district and taluk hospital in the State will be equipped with adequate infrastructure so as to face any kind of situation’||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/lessons-from-covid-19-waves-reason-for-enhanced-vigil/article35889559.ece
13 August 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||CM: Vaccinate people living on borders with Kerala on priority||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai here on Thursday directed the Dakshina Kannada administration to vaccinate eligible people living within a 10-km radius on the borders with Kerala, on priority. Speaking at a meeting to review COVID-19 management and with presspersons, the Chief Minister reiterated that the government will give priority while supplying vaccines to the districts bordering Kerala and Maharashtra. The State is now getting 64 lakh to 65 lakh doses of vaccine monthly. The Union government has been requested to supply 1 crore doses this month. He and Health Minister K. Sudhakar will visit Delhi in a few days and will request the Union government to supply 1.5 crore doses monthly from next month, he said. The Chief Minister asked the Dakshina Kannada administration also to vaccinate fishermen and fish traders on priority as they are likely to spread the infection as both visit Kerala. Mr. Bommai asked the administration to depute government staff at the Kerala border check posts on three shifts to check the travellers entering Karnataka round-the-clock. There will be no relaxation in the guidelines, mainly producing RT-PCR negative certificate at borders, already issued for the travellers from Kerala, he said. The Chief Minister said that the government does not want to reimpose a lockdown provided the districts contained the spread of the infection effectively. An expert committee on COVID-19 prevention and management will meet next week to take stock of the situation in the State, especially in Bengaluru and Dakshina Kannada, he said. He said that Dakshina Kannada administration should take the management measures seriously like how it did during the first wave. Appreciating the administration for the steps taken so far, the Chief Minister said that curbing the spread of the infection is a challenge in the district due to its strategic location with tourists, students, business persons, international travellers visiting from national and international destinations. Dr. Sudhakar said that the positivity rate crossing 4 % in the district is a matter of concern.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cm-vaccinate-people-living-on-borders-with-kerala-on-priority/article35889121.ece
13 August 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Bommai inaugurates Ambedkar Bhavan||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Thursday inaugurated a district-level Ambedkar Bhavan at Urwa Store here. Built on 1.61 acres of land at a cost of Rs. 17 crore at Angadigudde, the bhavan has three floors with a total floor area of 32,202 sq ft. Though the work was completed in 24 months after it started in 2017, the building could not be put to use in view of the pandemic. Karnataka Housing Board has got the building constructed. While the ground floor of the building is spread over 9,881 sq ft and will house the offices of the Social Welfare Department, a library, a dining hall and rest rooms for men and women, the first floor spread over 14,090 sq ft has a 560-seat auditorium with 20 ft by 50 ft stage, green rooms and rest rooms. A mezzanine floor with 1,356 sq ft floor area has a lobby and three guestrooms, while the second floor with 9,875 sq ft floor area houses a 150-seat balcony auditorium, 100-seat meeting hall and an office of the Social Welfare Department. The building has provision for parking 70 cars and 35 two-wheelers with necessary water and electricity facilities. Ministers Kota Srinivas Poojari, S. Angara, K. Sudhakar, V. Sunil Kumar, Member of Parliament Nalin Kumar Kateel, MLAs from the district and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bommai-inaugurates-ambedkar-bhavan/article35889560.ece
13 August 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Govt. to take over Mother and Child Hospital in Udupi||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Thursday said that the government will take over the management of Koosamma Shambhu Shetty Memorial Haji Abdullah Mother and Child Hospital, Udupi, from public-private partner BR Life, owned by B.R. Shetty and Binay Shetty. “The required orders will be issued within a week and the takeover of the 200-bed hospital will happen in two stages,” he said, speaking after laying the foundation stone for the 250-bed District Hospital in Udupi. Health and Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar chaired a meeting in this regard on Wednesday, he added. The move comes following public demand for taking over the PPP model hospital after the private partner failed to manage it. Responding to another demand from Member of Legislative Assembly K. Raghupati Bhat for a government medical college in the district, Mr. Bommai said that the government is working out a PPP mode for medical colleges. Once the plan is finalised, Udupi will find itself in the first place in the list, he said and added that there is no dearth for private partners or land to set up a medical college in the district. The demand for upgrading the underground drainage system in Udupi town too will be addressed shortly, he added.  Mr. Bommai said that the pandemic exposed the ill-equipped health infrastructure of the country as it had not been developed up to the expected level post-Independence. However, the government converted the calamity into an opportunity and created a robust healthcare infrastructure in the State under the leadership of the former Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa. As many as 25,000 new oxygenated beds and over 6,000 ventilator beds were added in the last one year while taluk hospitals too were given oxygenated beds. Infrastructure to carry out large-scale vaccination has also been created. When the pandemic was in the peak, the government faced it with step down hospitals and COVID Care Centres. In Udupi district, Kasturba Hospital alone had the swab testing facility. In his first meeting as the district in-charge Minister, he asked the Health Minister to provide one lab for Udupi and within three weeks it was in place. During the second wave, its capacity was enhanced to 4,000 test per day from 2,000, Mr. Bommai noted. Despite he having no association with Udupi other than visiting Lord Krishna, he was made Udupi district in-charge by Mr. Yediyurappa two years ago, Mr. Bommai said. He was overwhelmed by the affection and warmth showered on him by the people who wanted only development and nothing for personal reasons.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/govt-to-take-over-mother-and-child-hospital-in-udupi/article35889566.ece
13 August 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||CM to visit all districts bordering Kerala and Maharashtra||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Thursday said that he will visit all districts of the State bordering Kerala and Maharashtra to review precautionary measures being taken to contain the spread of a possible third wave of COVID-19. “Based on the experience during the first two waves, we concluded that enforcing stricter vigil in the borders abutting the two States should help contain the further spread of the pandemic,” he told reporters after a COVID-19 review meeting in Udupi. Enhanced vigil is necessary in Udupi district too as it shares the borders with Dakshina Kannada, which, in turn, shares borders with Kerala where positive cases are on the higher side. People of both Udupi and Dakshina Kannada have close interactions. Besides, people from at least six districts visit Manipal for healthcare facilities and also many from Mumbai region visit Udupi, he said. The case positivity rate in Udupi district has come down to 2.67% and it was lower than that of the previous weeks. During the last two waves, the pandemic spread through the border districts, Mr. Bommai pointed out. The Chief Minister said that health infrastructure in the district has been augmented by increasing the number of tests from 3,000 to 5,000 per day. He told officials to further increase tests if possible.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cm-to-visit-all-districts-bordering-kerala-and-maharashtra/article35889568.ece
13 August 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Lok Adalat in Udupi tomorrow||A mega Lok Adalat will be conducted in all courts in Udupi district from 10.30 a.m. on Saturday. In all, 4,678 cases have been identified for disposal, through compromise. Call Ph: 2523355, 9480898702 for details.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/lok-adalat-in-udupi-tomorrow/article35889557.ece
13 August 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||University of Mysore to look into ‘discrepancies’ in K-SET answer keys||University of Mysore Vice-Chancellor G. Hemantha Kumar on Thursday said the allegations of discrepancies in answer keys of K-SET conducted in July and other issues raised by Mysuru MP Pratap Simha will be looked into. “We will clarify to the MP after going into the issues taken up by him. The issue of flawed answer keys has been brought to the notice of the respective subject committee,” he added. Reacting to the MP’s letter to him on the alleged lapses in the conduct of this year’s K-SET, the V-C said all 41 subjects for which the K-SET was conducted had subject committees with experts roped in locally and outside. A total of 17 ‘incorrect’ answer keys in the letter were pointed out, Prof. Kumar said, “So many answer keys going wrong appears unlikely. Anyway, we will examine every issue raised. If required, we can also consider giving grace marks if there was an error in the questions asked in the paper.” CCTV cameras Responding to the claims on non-functional CCTVs at the K-SET evaluation centre and the strong room where the answer scripts had been kept, the V-C said all cameras were working normally and the footage of the last 15-20 days were available. The functions of all cameras were checked and all of them are in working condition, he clarified. The V-C said the re-exam demanded over the alleged discrepancy in the question paper can be decided only after going into the details. “The experts will first go through answer keys and the questions asked in the papers. It is early to comment about the re-exam. Let us enquire into the case first. The UGC’s permission is essential to conduct the re-exam,” he replied. He clarified that the University was collecting a fee of Rs. 1,000 for accepting objections from the candidates over the alleged answer key errors as per the guidelines of the UGC. Nearly 85,000 candidates had enrolled for the test conducted on July 25. Besides Mysuru and Bengaluru, the K-SET for 41 subjects was held at nine other centres in the State. It is conducted once a year for those aspiring to become assistant professors in degree colleges and universities. The UGC has renewed its approval to the university to function as a nodal centre for conducting K-SET in the State for three more years. This is the second year of the K-SET by the university after the renewal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/university-of-mysore-to-look-into-discrepancies-in-k-set-answer-keys/article35889245.ece
13 August 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Bypoll to MCC Ward 36 on Sept. 3||The byelection to Ward No. 36 of Mysuru City Corporation will be held on September 3 with the State Election Commission issuing an order in this regard on Thursday. The byelection had become necessary following the annulment of the election of Rukmini Made Gowda of the JD(S) in May this year. Ms. Rukmini was elected as the Mayor of Mysuru in February but lost the post three months later after the Karnataka High Court upheld the order of the District Court rescinding her election. The byelection coincides with the elections to the Belagavi, Hubballi-Dharwad and Kalaburagi City Corporations. Ms. Rajani of the Congress had questioned the sanctity of her election filing a petition in a local court in view of the false affidavit relating to her assets. The District and Sessions Court had ruled against Ms. Rukmini Made Gowda and ordered that Ms. Rajani, who had polled the second highest votes, be declared winner. However, Ms. Rukmini Made Gowda moved the High Court which annulled her election. It refused to declare her opponent Ms. Rajani as the winner and ordered fresh elections. Ms. Rukmini’s election as the Mayor caused a rift in the Congress as former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah was not keen on an alliance with the JD(S) in the MCC. Former Minister Tanveer Sait decided to join hands with the JD(S) to prevent the BJP from coming to power. In the agreement, the JD(S) got the Mayor’s post. After the election, Mr. Sait was asked to give an explanation. Deputy Commissioner Bagadi Gautham, in a release, announced the by-poll schedule with the model code of conduct coming into effect from August 16. The poll code will be confined to the ward limits. The last date to file nominations is August 23. The papers will be scrutinised on August 24 and the last date to withdraw nominations is August 26. The election will be held on September 3 from 7 a.m. to 5 p.m. The counting of votes will be take place on September 6. The Yaraganahalli ward has been reserved for backward classes b (woman). The total number of voters is 10,883 and female voters outnumber male voters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bypoll-to-mcc-ward-36-on-sept-3/article35889241.ece
13 August 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Ten-lane expressway to be ready by Oct. 2022: Gadkari||Work on the 10-lane expressway between Mysuru and Bengaluru is likely to be completed by October 2022, according to Union Minister for Road Transport and Highways Nitin Gadkari. He took to Twitter on Wednesday and said that the work on the economic corridor was proceeding at “record speed.” The expressway, coming up at a cost of Rs. 8,172 crore, is also expected to reduce the travel time between Mysuru and Bengaluru to 90 minutes from the present three hours, the Union Minister said. “10-lane Bengaluru-Mysuru economic corridor is being constructed at record speed. Rs. 8172 crore economic corridor is likely to be completed by October 2022. It will reduce travel time between the two cities by half from current 3 hours to only 90 minutes. #PragatiKaHighway”, Mr. Gadkari tweeted. The Union Minister’s assurance of the project being completed by the scheduled deadline of October 2022 comes after doubts were raised about a possible delay owing to COVID-19. Work resumed During the second wave of the pandemic, several workers had either left for their native places or had to be quarantined after their co-workers tested positive, affecting the pace of work. However, officials said that work had resumed soon after the second wave began declining. An estimated 8,000 workers are engaged in the 118-km long expressway that comprises a six-lane highway and a two-lane service road on either side. By-pass roads are also coming up at Srirangapatna, Mandya, Maddur, Channapatna, Ramanagaram and Bidadi as part of the project.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ten-lane-expressway-to-be-ready-by-oct-2022-gadkari/article35889243.ece
13 August 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Stalls selling Soligas’ coffee, pepper soon at Bandipur, M.M. Hills||The Coffee Board is setting up a plant on B.R. Hills in Chamarajanagar district for processing the coffee cultivated by Soligas in the region. Black pepper which is grown on the hills will also be processed at the same site. A one-acre plot is expected to be allotted to the Board. Deputy Commissioner M.R. Ravi on Thursday told the officials to identify land for allotment to the Coffee Board. The Soliga tribal families are becoming planters, cultivating coffee in the hills. Besides becoming the land owners, they are turning into growers. The DC said a five-acre plot is also being allotted in Chamarajanagar for setting up a food park from the Soligas Trifed. Stalls selling coffee and pepper grown by Soligas will come up at tourist destinations in the district including Bandipur and M.M. Hills, and the officials had been asked to make marketing arrangements for the brand. In 2020-21, Soligas had produced 70 tonnes of coffee, earning about Rs. 1.5 crore. This year, all help should be extended to them so that the yield goes up, Mr. Ravi said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/stalls-selling-soligas-coffee-pepper-soon-at-bandipur-mm-hills/article35889249.ece
13 August 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Chamundi temple closed on Aug. 13, 20||The district administration has imposed restrictions yet again, even after the Ashada season, on the entry of devotees to Sri Chamundeshwari Temple atop Chamundi Hills for containing the rush during the ensuing festive season in view of the pandemic. The temple will be out of bounds for devotees on Fridays – August 13 and 20 – and on order in this regard was issued by Deputy Commissioner Bagadi Gautham on Thursday. Devotees had been barred from visiting the temple on Fridays and weekends during Ashada season. Usually, Fridays in Ashada season attract a large number of devotees. The authorities have continued to enforced curbs on entry because of a general alert in the district with cases surging in neighbouring Kerala. Naga Panchami is celebrated on August 13 and Sri Varamahalakshmi festival on August 20.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/chamundi-temple-closed-on-aug-13-20/article35889246.ece
13 August 2021||August 13 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Study finds lower levels of IgG seroprevalence in State||The study was done among three groups of participants (low, moderate, and high-risk) from January 25 to February 18, 2021. They underwent both RT-PCR and antibody (IgG) testing. A longitudinal study among participants identified as COVID-19 positive in the first survey round was also conducted to assess the clinical sensitivity of the testing kit used. According to the study, which was supported by the Karnataka National Health Mission, the Department of Health and Family Welfare, and the Directorate of Medical Education, in the first round of the survey in Karnataka, the estimated total burden was 27.7% as of September 16, 2020. All States in India, including Karnataka, showed a decreasing trend from mid-October 2020 to January, 2021. “The study found lower levels of IgG seroprevalence, mostly due to antibody waning. A sub-study was done to confirm the antibody waning. This study was delayed due to the rapid surge of cases in April. The study findings enabled identification of districts that needed better testing, reporting, or clinical management. The State was far from attaining natural immunity at the time of survey. The Department of Health and Family Welfare of Karnataka has used the data from this round of serosurvey in late March to update testing and surveillance strategies,” Siva Athreya from the Indian Statistical Institute, one of the authors, told The Hindu . The study showed that while the total prevalence of IgG was 15.6%, demography-wise, the total prevalence was higher among males than females. In a reversal from Round-1, the rural population had a higher total prevalence (15.4%) compared to the urban population (14%). The high-risk (vulnerable) segment of the population continued to be at higher risk (16.8%), followed by the moderate risk (14.3% ), and then the low-risk population (11.2%). As for cases-to-infections ratio (CIR), at the State level, for every RT-PCR confirmed case, there were 12 infected individuals with detectable IgG levels, which was estimated using the 9,46,860 reported cases in Karnataka as of February 18, 2021. Corresponding author Giridhara R. Babu from the Indian Institute of Public Health, Bengaluru, tweeted: “We found near 0 prevalence of active cases during mid-February, 2021. There was a subsequent surge seen in Karnataka state due to a mix of alpha, delta which was picking up speed in April, and a large susceptible population were infected.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/study-finds-lower-levels-of-igg-seroprevalence-in-state/article35889422.ece
13 August 2021||August 13 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Saying it with flowers||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/saying-it-with-flowers/article35889411.ece
13 August 2021||August 13 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Temple darshan||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/temple-darshan/article35889564.ece
13 August 2021||August 13 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Special treat||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/special-treat/article35889141.ece
13 August 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Valiazheekal bridge to be opened next month||The construction of the Valiazheekal bridge over Kayamkulam Kayal connecting Arattupuzha grama panchayat in Alappuzha and Alappad in Kollam is nearing completion. Officials said the bridge would be opened for traffic in September. “Majority of the work has been completed. Construction of approach roads is progressing. If weather permits, all the pending works will be completed soon and the bridge will be opened,” said an official. Public Works Minister P.A. Mohamed Riyas recently reviewed the progress of the project. Largest arch The bridge with 29 spans is being constructed at Rs. 146 crore. It has a length of 976 m. The major attraction of the bridge is the three bowstring arches in the middle, which will allow hassle-free movement of big fishing boats. It is the longest bowstring arch in south Asia. The bridge running parallel to sea and Kayamkulam Kayal will link Azheekal and Valiazheekal fishing harbours, reducing the distance between the two places by 28 km. “The bridge has been designed to attract tourists. The bridge offers a spectacular view of both the sea and the lake from the middle,” the official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/valiazheekal-bridge-to-be-opened-next-month/article35889209.ece
13 August 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Kuttanad MLA misled House: Kodikunnil||Kodikunnil Suresh, MP, on Thursday hit out at Kuttanad MLA Thomas K. Thomas for his statements in the Assembly that “covered up the real problems being faced by the people in the region.” In a statement issued here, Mr. Suresh said the MLA had on Wednesday misled the Assembly while responding to an adjournment notice moved by Congress MLA P.C. Vishnunath who stated that people were fleeing from the region. ‘Migrated’ Mr. Suresh said that several families had migrated to Alappuzha and Changanassery after the 2018 floods due to the lack of government interventions to prevent flooding in the region.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kuttanad-mla-misled-house-kodikunnil/article35889196.ece
13 August 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Catch snails, win Onam bumper lottery tickets as prize||Catching Giant African snails in Ward 12 (Public Welfare ward) of the Muhamma grama panchayat in Alappuzha has two benefits. It can stop the invasive species, which presents a big threat to the local flora, from ravaging crops, while snail-catchers stand a chance to win the State government’s Thiruvonam bumper lottery, the first prize a whopping Rs. 12 crore. A year-long campaign, Snail-free Village, is being undertaken in the ward to tackle the menace and authorities there recently offered lottery tickets costing Rs. 300 each to the 10 highest snail-catchers to encourage the residents to join the initiative. “The campaign was launched in June. Every alternate month, a five-day drive (first five days) is being carried out to make the ward free of Giant African snails. The second phase was held between August 1 and 5. Apart from distributing salt to all families in the ward, we also offered lottery tickets. The 10 winners have been identified by counting the shells and they will be given the tickets on August 17,” said Latheesh B. Chandran, local ward member. Mr. Chandran said the second phase of the campaign was a huge success with more than 50 families joining the initiative and destroying more than 10,000 snails. “People in the ward have been facing the menace for several years. Farmers, in particular, have suffered huge losses as the snails feed on a wide variety of crop plants,” he said. Snails caught were destroyed by putting them in saltwater. The next phase of the drive will be held from October 1 to 5. Santhappan T.B., who won a lottery ticket by capturing 1,200 snails, said the drive should be expanded to the entire local body. “Giant African snails started to invade the region 10 years ago and it is now everywhere. It eats up all vegetables. There is no way other than to capture and deposit them in saltwater to control its population,” he said. The International Union for Conservation of Nature has declared Giant African snail as one of the worst invasive species. The species, which plays host to parasitic nematode Angiostrongylus cantonensis , is suspected to cause eosinophilic meningitis in humans.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/catch-snails-win-onam-bumper-lottery-tickets-as-prize/article35889217.ece
13 August 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Various events to mark Independence Day||As part of Amrutha Mahotsavam of Independence, a programme organised by the State government to mark the 75th anniversary of the country’s Independence, a remembrance meet on Ethappu Strike, spearheaded by Arattupuzha Velayudha Panicker, and his yearning for freedom will be held on August 15. The programme will be inaugurated by Fisheries Minister Saji Cherian at 12 p.m. at Arattupuzha Velayudha Panicker Memorial Hall, Mangalath, near Arattupuzha. Ramesh Chennithala, MLA and former Leader of the Opposition, will preside. The programme will be live-streamed on https://www.facebook.com/ DistrictInformationOfficer Alappuzha. Independence flame Besides the remembrance meet, ‘Independence flame’ will be lit in all houses, offices, libraries and cultural centres in the district on Saturday evening. Alappuzha district panchayat president K.G. Rajeswari, District Collector A. Alexander and officials of various departments will attend a flame-lighting ceremony at the Alappuzha civil station at 7 p.m. The programmes are organised under the aegis of the Information and Public Relations Department, district administration, various government departments/agencies and other organisations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/various-events-to-mark-independence-day/article35889207.ece
13 August 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||Money seized from civil excise officer||A police team led by Mullaperiyar Deputy Superintendent of Police (Dy.SP) Nandan Pillai seized Rs. 7,490, allegedly extorted from vehicle drivers, from Deepumon, a civil excise officer, at the Cumbom Mettu check-post after a surprise check early Wednesday. District Police Chief R. Karuppusami had directed the Dy.SP to conduct a surprise inspection following complaints that money was being illegally collected from drivers of vehicles carrying goods from Tamil Nadu. Kept in lunch box According to a source, the money was kept inside Deepumon’s empty lunch box. When the police team began the inspection, he tried to flee, but was caught. He is being interrogated. The police are looking into how he got the money, the official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/money-seized-from-civil-excise-officer/article35889213.ece
13 August 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||39 toddy shops closed in Thodupuzha||The Excise Department has closed 39 toddy shops in Thodupuzha range after it was found that the operators supplied cannabinoids-laced toddy to customers. Earlier, 34 cases had been registered against 25 toddy shop licensees and managers in this regard. Laboratory tests on samples collected from 25 toddy shops found that cannabinoids were mixed with toddy to attract more customers. The other shops closed included those owned by the same licensees. Tested last year According to Idukki excise commissioner V.A. Salim, samples were tested from 25 toddy shops in the October-November period of 2020. He said the samples tested confirmed the presence of cannabinoids in the toddy distributed in 25 shops under Thodupuzha range. Cannabinoids contain chemical elements hazardous to health. When mixed with toddy, they give more intoxication and create addiction. Mr. Salim said the licence of the shop owners would be cancelled. The test results were received only recently and hence the delay in taking action, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/39-toddy-shops-closed-in-thodupuzha/article35889203.ece
13 August 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||Power generation comes to a halt at Moolamattom||Power generation at the Moolamattom power plant of the Idukki hydroelectric project has been temporarily halted due to technical problems in the six generators from 7.30 p.m. on Thursday. Curbs likely An official of the Kerala State Electricity Board said there would be a shortage of 300 megawatts of power, adding the State would face restrictions on electricity usage till the power generation was restored to normal. Essential services would not be affected and efforts were on to draw electricity from other sources, said the official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/power-generation-comes-to-a-halt-at-moolamattom/article35889231.ece
13 August 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||Feast for jumbos on World Elephant Day||It was a special day for the 11 elephants, including three calves, at the Muthanga elephant kraal under the Wayanad Wildlife Sanctuary (WWS) on August 12. A small crowd, including forest officials, gathered at the kraal to feed the animals on the occasion of World Elephant Day. The programme was organised by the Forest and Wildlife Department in line with COVID-19 protocol. “The main objective of celebrating Elephant Day is to recognise the importance of elephants in our ecosystem. It also focuses on spreading awareness on their preservation and protection, wildlife warden S. Narendra Babu told The Hindu . Besides their daily ration of wheat and ragi with jaggery, the elephants were given coconut, sugarcane, maize, papaya, pineapple, apple, bananas, and cucumber on the occasion. Mr. Babu inaugurated the anayoottu by feeding Sundari, a trained elephant at the camp after delivering a message commemorating the day. A. Chandran, an elderly tribal mahout of Anapanthi tribal hamlet at Muthanga, performed a gaja pooja. As many as 22 tribal mahouts were honoured on the occasion. The Social Forestry division, Wayanad, organised a webinar in connection with the programme. Assistant wildlife warden K. Hashif presided over the function.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/feast-for-jumbos-on-world-elephant-day/article35889151.ece
13 August 2021||Kannur,KERALA||LDF wins Veerpad by-poll||The Left Democratic Front (LDF) has won the by-election to the Veerpad ward in Aralam panchayat in Kannur district with a clear majority. LDF candidate U.K. Sudhakaran defeated Surendran Parakkathazhath of the United Democratic Front (UDF) by a margin of 137 votes. Both fronts had 17 seats each in the panchayat, and the LDF came to power through a draw of lots. The victory at Veerpad has boosted the confidence of the Left front. Out of the 1,097 votes polled, the LDF got 608 votes while the UDF secured 471 votes. The Bharatiya Janata Party got 11 votes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ldf-wins-veerpad-by-poll/article35889154.ece
13 August 2021||Kannur,KERALA||Seminar on ‘dowry vigilant society’ conducted||Awareness against dowry should start from the family, said Women’s Commission member Shahida Kamal on Thursday. She was inaugurating a seminar on ‘dowry vigilant society’ organised by the Commission and the Kudumbashree District Mission.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/seminar-on-dowry-vigilant-society-conducted/article35889157.ece
13 August 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Ernakulam missed up to three COVID cases for every patient||Ernakulam had missed up to three infections per detected case of SARS-CoV-2, according to the latest official estimates. The estimated ratio of missing cases was 1: 1-3 (reported cases: missed cases), as per the analysis by the Health Department. The number of missed cases was the least in the country as most of the tests were done on targeted sections that included symptomatic, primary contacts and frontline workers. But missing contacts would continue to spread the disease in the community, it said. Ernakulam figures among the districts conducting the maximum number of tests/million. However, the district needed a long-term strategy against the disease while considering the number of susceptible populations. Such measures should include the issue of livelihood of the people, according to the assessment. The data showed that the number of primary contacts per positive case was very low in the district. The number of primary contacts over the past two weeks against the 24,886 cases was 29,591 while the number of secondary contacts was 1,490. Among the health workers, the number of primary contacts was 683 for nearly 330 persons, who tested positive. However, the district-wise strategy continues to focus on “test-isolate-treat” approach along with vaccination. The test positivity rate was remaining high due to the increase in the number of tests, according to the Health department. The district surveillance unit has recommended that testing should be increased in local bodies having a high number of active cases or weekly infection ratio. Sentinel testing should be increased in areas with less than 5% TPR and very low number of new cases in the past two weeks, it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ernakulam-missed-up-to-three-covid-cases-for-every-patient/article35889526.ece
13 August 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Artistes rue low-key Atham celebrations||Sajeevan Thripunithura, a percussion artiste, could hardly hold back his tears after he was left out of the ceremonial hoisting of Atham flag in the temple town of Thripunithura on Thursday. The Panchavadyam performance associated with the Atham flag hoisting and the procession around the town thereafter have been the fief of his family dating back to the time of his grandfather before he followed in his father’s footsteps over 40 years ago. Though the Thripunithura Municipality restricted Atham celebrations to the ceremonial hoisting of flag and a scaled-down percussion performance to mark the occasion for the second year running, Sajeevan was hurt that the civic body did not even alert him despite his emotional connect to the event. “The performance on the occasion, though a scaled-down event, was done by outsiders despite I being around,” he said. Sajeevan came to know about it only when he returned after visiting the home of a deceased in the afternoon. The suspension of Atham celebrations for the second consecutive year has come as a big blow to the large community of performing artistes. No proper stage Eroor Manoj, a Kathakali artiste, who used to perform regularly at the Koothambalam at Thripunithura during Atham celebrations has not had a proper stage since last March except for a few performances at temples as offerings in between. “We have lost not just two seasons, but even off-seasons during the monsoon when we used to get stage programmes overseas. It has dealt a major blow to our livelihood,” he said. While the municipality is holding cultural programmes over its online platforms for 10 days from Thursday, they hardly make up for the loss of income for artistes. “Programmes will be held for one-and-a-half hours daily from 7 p.m. The performers will be paid a nominal fee,” said Rema Santhosh, Thripunithura Municipal Chairperson. Earlier, K. Babu, MLA, hoisted the Atham flag.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/another-suspended-atham-fete-leaves-artistes-crestfallen/article35889206.ece
13 August 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||This lottery vendor in Mahabali avatar turns heads||Mayadevi T.M., a 36-year-old lottery vendor, is not one to give up so easily. Had that been the case, she would not have survived two lockdowns and constraints of multiple containment zones that took a heavy toll on her livelihood. On Thursday, coinciding with Atham, Mayadevi, who is settled in Guruvayur with her 13-year-old daughter, turned up clad in the attire of Mahabali at Thripunithura to sell lottery tickets. In the pre-pandemic years after 2015, she used to be one of the many Mahabalis to stroll along the streets of Thripunithura. Her ‘Mahabali’ used to be a hit at shop inaugurations and other functions during the season that fetched her anything between Rs. 2,000 and Rs. 3,000. But the pandemic has put paid to all that for the second year running. But far from being disheartened, Mayadevi chose to don the role of the demon king nevertheless purely for livelihood reasons. People who otherwise ignore a lottery vendor do pay attention to one dressed up as Mahabali. That is a start for me to pitch ticket sale,” she said. The ploy seems to be paying dividends, as she is now selling more Onam bumper tickets than before in her Mahabali avatar. She hopes to sell as many bumper tickets as possible, giving herself as much chance of selling a winning ticket bringing in considerable commission. Even before she donned the greasepaint for the procession, she had been a constant at the various contests held in connection with Atham celebrations since 2010. Each candidate could contest in up to six events, and there were times when she bagged prizes in all six. “Mono act, fancy dress, and speech used to be my favourites. After a point, my daughter Lakshmi also joined me and between us we won so many trophies,” said Mayadevi who now misses all that excitement. Notwithstanding the hardships of travelling during the pandemic, she keeps moving to different places to sell tickets. She was in Guruvayur before she came to Thripunithura and is now planning to go to Kottayam on Friday. “I don’t want people to get used to the novelty of a lottery vendor turning up as Mahabali,” Mayadevi said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/this-lottery-vendor-in-mahabali-avatar-turns-heads/article35889521.ece
13 August 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Youth held with MDMA||The Ernakulam Excise special squad arrested a youngster with 23.45 grams of MDMA, a premium synthetic drug worth nearly Rs. 3.50 lakh, on Thursday. The arrested is Sheikh Muhsin, 27, of Elamkulam. The drug was seized from his motorcycle. Officials said he was part of a racket smuggling in synthetic drugs from Goa and Bengaluru. The arrest followed orders of Deputy Excise Commissioner Ashok Kumar to conduct special drives to check the flow of illicit liquor and drugs during the Onam season. A team led by Circle Inspector Vinoj, Inspector N. Shankar, Preventive Officers Ramesan K.K. and Pramod K.S., civil excise officers Sathish Babu, Sivakumar, Sreekumar, Jomon, Rajesh, Shibu, Aneesh, and Smitha Jose, and driver Anish Kumar made the arrest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/youth-held-with-mdma/article35889519.ece
13 August 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||HC issues notice to Minister Bindu||The Kerala High Court has issued a notice to Higher Education Minister R. Bindu on a petition challenging her election from the Irinjalakuda Assembly constituency. The petition was filed by Kerala Congress leader Thomas J. Unniyadan, who was defeated in the election. Corruption The petitioner contended that Ms. Bindu was behind several corrupt practices as defined in the Representation of the People Act. He submitted that Ms. Bindu had canvassed votes by misrepresenting herself as a professor. Copies of notices, pamphlets, and posters circulated and used by the candidate were also submitted before the court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hc-issues-notice-to-minister-bindu/article35889524.ece
13 August 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||2,425 more test positive in district||Around 2,425 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Ernakulam on Thursday. Nearly 2,381 persons got infected through local contact in the district. The source of infection in 31 cases has not been ascertained. TPR 12.15% The test positivity rate was 12.15%. The regions in which the positive cases were higher than 30 included Vengola (79), Thrikkakara (60), Payipra (59), Kunnathunad (56), Chittatukara (55), Thripunithura (53), Kottuvally (51), Elankunnapuzha (49), Edathala, Karumalloor, Nellikuzhi, Pallipuram (30), Alangad, Kalamassery, Vadakkekara (38), Chellanam (37), Kavalangad, North Paravur, Kadungalloor, Palluruthy (33), Chengamanad (32), Kunnukara, and Koovapadi (31). Some of the regions that reported fewer than five cases were Ayappankavu, Kadamakudi, Karuvelipadi, Thoppumpady, Mundamveli, Elanji, Elamkulam, Kaloorkad, Keerampara, Thirumaradi, Panampilly Nagar, Mukkannoor, Ernakulam North, Ponekkara, and Panayappilli, according to an official release. Around 19,958 COVID-19 tests were conducted on Thursday. Around 21,475 persons are under treatment for the disease in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/2425-more-test-positive-in-district/article35889527.ece
13 August 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||HC: open church for Orthodox faction||The St. Marthasmooni church, Kottayam, should be thrown open for the Orthodox faction of the Malankara Church within six weeks, the Kerala High Court has ordered. Justice P. V. Kunjikrishnan, who passed the order on Thursday, came down heavily on the district administration and the police for its failure to implement an earlier order of a munsif court in this regard. It was on a petition filed by Father A.V. Varghse seeking the opening of the church for offering prayers that the court issued the order. The Kottayam District Collector and the District Police Chief will open the closed church for the Orthodox faction within six weeks. Directive to SPC The State Police Chief (SPC) will supervise all actions necessary for implementing order of the civil court for opening the church. Adequate police protection shall be provided to Fr. Varghse to conduct religious services in the church and to the parishioners to participate in the services without any hindrance or obstruction from the opposing faction, the court directed. The court also directed the police to book cases against those who might obstruct or create any problem for the opening of the church.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hc-open-church-for-orthodox-faction/article35889219.ece
13 August 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Fire breaks out in building at Edathala||The roof on the first floor of a newly constructed two-storey commercial building at Edathala Junction near Infopark caught fire on Thursday around 5.30 p.m. Sparks from welding are suspected to have set the glass wool, an insulating material made of glass fibres and is highly inflammable, on fire. Fire tenders from Thrikkakara, Thripunithura, Eloor, and Gandhi Nagar rushed to the scene and it took fire fighters over three hours to douse the fire. The building was scheduled to be inaugurated next week.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fire-breaks-out-in-building-at-edathala/article35889525.ece
13 August 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Income Tax dept. directs archdiocese to remit Rs. 3.5 cr.||Close on the heels of the Income Tax Department directing the Ernakulam-Angamaly archdiocese of the Syro-Malabar Church to remit Rs. 3.50 crore, citing capital gains the archdiocese made in land transactions, the Church has submitted an appeal before the I-T Appellate Authority, seeking a relook at the directive. The assessment order dated July 6 says the proceeds in cash after the sale of land (totalling Rs. 3.06 acres) owned by the archdiocese in four places were used for purchasing alternative land in two other places. The Church land was sold citing the need to repay a Rs. 58-crore bank loan. The order was sent by the department’s Central Circle.  Church sources said the I-T Department evaluated the lands and cited capital gains. “We are not at all aware of any undisclosed money involved in the transactions.” A senior priest in the archdiocese said the allegations were being stirred up by detractors within the Church, in the run- up to the Synod slated on August 16. “They have been using such ‘pressure tactics’ for long. This issue could have been averted if I-T returns had been filed on time.” Demand for ouster Meanwhile, the Archdiocesan Movement for Transparency, a collective of Church members, has demanded that the Cardinal be relieved of all responsibilities or dismissed if he refuses to step down in the wake of the High Court order asking him to face trial in a land deal case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/income-tax-dept-directs-archdiocese-to-remit-rs-35-cr/article35889215.ece
13 August 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Survey to identify public transport issues in Kochi||Cochin Smart Mission Limited (CSML) on behalf of Kochi has registered for the Transport4All Challenge rolled out by the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs. The challenge aims to bring together cities, citizens, and start-ups to develop solutions that improve public transport systems, in keeping with the expectations of the public. Through the Transport4All challenge, the aim is to work towards resolving critical problems that citizens face like overcrowding in vehicles, unaffordable fares, and long travel time, and rebuild people’s trust in public transport through digital innovation. Under the chairmanship of the CSML CEO, a task force has been formed as part of the challenge. The link to the survey ishttps://forms.gle/ jQZbGycTarDTuH5t5.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/survey-to-identify-public-transport-issues-in-kochi/article35889523.ece
13 August 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Create HSA (English) cadre: HC||The Kerala High Court on Thursday directed the State government and the Director of Public Instructions (DPI) to create and formulate the cadre of high school assistant (HSA) (English) in government schools with effect from the academic year 2021-22. A Division Bench of the court consisting of Chief Justice S. Manikumar and Justice Shaji P. Chaly issued the order on a public interest litigation filed by the president of the Parent-Teacher Association of Government Girls Higher Secondary School, Kannattopudam, Thrissur; and Government High School, Kalloorpara, Pathanamthitta. Petitioners’ plea The petitioners contended that denying the post of HSA (English) in government schools with 15 periods and three divisions in the high school section violated the provisions of the Kerala Education Act and Kerala Education Rules. They sought a directive to the DPI to conduct staff fixation in the government schools considering English as a language as provided in the Kerala Education Rules and to sanction at least one HSA (English) post in all government schools with at least three high school divisions and 15 periods for English.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/create-hsa-english-cadre-hc/article35889218.ece
13 August 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Hearing on fake lawyer case on Aug. 31||The Kerala High Court has refused to issue an interim order on the anticipatory bail plea by Cessy Xavier, a woman who allegedly practised as a lawyer without a valid certificate for more than two-and-a-half years. As the case came up for hearing, Justice K. Haripal noted that the petition had to be heard in detail. The court allowed the petitioner to file counter-affidavit in an impleading petition moved by a member of the Alappuzha Bar Association. The court posted the case for August 31.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hearing-on-fake-lawyer-case-on-aug-31/article35889518.ece
13 August 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Their basket of woes brims over||COVID-19 related curbs, difficulty in commuting, and arrival of sophisticated supply chains and apps during the pandemic have made life difficult for women engaged in fish vending across the State. While incidents of police brutality and ill-treatment by protocol enforcers are on the rise, the women say they are aghast at the lukewarm response of the government that considers safety of women a priority. “I have been selling fish for the past 35 years and life has never been so difficult. We are scared to sit at our usual spots and many times a day we are forced to run from one place to another with the heavy basket. These days we get panic attacks seeing government vehicles and we wonder if fish vending is an illegal affair,” says Mercy, a fisherwoman. She has lost several customers of late as people got accustomed to online purchases and home deliveries during the lockdown. “Most days we arrive late or are forced to conduct sales at different points due to the ever-changing norms.” According to them, the recent incident at Attingal involving an elderly vendor is not a stray episode. “They say another incident at Paripally is fabricated, but in Attingal you all saw the woman begging the municipal employees not to take away her merchandise. Fisherwomen have been facing this issue at many places and the authorities keep supporting and justifying the perpetrators,” says Mable Rymond, president, Theeradesha Mahilavedi. With Matsyafed stopping its special bus service to fish landing centres, women are struggling to carry out sales at many places. “Arranging transportation and hiring vehicles to get the catch from harbours have added to our miseries,” she says. The women say that while the authorities mostly ignore other street vendors, they target fisherwomen. “At Attingal you saw the municipal employees taking the fish to the garbage van and the chairperson arguing for them. It's our livelihood and seeing that broke our hearts,” says Mercy. Jenet Cleetus, Thrivananthapuram district secretary of the Kerala Swatantra Matsyathozhilali Federation, says these incidents can be part of a larger conspiracy to help branded supply chains. “When these incidents continue the women will be forced to go in search of other options. They want to get rid of fisherwomen so that these suppliers will have a monopoly and it may be the reason for this open abuse of power,” she adds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fisherwomen-land-in-deep-waters/article35889221.ece
13 August 2021||Kollam,KERALA||Kollam posts 1,339 cases||The district reported 1,339 new cases of COVID-19 and 690 recoveries on Thursday. While 1,334 patients contracted the virus through contact, others include one NRI and four health workers. At present the district has 30,663 persons under observation. A total of 2,882 persons completed home quarantine on the day. 1,238 in Alappuzha The district logged 1,238 COVID-19 cases on Thursday. It also recorded seven COVID-19 deaths. The test positivity rate (TPR) for the day was 13.17%. Among the fresh cases, 1,224 patients contracted the disease through local contact. The source of infection of 13 others remains unidentified. One health worker also tested positive on the day. Meanwhile, 742 people recovered. The active COVID-19 caseload stands at 10,357. 1,188 in Kottayam Kottayam continued to witness a sharp rise in fresh COVID-19 cases with 1,188 persons testing positive on the day. Of the fresh cases, 1,184 persons, including a health worker, contracted the virus through local transmission. The TPR stood at 13.13%. With 135 cases, Kottayam municipality reported the highest number of cases, followed by Panachikkad, which recorded 73 cases. As many as 1,064 persons recovered from the disease during the day, bringing down the total active cases to 7,330. Meanwhile, 41,218 persons remain under quarantine for suspected symptoms of the disease. 630 in Pathanamthitta In Pathanamthitta, 630 persons tested positive for the disease during the day. Most of them contracted the virus through local transmission. The contact source of four cases is yet to be ascertained. The TPR for the day was 10.6%. With 39 cases, Kunnamthanam reported the highest number of cases, followed by Kottanad, which reported 28 cases. The disease claimed three more lives in the district. With 426 recoveries on the day, Pathanamthitta currently has 6,361 active cases.  (With inputs from Alappuzha, Kottayam and Pathanamthitta bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kollam-posts-1339-cases/article35889195.ece
13 August 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Onam fair begins||Mayor Prasanna Earnest inaugurated Supplyco Onam District Fair 2021 here on Thursday. The fair offers provisions, vegetables and handloom products at reasonable rates. Deputy Mayor Kollam Madhu, division councillor A.K. Savad and taluk supply officer B. Wilfred were present. The fair will end on August 20.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/onam-fair-begins/article35889211.ece
13 August 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Bribery: VACB arrests Grade SI||The Vigilance and Anti-Corruption Bureau (VACB) on Thursday arrested a Grade Sub-Inspector at the Kaduthuruthi police station for allegedly receiving bribe from a non-resident Keralite. The accused, identified as K.A. Anilkumar, was taken into custody on a complaint by Vinoy Victor George, a native of Palakkad, employed in Dubai. According to VACB officials, the Kaduthuruthi police registered a case against Mr. George and his parents under Section 498(A) of the Indian Penal Code in March, 2021 on the basis of a complaint filed by his wife, a native of Kuruppanthara. The accused official had allegedly received Rs. 20,000 as bribe from Mr. George’s parents for expediting the proceedings in connection with an anticipatory bail obtained by them. Later, he approached Mr. George and demanded Rs. 20,000 more to clear the papers relating to the anticipatory bail granted to him. Though the complainant turned down the demand, the accused official insisted on an initial instalment of Rs. 5,000 and asked to him come to the Kaduthuruthi police station on Thursday. Following this, Mr. George lodged a complaint with VACB Superintendent V.G. Vinod Kumar. Laid a trap Acting on his direction, the VACB sleuths laid a trap by giving phenolphthalein-laced currency notes to be handed over to Anilkumar. When Anilkumar received the notes, a VACB team led by Deputy Superintendent V.G. Raveendranath intercepted and took him into custody. The accused will be produced before the Vigilance court, the officials said.  Officer allegedly sought bribe to clear papers relating to anticipatory bail granted to the complainant.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bribery-vacb-arrests-grade-si/article35889200.ece
13 August 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||UDF wins byelection in Elikkulam||The United Democratic Front (UDF) on Thursday won the byelection to Ward 14 of the Elikkulam grama panchayat in Kottayam. UDF candidate James Jeerakathil bagged 512 votes to trounce his nearest rival, Tomy Idayodiyil, candidate of the Kerala Congress (M) of the Left Democratic Front (LDF), by a margin of 159 votes. Of the 1,183 voters in the ward, 876 cast their votes. The result will not have any major impact on administration in the local body as the LDF enjoys the support of nine of the 16 members in the panchayat. The election was necessitated by the death of Jojo Cheeramkuzhy, an Independent member. LDF wins in Kalanjoor The LDF won the byelection to the Pallur ward (Ward 20) of the Kalanjoor grama panchayat, which till now had a hung council. Of the 1,110 votes polled, Alexander Daniel of the Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)] bagged 703 votes while the UDF candidate finished a distant runner-up with 380 votes. The victory has helped the LDF raise its strength in the 20-member panchayat to 11. The UDF now has five members and the National Democratic Alliance four. The byelection was necessitated by the death of Mathew Mulakupadam, a Congress member. LDF wins in draw of lots The LDF wrested the Naluthodu ward in the Muttar grama panchayat from the UDF in the byelection. The winner was selected through a draw of the lots after LDF candidate Antony (Monichan), a CPI(M) Independent, and UDF candidate Sunny Mamman of the Congress secured 168 votes each. BJP’s N.G. Shajeendran got six votes. The local body is ruled by the LDF.  (With inputs from Pathanamthitta and Alappuzha bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/udf-wins-byelection-in-elikkulam/article35889197.ece
13 August 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Explosive materials in quarries not being inspected, say residents||Periodic inspection of the stock of explosive materials kept in large-scale granite quarries in Kozhikode district is yet to take place despite complaints raised by environmental activists and local residents. Leaders of local action committees complain that the police are going by the statements of quarry operators without conducting any inspections. In many of the large-scale quarries, the power of explosion is beyond the permitted capacity. Fearing retaliatory action by quarry operators, a majority of residents are maintaining silence. In Kozhikode, there are nearly 120 active quarries. “To reduce the number of complaints, quarry operators are adopting the strategy of buying the property of complainants and literally evacuating them from their own land. Many are unable to resist such acts,” said a farmer living close to a quarrying site at Thottumukkam. He said damage to houses caused by powerful explosions was reported to the police only rarely, as quarry operators were preventing such attempts by offering money to complainants. An environmental activist from Mukkom said vehicles used to ship explosives to granite quarries in the rural areas of Kozhikode were hardly intercepted by any investigation agencies. “There is no idea whether these products reach their destinations through legal channel or not,” he said. A functionary of the Kerala Prakruthi Samrakshana Samiti said the rule to ensure the presence of at least two trained persons — a mine manager and a shot firer or blaster — at quarries was not being followed to save costs. Some local residents in Kodiyathur, Karassery, and Koodaranhi panchayats said gunpowder magazines (buildings) were constructed by many of the quarry operators near garden land which was a clear violation of existing rules. When contacted, Revenue Department officials said the Deputy Chief Controller of Explosives was primarily responsible for looking into such complaints. They also claimed that surprise inspections had been conducted on many occasions. However, there were no major incidents of safety violations, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/explosive-materials-in-quarries-not-being-inspected-say-residents/article35889159.ece
13 August 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||2,534 fresh COVID-19 cases in Kozhikode||As many as 2,534 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kozhikode district on Thursday, of which 2,491 were due to local transmission of the infection. According to the district medical officer, the source of 25 others is not known. Kozhikode Corporation accounted for 443 locally acquired infections, Kizhakkoth 115, Koduvally 84, Thamarassery 76, Unnikulam 64, Koyilandy 60, Omassery 58, and Ulliyeri 52. As many as 13,794 samples were tested and the daily test positivity rate is 18.78%. A total of 2,442 people recovered from the infection and the active caseload is 25,889.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/2534-fresh-covid-19-cases-in-kozhikode/article35889153.ece
13 August 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Ruckus in council over resolution against police||A meeting of the Kozhikode Corporation Council on Wednesday had all the ingredients of the goings-on in the State Assembly and Parliament these days. Heated exchanges between the ruling members of the Communist Party of India (Marxist) and the opposition Congress-Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) resulted in a ruckus at the meeting. Allegations and counter-allegations between the members led to opposition members staging a walkout and later boycotting the entire proceedings. As the council assembled for deliberations in the afternoon, Leader of the Opposition K.C. Shobitha wanted to adopt a resolution against the police collecting penalties from citizens in the name of enforcing the COVID-19 protocol. She said that the police were employing excessive force during the lockdown. However, Mayor Beena Philip refused to entertain the calling attention motion, stating that it did not merit an emergency consideration. Ms. Shobitha was supported by K. Moideen Koya(IUML), M.C. Sudhamani and S.K. Aboobacker (Congress). However the Mayor did not yield to the pressure tactics and disallowed the motion. Deputy Mayor C.P. Musaffir Ahamed said the opposition was raising the resolution as it was unable to gauge the real issues affecting the citizens. UDF councillors staged a walkout against what they alleged was the Left councillors making disparaging remarks about UDF-independent councillor K. Nirmala representing Panniyankara division.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ruckus-in-council-over-resolution-against-police/article35889155.ece
13 August 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||No more COVID special exams in Calicut varsity||The University of Calicut will no longer hold special exams for those who miss them on account of testing positive for SARS-CoV-2. A release quoting the Controller of Exams said on Thursday that those who have COVID-19 and others under quarantine can write the exams by following the protocol laid down by the Centre and the State. An order for the purpose has been issued. Meanwhile, the university has rescheduled the entrance exams for admissions to postgraduate courses run by affiliated colleges, university departments, and self-financing centres. The new schedule is available atwww.admission.uoc.ac.inFor details, call 0494-2407016, 2407017||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/no-more-covid-special-exams-in-calicut-varsity/article35889156.ece
13 August 2021||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||Manjeri cop wins medal||Police Inspector C. Alavi of Manjeri station has won the Union Home Minister’s Medal for Excellence in Investigation. He is among the nine officers who won the medal from Kerala. Mr. Alavi won the medal for successfully cracking a cyber hacking case in which the District Judge at Manjeri had lost money from his bank account. He had also won this year’s State Police Chief’s Badge of Honour along with four colleagues. Mr. Alavi and team cracked the cyber hacking case by arresting a three-member team named Mysterious Hackers from Maharashtra.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/manjeri-cop-wins-medal/article35889148.ece
13 August 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Civic bodies to celebrate People’s Plan jubilee||The district panchayat here will celebrate the silver jubilee of the People’s Plan Campaign from Tuesday. Minister for Power K. Krishnankutty will inaugurate the festivities on Tuesday ahead of the State-level inauguration by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan. Former presidents and councillors of the district panchayat will be felicitated at the function. All local bodies in the district will organise programmes to celebrate the year-long silver jubilee. They will present reports delineating the 25 years of decentralisation and the milestones achieved in People’s Plan Campaign. District panchayat vice president C.K. Chamunnisaid all civic bodies should set up Miyawaki forests and elder clubs as part of the jubilee.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/civic-bodies-to-celebrate-peoples-plan-jubilee/article35889302.ece
13 August 2021||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||6,000 farmers in Konni to be given title deeds||The decades-long protest by the farmers in Konni seeking title deeds to the land they cultivate is likely to end soon. The State government is expediting the issue of documents to about 6,000 farmers in the region. A decision to this effect was arrived at a meeting on Thursday, attended by Revenue Minister K. Rajan and Forest Minister A.K. Saseendran, besides District Collector Divya S. Iyer and Chief Forest Conservator R.S. Arun. The meeting, held in Thiruvananthapuram, was convened on a request forwarded by Konni legislator K.U. Janeesh Kumar. According to the MLA, farmers in villages such as Thannithodu, Chittar, Konni Thazham, Aruvapulam, and Kalanjoor are eligible for title deeds. Those possessing land in locations classified as ‘food production areas’ will be given title deeds under the Land Registration Act, 1964, while those who have acquired forestland before January 1, 1977, will be given the document under a special rule of 1993.  “To complete the steps before issuing the title deeds, the Ministers will visiting the national capital after the ongoing Assembly session. The meeting further decided to appoint the District Collector and the forest conservators for initiating the remaining works,” the MLA said. The farmers in the forest fringes of Konni have been raising the issue since the 1980s. Though the previous government had distributed 40 title deeds in 2016, they were cancelled later in the absence of approval from the Forest Department. Unconditional Subsequently, the government began proceedings for the unconditional distribution of these documents and approached the Union Ministry of Environment and Forests for approval. A special office was opened in Seethathodu for the purpose and a joint verification of the Forest and Revenue Departments too was carried out. The report prepared by the Pathanamthitta Collector in association with the forest division officers in Ranni and Konni was then submitted to the Union government with the approval of the State Cabinet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/6000-farmers-in-konni-to-be-given-title-deeds/article35889212.ece
13 August 2021||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Pampa-Triveni reconstruction nearing completion||The reconstruction of Pampa-Triveni, the base camp of Sabarimala, torn asunder by the 2018 floods, has reached the final stage and is slated to be completed ahead of the coming annual pilgrim season. According to Water Resources Minister Roshy Augustine, works are being carried out expending Rs. 3.86 crore from the State’s Plan fund and Rs. 71 lakh from the non-Plan fund. This is in addition to the reconstruction of the vented crossbars across the river to regulate the flow of water and restoration of the bathing ghats and irrigation network using a fund of Rs. 4 crore allocated under the Rebuild Kerala Initiative (RKI). “The left bank of the Pampa river had completely caved in during the floods, blocking the entry of vehicles to the parking ground here. To address this, the original course of the river has been restored while the construction of a gabion wall to protect the riverbank and the parking ground is nearing completion,” he said. Njunangar bridge The construction of the Njunangar bridge, delayed in the absence of permission from the Forest Department, was also slated for completion by October. Six stairways that lead to the river had been completed between Triveni and Njunangar, besides the reconstruction of the balitharas . The renovation of areas, including the Arattukadavu, was carried out using Rs. 2 crore allotted by the Union Tourism Ministry. It has been three years since the location, battered by a heavy gush of water, was found buried under a mesh of soil, logs, and a large phalanx of roots. The floodwater cut off Sabarimala and the eastern parts of the Pampa from the mainland on the western side following the submergence of both the bridges across the river. Damaged The water also displaced several structures along the riverbank here, even submerging the Triveni bridge in 3-4 ft thick deposit of sand. The boulders and soil that came down the river raised a new patch of land, diverting its course. The sand deposits, which severely reduced the depth of the river, were later excavated with the support of the Forest Department. A move to auction off the material, however, had to be abandoned later.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pampa-triveni-reconstruction-nearing-completion/article35889199.ece
13 August 2021||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Probe on into death of girl after vaccine||The Health Department has launched a probe into the death of an 18-year-old girl due to intra-cerebral heamorrhage two weeks after receiving COVID-19 vaccine. Officials said the District Medical Officer had sought an inquiry report from the Reproductive and Child Health Care officer. The girl received Covishield on July 28. Report of the post-mortem examination too has been sought.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/probe-on-into-death-of-girl-after-vaccine/article35889201.ece
13 August 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Vidyashree revamped for students: Minister||In all, 461 Coconics laptops have been replaced following complaints about defects, Finance Minister K.N. Balagopal has said. The Minister was replying to questions pertaining to the government’s decision to restructure Vidyashree, the microfinance scheme introduced by Kerala State Financial Enterprises Ltd. (KSFE) in collaboration with the Kudumbashree Mission, in the Assembly on Thursday. Coconics received 4,845 bookings and 2,150 units were supplied, he said, adding that the Vidyashree scheme was restructured to help students. Mr. Balagopal defended the Coconics project pointing out that a homegrown venture should not be discouraged at the outset. “The defect noticed in the power switch is being corrected,” he said. No penal interest Penal interest would not be collected in connection with the Vidyashree scheme, the Minister said, after Opposition members alleged that beneficiaries were being forced to pay penal interest despite the defects in the equipment. The government restructured the Vidyashree scheme following the delay in supply of laptops by Lenovo and HP. He said the managing director of the KSFE had been directed to initiate legal steps against the companies. In all, 62,480 people had applied for the scheme, of which 4,845 bookings were for Coconics. Other bookings included Acer (3,640), HP (34,365), and Lenovo (19,131). “Although the orders were placed, HP said they can supply 26,000 laptops by September only, and Lenovo 5,019 by October due to COVID-induced delays. The government restructured the scheme in this scenario to help the students,” he said. Under the new scheme, beneficiaries can purchase laptops or tablets of choice and obtain up to Rs. 20,000 or the price of the equipment, whichever is lower, as loan. The loan has to be repaid in monthly instalments of Rs. 500 over 40 months.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/vidyashree-revamped-for-students-minister/article35889307.ece
13 August 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Audit system in coop. banks in for revamp||The government has decided to revamp the audit system for cooperative banks and strengthen the vigilance mechanism to prevent financial irregularities. Minister for Cooperation V.N. Vasavan said here on Thursday that the revised audit mechanism was aimed at preventing scams such as the one at the Karuvannur Service Cooperative Bank in Thrissur. Mr. Vasavan, who held an online discussion with presidents of cooperative banks, said the government would work out a package to ensure that investors in the Karuvannur bank would not lose their money. The new system Outlining the revamped audit system, he said the Chief Secretary had requested the Accountant General to release the services of officers in the rank of Deputy Accountant General for the audit of cooperative banks. These officers would be assisted by officials in the Cooperation Department. The vigilance set-up would be strengthened by appointing officers in the rank of Superintendent of Police as regional vigilance officer. The new system would ensure timely inspections and action to thwart any irregularity. Audit monitoring system The audit of cooperative banks would be carried out by a three-member team led by a Deputy Accountant General. A cooperative audit monitoring information system would also be put in place and the online platforms of primary agricultural cooperative societies would be integrated, Mr. Vasavan said. He said the government had taken prompt action in the case of the Karuvannur Cooperative Bank. “The governing committee was disbanded and efforts are on to bring all the culprits to book”. The meeting also decided to streamline the Vidyatharangini loan scheme to provide interest-free loans for children to purchase digital equipment for online classes. In a pressnote issued later, Mr. Vasavan said 25 cooperative societies for youth would be set up within two weeks under the Chief Minister’s 100-day programme. Societies for paddy farmers had already started functioning and societies for artists would soon become operational, the pressnote added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/audit-system-in-coop-banks-in-for-revamp/article35889230.ece
13 August 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||ICU, ventilator occupancy going up||The State registered 21,445 new cases of COVID-19 on Thursday when 1,45,582 samples were tested over the past 24 hours. The case graph continues to be a plateau, as it has been for the past two weeks. Though hospitalisations have gone up, there has not been a significant or alarming change in the numbers. However, ICU and ventilator occupancy figures are beginning to go up slowly. The test positivity rate was at 14.73%. ICU occupancy of COVID-19 patients, in both public and private hospitals, went up again from 2,075 to 2,101. The number of those patients requiring ventilator support has dropped from 817 to 800. The active case pool has not shown much fluctuation over the past few days and now has gone up slightly to 1,76,518. There were 20,723 recoveries on Thursday. Death toll The cumulative fatality is continuing to rise and now stands at 18,280, with the State adding 160 deaths, most of which occurred in the past few days, to the official toll list. On Thursday, the number of patients in the State newly admitted to hospitals was 2,559. Total hospitalisations of those with moderate or severe infection now stand more or less stabilised, at 28,483. The cumulative case burden was now 36,31,638. Among the districts, Malappuram reported the highest number of new cases at 3,300, followed by Kozhikode 2,534, Thrissur 2,465, Ernakulam 2,425, Palakkad 2,168, Kollam 1,339, Kannur 1,338, Alappuzha 1,238, Kottayam 1,188, Thiruvananthapuram 933, Wayanad 720, Pathanamthitta 630, Idukki 589, and Kasaragod 578 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/icu-ventilator-occupancy-going-up/article35889224.ece
13 August 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||KIIFB to finance agro parks||The State government intends to establish agro parks with funding under the Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board (KIIFB), Finance Minister K.N. Balagopal has said. The plan is to set up four of five agro parks through the Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board (KIIFB), the Minister informed the Assembly on Thursday. Agriculture had the lowest representation amongst the KIIFB-approved infrastructure development projects. “Among the projects worth more than Rs. 64,000 crore approved by KIIFB, the farm sector accounts for projects worth just Rs. 25 crore-Rs. 30 crore,” Mr. Balagopal said. The government had announced that five agro parks would be started in the State. These parks would facilitate value addition, processing, refrigerated storage and marketing of agricultural produce. The KIIFB had given approval for 912 projects valued at Rs. 64,344.64 crore to date. The Minister reiterated the government's plans to restructure and strengthen the State Goods and Services Tax Department. This is intended as part of the efforts to boost tax collection. The State would reiterate its demand that the GST compensation period should be extended by another five years at the GST council meeting, he said.  The Assembly passed the Kerala Finance Bill, 2021 and the Kerala Finance (No. 2) Bill, 2021.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kiifb-to-finance-agro-parks/article35889228.ece
13 August 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||State redefines yardsticks for micro-containment zone||The State government has redefined the norms for micro-containment zones to prevent COVID-19 superclusters within homes, neighbourhoods and commercial localities. Triple lockdown restrictions would kick in in such notified zones for a minimum period of seven days. These zones could be joint family dwellings with more than 10 members, streets, markets, harbours, fishing villages, fish landing centres, shopping malls, residential areas, factories, MSME units, IT companies, flats, warehouses and auction centres. If more than five positive cases are reported on a given day, the administration will declare the spot and adjoining areas within a 100-metre radius a micro-containment zone. The authorities can also notify an area as micro-containment zone even if the daily infection is less than five and the ground situation is conducive to accelerated disease transmission. The authorities should ensure that the micro-containment zone remained restricted to within the 100-m radius. They should not limit containment zones to one side of the street. Health, police, and revenue officials would monitor such zones. They would ensure stringent perimeter control. Local self- government officials and ward committee members will ensure quarantine and welfare of residents.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/state-redefines-yardsticks-for-micro-containment-zone/article35889225.ece
13 August 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Manhandling a rights violation: panel||The manhandling of Alphonsiya, a fisherwoman who was selling fish by the wayside at Avanavanchery in Attingal, is a violation of human rights, the State Human Rights Commission has said. Commission chairperson Antony Dominic directed the Attingal municipal secretary to file a report on the incident by September 10 after conducting an investigation. The case will be taken up again on September 15. The commission’s order says that at a time when people were facing hardships owing to the COVID-19 pandemic, the municipal staff prevented a woman from selling fish to feed her family. She suffered a huge financial loss. It was understood that Alphonsiya, the sole breadwinner of her family, sustained injuries, the commission said, adding that it had taken a case in connection with the incident on the basis of media reports. Meanwhile, the Latin Archdiocese of Trivandrum, in a statement, protested the recent attacks on fisherwomen and the “inhumane attitude” towards them. Threatened, attacked Fish markets had been closed due to the spread of COVID-19 and fisherwomen, who till now had been selling fish adjacent to the markets without any disturbance, were increasingly being threatened and attacked, the Latin Archdiocese said. The latest such incident was the attack on Alphonsiya. The Attingal municipality and the police should take action against those responsible for the incident. The municipality should also compensate her and bear the expenses for her treatment, the Latin Archdiocese of Trivandrum said. The Archdiocese called for measures by the government against attacks on women selling fish to make ends meet.  It has taken a case in connection with the incident on the basis of media reports||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/manhandling-a-rights-violation-panel/article35889576.ece
13 August 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||House surgeons flag disparity in stipend||House surgeons in self-financing medical colleges have sought the government’s intervention so that they are paid stipend on a par with the amount paid to their counterparts in government colleges. In a representation to the Health Minister, the 2016 MBBS batch students of 23 self-financing medical colleges say despite an order of the government and a circular issued by the Kerala University of Health Sciences in 2016, none of the private managements have bothered to implement it. The house surgeons in government medical colleges are paid a monthly stipend of Rs. 25,000 whereas in private medical colleges, this ranges from Rs. 1,500 to Rs. 12,000. The former Medical Council of India (MCI) had in 2019 brought out a public notice that all students pursuing compulsory rotating internship at the institution from which MBBS course was completed shall be paid stipend on a par with the stipend being paid to the interns of the State/Central government medical institutions. But this was never published as a gazette notification. The stand of the new National Medical Commission (NMC), which replaced the MCI in September last year, weakens this position taken by the MCI. K.V. Babu, a public health professional based in Payyannur, says draft regulations dated April 21, 2021 of the NMC on the issue of internship and stipend are vague and give ample opportunity for the private managements to deny stipend to MBBS interns.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/house-surgeons-flag-disparity-in-stipend/article35889530.ece
13 August 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||‘Create uniform fee structure for pvt. schools’||The Kerala State Commission for Protection of Child Rights has directed that the State government enact appropriate legislation for the functioning of private unaided schools in the State. The commission also directed that a uniform fee structure be created for the private unaided schools. Their managements should not debar any student from attending online or physical classes or withhold their examination results for non-payment of fee. Acting on as many as 56 complaints from various districts related to forcing parents to pay unjustifiable fee during the COVID-19 pandemic, a full bench of the commission, comprising chairperson Mohan Kumar K.V. and members Reni Antony and Shyamaladevi P.P., said a regulation committee should be formed under the Department of Education to monitor admission procedure, fee structure, syllabus and textbooks, formation of school management committee or parent-teacher association, appointment of teachers, formation of various committee, and democratic fora for students. The complaints alleged that school authorities were insisting that parents pay fee, including tuition fee, special fee, convocation fee, annual day fee, maintenance fee and even bus fee, at a time when only online classes were being held. On failure to pay the full fee, students were expelled from the online classes. When parents applied for transfer certificate (TC), school authorities insisted on payment of full fees.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/create-uniform-fee-structure-for-pvt-schools/article35889149.ece
13 August 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Tourism project to cast a ‘glow’ on buildings||Thirty buildings in the capital city will be illuminated in the first phase of the Travancore Heritage Tourism Project, which seeks to conserve and showcase the cultural wealth and legacy of erstwhile Travancore. Tourism Minister P.A. Mohamed Riyas, who convened a review on Thursday, instructed officials to complete the work in a time-bound manner. The government has accorded administrative sanction to take up the illumination work at a cost of Rs. 35.6 crore. The work on the first building would be completed by November 1. The buildings would be lit up so as to accentuate their old-world charm and architecture, the department said. The Travancore Heritage Tourism Project is designed on the lines of the Muziris and Alappuzha heritage tourism projects.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tourism-project-to-cast-a-glow-on-buildings/article35889585.ece
13 August 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||The destitute will get help at the doorstep||The first phase of Vathilpadi Sevanam (services at the doorstep), a project announced by the government for helping the destitute and those without any support, will get under way next month, said Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Thursday. The project will be piloted in 50 local self-government institutions, and on its basis will be expanded across the State in December, said Mr. Vijayan during a meeting on the project. Services offered In the first phase, services such as life certificate, drawing up of applications for financial assistance from the Chief Minister’s Distress Relief Fund, social security pension, delivery of emergency medicines, and palliative care will be provided. ASHA workers will be primarily responsible for getting in touch with those in need of the services. Medicine availability The Chief Minister directed the Health Department to ensure that medicines required are made available locally. Special care should be taken while providing medicines for those in need of palliative care. The project should be regularly reviewed at the local body and district level. District Collectors and district planning committees have a decisive role to play in the implementation and monitoring of the project, Mr. Vijayan said. People whose mobility is restricted such as the elderly, those who are bed-ridden and the differently abled would benefit from the project, the Chief Minister said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/vathilpadi-sevanam-begins-next-month/article35889580.ece
13 August 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||New plan on the anvil for Bharathapuzha||A river basin management plan will be prepared for the Bharathapuzha, Water Resources Minister Roshy Augustine has said. The plan will look at water resources and reservoir management and flood and drought mitigation, he said in reply to a submission by the CPI(M)’s P. Mammikutty in the Assembly on Thursday. The plan will be prepared under the National Hydrology Project (NHP). It will help ensure adequate water flow during summer and flood mitigation during monsoon. The government is examining a proposal for drawing up the plan with the help of IIT-Palakkad and engineering colleges, Mr. Augustine said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/new-plan-on-the-anvil-for-bharathapuzha/article35889305.ece
13 August 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Handloom exhibition||A six-day handloom expo will begin at Jawahar Balbhavan on Saturday. Organised by NABARD (National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development) and CISSA (Centre for Innovation in Science and Social Action), the fair will provide a boost to Balaramapuram handloom entrepreneurs during Onam. The sale and exhibition will be inaugurated by Minister of State for External Affairs V. Muraleedharan at 10.30 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/handloom-exhibition/article35889581.ece
13 August 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Consumerfed launches home delivery of products||The Kerala State Cooperative Consumers’ Federation Ltd. (Consumerfed) has launched home delivery of products sold through its Triveni stores in the capital district. Consumers can order the products by visitingwww.consumerfed.in, and delivery will be completed within 24 hours, Consumerfed officials said. Mini Antony, secretary, Cooperation Department, inaugurated the portal on Thursday. In the first phase, the service will be available in the Thiruvananthapuram Corporation limits, Attingal, Nedumangad and Venjaramoodu. By Onam, it will be extended to more parts of the district. Payment options Online payment and cash on delivery options are available. The price of the commodities are the same as in the Triveni stores. The delivery charge is subject to distance. Consumerfed had decided to extend the online service to all districts after finding the pilot schemes in Kozhikode and Wayanad districts successful. Consumerfed has tied up with DuGo for the home delivery of the goods.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/consumerfed-launches-home-delivery-of-products/article35889577.ece
13 August 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Onam kits to be delivered to tribal settlements||Food and Civil Supplies Minister G.R. Anil on Thursday said the special food kits being distributed across the State for Onam would be delivered to the doorsteps of tribespeople. Addressing mediapersons here, he expressed optimism that the kits would be distributed to as many as possible before Onam. As many as 19,49,640 kits were distributed as on 3 p.m. on Thursday. The highest number of 2,39,812 was recorded in Malappuram. Among the 5.82 lakh Antodaya Anna Yojana ration card holders in the State, around 4.76 lakh of beneficiaries have collected their kits.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/onam-kits-to-be-delivered-to-tribal-settlements/article35889578.ece
13 August 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||‘NEP as per State situation’||Reforms as per the National Education Policy (NEP) will be implemented only after considering the situation in the State, Minister for General Education V. Sivankutty has said. He was speaking after inaugurating the distribution of food security allowance under the school mid-day meal scheme for this academic year here on Thursday. The Minister said the school curriculum would be in-depth and yet not taxing for students. It would be scientific, against regressive customs, and prioritise the differently abled. Mr. Sivankutty said nutritious food should be included in diet for children’s physical and mental growth. This was the reason for the government’s intervention in connection with the mid-day meal scheme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/nep-as-per-state-situation/article35889529.ece
13 August 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||New class schedule on KITE Victers||Telecast of Plus One revision classes on the KITE Victers educational channel as part of First Bell 2.0 digital classes will be completed on Sunday. On Saturday (August 14), English medium sessions for Class I to Class X will be telecast. These will follow a specific number of Malayalam medium classes and incorporate the same portions in English. Sunday (August 15) will be dedicated to languages. Each student will have one class on the day. From Monday, there will be one extra period for Class VI to Class X. On these days, Class X students will have four sessions, from 8 a.m. to 10 a.m., Class I students will have their session at 10 a.m., and pre-primary students at 10.30 a.m. Students from Class II to Class V will have their sessions from 11 a.m. to 1 p.m. in order, beginning with Class II. Classes VI to Class IX will have one-hour sessions, beginning at 1 p.m. Language classes will be telecast after 5.30 p.m. Phone-in programme There will be no telecast from August 19 to 23, a statement from the Kerala Infrastructure and Technology for Education (KITE) said. Live phone-in programme for clearing doubts will be telecast ahead of the Class XI public examinations. Telecast of Plus Two classes will resume after the Plus One examinations. For classes, schedules and audio books, visitwww.firstbell.kite. kerala.gov.in  English medium sessions for Class I to Class X will be telecast on Saturday||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/new-schedule-on-victers/article35889522.ece
13 August 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Technical snag hits power generation at Moolamattom||The State experienced an abrupt dip in power availability on Thursday evening after a “technical snag” hit power generation at the Moolamattom power station in Idukki. The incident forced a shutdown of all six generators, according to the Power Department. There was a shortage of 300 MW by 7.30 p.m. following the incident, according to Electricity Minister K. Krishnankutty’s office. The Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB) imposed a load-shedding in the State from 7.30 p.m. as the State Load Despatch Centre launched an effort to source alternate supply from power stations outside the State. The load-shedding was fully withdrawn by 9 p.m. after 400 MW was made available from outside Kerala.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/technical-snag-hits-power-generation-at-moolamattom/article35889532.ece
13 August 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Minister bats for RIRI initiative||Industries Minister P. Rajeeve has said the government will go ahead with the Responsible Investment Responsible Industry (RIRI) programme to ensure ease of doing business. He was speaking after inaugurating a two-day online seminar on the ‘One District One Product’ scheme organised by the Kerala Bureau of Industrial Promotion (KBIP) here on Thursday. Principal Secretary (Industries) K. Ellangovan; Director, Industries and Commerce S. Harikishore; and Managing Director, KSIDC, M.G. Rajamanickam addressed the inaugural function.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/minister-bats-for-riri-initiative/article35889229.ece
13 August 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||LDF wins 7, UDF 6 wards in bypolls||The Left Democratic Front (LDF) won seven wards and the United Democratic Front (UDF) six in the byelections held in 15 local body wards in nine districts on Wednesday. One ward each was won by LDF and UDF-backed Independents. The UDF wrested three seats from the LDF, while the latter picked up two wards from the UDF. Elections were held in 11 grama panchayat wards, one block panchayat ward in Malappuram and three municipality wards in Thiruvananthapuram, Ernakulam and Wayanad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ldf-wins-7-udf-6-wards-in-bypolls/article35889232.ece
13 August 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||KSEB online scheme to be extended across State||The Service at Doorstep scheme of the Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB) will be extended to all electrical section offices, said Electricity Minister K. Krishnankutty on Thursday. He was speaking after launching a mobile app for KSEB employees as part of the scheme. The KSEB had introduced the scheme in select section offices in the State so that consumers could access power-sector services such as new connections, tariff conversions and ownership changes from the safety of their homes during the COVID-19 pandemic. Mr. Krishnankutty urged consumers to make the most of the scheme. The mobile app allows KSEB staff to upload relevant details and documents when visiting the houses of consumers as part of the scheme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kseb-scheme-to-be-extended/article35889202.ece
13 August 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Centre’s police medal winners announced||The following officers of the Kerala Police have won the Union Home Minister’s Medal for Excellence in Investigation for 2021. The police medal winners are S. Sujith Das (Superintendent of Police), Hari Sankar (Assistant Inspector General of Police), A. Asokan [Deputy Superintendent of Police], B.K. Siju (Inspector), C. Alavi (Inspector), Shinto P. Kurian (Inspector), K.J. Peter (Inspector), V.V. Benny (Deputy Superintendent of Police) and P. Vikraman (Deputy Superintendent of Police).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/police-medal-winners/article35889204.ece
13 August 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||LDF retains ward in bypoll||The LDF has retained the Pathinaramkallu ward in the Nedumangad municipality. Following the byelections held on Wednesday, the votes were counted and the results declared on Thursday. Vidya Vijayan of the LDF defeated N. Geetha Devi of the UDF by a margin of 94 votes. Ms. Vijayan secured 553 votes, while Ms. Geetha Devi polled 459 votes. Ms. Vijayan is the daughter of Girija Vijayan who won the ward for the LDF in the 2020 local body elections. The State Election Commission had ordered a bypoll in the municipality ward following the death of Girija Vijayan. District Congress Committee president Neyyattinkara Sanal alleged that the UDF defeat in the ward was a sign of the strengthening CPI(M)-BJP nexus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ldf-retains-ward-in-bypoll/article35889584.ece
13 August 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Attack on doctors: Veena’s reply sparks confusion||A reply given in the Assembly by Health Minister Veena George on the violence against doctors sparked confusion on Thursday. The Minister, in a written reply to a question posed by Congress MLA Mathew Kuzhalnadan on August 4, had stated that no increase was noticed in incidents pertaining to attacks on doctors by patients or their relatives. Mr. Kuzhalnadan wanted to know whether there was an increase in such incidents, to which the Minister had replied in the negative. After the reply reportedly drew flak, the Minister’s office said an error had occurred in providing the reply and it would be corrected. “'The matter is being looked into,”' a member of the Minister’s staff said. To a related question, Ms, George said the Kerala Healthcare Service Persons and Healthcare Service Institutions (Prevention of Violence and Damage to Property) Act, 2012 has provisions for dealing with offences of this nature and that they are adequate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/attack-on-doctors-veenas-reply-sparks-confusion/article35889227.ece
13 August 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Orders issued to prevent violence against doctors||The government has issued orders to the Director of Health Services and the Director of Medical Education giving general instructions on strengthening measures to prevent violence against doctors and other health workers, Health Minister Veena George said on Thursday. Ms. George said all measures would be taken to ensure safe working places for doctors. CCTV cameras should be installed at casualty wings and OP counters, including at private hospitals. An official would be put in charge of monitoring security and necessary training would be given to those appointed as security officers. Explanation sought Principal Health Secretary Rajan Khobragade has sought an explanation from the Health Department staff regarding the “erroneous” reply given to the Health Minister for a question that was asked in the Assembly on August 4. On a question on the increasing incidents of violence against health workers, the written reply given in the House was that the government was not aware of an increase in such incidents. This had triggered a controversy with the doctors’ fraternity expressing dismay and anguish over the Minister’s reply.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/orders-issued-to-prevent-violence-against-doctors/article35889531.ece
13 August 2021||THIRUVNANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Capital logs 933 new cases||The capital district recorded 933 COVID-19 cases and 1,237 recoveries on Thursday as the number of active cases dropped to 9,790. The test positivity rate (TPR) stood at 7.8%. Three health-care workers were among those who tested positive for the disease. The district administration has placed 33,473 people in quarantine presently. New containment zones have been declared in Vettucaud and Medical College wards in Thiruvananthapuram Corporation, Pullannikode and Kottumoola wards in Varkala municipality, Kurunthali ward in Nanniyode grama panchayat and Pulimath ward in Pulimath grama panchayat. The existing containment zones have been withdrawn in Alamcode and Palace wards in Attingal municipality.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/capital-logs-933-new-cases/article35889583.ece
13 August 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||SIB is now ‘agency bank’||Kerala-based South Indian Bank (SIB) has been empanelled as ‘agency bank’ by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) to undertake general banking businesses of the Central and the State governments on behalf of the RBI. The SIB is now authorised to undertake transactions related to the government businesses such as revenue receipts and payments on behalf of the Central/State governments, pension payments in respect of Central/State governments, works related to Small Savings Schemes (SSS), collection of stamp duty through physical mode or e-mode and any other item of work specifically devised by the RBI as eligible for agency commission. On the new agreement, Murali Ramakrishnan, Managing Director and CEO of bank, said: “We are proud to be one of the private sector banks empanelled by the RBI to facilitate transactions related to government businesses.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sib-is-now-agency-bank/article35889586.ece
13 August 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Bank to help weavers||The ESAF Small Finance Bank has launched ‘Kaitharikoru Kaithangu’ (support for handloom) initiative as part of the National Handloom Day. K. Paul Thomas, MD and CEO, ESAF Bank, inaugurated the project. The first phase of the project strives to revive handloom production at Kuthampully, a weavers’ village in Thrissur district. As part of this, ESAF employees would wear handloom for five days from Atham on the occasion of Onam celebrations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bank-to-help-weavers/article35889587.ece
13 August 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Award for artiste||Ottanthullal artiste Manaloor Gopinadh has been selected for the Kshetrakala Puraskaram of the Guruvayur Devaswom. The award carries a cash prize of Rs. 25,555, and a citation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/award-for-artiste/article35889304.ece
13 August 2021||August 13 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||UDF sweeps local body by-polls in Ernakulam||The United Democratic Front (UDF) swept all but one of the by-polls held to one municipal division and three panchayat wards in Ernakulam on Wednesday. It may impact power equations in at least two local bodies. UDF candidate Sini Joy wrested back Division 5 of the Piravom Municipality, beating Left Democratic Front (LDF) candidate Anju Mohan by 205 votes, thus jeopardising LDF rule, as both the fronts are now tied at 13 seats each. The by-poll in the municipal division was held after elected LDF councillor Mini Sajan of the JD(S) resigned on getting a government job. The outcome of polls to be held in Division 14 of the municipality that fell vacant following the death of another LDF councillor George Narekkadan will now prove decisive in deciding the ruling front. Despite having only seven councillors to 12 of the UDF, the LDF managed to wrest power in the municipality, wooing eight victorious Independents, taking its tally to 15 in the 27-member house. The stance to be adopted by Gils Periapuram who won on the Kerala Congress (M) ticket but had since resigned from the party and sworn independence after being denied ticket in the last Assembly elections may prove crucial. Both the fronts are now likely to woo the dissident to tilt the balance in their favour. In the 13-member Marady panchayat, the by-poll outcome had little impact, as the ruling UDF improved its seat share to nine after its candidate Ratheesh Changalimattom defeated Binil Thankappan by 91 votes. The byelection was necessitated after the elected LDF candidate resigned on getting a government job. The LDF managed to retain power in Vengoor panchayat after its candidate Peter P.V. defeated UDF’s Leena Joy by 19 votes. Going into the by-polls, both the LDF and the UDF were tied on seven seats each in the 15-member panchayat. The byelection had to be held following the death of LDF councillor in Ward 11. In Varapetty, the UDF further consolidated its power after its candidate Shaji Blessy wrested back Ward 13, defeating the LDF’s Rini Biju by 214 votes. The UDF tally rose to nine after the LDF lost one of its four seats after the sitting councillor quit on getting a government job.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/udf-sweeps-local-body-by-polls-in-ernakulam/article35889528.ece
13 August 2021||August 13 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Stumbling block||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/stumbling-block/article35889517.ece
13 August 2021||August 13 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Hues of hope||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hues-of-hope/article35889589.ece
13 August 2021||August 13 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Fragrance of the season||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fragrance-of-the-season/article35889575.ece
13 August 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Special drive to vaccinate teachers||The Anantapur Medical and Health Department is embarking on a two-day COVID-19 vaccination drive for teachers and non-teaching staff of schools and colleges on Friday and Saturday in a special drive to be taken up before the institutes reopen on Monday. District Medical and Health Officer Y. Kameswara Prasad said that the Anantapur DMHO’s office had made arrangements for vaccinating 1 lakh teaching and non-teaching staff along with other ordinary citizens above 45 years. The district has so far administered 17,40,274 doses of vaccine to different categories of people, including 22,164 health professionals, 12,856 ICDS staff, 12,568 police personnel, 52,220 Revenue officials, 95,777 Panchayat Raj officials, 2.49 lakh mothers of children below five years of age, 8.19 lakh to people between 45 years and 59 years; and 4.89 lakh doses to senior citizens. “We had vaccinated 11,73,512 persons with at least one dose and 5,66,762 persons with the second dose, till Wednesday evening. In all, we have vaccinated close to 25,000 teachers covering the majority of them with only a minuscule of them left to be vaccinated,” Dr. Prasad said. The district received 1 lakh doses of Covishield and Covaxin, which will be utilised to vaccinate people on a mission mode, he said. Meanwhile, Joint Collector A. Siri has appealed to the teaching and non-teaching community in schools, junior colleges, and degree colleges to get themselves vaccinated during the special drive being launched on Friday and Saturday. “Those employees who are likely to interact with the student community should get themselves vaccinated immediately irrespective of their age,” said Dr. Siri.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/special-drive-to-vaccinate-teachers-today-tomorrow/article35889272.ece
13 August 2021||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Study finds lower levels of IgG seroprevalence in Karnataka||Lower levels of IgG (antibody) seroprevalence were found during the second round of the serial cross-sectional sentinel-based population survey to assess active infection, seroprevalence, and their evolution in the general population across Karnataka. This is being attributed to antibody waning. A preprint of the study showed that the overall seroprevalence of IgG was 15.6%, while the Statewide infection fatality rate (IFR) was estimated at 0.11%. The study, which was supported by the Karnataka National Health Mission, the Department of Health and Family Welfare, and the Directorate of Medical Education, estimated the COVID-19 burden to be between 26.1 and 37.7%. The study of 41,228 participants across 290 healthcare facilities in all 30 districts of Karnataka was done among three groups of participants (low, moderate and high risk) from January 25 to February 18, 2021. They underwent both RT-PCR and antibody (IgG) testing. A longitudinal study among participants identified as COVID-19 positive in the first survey round was also conducted to assess the clinical sensitivity of the testing kit used. According to the study, in the first round of the survey in Karnataka, the estimated total burden was 27.7% as of September 16, 2020. All States in India, including Karnataka, showed a decreasing trend from mid-October 2020 to January 2021. “The study found lower levels of IgG seroprevalence, mostly due to antibody waning. A sub-study was done to confirm the antibody waning. The study findings enabled identification of districts that needed better testing, reporting or clinical management. The State was far from attaining natural immunity at the time of survey. The Department of Health and Family Welfare has used the data to update testing, surveillance strategies,” Siva Athreya from the Indian Statistical Institute, one of the authors, said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/study-finds-lower-levels-of-igg-seroprevalence-in-karnataka/article35888937.ece
13 August 2021||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Karnataka HC stays verdict on GST relief for race clubs||A Division Bench of the Karnataka High Court on Thursday stayed the operation of a single judge order, which had declared that race clubs are liable to pay GST only on the commission and not on the entire face value of the bet or amount paid into the totaliser (a computer that registers bets and divides the total amount among punters). A Division Bench comprising Justice Satish Chandra Sharma and Justice Sachin Shankar Magadum passed the interim order after hearing appeals filed by the Union and State governments. Both the governments had questioned the correctness of the June 2, 2021 judgment, which had struck down Rule 31A(3) of the Central GST Rules, 2017, and the corresponding Rule 31A of the Karnataka GST Rules, 2017, as being contrary to the GST Act. The single judge Bench had allowed the petitions filed by the Bangalore Turfs Club (BTC) Ltd. and Mysore Race Club Ltd. questioning the levy of GST on the face value of the bet. Last week, the Division Bench had ordered to keep in abeyance the application filed by the BTC seeking refund of the GST paid based on the judgment of the single Bench. When the appeals came up for hearing on Thursday, the Division Bench, after hearing arguments stayed the single Bench’s judgment while stating that appeals require consideration. The hearing has been adjourned till October 7. It has been contended in the appeals that the single Bench ought to have considered the pre-GST regime, in which race clubs were subject to a totalisator tax and betting tax (partly by way of service tax and the remaining by way of betting tax) on the full bet amount. The governments have also claimed that the single Bench has not properly applied the ratio laid by the apex court in the case of Skill Lotto Solutions vs Union of India, 2020 on the provisions to levy GST on lottery and betting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/karnataka-hc-stays-verdict-on-gst-relief-for-race-clubs/article35888938.ece
13 August 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Seshachalam is a sanctuary for endemic species, says expert||Andhra Pradesh State Biodiversity Board Chairman Bandi Mariya Kumar Reddy has said that the Seshachalam hill ranges that spread over Chittoor and Kadapa districts have a rich biodversity of native plant species, making it ideal for studies in the areas of microbial plants, legumes and medicinal shrubs. Interacting with the medicine faculty members of Apollo Medical College and the Apollo Total Health project on Thursday, Mr. Reddy said the vital aspects of green cover and protecting the native plant species should be given a top priority by entrepreneurs as part of their corporate social responsibility (CSR) initiatives. He visited the campuses here and at Argadonda village. Dr. Reddy said non-compliance with the soil management modules would lead to destruction of endemic species. “Big tree species in the Seshachalam Hills will improve the nitrogen levels in the soil, an essential element for maintaining a healthy biodiversity reserve. “Ecological work involves long time and cost-effective strategies. Prime focus should be on soil conservation, rainwater harvesting, and farm ponds,” Dr Reddy observed. Outreach programmes The biodiversity scientist appealed to the CSR units of industries to extend support to the causes pertaining to climate and soil and help address them through outreach programmes by involving students. He felt that apart from community participation, the “mother-teacher” role in educating children about climate issues and human development aspects should be given a boost. Chief Operating Officer (Total Health project) P. Dhananjay, Principal (Apollo Institute of Medical Sciences and Research) Dr Sridhar and senior faculty members were present on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/seshachalam-is-a-sanctuary-for-endemic-species-says-expert/article35889276.ece
13 August 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Stolen bike seized within two hours||The Chittoor police seized a stolen two-wheeler and arrested an accused within two hours of the incident, on Thursday. A man named Rajendra, a resident of Chittoor, had parked his newly-bought two-wheeler outside the municipal vegetable market on Church Street and went inside for shopping. When he came out, his two-wheeler was missing. At 6.20 a.m., he contacted the Police Control Roomand informed about the theft. Police alerted all the police stations in Chittoor and surrounding mandals, At around 8 a.m., a police party intercepted the accused while he was trying to cross into Vellore in Tamil Nadu on the two-wheeler at the inter-State border checkpost at Gudipala mandal, 10 km from here. The accused was identified as S.D. Syed Nadim (26) of Adilabad in Telangana.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/stolen-bike-seized-within-two-hours-in-chittoor/article35889274.ece
13 August 2021||G UNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||24x7 water for tail-end areas of Krishna delta||District Collector Vivek Yadav on Thursday said that all efforts would be put in to ensure that the tail-end areas in the Krishna Western Delta (KWD) get uninterrupted water supply and asked the irrigation engineers to clear all the obstructions to ensure a free flow of water. Farmers in the KWD region have commenced farm operations. Mr. Vivek Yadav, accompanied by Sub-Collector (Tenali) Nidhi Meena and irrigation engineers, conducted a whirlwind tour of Mangalagiri and Duggirala and Vemuru. The Collector inspected the high-level channel at Pedavadlapaudi, the branch channel at Revandrapadu, the branch canal at Vallabhapuram village in Vemuru. This visit comes after years of neglect of maintenance of channels. In most cases, water released into the canals does not reach the tail-end areas due to obstructions, the farmers said. “The irrigation officials must inspect the channels as the outflows into the Krishna Western Delta from the Prakasam Barrage are measured at 7,000 cusecs. The farmers in the tail-end areas should not be deprived of water,” said Mr. Vivek Yadav.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/24x7-water-for-tail-end-areas-of-krishna/article35888983.ece
13 August 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||METRO launches first wholesale store in Guntur||METRO Cash and Carry, India’s largest organised wholesaler and food specialist, on Thursday launched its first wholesale distribution centre in Guntur. The new store, which is its 30th wholesale store in India, was inaugurated by Mohammad Musthafa Shaik, MLA, Guntur (East) and Maddali Giridhara Rao, MLA, Guntur West on Thursday. The new store is the third METRO wholesale store in Andhra Pradesh after Vijayawada and Visakhapatnam.. Spread over 44,000 sq.ft., the Guntur store is strategically located at Mangalagiri Road and is a one-stop destination for business customers in the region. The store, initially catering to over 60,000 registered business customers, will fulfill the requirements of kiranas and traders; Hotels, Restaurants & Caterers (HoReCa); Services, Companies and Offices (SCOs) and self-employed professionals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/metro-launches-third-store-in-state/article35888984.ece
13 August 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Stop A.P.’s unauthorised use of water’||In the midst of efforts to operationalise the purview of the two river boards set up as per the provisions of the Andhra Pradesh Reorganisation Act, the Telangana government has addressed one more letter to the Krishna River Management Board (KRMB) to restrain AP from drawing Srisailam water to “unauthorised” projects/systems. The unauthorised drawal of water to Muchumarri lift irrigation scheme (for supplementing KC Canal in Kurnool district), Malyala pumping station (for Handri-Neeva lift irrigation scheme) and Escape Channel (to feed KC Canal outside Kurnool district through Nippulavagu) was nothing but illegal diversion of Krishna water to outside the basin (to Penna Basin), Telangana said in its letter to KRMB. Engineer-in-Chief (General) of Irrigation C. Muralidhar wrote to the Chairman of KRMB M.P. Singh stating that AP’s unauthorised drawal was also denying Telangana its allocated water under the Rajolibanda Diversion Scheme (RDS). Drawal of water to the three systems – Muchumarri, Malyala and Escape Channel – was also in violation of the KWDT-I (Bachawat Tribunal) Award, he pointed out. In June 1944, another agreement was reached at by the then Hyderabad and Madras States for drawing equal water for RDS and KC Canal with an extra allowance to RDS equivalent to additional drawal by Madras. Accordingly, KC Canal was entitled for 10 tmcft water against 17.1 tmcft for RDS and it was also ratified in the inter-state conference of 1951. However, erstwhile Andhra Pradesh in an agreement with Karnataka secured a protection of 39.9 tmcft to KC Canal before KWDT-I setting aside the 1944 agreement. “It is one of the many components of deliberate neglect of Telangana region in the united AP. As such, Telangana is challenging the same before KWDT-II (Brijesh Kumar Tribunal) requesting that AP be restrained from using more than 10 tmc ft for KC Canal and it is under examination of the Tribunal as issue number 8 and 10,” the Telangana ENC explained. In 1981, Andhra Pradesh government had reallocated 8 tmcft out of 39.9 tmc ft allocation for KC Canal to Srisailam Right Bank Canal (SRBC) under the plea of getting savings due to modernisation of KC Canal. “However, the date submitted before KWDT-II clearly shows that an average utilisation of 54 tmcft is being done under KC Canal against the earmarked 31.9 tmcft, while RDS canal of Telangana is not getting even 5 tmcft water against the protected quantity of 15.9 tmcft due to sheer neglect and violation of Andhra Pradesh,” the ENC explained, adding that AP, in fact, had also constructed a new Barrage at Sunkesula in place of the anicut.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/stop-drawing-srisailam-water-says-telangana/article35888941.ece
13 August 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vaccination effective in reducing virus mutation rate||The ‘Delta Plus’ coronavirus variant is not yet a matter of concern with 200 cases recorded so far but one of its lineage “AY3” was being observed closely with genome sequencing. “It is early days and we will know soon where it is going. However, it is not easy to interpret data in real time and there are no clear cut answers to how many number of samples need to be sequenced,” said noted scientist and director of Tata Institute of Genetics & Society (TIGS) Rakesh Mishra on Thursday. “Sample collection and submission is not happening in an efficient manner. It is taking 20 days from collection to submission and up to 100 days for sequencing to be completed. There should be rationale in sample collection and these should be from varied geographical locations, from breakthrough infections and super-spreader events,” he explained. Participating in AIC-CCMB’s webinar on ‘COVIDwise: Lessons learnt and unlearnt’, Dr. Mishra said the samples coming for genome sequencing has been reducing from a high of 14,000 in June to about 5,000 in August with most coming from Maharashtra whereas few samples were coming from highly populated Uttar Pradesh and Bihar. ‘Skewered approach’ How can we have a nationwide strategy with such a skewered approach, he questioned. “Third wave is dependent on how well we are going to use our face masks, avoid clustering, indoor gatherings and increasing vaccination pace. We need to continue testing, tracing and isolation methods. These are in our control. What is not in our control is sero-positivity and emergence of new variants,” said the former CCMB director. COVID mutations per se were not dangerous as it was the nature of the virus with two mutations a month at an average observed. “Delta variant has overpowered all other variants and peculiarly has hit men the most. We are investigating why this variant is so dominant,” he said. Despite constraints, the genome surveillance was being picked up on time reasonably and how the data is processed was another matter altogether. “We have also noticed mutations are emerging independently and maybe the virus is reaching a peak. But, to repeat, no variant can breakthrough a proper mask and no virus can spread without people’s cooperation. Vaccination is more important because new research shows this has led to decrease in mutation rate so less variants,” he added. Noted virologist Shahid Jameel of Asoka University advised citizens not to fret over antibodies missing post vaccination as the body has enough memory cells to protect from serious disease. “Vaccines are the most economic health tools and work well. If vaccines based on thermostable RNA and high immunogenicity DNA could be made, they would serve well,” he said, giving a glimpse of some vaccines in the making. Evidence from various studies showed that double dose of currently available vaccines does offer protection from severe disease and mortality even though it may not prevent infection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vaccination-effective-in-reducing-virus-mutation-rate/article35889285.ece
13 August 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ex-MLA convicted||A special court for cases against MLAs/MPPs had sentenced former MLA of Pinapaka Assembly constituency Payam Venkateshwarlu to undergo simple imprisonment of six months after holding him guilty in an election campaign related case. The special court had also imposed a fine amount of Rs. 10,000 on the former legislator. He paid the fine and was given four weeks of time to go for an appeal before the High Court. Mr. Venkateshwarlu was accused of distributing money to voters through his associates during 2018 Telangana Assembly election campaign in Ashwapuram village. An amount of Rs. 4,000 was seized from them. Police registered a criminal case against him under sections 171-E (punishment for bribery) and 188 (disobedience to public servant order) of Indian Penal Code. Provisions of the Representation of People’s Act were also invoked. The special court held him guilty under section 171-E of IPC but acquitted him of other charges.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ex-mla-convicted/article35889284.ece
13 August 2021||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||BJP accuses YSRCP govt. of ‘failing’ farmers||BJP State president Somu Veerraju on Thursday blamed the State government for the problems being faced by the farming community, especially in the dry belt of Rayalaseema. Expressing solidarity with the demonstration staged by the party’s Kisan Morcha at the Collectorate here on Thursday, Mr. Veerraju demanded that the State government immediately supply micro-irrigation equipment and drip pipes to the farmers. “Rayalaseema is known to register the lowest rainfall in the country after the State of Rajasthan. The previous TDP government at least supplied drip irrigation equipment and defaulted to the tune of Rs. 900 crore, but the present government has thoroughly let down the farmers by stopping all forms of support,” Mr. Veerraju fumed. He recalled that the BJP-led Union government, after coming to power, had spent Rs. 10,000 crore on agricultural support and Rs. 13,000 crore on providing farm mechanisation to such districts with low rainfall. Though 2,500 farmers in Kadapa district alone had sought drip support and even paid money through demand drafts last year, the government had not come forward to support them, he alleged. ‘Agri sector defunct’ “Agriculture sector became defunct with the administrators neither calling for tenders, nor disbursing the drip equipment,” Mr. Veerraju alleged. He also demanded the opening of the State-run sugar factory and dairy that had remained closed in the district. Party leaders Singareddy Ramachandra Reddy, Ramesh Naidu, Balakrishna Yadav, and Lakshmi Narayana Reddy took part.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bjp-accuses-ysrcp-govt-of-failing-farmers/article35888986.ece
13 August 2021||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Huge haul of red sanders in Kadapa||The Kadapa district police seized a huge quantity of red sanders in two different operations across the district on Thursday. Acting on a tip-off received by Pulivendula Rural Inspector N. Ravindranath Reddy, a police team from Vemula station lay in wait on Veerapunayanipalle main road in the early hours of Thursday and intercepted two cars on suspicion. When the occupants of the cars, identified as Kokku Balagopal, Kokku Raviprasad, M. Veeranarayana and M. Sivabrahmam, tried to attack the police, they were overpowered and taken into custody. Police later found a huge dump of precious logs camouflaged under a load of papaya fruits. Vemula police seized the 33 logs and the vehicles, all valued at Rs. 20 lakh, registered a case and produced the accused in the Pulivendula magistrate’s court. Another joint raid by the police, forest and Red Sanders Anti-Smuggling Task Force (RSASTF) in Mydukur police sub-division yielded five logs and two mobile phones. Kalasapadu police and Ramapuram forest beat officials intercepted a gang of smugglers and registered a case. Nallagondla Reddaiah, Turaka Venkateswarlu and Dara Samuel were arrested, while around 25 persons fled the spot. The police have launched a manhunt for the absconding persons.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/huge-haul-of-red-sanders-in-kadapa/article35889277.ece
13 August 2021||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Midday meal cooks protest low wages||Midday meal workers who cook meals for students at government schools under the ‘Jagananna Gorumudda’ scheme staged a protest in Kadapa district on Thursday, alleging ‘shabby treatment’ and ‘irregular disbursement’ of wages. Andhra Pradesh Midday Meal Scheme Workers’ Union members, under the banner of All India Trade Union Congress (AITUC), shouted slogans against the State government accusing it of running the scheme without providing the necessary support.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/midday-meal-cooks-protest-low-wages/article35888991.ece
13 August 2021||KOCHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Cardinal has to face trial in land scam cases’||Cardinal Mar George Alancherry, Major Archbishop of the Syro-Malabar Church and head of the archdiocese of Ernakulam-Angamaly, will have to face trial in the criminal cases booked against him in connection with a land scam, the Kerala High Court said on Thursday. Justice P. Somarajan, who dismissed six appeals filed by the Cardinal and one by another accused against a trial court order, also asked the government to probe a 2007 settlement deed, about which the court harboured a “reasonable doubt” of manipulation. The settlement deed was executed by Fr. Sebastian Vadakumpadan, the power of attorney-holder of the Religious Congregation of Brothers of the Roman Catholic community, Aluva. It is to be probed whether the title deed of a government property was manipulated, the court ordered. The scam pertains to the sale of various holdings of the Syro-Malabar Church, allegedly flouting the bylaws of the Church and causing heavy financial losses. The sale deeds were executed without conducting a public auction or public sale with notice to all concerned. The deal was thus executed solely for the purpose of “giving the property to certain selected persons at a throwaway price capriciously and at the whims and fancies of the Cardinal,” the court said. Meanwhile, close on the heels of the Income Tax (I-T) Department directing the Ernakulam-Angamaly archdiocese to remit Rs. 3.5 crore, citing capital gains the archdiocese made in land transactions, the Church has submitted an appeal before the I-T Appellate Authority, seeking a relook at the directive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cardinal-has-to-face-trial-in-land-scam-cases-kerala-hc/article35888943.ece
13 August 2021||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Amit Shah, wife offer prayers at Srisailam||Union Home Minister Amit Shah and his wife Sonal offered prayers at the Bhramaramba Mallikarjuna Swamy Devasthanam at Srisailam in the district on Thursday. They later visited the Shivaji Spoorthi Kendram nearby. Amid tight security, Mr. Amit Shah and his wife arrived by a special helicopter from the Begumpet airport at 1.05 p.m. They were received at the Sunnipenta helipad, near the temple, by Endowments Minister V. Srinivas and Nandyal MP P. Bhrahmananda Reddy. At the temple, the visiting dignitaries were accorded a traditional welcome with ‘poorna kumbham’. Amid Vedic chants, they were ushered into the temple for darshan by Executive Officer K.S. Rama Rao. Endowments Principal Secretary Vani Mohan and District Collector P. Koteswara Rao were present. Sapling planted After darshan, the authorities presented them mementoes and ‘prasadam’. The Home Minister later planted a sapling of Terminalia arjuna (Arjuna tree). Intelligence IG Sridhar Reddy, Kurnool DIG Venkatarami Reddy, and Superintendent of Police Sudheer Kumar Reddy were present. Mr. Amit Shah later inaugurated a small exhibition of the ancient copper plates unearthed at the Ganta Matham during its renovation work. The authorities explained him the importance of the valuable findings and the message written on them. The Central government had given financial assistance for the renovation of the temple under the Pilgrimage Rejuvenation and Spirituality Augmentation Drive (PRASAD) scheme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/amit-shah-wife-offer-prayers-at-srisailam/article35888945.ece
13 August 2021||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Unemployed youth left in the lurch: Lokesh||Andhra Pradesh witnessed a flight of industries under the YSRCP government, forcing hundreds of unemployed youth to take the extreme step, TDP national general secretary N. Lokesh alleged on Thursday. Addressing the media here after paying floral tributes in front of the house of an unemployed youth, Kamal, who had allegedly ended his life upset with not getting a job, Mr. Lokesh said the State, with 38% unemployment rate, had a notorious distinction of being first in South India and fourth in the country. About 300 unemployed youth had ended their lives in the State under the YSRCP rule so far, he alleged while referring to a report compiled by the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy. Industrial workers faced a bleak future as a majority of the small and medium enterprises were on the verge of winding up, unable to cope with the COVID-induced economic crisis, he said. “As Minister for Information Technology in the TDP government, I had brought a host of companies to the State,” Mr. Lokesh claimed. Dubbing as fake the job calendar brought out by the government to fill about 10,000 jobs, he said unemployed youth were thoroughly disappointed and demanded that the government come out with a fresh job calendar to fill over 2.30 lakh vacancies in government departments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/unemployed-youth-left-in-the-lurch-lokesh/article35889291.ece
13 August 2021||NELLORE/ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Virus claims 3 more lives in South Coastal A.P.||The coronavirus claimed three more lives in the South Coastal Andhra Pradesh in 24 hours ending 9 a.m. on Thursday. The number of active cases went up by 21 to 4,082. Two patients in Prakasam district and another one in Nellore district died of the infection, taking the total toll to one short of the 2.000-mark in the region, according to a health bulletin released by the State government. Prakasam district accounted for 1,025 fatalities while 974 lost their lives to the infection till date. As many as 321 infections, including 225 in Nellore district, were confirmed in the region in 24 hours, taking the cumulative tally to more than 2.68 lakh. As many as 297 patients including 220 in Nellore district recovered during the period.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/virus-claims-3-more-lives-in-south-coastal-ap/article35889278.ece
13 August 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||NCBC objects to potters’ displacement in Prakasam||The National Commission for Backward Classes on Thursday took strong objection to the removal of thatched huts of scores of potter families by the district administration at K. Bitragunta village, near Singarayonda, in Prakasam district. NCBC Vice-Chairman P. Lokesh Kumar and NCBC member T. Achary gave a patient hearing to the woes of potter families who were hitherto eking out a living close to the Chennai-Kolkata highway. They complained they were evicted by officials for allegedly encroaching upon on government ‘kunta poramboke’ land. They had been living on the said land for decades and paying all taxes to the government, the potters submitted. The NCBC functionaries summoned the revenue and police officials concerned to New Delhi and sought a detailed explanation within a fortnight. They grilled the local officials on what basis they were earlier provided electricity connections and the reasons for disconnection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ncbc-objects-to-potters-displacement-in-prakasam/article35888987.ece
13 August 2021||PALAKKAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Retelling the Ramayana, on a banana leaf||Palakkad-based artist Rajendran Vadakkepadath, well known for his leaf paintings, celebrated the Malayalam month of Karkidakam — the Ramayana month — with some unique art. He painted the Ramayana on a dried banana leaf. Mr. Rajendran used black and brown acrylic on a six-feet long treated banana leaf to surprising effect. From Valmiki writing the epic and King Janaka’s yaga to Rama’s crowning, almost all major episodes are painted in reverse on the ochre banana leaf. Tribal idiom “Deviating from the glorified styles found in TV shows and films, I used a tribal style to tell the epic story. My intention is to mark the epic through this exclusive medium of art, and not to create any veneration or piety,” the artist says. He began working on the leaf on the first day of the Ramayana month and finished by the 25th day on Wednesday. Beaming with satisfaction, he says: “I could contain an epic in a banana leaf.” Mr. Rajendran is a lone master in banana leaf painting, a rare genre that few artists have attempted. No one else, according to him, currently dabbles in banana leaf painting, because dried leaves are extremely difficult to handle for an artist. Success with this rare medium has taken eight years of trials. “The biggest challenge with banana leaves is that outlining images with a pencil is not possible, as they will break. Unlike working with other surfaces such as canvas, paper and walls, painting on dried banana leaves takes longer,” says Mr. Rajendran. Secret process Creating the leaf canvas involves a secret treatment process. It is treated with milk before being painted on. “If the art work is kept under a glass frame, it can last more than a century,” he says. He uses only brown and black in reverse for his work to stand out on the dried leaf’s natural brownish yellow, and uses only acrylic. His painting of Sree Padmanabhaswamy in a reclining pose done in Thai style on an eight-feet-by four-and-half feet size background made of banana leaves is reputedly the biggest leaf painting in the world. “I have not seen or heard about a larger leaf painting,” he said. When Diego Maradona died on November 25 last year, Mr. Rajendran paid unique tribute to the football legend by etching his face on a banyan tree leaf.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/retelling-the-ramayana-on-a-banana-leaf/article35888940.ece
13 August 2021||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP seeks notification for all 2.35 lakh vacancies||Srikakulam MP Kinjarapu Rammohan Naidu and former Telugu Desam Party MLA Gunda Lakshmi Devi on Thursday alleged that the YSR Congress Party government had betrayed lakhs of unemployed youth with its job calendar which would ensure employment to only 10,000 persons. Along with senior Telugu Desam Party leaders, they organised a rally and staged a protest in Srikakulam, demanding notification for all 2.35 lakh vacancies in the State. Telugu Yuvatha president of Srikakulam district Menda Dasunaidu, and party leaders Madarapu Venkatesh and Kornu Pratap participated in the agitation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tdp-seeks-notification-for-all-235-lakh-vacancies/article35889332.ece
13 August 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,ANDHRA PRADESH||Opposition boycotts Assembly in Kerala||The Congress-led United Democratic Front (UDF) Opposition boycotted the Kerala Assembly on Thursday and staged a mock sitting-in front of the Assembly complex after Speaker M.B. Rajesh denied them leave to move an adjournment motion to discuss “incriminating revelations” against Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan in the U.A.E. Consulate-linked gold smuggling case. The UDF claimed the “controversial disclosures” were detailed in a recent show-cause notice served by the Customs Commissionerate (Preventive) on the suspects in the case. Its legislators divided themselves theatrically into treasury and Opposition benches in front of a phalanx of live television cameras. Congress legislator N. Shamshudeen and Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) MLA P.K. Basheer played the Speaker and Chief Minister respectively. Congress member P.T. Thomas read out the adjournment motion the Speaker had denied him in the House. Mr. Thomas alleged that Sarith, an accused in the case, had told the Customs that he had collected a “packet of foreign currency” from an official in the Secretariat and handed it over to the U.A.E. Consulate officials. The official wanted the “packet” delivered to Mr. Vijayan. The latter was in the U.A.E. on an official visit during the term of the previous the Left Democratic Front (LDF) government. Leader of the Opposition V.D. Satheesan demanded Mr. Vijayan’s resignation. Earlier in the House, the Speaker said the UDF had moved the notice based on some questionable statements made by an accused in the case. He could not allow a discussion under Rule 50 based on such assertions. Moreover, the judiciary was considering the case at multiple levels. Mr. Rajesh rejected Mr. Satheesan’s argument that the House had discussed comparable subjects in the past. “Precedence cannot overrule acts and rules,” the Speaker said. Law Minister P. Rajeeve pointed out media reports that suggested the accused in the gold case had given statements against the political executive under custodial duress. Hence, Mr. Rajeeve said, the Assembly could not allow a discussion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/opposition-boycotts-assembly-in-kerala/article35888947.ece
13 August 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Telugu Yuvatha activists protest against job calendar||Alleging that the State government has failed in providing jobs to the unemployed youth, the activists of the Telugu Yuvatha, the youth wing of Telugu Desam Party (TDP), staged a demonstration on Thursday. The activists cleaned buffaloes in the Ramachandra Pushkarini and grazed donkeys on the roadside to register their protest. “This is the situation of the educated youth in the State now. There are no jobs and the youth are being forced to settle for menial jobs,” said A. Ravi Naidu, Telugu Yuvatha’s Tirupati parliamentary constituency in-charge. He accused the State government of letting down the youth with ‘fake promises’ and an ‘impractical job calendar’. “The promise of 2.30 lakh jobs to the youth stills remains a pipe dream. The government has not only failed in bringing in new companies. Rather, it is chasing the noted employers out of the state,” alleged Telugu Yuvatha leader R. Anand Goud. The protesters demanded that the government cancel the job calendar and fill the posts lying vacant in the Group I, II, universities, and government departments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/telugu-yuvatha-activists-protest-against-job-calendar/article35889281.ece
13 August 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||SVIMS gets state-of-the-art casualty ward, oxygen plant||Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) Chairman Y.V. Subba Reddy on Thursday inaugurated a PSA oxygen plant and a state-of-the-art casualty ward at the Department of Emergency Medicine of the Sri Venkateswara Institute of Medical Sciences (SVIMS). The TTD spent Rs. 4.2 crore on the casualty ward that has life-saving equipment worth Rs. 3 crore purchased under the Sri Venkateswara Pranadana scheme. The oxygen plant working based on pressure swing absorption (PSA) was set up by using funds donated by Bengaluru-based ACT Grants. “The process of the TTD taking over the administrative control of the SVIMS will be hastened in the interests of the patients from the Rayalaseema region,” Mr. Reddy told the media.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/svims-gets-state-of-the-art-casualty-ward-oxygen-plant/article35888990.ece
13 August 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||IIT, Tirupati signs pact with CQuERE||The Indian Institute of Technology, Tirupati (IIT-T) has signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with the Kolkata-based Centre for Quantum Engineering Research and Education (CQuERE in virtual mode on Thursday. As part of the pact, the CQuERE will complement the IIT-T’s academic pursuits in the form of joint student supervision and teaching of courses, hosting of joint workshops and conferences. The collaboration will help a vibrant academic and research environment at the IIT-T.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/iit-tirupati-signs-pact-with-cquere/article35889279.ece
13 August 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Will complete pending work soon, says DRM||K. Venkataramana Reddy, who took over as the new Divisional Railway Manager of Guntakal, announced that pending railway works in Tirupati would be completed at the earliest. Mr. Reddy inspected the Tirupati station and said the road under-bridge (RUB) coming up at the sixth platform would be over soon. He said work on the underbridge at Rayala Cheruvu Road, which provides easy access to south Tirupati, would also be over soon. He later made a window trail inspection towards Pakala junction.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/will-complete-pending-work-soon-says-drm/article35888988.ece
13 August 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Six Maoists involved in 127 offences surrender||Six important Maoist cadres, including two 18-year-old girls of the Andhra-Odisha Special Zonal Committee, surrendered before the State police. They were produced before the media by Director General of Police D. Gautam Sawang. The six – two from Visakhapatnam and four from Chhattisgarh – were involved in 127 offences, including 17 murders over the past one and a half decades. Mr. Sawang said that the main reasons for the cadres to quit the CPI (Maoist) party was dwindling support from the tribal population, lack of recruitment from tribals and discrimination of tribal cadres by top leadership. They are: Chikkudu Chinna Rao alias Sudheer (32), Divisional Committee Member of Peddabailu-Korukunda division, Vanthala Vannu alias Mahita (25), area committee member, Madaka Somidi (25), area committee member, Madakam Manglu alias Deepak, protection team member, Poyam Rukini alias Rinky (18) and Sodi Bheeme (18). Ms. Mahita and Ms. Somidi were part of the armed protection team of a top leader. Chinna Rao alone was involved in 93 offences, including 14 murders and 11 exchanges of fire and seven landmine blasts. There was a reward of Rs. 16 lakh on the six cadres. Chinna Rao was with the party for 15 years and Ms. Mahitha and Ms. Somidi were recruited about 10 years ago. Deepak joined the party six years ago and Rinky three years ago. Ms. Bheeme was recruited when she was 12 years old. Impact of govt. schemes Mr. Sawang said that the Maoists were unable to sustain due to lack of support from the tribal population and penetration of the government schemes into the tribal hamlets through the volunteer system. “They lost the patronage of the tribals and were finding causes to fight after the land and other issues of tribals were settled with government schemes. All these developments made them feel redundant,” Mr. Sawang said. “I appeal to the Maoists to come forward taking advantage of the surrender policy offered by the government and shun violence,” he said. In the last two years, the cadre strength came down to 54 from 140 and two companies consisting of 50 members each were reduced to a 10-member platoon, the DGP said. One of the surrendered Maoists said she had joined the party after she was forcibly married to a person when she was a child. Mr. Chinna Rao said tribal leaders were discriminated against by the top leadership. “Lack of support from the people and within the party has made us leave the path for good,” he said. Additional DG (L&O) Ravi Shankar Ayyanar, Special Intelligence Bureau IG Ch. Srikanth, DIG (L&O) B. Rajasekhar Babu and Visakhapatnam Rural SP B. Krishna Rao were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/six-maoists-involved-in-127-offences-surrender/article35888951.ece
13 August 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Four of 13 deaths reported from Chittoor||The State reported 13 COVID-19 deaths and 1,859 infections during the 24 hours ending Thursday morning, taking the cumulative tally to 19,88,910 and the toll to 13,595. During the period, 1,575 patients recovered, taking the total number of recoveries to 19,56,627. The recovery rate stood at 98.38%. The number of active cases stood at 18,688. The daily positivity rate of the 70,757 samples tested was 2.63% and the overall positivity rate of the 2.54 crore samples tested was 7.81%. Chittoor reported four deaths in the last 24 hours. It was followed by Krishna (three), East Godavari and Prakasam (two each), and Nellore and Visakhapatnam (one each). There were no fatalities in seven districts in the past one day. East Godavari district reported 402 new infections. It was followed by Chittoor (233), Nellore (225), West Godavari (195), Guntur (182), Kadapa (148), Krishna (144), Visakhapatnam (123), Prakasam (96), Anantapur (40), Srikakulam (28), Vizianagaram (24) and Kurnool (19). The overall district-wise tallies were as follows: East Godavari (2,81,786), Chittoor (2,34,431), West Godavari (1,71,549), Guntur (1,70,160), Anantapur (1,56,713), Visakhapatnam (1,53,518), Nellore (1,36,910), Prakasam (1,31,574), Kurnool (1,23,544), Srikakulam (1,21,245), Kadapa (1,11,489), Krishna (1,11,365) and Vizianagaram (81,731).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/four-of-13-deaths-reported-from-chittoor/article35889288.ece
13 August 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||British Deputy High Commissioner bats for Vizag as administrative capital||British Deputy High Commissioner for Andhra Pradesh and Telangana Andrew Fleming finds Visakhapatnam as “the most attractive and suitable city for an administrative capital.” “Vizag has a unique cosmopolitan character and high potential for investment and growth,” Mr. Fleming said while speaking at a special interaction here on Thursday. Mr. Fleming said, “Vizag has a lot of potential for investments and tourism. The State government can market that potential. We are probably the first to make such a move with HSBC, a British company in Vizag, providing employment to huge number of people. Whoever goes to Vizag, would like to return to the place once again. I’ll be very happy to go there time and again and spend time there. In fact, the city resembles the globally attractive destinations such as Brazilian city Rio de Janeiro and Spanish resort town San Sabastian.” Trade and investments Speaking about trade and investments, Mr. Fleming said the United Kingdom and India did well despite COVID-19 challenges. “We have interests in health, energy and education. We already have some MoUs, and are in the process of making certain major tie-ups in the near future. While the realised trade by the U.K. firms in the Telugu States is about 50 million pounds, the Indian companies did 70 million [pounds] worth of business, which includes investments. We took up several initiatives to promote trade. Indian investors are now finding it more comfortable in doing business in the U.K.,” he added. There is a remarkable shift in students intending to study abroad, he says. According to Mr. Fleming, the two-year post-study work visa is attracting more number of students to the U.K. than to the U.S. “There are several students from the Telugu States. Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy’s daughter has successfully completed her course . This apart, the U.K. offers more value for money compared to the U.S.,” Mr. Fleming summed up. The State government had decided to make Visakhapatnam the executive capital, Amaravati the legislative capital and Kurnool the judicial capital. To make this possible, the Assembly had even passed the A.P. Decentralisation and Inclusive Development of All Regions Bill, 2020. At present, it is challenged in the High Court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/british-deputy-high-commissioner-bats-for-vizag-as-administrative-capital/article35889298.ece
13 August 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Efforts on to improve ranking in SDGs, says Chief Secretary||Chief Secretary Aditya Nath Das has said that the State government is making a concerted effort to reduce poverty and remove the socio-economic disparities by prioritising the development of education, health and agriculture and allied sectors. Besides, the State government has brought in administrative reforms such as establishment of village and ward secretariats with the aim to take welfare schemes to the people’s doorstep, Mr. Das said. “A host of such measures will take Andhra Pradesh closer to achieving the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs),” the Chief Secretary asserted. Mr. Das made the remarks while participating as chief guest in a workshop on ‘SDG India Index and Multidimensional Poverty Index’ that was organised by the NITI Aayog at the Secretariat on Thursday. Food security Mr. Das said food security was another thing to which the government attached due priority, and it was implementing Navaratnalu to improve the living standards of the weaker sections. “Efforts are being made to achieve better ranking in the SDGs, and it is a continuous process,” the Chief Secretary observed.   ‘Room for improvement’ NITI Aayog Adviser (SDGs) Sanyukta Samaddar said Andhra Pradesh’s efforts in achieving 17 SDGs were commendable, and it could still do its best to further improve its standing among the 22 States in the country. She then spoke about the manner in which the goals were to be accomplished as per the guidelines laid down by the Government of India and closely monitored by the NITI Aayog. Secretary (planning) G.S.R.K.R. Vijay Kumar, Special Chief Secretary (higher education) Satish Chandra, and Principal Secretaries M.T. Krishna Babu (transport, roads and buildings), B. Rajasekhar (school education), A.R. Anuradha (women and child development) and Kantilal Dande (tribal welfare) were among those present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/efforts-on-to-improve-ranking-in-sdgs-says-chief-secretary/article35889636.ece
13 August 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man killed over ‘illicit affair’ at Ayyappa Nagar||A 23-year-old ice cream vendor was allegedly killed by a police constable who was suspecting the former of having an illicit affair with his wife. The incident occurred at Ayyappa Nagar on Wednesday night. Police said that the deceased, Mukku Venkatesh of Machilipatnam, reportedly used to visit the constable’s house in his absence. On being told about Venkatesh’s presence in his house by his landlord, the constable, Siva Nagaraju, assaulted him with a rod, inflicting grievous injuries. Venkatesh was declared dead at GGH. Both Nagaraju and his landlord Ratna Sai were booked under Section 302 (murder) of the IPC.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/man-killed-over-illicit-affair-at-ayyappa-nagar/article35889630.ece
13 August 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Stella College, Takshashila IAS Academy ink MoU||Maris Stella Women’s College in Vijayawada has signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with the Takshasila IAS Academy, to provide integrated coaching for the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) civil services examinations from Intermediate (Inter+IAS+CLAT-2 years integrated course) and graduation (Degree+IAS-3 years integrated course) students. Stella College principal Sr. Jasintha Quadras and Managing Director of the IAS Academy B.S.N. Durga Prasad exchanged the copies of the MoU. As part of the collaboration, the Takshashila IAS Academy, as the knowledge partner of the Maris Stella College, will provide coaching and guidance for all government competitive examinations on the college campus in Vijayawada.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/stella-college-takshashila-ias-academy-ink-mou/article35888992.ece
13 August 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||GGH doctor accused of duping patient’s husband of Rs. 22 lakh||A duty doctor in the Government General Hospital here has allegedly duped the husband of a patient suffering from black fungus to the tune of Rs. 22 lakh in the name of providing ‘Lyophilized Amphotericin B’ injections. The patient, P. Vijayalakshmi, of Kadapa was admitted to the GGH on May 29. She was treated for black fungus until June 17, after which she moved out as her condition deteriorated. She later died on July 7. The incident had come to light recently after her husband, Raghukulesa Saran, a retired government junior lecturer, lodged a complaint with the GGH Superintendent with evidence of bank transactions. Mr. Raghukulesa alleged that Rs. 22.8 lakh was paid to the duty doctor, Thota Vani Supriya, towards supply of the anti-fungal injection for Rs. 70,000 to Rs. 1 lakh each. The injections were allegedly not available in the hospital. The patient’s son, Anil, too had sent money via online transfer to the doctor, it was alleged. Speaking to The Hindu , Mr. Raghukulesa said they would soon lodge a police complaint against the duty doctor. ‘Police complaint soon’ “We are still mourning. I will lodge a complaint with the police in a day or two. The officials have reportedly suspended the doctor,” he said. Instead of accepting her wrongdoing, the duty doctor had levelled allegations against our family, Mr. Raghukulesa alleged. “We received legal notice from the duty doctor two weeks ago with false allegations. Police inquiry will reveal all facts. We have the proof of conversation with the doctor,” he said. Meanwhile, the Health Department officials were conducting an inquiry into the issue. Dr. Vani was not available for comment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ggh-doctor-accused-of-duping-patients-husband-of-rs-22-lakh/article35889286.ece
13 August 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||COVID positivity rate high in E.G., Prakasam mandals||Some mandals in East Godavari and Prakasam districts were among the top 20 in the State with the highest positivity rate of COVID-19 sample tests. According to the information posted by COVID command centre officer Ch. Chinnarao on Twitter, Sakhinetipalle Rural mandal in East Godavari reported 57.14% positivity rate in the past day while Pamur Rural and Chirala Rural mandals in Prakasam district reported 27.94% and 22.64% positivity rate respectively. I. Polavaram in East Godavari and Chimakurthi in Prakasam reported around 19% positivity rate. A few mandals in West Godavari, Chittoor, Guntur and Kadapa districts also have more than 12% positivity rate. Among urban areas, Sullurpet in Nellore has 13.04% positivity rate. The urban local bodies in Prakasam, West Godavari, Guntur, East Godavari, Chittoor, Prakasam, Vizianagaram and Kadapa have 4% to 10% positivity rate in the past day. Meanwhile, 4,291 persons were getting treated for COVID-19 in 261 hospitals and 611 persons were admitted in the past day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/covid-positivity-rate-high-in-eg-prakasam-mandals/article35889638.ece
13 August 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||FCI official pays tributes to Pingali||As part of the ‘Azadi Ka Mahotsav’ celebrations that mark 75 years of India’s Independence, General Manager, Food Corporation of India, A.P. Region, Amaresh Kumar visited Bhatlapenumarru near Machilipatnam, the native place of the freedom fighter and designer of the Indian flag Pingali Venkayya, on Thursday. Mr. Kumar paid tributes to the freedom fighter by garlanding his statue. Later, he met the villagers and enquired about the supply of foodgrains to them under the Prime Minister Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana (PMGKAY). Villagers grateful The villagers expressed their satisfaction and thanked him for timely supply of foodgrains. Mr. Kumar also visited the local Rythu Bharosa Kendram, fair price shops and the panchayat office and interacted with the staff there.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/fci-official-pays-tributes-to-pingali/article35889633.ece
13 August 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||HC reserves orders on Amaravati land case||A single-judge bench of the High Court comprising Justice C. Manavendranath Roy on Thursday reserved its judgement on a quash petition filed by former Advocate-General (A-G) Dammalapati Srinivas against the case booked by the Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) for allegedly purchasing land in Amaravati against rules and helping 12 others in similar transactions . Advocate-General S. Sriram said the complaint had revealed a cognisable offence and the decision to take it up for further investigation was bona fide and all the procedures leading to the registration of the FIR were followed. He argued that the case could not be faulted on the ground of motives or political aspersions. Mr. Sriram said it was incorrect to say that the FIR was initiated on the basis of the profile of the probable accused . He said no probe was possible because a stay was imposed , and the rest of it was for the court to decide.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/hc-reserves-orders-on-amaravati-land-case/article35889289.ece
13 August 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Date extended||The AP State Board of Technical Education and Training has extended the last date for submission of applications for POLYCET-2021, scheduled to be held on September 1, to August 18. In a statement on Thursday, the Chairman of the board P. Bhaskar said the entrance test is for the students seeking admissions into government and private polytechnic colleges and second shift polytechnic courses in engineering colleges.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/date-extended-for-polycet/article35889632.ece
13 August 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tattooing is part of tribals’ culture and tradition, says expert||Recently, a tattoo studio has come in Araku valley. Tribal youth from the valley and neighbouring tribal hamlets have been thronging the place to get their bodies engraved with different types of designs ranging from faces of their favourite film stars to symbols foreign to their culture. Tattoos have been part of the indigenous people or tribes since ages and anthropological research indicate that it goes back to over 5,000 years. Tattooing is not considered as an art by the tribals, as it is part of their culture and traditions and the coming up of tattoo studios with modern designs, can be seen as an erosion of tribal culture, says former head of the department of Anthropology, Andhra University, P.D. Satyapal. The tattoo designs, tools, the process and colour used have been a study or research for archaeologists and anthropologists. And according to Prof. Satyapal, tattoos are considered as cultural symbols that been for ages with the indigenous tribes across the globe and also in the Agency areas of Visakhapatnam district. There are over 15 recognised tribes in Visakhapatnam Agency with a number of sub-groups and each has an exclusive tattoo pattern for their identity. Tattoos are not only beautification symbols but are means of identity. The patterns vary from men to women, from tribe to tribe and from profession to profession, said Prof. Satyapal. A woman practising witchcraft has a different tattoo by which she is differentiated from the village priest. Similarly, the tattoo patterns of Gadaba tribe is different from a Kondh or Koyas. According to Prof. Satyapal, the tribals in the Eastern Ghats use vegetable dyes for tattoos and totem symbols is the base for the design. People with the surname Pangi have eagle as totem symbol and they normally engrave that on their arm or forearm. Similarly, kilos have tiger as totem symbol, Koras have Sun and Vanthalas have cobra has totem symbols. “Just by seeing that tattoo, we can identify the clan or sub-group,” he said. It is this culture of the tribes that has percolated down to the plain areas, across the world and now this very culture is threatened, said a research scholar from the Anthropology department in AU. In Visakha agency, the tattoo designs are based on ‘dots’ but in the Andaman islands, the designs are line-based. The same is the case with the indigenous tribes in Australia or Central America, and they still stand distinct. Any erosion of culture is a loss to the future generation, said Prof. Satyapal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tattooing-is-part-of-tribals-culture-says-expert/article35889328.ece
13 August 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||No end to woes of Community Guards at beaches in city||At around 11 a.m., on Thursday, two youth from Chhattisgarh ventured into the sea for some fun-filled moments at Rushikonda Beach. Ignoring the warning by the marine police, the youth moved deeper into waters and were accidentally pulled in by strong tides. Community Guards (CGs) who were present in the vicinity jumped into the water and rescued the duo. Yet again, at around 4 p.m., four youngsters from Telangana were pulled into the water by a strong tide in the same beach. Prompt response by three other CGs, saved the lives of the youth. During the same time, a Naval Dockyard employee was also rescued by the CGs at RK Beach. Community Guards have been playing a pivotal role in saving the lives of a number of tourists and beachgoers from the city. Despite putting their lives at stake to rescue people, Community Guards have been facing problems. They have not been paid salaries regularly and they are also not being provided proper equipment for taking up rescue operations. They have not reportedly received salaries since February this year. There are 37 CGs deputed at the local beaches in Visakhapatnam. Among them, 10 work in the stretch between Jodugullapalem and Rushikonda, 17 in R.K Beach, four work in between Naval Coastal Battery and Novotel Hotel stretch and six work at Yarada Beach. They work in two shifts. According to them, RK Beach is the most frequented beach and they have been saving 20 people from drowning, on an average per month. “We are unable to pay rents for the houses and meet our requirements since the last five months. Almost all of us are depending on loans and we were hit by COVID-19. We are tired of running from pillar to post at the GVMC office and police city headquarters for our salaries,” said a CG from Rushikonda. They pointed out that they were just given one lifebuoy and 100-metre rope for Rushikonda and RK Beach. “Our requests for additional gear has always fallen on deaf ears,” they lamented. “There is a need for more lifebuoys, life jackets, inflatable tubes and ropes. We are forced to take up rescue operations with limited gear,” they said.All the 37 community guards are under the GVMC and their salary has been fixed at Rs. 18,000 per month. The issue of paying them the salaries with arrears was raised in the first council meet at the GVMC. But many corporators faulted the selection procedure and said that they were recruited by the earlier government. “It is immaterial when we were recruited. What is important is are we saving lives. And we should be recognised for that. Every year, we rescue at least 400 people in the three main beaches such as Rushikonda, RK and Yarada,” said a Community Guard.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/no-end-to-woes-of-community-guards-at-beaches-in-city/article35889658.ece
13 August 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Cadres suffer another blow as Sudheer calls it quits||This year, the banned CPI (Maoist) suffered three major setbacks in the Andhra- Odisha Border region. The first was the surrender of senior Maoist leader Jalandhar Reddy alias Krishna in April, the next was the major encounter in Teegalametta in Koyyuru mandal in which six top Maoists, including Ranadev and Ashok, were killed and the latest to add to their woes is the surrender of Chikkudu Chinna Rao alias Sudheer before DGP Goutam Sawang in Vijayawada on Thursday. Sudheer was a divisional committee member of Pedabayalu-Korukonda area committee and his surrender is a big blow to the Maoist movement in AOBSZC (Andhra Odisha Border Special Zonal Committee), as he was one among the few tribal leaders from this region, who held considerable sway among the locals. Now the only major tribal leader left in this region is Kakuri Pandana alias Jagan. Sudheer had walked out of the Maoist movement, immediately after the Koyyuru encounter. And after coming out he not only expressed his resentment but also had strongly criticised the Maoist non-tribal leaders for their disdaining attitude towards the tribal cadres and tribal leaders. The Maoist movement began in AOB region some time in 1980 and the basic ideology was to bring justice to the tribals, who had been facing repression from all sections, during that period. Their call appealed to the tribals and several people joined their fold. No fresh recruitment But over the years, especially in the last five years, the flow of fresh tribal blood into the movement has been seeing a dwindling phase and as per documents recovered from the encounter sites, in the last two years, there has been practically no recruitment from the AOB region and the Maoists have been infusing cadres from the Dandakaranya (DK) region. All along, the leadership has been held by non-tribals, either from Andhra Pradesh or Telangana. And despite their dependence on tribals, Sudheer had pointed out that the tribal leaders were not given their due, their opinion was not being considered and rather being harassed and treated as second rate cadres. Sudheer apparently had a difference of opinion when the Maoists had killed about four tribals in the last one year, after branding them as police informers. All the main tribal leaders who hailed from Visakha agency and had held good influence over the tribals and who had motivated several others to join the movement, have either died or have surrendered in the last five years. They include Kudumula Venkata Rao alias Ravi, Bakkuri Venkat Ramana alias Ganesh and Gemmeli Narayan Rao alias Jambri. While the first died of some sickness, the other two were killed in encounters. Leaders such as Naveen, Swarna and now Sudheer have surrendered, leaving the Maoist movement in its lowest ebb in the AOB region, for the first time since its beginning in 1980.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/maoists-suffer-setback-with-leaders-surrender/article35888949.ece
13 August 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Increase services under Aarogyasri, KGH doctors told||District Collector A. Mallikharjuna directed the medical officials to ensure cleanliness and provide better services to patients at the King George Hospital (KGH). The Collector inspected various wards at the hospital on Thursday evening and later held a review meeting with the hospital authorities. He asked the authorities to increase the services under Aarogyasri and utilise the revenue obtained for development of the hospital. He sought the preparation of relocation plans for the departments, proposed to be shifted under ‘Nadu – Nedu’. He directed the medical officials to submit bills for the repair of medical equipment at the hospital. He said that he would strive to secure a new MRI Scanner. He said that wheel chairs should be available round the clock at the Out Patient (OP) Block and staff should be available for handling them. MLA Vasupalli Ganesh Kumar, GVMC Commissioner Srijana, KGH Superintendent P. Mythili, AMC Principal P.V. Sudhakar, DM & HO P.S. Suryanarayana were among those who participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/increase-services-under-aarogyasri-kgh-doctors-told/article35889648.ece
13 August 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||BJP leaders criticise changing temple inauguration date||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders and party workers staged a protest on Thursday condemning the attitude of the State government in changing the date, fixed by Veda pandits, for the inauguration of Sri Venkateswara Swamy temple, constructed by the TTD on a hill at Rushikonda. They took exception to the excuses being given by the YSR Congress Party leaders that the TTD Board was yet to be appointed and that the tour of the Chief Minister has not been finalised, for the postponement of the consecration of the ‘moola viraat’. They said that Tirumala Tirupati Venkateswara Swamy temple was one among the few temples in the world, which draws the maximum number of devotees. According to Agama Shastra and Hindu Dharma Shastras, the erection of Dwajasthambam was as important as the consecration of the ‘moola viraat’. The Dwajasthambam was erected a few days ago The BJP leaders noted that protocol was not followed in the function pertaining to the erection of the Dwajasthambam. The District Collector, Visakhapatnam MP, local MLA, local Corporator and even local Tahsildar were not invited for the function. The ceremony was conducted without ‘mangala vayadyam’ (traditional music) and without following traditions. BJP State leader K.N.P. Chakravarthy, district president Dilip Varma, Bhimili coordinator Rama Naidu, SC Morcha district president K. Sanjeeva Rao, ward president Madhav Ramana, party leaders Rama Surendra Kumar, Raghava Kumar and Uppada Appa Rao were among those who participated in the protest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bjp-leaders-criticise-changing-temple-inauguration-date/article35889653.ece
13 August 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Post-COVID clinics to be opened from tomorrow||Post-COVID clinics are being established in KGH, Government Hospital for Chest and Communicable Diseases (GHCCD) and VIMS from August 14. These clinics, being opened on the instructions of Minister M. Srinivasa Rao, are dedicated to the care of COVID patients with long-standing problems, according to P.V. Sudhakar, Principal, Andhra Medical College. The clinics will function from 9 a.m. to 2 p.m. from Monday to Saturday. The decision to open these clinics taken as more and more patients are suffering from after-effects of COVID-19. P. Mythili, Superintendent, KGH, K.V.V. Vijaya Kumar, Superintendent, GHCCD and S. Srinivas, Professor & Ho D of Medicine, were present during the meeting conducted in the chamber of the Principal. R. Jagannadham has been made in-charge Medical Officer of the Post COVID clinic at KGH, K. Rajinikanth at GHCCD and Vijay Kumar at VIMS.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/post-covid-clinics-to-be-opened-from-tomorrow/article35889655.ece
13 August 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||IRCTC launches 2 tour packages||Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation (IRCTC) Ltd. has launched tour packages – Uttara Bharat Yatra with Mata Vaishno Devi and Mahalaya Pind Daan Tarpan - by ‘pilgrimage special deluxe tourist trains’, starting from August 27 and September 25 respectively. Announcing this at a media conference here on Thursday, Deputy General Manager/Tourism, IRCTC, D.S.G.P. Kishore said that the Uttara Bharat Yatra would cover Agra, Vaishnodevi, Golden Temple, Wagah border, Manasa Devi Mandir, Ganga Aarti, Red Fort, Akshardam Temple (Delhi), Qutub Minar, Lotus Temple and India Gate. The tour starts from Renigunta. Pilgrims going on this tour from Visakhapatnam and north Andhra could board the train either at Guntur or Vijayawada, which are the nearest boarding points. The cost per person is Rs. 10,400 by Sleeper Class and Rs. 17,330 by 3 AC for this tour. The duration of this tour is 10 nights and 11 days. The tour will conclude on September 6. The places covered under ‘Mahalaya Pind Daan Tarpan’ are Varanasi, Prayagraj and Gaya. The 6 nights and 7 days tour will commence at Secunderabad on September 25. It will reach Visakhapatnam at 2.45 p.m. on the same day. It will also have halts at Vizianagaram and Srikakulam Road stations. More details can be had from the IRCTC Office at Gate no. 1, Visakhapatnam Railway Station or from Chandan on the mobile no. 82879 32318, Gananadha on 82879 32281, Hyma on 76709 08300 or from the office landline no. 0891-2500695.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/irctc-launches-2-tour-packages/article35889645.ece
13 August 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ashok seeks report on collapse of Dwajasthambam||P. Ashok Gajapathi Raju, founder family member of Sri Varaha Lakshmi Narasimha Swamy Devasthanam, Simhachalam and group temples, has written to the Executive Officer seeking a detailed report on the ‘post-mortem’ enquiry done on the reasons leading to the collapse of the Dwajasthambam of Sri Sitharama Swamy temple. In a letter to the EO on Thursday, the Mr. Ashok Gajapathi Raju, who is also the hereditary trustee of Simhachalam temple, said that he had gathered from news articles that deterioration of the wood was the cause of the collapse. This implies that there was no quality check mechanism defined and followed periodically to check the strength of the wood to avoid such incidents, he said. He hoped that at least learning from this unfortunate incident, a standard quality check procedure would be defined to catch early warnings through periodical checks to take remedial actions. Action plan He also sought a list of all other structures that might have a possibility of similar risks (wood deteriorating) and the plan of action.that would be put in place to prevent recurrence of such incidents anywhere else in Simhachalam Devasthanam. He hoped that the reply would be given to him by August 17.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ashok-seeks-report-on-collapse-of-dwajasthambam/article35889282.ece
13 August 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Retired employee alleges land grab||A plot, belonging to a retired employee of Simhachalam Devasthanam, was allegedly grabbed by a man, employed in the Police Department. The victim K. Krishnamacharyulu lodged a complaint with the Executive Officer of the temple and the latter after verification ordered demolition of the illegal constructions on the site. The squad demolished the compound wall but left the shed, constructed by the alleged land grabber, intact.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/retired-employee-alleges-land-grab/article35889646.ece
13 August 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Over 3.5 lakh eye surgeries completed: Sankar Foundation||Sankar Foundation Eye Hospital, a super-speciality eye care hospital, completed over 3,50,000 eye surgeries since 1997. Of these, 77% (2,71,366) were done totally free of cost to the patients. The hospital is not only catering to the eye care needs in rural and tribal areas of north coastal Andhra but also extending its services in the neighbouring tribal districts in Odisha for the past few years. The first eye hospital, which was registered under Dr. YSR Aarogyasri scheme, it has been participating in all the State government healthcare programmes and performing surgeries to patients, identified under Dr. YSR Kantivelugu and ‘Avva Tata’ programme also. On an average, 30-35 free surgeries are being performed under Dr YSR Aarogyasri and 60-70 under YSR Kantivelugu and District Blindness Control Society (DBCS), according to a statement issued by K.B.N. Manimala, Managing Trustee and CEO of Sankar Foundation here, on Tuesday. During the last financial year, the hospital has performed the highest number of 6,385 eye surgeries, which includes 2,815 under Aarogyasri and 3570 surgeries under Dr. YSR Kantivelugu, under various sub- specialities free of cost to the patients, below poverty line. The hospital is extending free diagnostic procedures under Aarogyasri for patients suffering from glaucoma and retinal eye problems.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sankar-foundation-eye-hospital-completed-over-35-lakh-surgeries-ceo/article35889329.ece
13 August 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘It’s imprudent to sell govt. share in GPL to Adani’||Former bureaucrat E.A.S. Sarma said the sale of State government’s equity share of 10.4% in Gangavaram Port Limited to the Adani group for Rs. 645 crore was imprudent and was done in a non-transparent manner. In a letter to the Chief Secretary, he said that the value of the land occupied by the Gangavaram Port itself exceeds Rs. 2,392 crore, which is 3.7 times the equity sale value. This is the minimum that the State ought to have expected from this transaction, he said. According to him, the equity share of 10.4% is in itself heavily depressed as the State had doled out 2024 hectares to the GPL at an artificially concessional value. Had the State given the land at the market value prevailing at that time, then it's equity share would have been more than 90%, making the company a government-owned one, he pointed out. He alleged that the way the State has given away its share in Gangavaram Port to the Adani Group, it gives one the feeling that it has joined hands with the present NDA government at the Centre to pave the way for privatising the Visakhapatnam Steel Plant, a proposal that has generated anger among the people of North Andhra, as precious agricultural land was acquired from the farmers for setting up the steel plant on an assurance that the steel plant would be exclusively be in the public sector.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/its-imprudent-to-sell-govt-share-in-gpl-to-adani-says-eas-sarma/article35889334.ece
13 August 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||123 new cases take tally to 1,54,028||The Visakhapatnam district reported 123 new COVID-19 infections in the last 24 hours ending Thursday morning taking the cumulative tally to 1,54,028. A total of 47 persons recovered from the virus, according to the bulletin. This is the lowest number of recoveries in the recent times. The number of recoveries has increased to 1,51,580. One death The district also recorded one more death, taking the toll to 1,062. Ten deaths were reported in the month so far. The number of active cases stands at 1,386.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/123-new-cases-take-tally-to-154028/article35889656.ece
13 August 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vaccination at all PHCs, CHCs in district today||The COVID-19 vaccination will be conducted at all PHCs and CHCs in the district on Friday. District Collector A. Mallikarjuna said in a statement that both first and second doses of Covishield and Covaxin will be given from 8 a.m. to 6 p.m. Those over 45 years of age and pregnant women and mothers with children, below 5 years of age, teachers and anganwadi workers can take the jab, irrespective of their age. The Collector appealed to eligible persons to take the vaccine to check the spread of COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vaccination-at-all-phcs-chcs-in-district-today/article35889654.ece
13 August 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Complete works of sea harrier by year-end’||Commissioner of Visakhapatnam Metropolitan Region Development Authority (VMRDA) K. Venkata Ramana Reddy instructed the officials to complete the sea-harrier project at Beach Road by the end of the year. He asked them to bring the artefacts required from Goa in the meantime. He took stock of the ongoing projects of the VMRDA by visiting the sites here on Thursday. He learnt about the works of Integrated Museum and Tourism Complex and asked the officials to prepare estimates and call for tenders for the project.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/complete-works-of-sea-harrier-by-year-end/article35889659.ece
13 August 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||IGZP organises World Elephant Day||On the occasion of World Elephant Day-202, Indira Gandhi Zoological Park (IGZP) organised a programme ‘Keeper’s Talk’, at the elephant enclosure. Curator Nandani Salaria said that visitors are also interested to know how a zoo keeper takes care of the animal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/igzp-organises-world-elephant-day/article35889649.ece
13 August 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||435 kg ganja recovered at Anakapalle||The district police recovered around 435 kg ganja at Anakapalle (rural) in the district on Thursday. According to the police, based on credible information, a vehicle was intercepted at KNR Peta Junction and the ganja was recovered. Investigation is on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/435-kg-ganja-recovered-at-anakapalle/article35889650.ece
13 August 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||YSRCP worker attacked||Unidentified persons reportedly attacked a YSR Congress Party worker P. Varahala Murthy (35) at Chinnapachili village under Ravikamatham police station limits on Wednesday night. According to the police, the persons involved in the case are suspected to be workers of the Telugu Desam Party (TDP). Mr. Murthy was shifted to hospital for treatment. Doctors said that he is out of danger. A ccase was registered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ysrcp-worker-attacked/article35889333.ece
13 August 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Mock drill organised||A mock drill of bomb detection and disposal was conducted at Visakhapatnam Railway Station here on Thursday. The drill was organised under the supervision of Senior officer Chokka Raghuveer of RPF. The RPF staff demonstrated the evacuation procedure, search operation, detection of bomb. Local police including traffic, fire department officials, railway medical team, dog squad of the RPF and the GRP took part in the drill.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/mock-drill-organised/article35889651.ece
13 August 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||SHOs told to complete probe into crimes against women in 60 days||Vizianagaram Superintendent of Police Deepika M. Patil has asked all the State House Officers (SHOs) to complete the investigation of cases pertaining to crimes against women within 60 days, adding that speedy justice would instill confidence among the victims and reduce the crime rate significantly. She asked the SHOs to crack the whip on persons consuming alcohol in public places, saying that prevention of crime is being given a top priority, apart from extending a helping hand to women in distress. Referring to the Disha app, the SP said 2.78 lakh women in the district have downloaded the application to their smartphones, adding that a target has been set to achieve 4 lakh downloads by the end of this months. “We need a proactive response from women to achieve this target. The parents should guide their daughters to download the app. It will help the police identify the location of the women in distress easily and extend their service. The smartphone users can also know the nearest police station and hospitals to get the assistance,” said Ms. Deepika Patil. The SP said that the department was organising meetings with mobile shop owners and the representatives of service centers. They can download the Disha app and explain its benefits to the people during buying and servicing of phones,” she said. Women-friendly policing Ms. Deepika Patil also appealed to the victims of crimes to approach the police without fear. “Women constables are undergoing training to help the victims lodge complaints. All these steps will certainly ensure the safety for women,” she added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/shos-told-to-complete-probe-into-crimes-against-women-in-60-days/article35889337.ece
13 August 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Collector orders inquiry against MPDO||Vizianagaram Collector A. Suryakumari on Thursday ordered an inquiry over the ‘indecent activities’ of Gagurubilli Mandal Prajaparishad Development Officer Chandra Rao. The mandal officer reportedly was drinking liquor and indulging in obscene acts in his office. Video footage of him reportedly went viral on social media which came to the notice of the Collector. She asked the Vizianagaram Revenue Divisional Officer to inquire into the incident. A report is expected to be submitted to the Collector in a couple of days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/collector-orders-inquiry-against-mpdo/article35889330.ece
13 August 2021||August 13 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Complete comprehensive land survey by 2023: CM||He said the Cabinet Sub-Committee constituted for monitoring the survey should meet every week to review the progress. Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy suggested that the officials coordinate with the Survey of India and take their assistance. He would review the progress every month, he said. Responding to his directive to the officials of the mining wing that there should be no shortage of survey stones, the latter informed him that the 1,600 survey stones would be manufactured per day in four plants from November . Deputy Chief Minister Dharmana Krishna Das, Land Administration Chief Commissioner Neerab Kumar Prasad and other officials were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/complete-comprehensive-land-survey-by-2023-cm/article35889640.ece
13 August 2021||August 13 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||In order||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/in-order/article35889629.ece
13 August 2021||August 13 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Festive shopping||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/festive-shopping/article35889635.ece
13 August 2021||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||Tele-consultation for healthcare for tribals||The Department of Health and Family Welfare has rolled out the long-awaited tele-consultation services in the predominantly tribal populated district mainly for the benefit of people living in rural areas,, especially underserved Agency areas of the district. The new initiative is aimed at improving access to medical specialist consultation services to needy patients in the online mode using the Information and Communication Technologies (ICT). It assumes significance due to constraints faced by people living in far-flung Agency areas in travelling to major public health facilities at distant places to access speciality healthcare services particularly in these times of COVID-19 pandemic. As many as 29 Primary Health Centres (PHCs) and five Urban Primary Health Centres have been designated as tele-consultation centres. Dedicated hubs have been set up in the government hospitals in Kothagudem, Paloncha and Bhadrachalam to implement the new initiative in a “Hub and Spoke” model, sources in the health department said. Almost all PHCs have been equipped with paraphernalia for the purpose.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/consultation-on-phone-for-tribals-healthcare/article35889509.ece
13 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Robust public healthcare can help tackle pandemic’||A robust public healthcare system with primary, secondary and critical levels connected through surveillance mechanisms could have helped the country deal with the current COVID pandemic better and certainly would be able to tackle any next pandemic, was the common refrain from scientists and public health experts to policy makers on Thursday. “Primary healthcare could have helped us detect early waves, help us do early interventions, remove the fears or stigmas associated with the virus. We need to strengthen it in both urban and rural areas even as the focus is on hospital beds and ventilators,” asserted president of Public Health Foundation of India Dr. K. Srinath Reddy. Public healthcare personnel are needed for early detection of cases, contract tracing and monitor those in home care. While the focus on economy is there, there is a danger of it to “keep slipping on the banana peel of lack of public healthcare”, he warned, participating in a webinar on ‘COVIDwise: Lessons learnt and unlearnt” by the Atal Incubation Centre - Centre for Cellular & Molecular Biology (CCMB). It was not right to go by sero-positivity ratios to come to a conclusion on herd immunity as the benchmark has crossed to 90% and presence of antibodies was no guarantee of automatic immunity. CMC-Vellore virologist Jacob John said the missing elephant in pandemic management has been the absence of public health initiatives through the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare and not the National Disaster Response Management Agency (NDMA). This led to the real time disease surveillance data not coming in and hence, the onset of the second wave was missed. Sewage surveillance is also an invaluable tool. CSIR-CCMB director Vinay Nandicoori said sewage sample surveillance can give early warnings and serious efforts were on to make it into a future strategy of taking samples from 14,000 treatment plants.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/robust-public-healthcare-can-help-tackle-pandemic/article35889346.ece
13 August 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||‘Suspend policemen for ill-treating tribal women’||Telangana Congress president and Malkajgiri MP A. Revanth Reddy has shot off a letter to Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao seeking action against the policemen who booked attempt to murder cases against tribal women for fighting for their rights on podu lands in Konijerla mandal of Khammam district. Mr. Reddy in the letter alleged that on August 4 and 5 about 23 tribals were arrested, of which 20 were women, including those with infants. They were all sent to Khammam jail. Police charged them with attempt to murder case initially but later withdrew the sections related to attempt to murder after severe criticism. The women were released on bail on August 11 after the attempt to murder charges were withdrawn. However, police ensured that these women were inhumanly treated by the jail officials, he claimed quoting the tribal women. T he women were forced to touch the feet of officials for providing food and also forced to clean toilets illegally. Women with infants were also threatened with dire consequences if they raised their voice outside, he said. Mr. Reddy demanded that the police and jail officials involved in the case should immediately be suspended and action initiated against them. Similarly, rights of tribals on the podu lands should be restored before September 17, he said. The Congress chief alleged that Dalits and tribals were ill-treated by the police on several occasions during the TRS rule but the government always kept mum. The attacks of Dalits in Nerella for opposing illegal sand mining and hand-cuffing the tribal farmers for seeking support price, and the recent episode of Mariamma’s treatment in the police station are examples of how police atrocities have increased, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/suspend-policemen-for-ill-treating-tribal-women/article35889358.ece
13 August 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Interpretation centre at Quli Qutb Shahi tombs||As visitors enter the Qutb Shahi tombs complex, they are informed that the unfinished tomb on the left is that of last ruler of the dynasty Abul Hasan Tana Shah. Once inside, guides inform them about the massive dome on the right as that of Hayat Bakshi Begum who was known as Ma Saheba and the area of Masab Tank is named after her. Then there are countless tales and conjectures about the medieval necropolis at the foothills of Golconda Fort. This is set to change as the Telangana government is developing an Interpretation Centre that will be first landing spot for visitors to the tombs and the Golconda Fort. For the record, neither the unfinished tomb, that of Abul Hasan nor the Masab Tank area gets the name from Hayat Bakshi Begum. “The interpretation centre will be of immense importance as it will give an understanding of the complex and place it in its historical context. School children, who visit the site would find it very useful as children are very inquisitive,” said well-known historian Sajjad Shahid, noting how most monuments in the world and in India have an interpretation centre to help viewers make sense. Before the State government signed an MoU for conservation and restoration of the Qutb Shahi Tombs Complex with the Aga Khan Trust for Culture, the site had a small one-room museum beside the hammam . After nearly 10 years of restoration with many more structures within the complex becoming visible, the interpretation centre would create a holistic understanding of the qanats, the step-wells, the funerary mosques, serais and the symmetrical gardens inside the complex developed between 1512 and 1687. The Mughals are given credit for introducing symmetrical gardens known as Chahar Bagh. But in reality, the first Qutb Shahi ruler Sultan Quli’s tomb is set in a symmetrical garden much before Mughals started building their monuments. The site’s interpretation centre is being developed at a spot where an amusement park with toy-train, boating facility, and swimming pool was built in the 1990s. The excavated soil for the pool and the lake was used to create a man-made mountain used for film shootings. The amusement park was never opened for the general public and served only as shaadi khana or site for official functions where food was served under a gazebo.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/interpretation-centre-at-quli-qutb-shahi-tombs/article35889356.ece
13 August 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||453 test positive||The number of COVID cases in Telangana remained under 500 with 453 people testing positive on Thursday after 89,675 tests were conducted. According to the medical bulletin issued by the Department of Public Health (DPH), 1,425 test results were awaited. The State recorded three deaths taking the total count during the pandemic to 3,836. 69 cases in GHMC Karimnagar recorded 55 cases, while the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation area with nearly 70 lakh population recorded 69 cases. Warangal Urban (38), Nalgonda (31), Medchal-Malkajgiri (25) logged most number of cases while Narayanpet recorded zero cases and 17 districts logged cases in single digits. Asifabad and Nirmal recorded one case each. The case load or patients under treatment and isolation remained constant at 8,137 from Wednesday, though the bulletin informed that there were 591 recoveries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/453-test-positive/article35889348.ece
13 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Four new MI tanks sanctioned||The State government has given administrative approval for the formation of four new minor irrigation tanks across local streams in Irakpally East, Irakpally, Morgi, Wadgaon Thanda-Sukalteerth villages in Narayankhed Assembly constituency with a cost of Rs. 37.39 crore. According to the orders issued by the Irrigation Department on Thursday, the irrigation potential of the four tanks would be 1,150 acres with a maximum of 400 acres under Morgi-Kothacheruvu tank followed by 300 acres under Wadgaon Thanda tank, 250 acres under Irakpally East tank and 200 acres under Irakpally tank. Except the Wadgaon Thanda tank, which falls in Kangti mandal, other three tanks jointly fall under Manoor and Nagalgidda mandals. The estimated cost of Wadgaon Thanda tank is over Rs. 14.47 crore, Irakpally East tank is Rs. 9.99 crore, Irakpally tank is nearly 6.75 crore and Morgi tank is nearly 6.18 crore. Special Chief Secretary (Irrigation) Rajat Kumar directed Chief Engineer (I) Sangareddy to obtain designs and drawings from the competent authority before giving technical sanction. The CE would also be responsible for correctness of quantities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/four-new-mi-tanks-sanctioned/article35889352.ece
13 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Ready for CBI probe into my assets, says Eatala||Former health minister Eatala Rajender challenged the TRS government to order a CBI probe into his assets since 2003 and also a High Court judge to look into the assets of Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao and his family on Thursday. “I am also ready for a public debate at Abids crossroads on the charges levelled against me to know the truth,” he said, at a press meet in Huzurabad. Stung by the comments made by Finance Minister T. Harish Rao, the BJP leader said he was a self-made businessman much before he joined politics with his wife and son continuing to look after the flourishing poultry business. “ I have refrained from making personal attacks so far but the Ministers and TRS MLAs have been using vituperative language against me. Mr. Rao has been uttering lies and falsehood expecting people to believe him,” he said. He had tried to bring about development to his constituency sincerely despite constraints on a par with the works being done in the constituencies of KCR, KTR and Harish Rao of Gajwel, Sircilla and Siddipet. “In those constituencies some of the big time contractors who garnered huge contracts built the two-bedroom houses whereas none of the contractors here was part of the big time projects,” he said. At a separate press conference, former MP Vivek Venkatswamy said Finance Minister Harish Rao would be made scapegoat if the Huzurabad byelection was lost.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ready-for-cbi-probe-into-my-assets-says-eatala/article35889507.ece
13 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||SCCL scouts for agency for floating solar plant||As part of selecting a consultancy for constructing the 250 megawatt floating solar power projects on the water of Lower Manair Dam (LMD) near Karimnagar, Singareni Collieries Company Ltd (SCCL) held a preparatory meeting with prospective agencies here on Thursday. Director (Electrical & Mechanical) of SCCL D. Satyanarayana Rao held the meeting for appointing a project management consultancy with several agencies participating in it. Mr. Rao explained that they would be setting up the floating solar power plant on 8 square km water-spread out of 81 square km of the water-spread of the dam. He stated that they would start tender process once they received approval from the State Government. Guidelines Meanwhile, the coal company issued orders increasing the retirement age to 61 years from the present 58 years and asked all employees and workers who had superannuated from March 31 this year to report back by the month-end. The orders were issued following a decision taken by the State government and later approval of it by the Board of Directors of Singareni Collieries Company Ltd. The orders were issued by Director (Finance, Personnel and Administration) N. Balaram. As per the orders issued, the period between March 31 and rejoining of duties by the employees and workers retired would be treated as “no work – no pay” period. Those who would be rejoining duties would have to undergo medical tests as per coal mines services guidelines. A total of 1,082 employees who retired from service and the 43,899 employees on the rolls of the company now would benefit from the increase of retirement age. The guidelines for rejoining the duties include paying back gratuity and leave encashment amount to the company within 15 days of rejoining the duties or else the employees need to pay interest as per cash credit rate from their monthly salary and they would get retirement benefits after 61 years of age by deducting the amount paid as interest. Detailed guidelines would be displayed on the notice boards of all offices of Singareni Collieries Company Ltd.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/sccl-scouts-for-agency-for-solar-plant/article35889512.ece
13 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||HC asks police about action taken in honour killing cases||Expressing dissatisfaction over the additional affidavit filed by police department over honour killings in a Public Interest Petition (PIL) petition, Telangana High Court instructed the authorities to file a fresh affidavit with complete details on the issue. A bench of Chief Justice Hima Kohli and Justice B. Vijaysen Reddy, hearing the PIL plea on Wednesday, noted the affidavit filed by the police department was wishy-washy and lacked the precise information it had sought to know. The petition was filed two years ago by Telangana State Bahujan Resistance Forum seeking to declare alleged inaction of police officials to check rising honour killings in the State. The Forum wanted the HC to instruct the State government to comply with the guidelines laid down by Supreme Court in Shakti Vahini vs Union of India in the matter. After perusing the affidavit filed by Additional DGP (Legal) Rajiv Ratan (representing DGP), the Chief Justice said it lacked information the High Court had asked for. Follow-up action There were no details of the precise action plan of the police department to stem rising honour killing cases and the follow-up action they had taken in already reported cases. “If you take court directions lightly, we will also take you lightly,” the CJ said expressing dissatisfaction over the content of the affidavit. While the petitioner claimed that 36 persons died due to honour killings in the State, the affidavit maintained that only four such instances were reported in four years from 2017. Three assault cases relating to caste pride were also registered during the same period. The bench, however, said the figures presented by the police were a bit doubtful. The Chief Justice remarked that the bench had reservations about the statistics furnished in the affidavit. Referring to the 50 instances of ‘khap panchayats’ reported in the State, the HC asked what had the police done in those cases. Special Government Pleader Sanjeev Kumar informed the court that those cases were reported before the government had issued a circular to the authorities on the plan of action to contain and deal with honour killing cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/hc-asks-police-about-action-taken-in-honour-killing-cases/article35889505.ece
13 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Amendment Bill does more harm than good: Krishnaiah||A noted backward classes leader R. Krishnaiah has said that the Constitutional Amendment Bill will do more harm than good to the targeted groups because there was every possibility that State governments will exploit the legislation to gain political mileage. The governments can include ineligible caste groups in their lists yielding to pressure. This will result in injustice to most backward classes representing washermen, barbers, fishermen and others who cannot compete with developed castes in education. He reminded that reservations were conceived to enhance social status of castes and not extended as a poverty-alleviation programme. The legislation, he said, was more in the nature of allowing inclusion of new castes among BCs rather than extending reservations on the basis of population. Mr. Krishnaiah, who presided over a meeting on Thursday of the core committee of National Backward Classes Welfare Association which he headed, felt the present cap of 50 per cent on reservations was not sufficient for the existing castes that were socially and economically backward. Inclusion of new castes will further harm the existing BCs. He said inclusion of castes among BCs was a technical issue which required a rigid scrutiny and sending it to National Commission for Backward Classes for vetting. If the Centre was committed to the uplift of BCs, he demanded political reservation for them up to 50 per cent based on their population. The BJP OBC Morcha president K. Laxman welcomed the Bill saying it was introduced to ensure that the Centre did not interfere with the legitimate rights of State governments to include or exclude castes in BC lists.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/amendment-bill-does-more-harm-than-good-krishnaiah/article35889506.ece
13 August 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Congress may field a novice and Dalit from Huzurabad||Announcement of TRS candidate for Huzurabad elections has cleared the picture for the interesting contest ahead and the Congress, which is yet to announce its candidate, wants to play it safe, fielding a novice to the politics. With the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) likely candidate Eatala Rajender stepping up the pedal, touching every village in his campaign, and the TRS all set to push up its already aggressive campaign with Chief Minister, K. Chandrasekhar Rao’s public meeting on August 16 to launch the Dalit Bandhu, the Congress is forced to name its candidate soon to make its presence felt. After its candidate in the last elections Padi Kaushik Reddy switched loyalties to the ruling party, Congress has considered a few names taking the social background into consideration. A new name that has cropped up in the party discussions is Malathi Reddy, wife of late minister Muddasani Damodar Reddy. She is a Dalit Christian and the party is contemplating fielding her if she agrees. Her choice, the party feels, will please the Dalits and Christians, apart from the Reddy community as Mr. Damodar Reddy was politically a strong man from the community in the Kamalapur constituency, which, after delimitation, has been renamed Huzurabad constituency. He served as a minister in the TDP government and had a strong influence in the area. “This is one option that the party is looking at. We will take the decision at an appropriate time,” a senior leader said. After his death, his son Muddasani Kashyap Reddy was very active in the Congress politics and was considered a follower of TPCC president A. Revanth Reddy. It was rumoured that he may get the Congress ticket but the TRS was able to lure him into its fold much before the Congress decided to act. Former minister and a firebrand once, Konda Surekha may also be asked to contest if there is a need as party leaders feel that she holds considerable sway over a section of voters. She belongs to the Padmashali community, which has sizeable voters in Huzurabad. Considered a firebrand during the Y.S. Rajashekhar Reddy’s tenure, Ms. Surekha surprisingly joined the TRS before the 2014 elections and won. However, she fell out with the TRS leadership over allotment of party ticket to her daughter in the 2018 Assembly elections. She unsuccessfully contested on Congress ticket and has since been lying low. Congress leaders still feel former MP Ponnam Prabhakar was the right choice but he flatly refused the offer, apparently worried that it would be a futile attempt since the contest would be between the ruling Telangana Rashtra Samithi and Mr. Eatala Rajender, whose resignation necessitated the bypoll. Moreover, party senior leaders understand the ground reality quite well and have been arguing that Huzurabad was never its forte with the party not winning there in the last 20 years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/congress-may-field-a-novice-and-dalit-from-huzurabad/article35889508.ece
13 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Know history in right perspective to create self-reliant India: Governor||Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan on Thursday called upon people to understand the country’s history in its right perspective and strive to create a strong, secure, prosperous, and self-reliant India. “When we are able to acknowledge our glorious past and rich cultural heritage, it will motivate us to work for the creation of a strong and secure future for the country,” she said. The Governor was virtually releasing a poster on postal stamps of freedom fighters designed by the Itihasa Sankalana Samithi. She stated, “We must remember and honour the sacrifices made by martyrs and the brave freedom struggle waged by our freedom fighters for the country’s independence and strive to create an India of their dreams. A real tribute to freedom struggle martyrs and freedom fighters should be through our efforts to make India prosperous, secure, sustainable and self-reliant. The Governor appreciated the efforts of the Ithihasa Sankalana Samithi (Bharatiya), Telangana State branch in bringing out the special poster as a mark of tribute to the freedom fighters. The poster was brought out as part of the country’s 75 years of independence celebrations, being celebrated as Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav across the country. Justice L. Narsimha Reddy, Retired Chief Justice of Patna High Court, Prof. V. Kishan Rao, President, Ithihasa Sankalana Samithi, Telangana, and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/know-history-in-right-perspective-to-create-self-reliant-india-governor/article35889342.ece
13 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Telangana AI Mission selects 42 start-ups for Revv Up||Telangana AI Mission has announced selection of 42 start-ups for Revv Up, an accelerator programme that it has put together in association with Nasscom. A 12-month programme, it is for start-ups offering solutions using Artificial Intelligence (AI). The selected start-ups -- the first cohort of the accelerator -- will be enabled and empowered through a series of structured interventions. They represent 11 sectors and are from 10 States. Revv Up is another step towards making Telangana and Hyderabad a global destination for AI and other emerging technologies, said a release from IT Minister K.T. Rama Rao office on Thursday. Nearly 50% of the selected start-ups are from outside Telangana and have expressed intent to open a local office either this or next year. Over 70% of the cohort is either bootstrapped or has early funding. More than 25% of the start-ups have at least one female founder, the Minister’s office said. IT Secretary Jayesh Ranjan said, “From addressing non-invasive healthcare solutions to climate modelling and new ways to support learning, the start-ups will greatly impact how our future will be shaped.” The selected start-ups will receive mentorship from industry experts and technology and IP support. Nasscom president Debjani Ghosh said, “Nasscom’s close partnership with Telangana will provide significant impetus for start-ups and their aspirations to become the AI garage for the world.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/telangana-ai-mission-selects-42-start-ups-for-revv-up/article35889494.ece
13 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||CREDAI property show||CREDAI Hyderabad Property Show 2021, a three-day event will be held at Hitex from Friday showcasing over 15,000 properties to suit all the necessities of the customers. To comply with the COVID-19 safety measures, the number of stalls has been reduced from 150 to 100, with wider corridors to maintain sufficient social distancing. Temperature checks at the entrance and sanitisation stations will be made available to ensure seamless hygiene. The show will abide by all the social distancing and hygienic measures as per COVID protocols. Large stalls with larger and more open spaces, adequate distancing, sanitisation at all places, and guidelines at every step has been ensured with mandatory face masks, said a press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/credai-property-show/article35889495.ece
13 August 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Five police officials bag prestigious award||Four Deputy Superintendents of Police and a Sub-Inspector of Telangana police bagged the ‘Union Home Minister’s Medal for Excellence in Investigation’ for 2021. The DSsP -- Nayini Bhujanga Rao, Aligati Madhusudhan, N Shyam Prasad Rao, G Shyam Sunder and SI Nenavath Nagesh were among 152 police personnel from across the country who bagged the prestigious award, which was constituted in 2018, with the objective to promote high professional standards of investigation of crime and to recognise such excellence in investigation by investigating officers. Among the personnel receiving these awards, 15 were from CBI, 11 each from Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra police, 10 from Uttar Pradesh, nine from Kerala and Rajasthan police, eight from Tamil Nadu police, seven are from Bihar, six each are from Gujarat, Karnataka and Delhi police and the remaining from the other States/UTs. These include 28women police officers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/five-police-officials-bag-prestigious-award/article35889354.ece
13 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Takes oath as MLA||Newly-elected legislator from Nagarjunasagar Nomula Bhagath took oath as Member of the Legislative Assembly here on Thursday. Speaker of the Assembly Pocharam Srinivas Reddy administered the oath to the member. The Speaker handed over a copy of the Assembly Rules Book and Identity Card to the new member. Minister for Legislative Affairs V. Prasanth Reddy, former Chairman of the Legislative Council G. Sukender Reddy, Ministers Md. Mahamood Ali (Home), G. Jagadish Reddy (Energy), V. Srinivas Goud (Excise), and T. Srinivas Yadav (Animal Husbandry, legislators G. Kishore Kumar, N. Bhaskar Rao, and T. Chinnapa Reddy and Legislature Secretary V. Narasimha Acharyulu were present on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/takes-oath-as-mla/article35889502.ece
13 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Every dalit will get Dalit Bandhu benefit’||Every dalit in the State would get Dalit Bandhu scheme benefits, Minister for BC Welfare Gangula Kamalakar said on Thursday. Speaking at Manakondur in Karimnagar during a preparatory meeting for launching Dalit Bandhu scheme in Huzurabad on Monday, the Minister assured the public that the government would do everything possible for dalit empowerment. People in the State should understand that Dalit Bandhu scheme was not aimed at only for dalits but the overall progress of society. He appealed to people of Manakondur and surrounding villages to attend the public meeting in Huzurabad on Monday in large numbers, pledging support to Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao’s initiative of Dalit Bandhu scheme. The Minister claimed that Telangana had become role model for other States in the country with the innovative development programmes launched by KCR.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/every-dalit-will-get-dalit-bandhu-benefit/article35889504.ece
13 August 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Two killed in accident||Overspeeding claimed the lives of two youngsters at Gandipet, on the outskirts of the city, here on Thursday afternoon. The victims — Kusthub (21), a third-year engineering student and Jordan (21) of Kompally — died on the spot, while their three friends Prakash, Deepak and Asif, of the same age group, suffered injuries. The accident took place around 1.15 p.m. between Chaitanya Bharathi Institute of Technology (CBIT) and Shankerpally, and death was instant for the two youngsters as the Suzuki Swift Dezire they were travelling in crashed into a roadside electric pole at a high speed of over 120 KMPH. The sedan was so extensively damaged that its right side front portion was completely mangled and the pole broke into two due to the impact, Madhapur Assistant Commissioner of Police Ch. Raghunandan Rao said. Both Kusthub, who was behind the wheel and Jordan, got sandwiched in their seats and the engine and dashboard. Mr. Rao said that Kusthub, a student of CBIT, was supposed to give a supplementary examination in the college at 2 p.m. and the other four were accompanying him till there. “As he was early for the examination, they were going towards Shankerpally,” he said. According to the officer, Kusthub lost control of the wheel after he veered the vehicle to the left to avoid ramming an autorickshaw moving in the same direction, which he failed to notice due to high speed. A case was registered and the wounded were rushed to a nearby corporate hospital for immediate medical assistance. They are said to be out of danger. Bodies of Kusthub and Jordan were shifted to Osmania General Hospital morgue for autopsy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/two-youths-killed-three-injured-in-road-accident/article35889497.ece
13 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Youth played a key role in pandemic relief work’||A senior official of the TS government on Thursday underscored the need to launch a movement of volunteerism to channelise the potential of youth to contribute to welfare of the society. “We need to start a strong movement of volunteerism whether there is a pandemic or not,” Industries and IT Secretary Jayesh Ranjan told India@75 Youth Summit organised on Thursday by CII Telangana in collaboration with the University of Hyderabad and TSWREIS. Such a move could help tap the “innate goodness... it could be led by young people,” the official said, citing how people spontaneously came forward to help others, be it arranging meals or transportation or medical supplies, during the pandemic. Youth in particular played a key role in all relief activities. “Youth being action-oriented, without any hesitation played a major role in taking care of the needy,” he said. CII, in a release, said its India@75 initiative is an industry-led movement to bring together different stakeholders to create a morally, economically and technologically-advanced country. Vice-Chancellor of the UoH B.J. Rao said, “We need structured paradigms so universities could develop them. All universities or institutes of learning should work on developing out of the box learning methods among the youth.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/youth-played-a-key-role-in-pandemic-relief-work/article35889344.ece
13 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Advisory against cruelty to snakes on Nagapanchami||The Forest department, in coordination with NGOs, has taken measures to prevent use of live snakes by snake charmers during Nagapanchami on Friday. Patrolling and raids will be conducted in vulnerable areas to seize snakes and book cases against their capturers, a note from the Chief Wildlife Warden informed. The District Forest Officers of Hyderabad, Ranga Reddy and Medchal districts have been requested to form mobile parties with forest staff and NGOs for patrolling and raids, the advisory said. The staff deputed may coordinate with the Forest Range Officer, Anti-Poaching Squad and NGOs. Toll-free complaints may be made about display of live snakes to the Wildlife Crime Control Cell on 1800425536. The note further dissuaded the public from encouraging live snake display, saying snakes do not drink milk as believed by devotees. They are starved of water for a whole day, which forces them to drink milk. Often, the snakes are put to cruelty through de-fanging and stitching their mouths, which should be discouraged by public, the note urged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/advisory-against-cruelty-to-snakes-on-nagapanchami/article35889349.ece
13 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Awareness programme for water board workers||Post the twin deaths of sewage workers in Vanasthalipuram, the Hyderabad Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewage Board is organising a 15-day awareness programme for its workers from August 16 to 30. Managing Director of the Board M. Dana Kishore has announced this, during a meeting with officials on Thursday. As part of the programme, the workers will be trained about do’s and don’ts of sewage management, use of protection gear, methods to be adopted while taking up sanitation works. Also to be propagated through the awareness programme are standard operating procedure guidelines, and first aid to be offered in case of accidents. Division wise teams will be formed with expert workers to carry out sewerage works in problematic areas of the respective divisions. A social audit team will be formed to inspect the works and submit reports from time to time. A nodal team will be constituted with higher officials from the water board to monitor the programme for a fortnight. Awareness should also be developed in the users, against opening manholes and throwing garbage into them. Pamphlets should be printed, and NGOs, local public representatives, and workers’ unions should be made partners in the programme. Training should be also offered to owners and operators of heavy and mini jetting machines, Mr.Dana Kishore said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/awareness-programme-for-water-board-workers/article35889499.ece
13 August 2021||hyderabad,TELANGANA||Cong. protest||AICC Secretary and former MLA, A. Sampath Kumar sat on a dharna along with Congress leader Rahul Gandhi at Jantar Mantar in New Delhi against the rising attacks on Dalits.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cong-protest/article35889571.ece
13 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||AI firm to hire 1,500 for centre in Hyderabad||California-headquartered customer engagement solutions provider [24]7.ai on Thursday said that it will hire 1,500 people for its Hyderabad centre. The 1,500 forms part of the 5,000 people the company intends to recruit across India by this fiscal. Consequently, the Hyderabad facility headcount will increase to 3,500. The hiring is for permanent roles across customer care executives for Voice, Chat and Blended Process to manage clients worldwide. “Being equipped to manage this process completely online opens up avenues for the company to hire people sitting anywhere in the country and enabling them to work remotely,” the firm said in a release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ai-firm-to-hire-1500-for-centre-in-hyderabad/article35889343.ece
13 August 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Hanumakonda, Warangal dists. come into being||Warangal Urban and Warangal Rural Districts would now be known as Hanumakonda and Warangal districts, with the State government issuing final notification and orders effecting the change from August 12 itself. According to the notification issued on the reorganisation of Warangal Urban and Warangal Rural districts into Hanumakonda and Warangal districts, the Hanumakonda district would have two Revenue Divisions – Hanumakonda with nine mandals and Parakal with five mandals. Similarly, Warangal district would have two Revenue Divisions – Warangal with seven mandals and Narsampet with six mandals. There were only three Revenue Divisions in the two districts earlier and as part of fresh reorganisation Hanumakonda Revenue Division has been created.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/hanumakonda-warangal-dists-come-into-being/article35889500.ece
13 August 2021||hyderabad,TELANGANA||Congress protest on Dalits issues||AICC Secretary and former MLA, A. Sampath Kumar sat on a dharna along with Congress leader Rahul Gandhi at Jantar Mantar in New Delhi against the rising attacks on Dalits in the country. The protest was organised by the Congress.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/congress-protest-on-dalits-issues/article35889511.ece
13 August 2021||SANGAREDDDY,TELANGANA||Dry spell, pests hit farmers hard||Rosaiah is a tenant farmer who leased out about 40 acres and cultivated cotton in Siddapur village in Sadashivapet mandal. In the first dry spell cotton sown by him was adversely affected and he was forced to hire labour and sow cotton seed again in part of the field. For that he spent a few thousand rupees. “The crop has grown to considerable level. Now the crop has been facing Penu Banka insect and its proving costly. Despite using several pesticides it could not be controlled. Only sufficient rains can save the crop,” said Mr. Rosaiah. “Many farmers are facing similar situation. Paddy and cotton crops are getting damaged. However as majority of cotton was sown under borewells it was estimated that the loss would be more for cotton. The yield will be worst affected,” Mr G. Jayaraj, secretary, All India Kisan Sabha (AIKS), told The Hindu . Cotton, maize and paddy farmer were expected to have the problem of heavy loss in Medak district. “The crop loss will be in about 10,000 acres if there are no rains in the next few days and the number of farmers will be around 25,000. The crop loss will be around Rs. 25 crore approximately,” said an agriculture officer. In Siddipet district, the crop area was considerably reduced due to lack of rains. It was stated that crop areas was reduced by one lack acres. Crops drying up was reported at Toguta and Jagadevpur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/dry-spell-pests-hit-farmers-hard/article35889573.ece
13 August 2021||YADADRI-BHUVANAGIRI,TELANGANA||Unable to digest wife’s death, septuagenarian kills self||Hours after his wife allegedly ended her life by immolating herself, 70-year-old Mara Reddy of Areygudem village of Choutuppal mandal too allegedly ended life by hanging himself from a tree in the agricultural fields on the village outskirts. Choutuppal police was alerted early on Thursday morning and his body was removed from one Vittal Reddy’s fields and sent for post-mortem. According to the police, Bal Reddy, son of the elderly couple, stated that his mother was ill and had been depressed for some time. P. Mallamma, it was reported, set herself on fire at around 10.30 p.m. on Wednesday, and efforts by her husband to save her also failed. By the time locals added to the rescue efforts, she breathed her last, and soon the police shifted the mortal remains to the hospital for further procedure. It was around the same time, the police said, Mara Reddy was out of the scene, and locals found him dead hanging from a tree on the outskirts around 5 a.m. on Thursday. Choutuppal police has opened an investigation. [Roshini — Suicide Prevention Helpline: 040-66202000]||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/unable-to-digest-wifes-death-septuagenarian-kills-self/article35889350.ece
13 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Trilokpuri accused had sexually assaulted 9-year-old girl in 2019’||A day after a 6-year-old girl was allegedly raped by a neighbour in east Delhi’s Trilokpuri, her family and the locals alleged that the accused committed a similar crime over a year ago but the matter went unreported. Staging a demonstration outside Mayur Vihar police station, the girl’s paternal aunt said the accused had allegedly sexually assaulted a 9-year-old girl in 2019. “When the matter to came to light, his [accused] maternal uncle — cable operator in the area — sorted the matter by offering money to the victim’s family. The matter wasn’t reported to the police,” she claimed. The 6-year-old’s neighbour, Pramila, said if the earlier crime was reported, then this one would not have happened. “It was a 9-year-old then, now it’s a 6-year-old… what if tomorrow he does the same with an infant,” she asked. The 6-year-old’s father is lodged in jail in a theft case and mother works as a house help in south Delhi, her aunt said. She has two brothers aged 3 and 9. The four of them reside in Khichdipur. Another neighbour said: “When her mother goes to work, she leaves the children with their grandparents in Trilokpuri. Should parents stop working and stay at home worrying for their children’s safety?” The crime happened on Wednesday when the girl had gone outside to play with her friends at 2 p.m., her aunt said, adding: “An hour later, she returned home. She was bleeding profusely from her private parts. When I asked her what happened, she said she had fallen down while playing. I asked her again when she told me the truth,” the aunt said The aunt then rushed outside and saw “a man running”. The victim allegedly told the family that two people had taken her to the first floor of a building, which is next to her grandparents’ on the pretext of buying her a toffee. The accused tied her, raped her and threatened not to tell anyone about the incident. Accused arrested A case was lodged under section 376 AB (punishment for rape) of the IPC, 6 Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act and relevant sections of SC/ST Act. During probe, the police arrested 34-year-old Sammugan. When the word spread, the girl’s family was informed about a man who had committed a similar crime over a year ago. His photographs were circulated on social media. When the police showed the photo to the victim, she identified him. Her family alleged that the police were trying to hush up the matter. “A female officer told us not to move forward with the case. She said this would ruin her image… she suggested that we get her married in a few years and assured that she would be okay,” the aunt said. The locality — where the incident happened — is mostly dominated by those from Tamil Nadu. The locals are a worried lot now. A 55-year-old local, Mani Ajay, said: “The accused is a local cable operator and often visits several houses. We are now very worried about our children roaming outside. This man deserves to be given the harshest punishment.” A neighbour of the accused said she saw the man beating his pregnant wife two months ago. “I had yelled at him at that time. What kind of a man does that? She does not stay with him anymore. I am worried about my tenant’s 3-year-old daughter,” she said. The family said the girl is hospitalised but stable.  An officer told us not to move forward with the case. She said this would ruin her image 6-year-old victim’s aunt||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/trilokpuri-accused-had-sexually-assaulted-9-year-old-girl-in-2019/article35889257.ece
13 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||10 persons identified, manhunt on in Jantar Mantar incident||The police have identified 10 persons involved in the incident wherein anti-Muslim inflammatory slogans were raised at Jantar Mantar on Sunday. Raids are being conducted to nab them, said police sources. The identified persons include Uttam Malik, who appeared in the viral video where hate slogans were raised, and Pinki Chaudhary, founder of a religious organisation called Hindu Rakha Dal. Other members include those from similar religious organisations. “There are also others whose names we have received. We will ask them to join the probe to ascertain their roles,” an officer said. On Sunday, a rally was called to demand the end of ‘colonial era laws’ by Supreme Court advocate and former Delhi BJP Spokesperson Ashwini Upadhyay. The event was attended by several right-wing organisations. Subsequently, a video went viral wherein a group led by a man wearing a saffron t-shirt could be heard raising anti-Muslim inflammatory slogans. The police registered a case on charges of promoting enmity and for flouting DDMA guidelines as the organisers didn’t seek permission for the event and also for flouting COVID-19 guidelines. On Tuesday, six persons, including Mr. Upadhyay, Save India Foundation’s Preet Singh alias Sundar Pal, Hindu Force’s Deepak Singh, Hindu Raksha Dal’s Deepak Kumar, Sudarshan Vahini’s Vinod Sharma, and one Vinit Bajpai were arrested. Bailed, not bailed A Delhi court granted bail to Mr. Upadhyay and two others while it rejected pleas of Preet, Vinod and Deepak Kumar on Wednesday and Thursday respectively.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/10-persons-identified-manhunt-on-in-jantar-mantar-incident/article35889255.ece
13 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||Criminals killed in police encounter||Two wanted criminals were killed in a police encounter in north-east Delhi’s Khajuri Khas, the police said on Thursday. DCP (North-East) Sanjay Kumar Sain said the accused have been identified as Amir Khan and Ramjan who have seven and five criminal cases levelled against them respectively. Begumpur police station staff tipped Khajuri Khas police station staff about the presence of the two criminals in Shri Ram Colony on the intervening night of Wednesday and Thursday. The two men were hiding inside a room on the second floor of a building in the densely populated area. “A joint operation was conducted by teams of Khajuri Khas and Begumpur police stations. When our teams reached the spot, they asked the men to open the door but instead, they threatened them,” Mr. Sain said, adding that the police asked them to surrender but they refused to open the door. Instead, they opened fire at the policemen. A family residing in the adjoining room was evacuated along with other residents of the building, the DCP said. After over an hour, the policemen managed to break the door. The accused started firing indiscriminately and the officers retaliated in self-defence, an officer said. During cross-firing, constable Sachin Khokar, constable Kalik Tomar, and the criminals received bullet injuries, an officer said. The injured were immediately shifted to Jag Pravesh Chandra Hospital, where both the accused persons were declared brought dead. The police said two automatic pistols, four magazines, a huge quantity of ammunition with live rounds and Rs. 1 lakh cash were recovered from their possession.  During cross-firing, constable Sachin Khokar, constable Kalik Tomar, and the two criminals received bullet injuries Police officer||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/criminals-killed-in-police-encounter/article35889258.ece
13 August 2021||New Delhi,||Court acquits 2 men in robbery case for ‘false implication’, raps police||A Delhi court on Thursday acquitted two men in a robbery case, saying that their false implication cannot be ruled out, and asked the Police Commissioner to look into the manner in which the probe was conducted. Additional Sessions Judge Vinod Yadav acquitted Ishwar and Nonu by giving them the benefit of doubt while noting the delay in registration of FIR, improper investigation, and false implication. ‘Shrouded with doubts’ “False implication of accused persons in the matter cannot be ruled out. The prosecution story is apparently shrouded with doubts and contradictions,” ASJ Yadav wrote in an 18-page long judgment. It was the case of the prosecution that the duo robbed one Ram Parkash at gunpoint on April 30, 2016, in Yamuna Vihar. They were arrested for offences such as robbery and extortion. The judge directed the copy of the judgment be sent to Delhi Police Commissioner “with a request to look into the manner in which the FIR was registered and the kind of investigation which was conducted by the investigating officer”. “It is also reminded to him that Delhi Police claims itself to be a premier investigating agency based in the Capital of India having important seats like Parliament, the Hon’ble Supreme Court of India, and other premier offices of the Central and State governments,” the court remarked.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/court-acquits-2-men-in-robbery-case-for-false-implication-raps-police/article35889252.ece
13 August 2021||New Delhi,||Nangal, Trilokpuri rape cases to be heard in fast-track courts: MHA||The Ministry of Home Affairs on Thursday said the Nangal rape and murder case of a minor girl as well as the Trilokpuri rape incident will be heard in fast track special courts in Delhi. The Ministry reviewed the two cases with the Delhi Police here. “As per the directions of the Union Home Minister Shri @AmitShah, Ministry of Home Affairs reviewed the rape and murder case of a girl child in Nangal area of Delhi and rape of a girl child in Mayur Vihar with @DelhiPolice [sic],” a Home Ministry Spokesman tweeted. “Delhi Police is committed to file the chargesheet in the court within 30 days of the registration of the cases, so that the trial of these cases can start at the earliest. Both the cases will be heard in fast track special courts in Delhi,” the spokesperson said in another tweet. The Delhi Commission for Women on Thursday issued a notice to the police seeking a detailed action taken report in the Trilokpuri case. The women’s panel said it has been informed that the girl was kidnapped and raped on August 11.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/nangal-trilokpuri-rape-cases-to-be-heard-in-fast-track-courts-mha/article35889260.ece
13 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||NGT plea alleges illegal activities on forest land||Following a plea alleging construction work and non-forest activities being carried out near the Delhi-Gurugram border on a forest land, the National Green Tribunal directed the divisional forest officer and Gurugram civic body to submit a factual report on the same. An NGT Bench said: “Even though from the copy of [documents] annexed, it appears that Panchayat Chalu is the owner of the land in question, learned counsel for the applicant states that the ownership is now vested with the Municipal Corporation Gurugram and thus it is under an obligation to ensure that no non-forest activities take place on its forest land.” The Tribunal directed authorities to furnish the factual report within one month.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/ngt-plea-alleges-illegal-activities-on-forest-land/article35889261.ece
13 August 2021||New Delhi,||Gupta gives Rs. 5 lakh to Trilokpuri victim’s family||State BJP president Adesh Gupta extended financial help of Rs. 5 lakh to the Trilokpuri rape victim’s family on Thursday. He said such incidents are a blot on society and assured the family that the party is with them in this hour of crisis. ‘Case in fast-track court’ “Full justice will be done in this case. We also ask the police for an impartial probe into the matter. It is a matter of great shame...We demand that the case be run through a fast-track court...” Mr. Gupta added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/gupta-gives-rs-5-lakh-to-trilokpuri-victims-family/article35889259.ece
13 August 2021||New Delhi,||DMRC brief||The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation on Thursday said: “Parking facilities will not be available at the Delhi Metro stations from 6 a.m. on Saturday (August 14) to 2 p.m. on Sunday (August 15) in view of the security measures adopted on the occasion of Independence Day.” The DMRC, however, said metro services will continue to operate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/dmrc-brief/article35889253.ece
13 August 2021||Mumbai,||Pornography case: Mumbai court rejects actor’s bail plea||The City Civil and Sessions Court on Thursday refused anticipatory bail to actor Gehana Vasisth in connection with the pornographic racket busted this year. A complaint has been filed by a 21-year-old against Ms. Vasisth claiming that she was initially signed to do bold scenes in films but later forced by the accused to do nude and semi-nude scenes. The woman alleged that the actor threatened to destroy her career if she did not do that. The Mumbai Police argued that Ms. Vasisth lured many newcomers to the industry to act in obscene videos to be published on Hotshot app owned by co-accused Raj Kundra, currently lodged at Arthur Road Jail. The police opposed her plea and said many details of the case had been covered extensively in the media.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/pornography-case-mumbai-court-rejects-actors-bail-plea/article35889014.ece
13 August 2021||Pune,||Recoveries outweigh fresh cases again in Maharashtra||Maharashtra reported a healthy 8,390 recoveries on Thursday as against 6,388 new COVID-19 cases as the State’s active case tally declined further to 62,351. The toll continued to rise with 208 deaths pushing the cumulative fatalities to 1,34,364. The case fatality rate stands at 2.11%. The number of cases has reached 63,75,390 while its cumulative recoveries have risen to 61,75,010 with the recovery rate standing at 96.86%. “Of the 5,03,26,812 laboratory samples tested thus far, 63,75,390 [with the average case positivity falling incrementally to 12.67%] have returned positive with over 2.10 lakh samples being tested in the last 24 hours,” said State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate. Pune reported a big spike of nearly 1,200 cases taking its tally to 11,01,031 while 18 deaths pushed the toll over 18,450. As per the district authorities, the active case tally stands at a little over 7,600. Mumbai adds 281 cases Mumbai reported 281 cases to take its tally to 7,38,520 while the active count has declined to 3,208. Seven fatalities took the death count to 15,975. Ahmednagar continued to see a rise in cases, reporting nearly 800 new ones and three deaths, taking its cases to 2,95,535 of whom 6,307 are active. The district’s cumulative death toll has risen to 6,307. Satara also reported a big spike of 916 cases and 10 deaths to take the number to 2,26,151 of whom 6,537 are active, while the toll climbed to 5,481. Sangli reported 662 cases and 19 deaths. The case tally stands at 1,92,877 with the active cases falling to 7,027 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/recoveries-outweigh-fresh-cases-again-in-maharashtra/article35889011.ece
13 August 2021||Pune,||‘Any political motive to merge Ranade institute will be thwarted’||With Pune’s student fraternity up in arms against the proposed merger of the iconic Ranade Institute of Journalism with the Pune University’s Media and Communication Department, Minister of Higher and Technical Education Uday Samant on Thursday said the government would thwart any political ploy behind the move while assuring that he would visit the city over the weekend to review the matter. “This institute is a vital resource for journalists and has a rich history. News has been published in a number of media outlets to the effect that it would be relocated to the Pune University premises [merger with Pune varsity’s communications department]. A number of student outfits have urged me to visit the Ranade Institute…I will accordingly be visiting it on August 14 to hear their problems. If this merger is a political ploy, then it will be quashed,” said Mr. Samant. The Minister, who belongs to the ruling Shiv Sena, earlier tweeted saying its Yuvasena had demanded the Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) not relocate the institute. The institute, which operates out of a century-old British-era building, began its prestigious journalism course in 1964. Considered to be the crucible for Maharashtra’s budding journalists and communication experts, it is said to have opened new horizons for bright students from the rural hinterland. While the Journalism department became a full-fledged one under the Pune University in 1976 (being officially known as the Department of Communication and Journalism), its location away from the varsity’s premises — in the heart of Pune city on the Fergusson College Road — and its government-funded status ensured its distinct identity. A number of former and current students, who have come together to form the ‘Ranade Bachao Kruti Samiti’, have alleged the merger to be a sinister connivance between some senior authorities in the Pune University’s Senate and some senior journalists to sell off the prime land (where the institute is located) and partake a share of the proceeds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/any-political-motive-to-merge-ranade-institute-will-be-thwarted/article35889012.ece
13 August 2021||PUNE,||Local officials can decide on reopening schools: State govt.||It is up to local officials to decide, taking into consideration the COVID-19 situation in an area, whether physical classes should resume at schools, Maharashtra School Education Minister Varsha Gaikwad said on Thursday. Asked about the confusion following the government’s announcement to resume more physical classes at schools from August 17, Ms. Gaikwad said the decision-making has been decentralised. Days after the government announced it would allow schools to reopen for certain classes, it has decided against it after a meeting of the State COVID-19 Task Force held late on Wednesday. According to sources, the task force, worried about a possible resurgence, has advised against resumption of offline classes from August 17 without fully vaccinating students. It was decided that while some schools in rural areas, where there was no threat from coronavirus, would continue to function, all other schools, shut since March 2020, would not restart on August 17 as scheduled earlier. “The task force members have expressed opposition to reopening schools on the ground that students below the age of 18 have not been vaccinated,” said State Health Minister Rajesh Tope. The State government’s backtracking on the decision drew flak from the Opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). Pravin Darekar, Leader of the Opposition in the Legislative Council, chastised the government for dithering and lack of clarity. “Maharashtra School Education Minister Varsha Gaikwad had said just a few days ago that classes V-VII would begin in rural areas and VIII-XII in urban areas. However, the decision was postponed due to objections from the State COVID-19 Task Force. Why didn't the government consult the task force before making a decision?” said Mr. Darekar. ( With PTI inputs )||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/local-officials-can-decide-on-reopening-schools-state-govt/article35889013.ece
13 August 2021||Washington,||Afghans should save themselves: U.S.||Afghan government forces are collapsing even faster than U.S. military leaders thought possible just a few months ago when President Joe Biden ordered a full withdrawal. But there's little appetite at the White House, the Pentagon or among the American public for trying to stop the rout and it probably is too late to do so. Mr. Biden has made clear he has no intention of reversing the decision he made last spring, even as the outcome seems to point toward a Taliban takeover. With most U.S. troops now gone and the Taliban accelerating their battlefield gains, American military leaders are not pressing him to change his mind. They know that the only significant option would be for the President to restart the war he already decided to end. The Taliban, who ruled the country from 1996 until U.S. forces invaded after the 9/11 attacks, captured three more provincial capitals on Wednesday and two on Thursday. They have captured 11 provincial capitals in a week that has given them effective control of about two-thirds of the country. The insurgents have no air force and are outnumbered by Afghan forces, but they have captured territory with stunning speed. John Kirby, the chief Pentagon spokesman, said the Afghans still have time to save themselves from final defeat. “No potential outcome has to be inevitable, including the fall of Kabul,” Mr. Kirby told reporters. “It doesn’t have to be that way. It really depends on what kind of political and military leadership the Afghans can muster to turn this around.” Mr. Biden made a similar point a day earlier, telling reporters that U.S. troops had done all they could over the past 20 years to assist the Afghans. “They’ve got to fight for themselves, fight for their nation,” he said. The U.S. continues to support the Afghan military with limited air strikes, but those have not made a strategic difference thus far and are scheduled to end when the U.S. formally ends its role in the war on August 31. Mr. Biden could continue air strikes beyond that date, but given his firm stance on ending the war, that seems unlikely. Senior U.S. military officials had cautioned Mr. Biden that a full U.S. withdrawal could lead to a Taliban takeover, but the President decided in April that continuing the war was a waste. He said on Tuesday that his decision holds, even amid talk that the Taliban could soon be within reach of Kabul, threatening the security of U.S. and other foreign diplomats.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/afghans-should-save-themselves-us/article35888762.ece
13 August 2021||August 13 2021 00:00 IST,||China governance blueprint signals continuing crackdown||A new government blueprint issued by China to promote “rule of law” has called for “more legal and institutional efforts” to tighten what it called “unjust” micro-economic activities, signalling the ongoing crackdown on a number of sectors is likely to continue. The document was issued jointly on Wednesday by the Communist Party of China’s Central Committee and the State Council, or Cabinet, of the Government, and called for “building a rule of government” during the current five-year plan period (2021-25). It called for “strengthening the Party’s leadership for the building of a government based on the rule of law”. The new blueprint suggests the recent regulatory crackdown aimed at tightening control over some industries is likely to continue. Late last year, regulators launched investigations into alleged monopolistic practices of top tech companies, including Alibaba and Tencent, and took the unprecedented step of stopping at the last minute what was set to be a record-breaking IPO for Alipay, the financial payments arm of Alibaba. This year, crackdowns have followed targeting ride-sharing app Didi Chuxing and the entire private education sector. The moves have wiped out close to $1 trillion in value for leading Chinese tech and education companies, according to estimates. “Identifying promoting the rule of law for government as the main task in advancing law-based governance in all areas, the document highlighted the guiding philosophies, principles, and overall goals of this cause for the next five years,” the official Xinhua news agency reported, adding the document “urges improving government functions in various fields, including economic adjustment, market supervision, social management, public service, and environmental protection.” It called for “more legal and institutional efforts” to “curb unjust interventions in micro-economic activities”, as well as “concrete efforts to prevent the administrative power from eliminating or stifling competition.” The document also called for “strengthened enforcement of anti-monopoly and anti-unfair competition laws” and highlighted as key areas “national security, bio-security, infectious diseases prevention and control, and digital economy.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/china-governance-blueprint-signals-continuing-crackdown/article35888756.ece
13 August 2021||Islamabad,||‘U.S. sees Pak. useful only for clearing Afghan mess’||Taking a dig at the U.S., Prime Minister Imran Khan has said Washington sees Pakistan “useful” only for clearing the “mess” it has left behind in Afghanistan after 20 years of fighting and prefers India when it comes to forming a “strategic partnership”. Afghanistan has seen an uptick in violence by the Taliban after U.S. President Joe Biden’s announcement of the withdrawal of American and NATO troops by August 31. “Pakistan is just considered only to be useful in the context of somehow settling this mess which has been left behind after 20 years of trying to find a military solution when there was not one,” Mr. Khan told foreign journalists at his home here on Wednesday. Mr. Khan said that since the U.S. decided to have a “strategic partnership” with India, Washington was treating Pakistan differently, according to a journalist present at the meeting. Islamabad is unhappy that Mr. Biden has not spoken to Prime Minister Khan since he assumed the presidency in January. ‘Other options’ Pakistan’s National Security Adviser Moeed Yusuf recently expressed disappointment over President Biden’s reluctance to contact Prime Minister Khan despite considering Islamabad as an important country in some critical issues like Afghanistan. Mr. Yousuf also said Islamabad has other “options” if the American leader continues to ignore the country’s leadership. The U.S. State Department, however, had assured Islamabad that Washington recognises Pakistan’s vital role in restoring peace in Afghanistan and wants Islamabad to play that role. U.S. Defence Secretary Lloyd Austin spoke over the phone with Pakistan Army chief General Qamar Javed Bajwa this week and discussed the current situation in Afghanistan. After the call, the Pentagon said the U.S. was having conversations with the Pakistani leadership about the need to shut down the safe havens for Taliban militants along the Afghan-Pakistan border.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-sees-pak-useful-only-for-clearing-afghan-mess/article35888759.ece
13 August 2021||Beijing,||Despite Chinese pressure, Taiwan, U.S. Coast Guards meet||Officers from the U.S. and Taiwanese Coast Guards have met to discuss improving cooperation and communication despite efforts by China to isolate the self-governing island democracy. The virtual meeting held on Tuesday came amid moves by the U.S. and others to defy Beijing’s pressure campaign aimed at compelling Taiwan to accept its view that the island is part of China. China on Tuesday recalled its Ambassador to Lithuania and expelled the Baltic nation’s top representative to Beijing over its decision to allow Taiwan to open an office in Lithuania under its own name. Chinese leader Xi Jinping has increased diplomatic, economic and military pressure on Taiwan, whose residents overwhelmingly reject Beijing’s demand for political unification with the mainland. China has long blocked Taiwan from taking part in the UN and other international organizations and has stepped up such pressure since the election of Taiwanese President Tsai Ing-wen in 2016. Ms. Tsai was re-elected last year by a strong majority.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/despite-chinese-pressure-taiwan-us-coast-guards-meet/article35888760.ece
13 August 2021||Islamabad,||Pakistan successfully test-fires nuclear-capable ballistic missile||Pakistan on Thursday successfully test-fired a nuclear-capable surface-to-surface ballistic missile which can strike targets up to 290 kilometres, the Army said in a statement. The successful training launch of ballistic missile ‘Ghaznavi’ was aimed at ensuring operational readiness of Army Strategic Forces Command, besides re-validating technical parameters of the weapon system, the army said in a statement. The training launch was witnessed by Lt. Gen Muhammad Ali, Commander Army Strategic Forces Command, senior officers from Strategic Plans Division, Army Strategic Forces Command, Scientists and Engineers of the strategic organizations, it said. As per the military’s media wing, missile Ghaznavi is capable of delivering multiple types of warheads up to a range of 290 km. The Army Strategic Forces Command appreciated the excellent standard of training, handling of the weapon system and execution of launch mission in the field by troops, the statement said. President Arif Alvi, Prime Minister Imran Khan, Chairman Joint Chiefs of Staff Committee and the Service Chiefs have congratulated all ranks of Army Strategic Forces Command, the scientists and engineers on successful conduct of today’s launch, the Army said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/pakistan-successfully-test-fires-nuclear-capable-ballistic-missile/article35888770.ece
13 August 2021||Beijing,||China dismisses Canada’s protests over harsh sentencing of Spavor||China on Thursday dismissed Canada’s protests of harsh sentences handed down by Chinese courts to Canadians whose cases are seen as linked to the arrest in Vancouver of a top executive at Chinese tech giant Huawei. The Foreign Ministry and the Chinese Embassy in Canada accused Ottawa of making unwarranted, groundless accusations that “grossly interfered in China’s judicial sovereignty.” “Such accusations are extremely unreasonable, extremely absurd and extremely arrogant, over which we express our strongest condemnation,” their statements said. Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau on Wednesday called the sentencing of entrepreneur Michael Spavor “absolutely unacceptable and unjust.” Mr. Trudeau cited a “lack of transparency in the legal process, and a trial that did not satisfy even the minimum standards required by international law.” “For Mr. Spavor, as well as for Michael Kovrig who has also been arbitrarily detained, our top priority remains securing their immediate release. We will continue working around the clock to bring them home as soon as possible.” Mr. Spavor and former diplomat Mr. Kovrig were detained soon after Huawei’s Meng Wanzhou was arrested December 1, 2018, at the request of the U.S., where she faces charges related to possible violations of trade sanctions on Iran. The Chinese Foreign Ministry denied Mr. Spavor and Mr. Kovrig were arbitrarily detained. Mr. Spavor was sentenced Wednesday to 11 years in prison on national security charges by a court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/china-dismisses-canadas-protests-over-harsh-sentencing-of-spavor/article35888764.ece
13 August 2021||Jerusalem,||‘Israel to approve 2,000 new homes for settlers’||Israel is to approve 2,000 new homes for Jewish settlers in the occupied West Bank, defence sources said on Thursday, despite opposition from dovish members of the governing coalition. The Palestinians swiftly condemned the latest settlement expansion plans, the first of Prime Minister Naftali Bennett’s administration. A security source told AFP the permits for Jewish settlements would come alongside approvals for hundreds of Palestinian homes in the large swathe of the West Bank known as Area C, where Israel exercises military and planning control. “There is an expectation to approve about 1,000 housing units for Palestinians in Area C next week and 2,000 housing units in the Jewish communities,” the source told AFP on condition of anonymity. The office of Palestinian President Mahmud Abbas expressed its “strong rejection” of the new settler homes, saying they contradicted “the clear American position” President Joe Biden expressed in a call with Mr. Abbas. Mr. Biden is reportedly to meet with Mr. Bennett in the near future, although his office did not specify a date. Mr. Bennett, a former director of the Yesha Council settler lobby, faced criticism from dovish partners in his coalition, as well as from Israeli settler advocates in the Opposition. Israel seized the West Bank and East Jerusalem from Jordan in 1967. Since then, nearly 700,000 Israelis have moved into settlements that most of the international community regards as illegal. Palestinians hope the territories will become part of a future state.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/israel-to-approve-2000-new-homes-for-settlers/article35888757.ece
13 August 2021||Tizi Ouzou,||Wildfires rage as Algeria marks day of mourning||Blazes raged across northern Algeria on Thursday as the country observed a national day of mourning for dozens of people killed in the latest wildfires to sweep the Mediterranean. The North African country has been in the grip of devastating fires since Monday that have claimed 69 lives — 41 civilians and 28 soldiers. Soldiers and civilian volunteers have joined firefighters on multiple fronts in the effort to extinguish the blazes. In Tizi Ouzou district, the area with the highest casualty toll, an AFP journalist reported entire sectors of forest going up in smoke as far as the eye can see. Villagers forced to evacuate in order to escape the flames began trickling back to their homes, overwhelmed by the scale of the damage.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/wildfires-rage-as-algeria-marks-day-of-mourning/article35888763.ece
13 August 2021||rabat,||Israel opens diplomatic mission in Morocco||Israel’s Foreign Minister on Thursday inaugurated the country’s diplomatic representation in Morocco, a symbol of the normalisation of the relations. Yair Lapid’s visit is the first to the country by an Israeli Minister since 2003. It comes less than a year after Israel and Morocco reached a deal to establish formal ties under the U.S.-brokered “Abraham Accords.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/israel-opens-diplomatic-mission-in-morocco/article35888767.ece
13 August 2021||Washington,||Trump blames Biden for ‘unacceptable’ Taliban surge||Former president Donald Trump blasted his successor Joe Biden on Thursday for putting no conditions on the U.S. withdrawal from Afghanistan and said that a violent Taliban surge in the war-torn country was “not acceptable.” “If I were now President, the world would find that our withdrawal from Afghanistan would be a conditions-based withdrawal,” Mr. Trump claimed in a statement. “I personally had discussions with top Taliban leaders whereby they understood what they are doing now would not have been acceptable,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/trump-blames-biden-for-unacceptable-taliban-surge/article35888771.ece
13 August 2021||Jerusalem,||‘Hamas rockets fired at Israel a war crime’||A prominent international human rights group on Thursday accused Hamas of committing war crimes during a recent 11-day conflict with Israel by indiscriminately firing thousands of rockets toward Israeli population centers. In its report, Human Rights Watch also said it had concluded that a misfired rocket launched by Hamas killed seven Palestinians when it fell short in the Gaza Strip. In a separate development, a UN agency said it had uncovered militant tunnels near one of its facilities and that Hamas had taken over one of its schools, undermining the agency’s neutrality. The rights group has repeatedly come under fire by Israel and its supporters over reports accusing Israel of war crimes against the Palestinians as well as apartheid and persecution.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/hamas-rockets-fired-at-israel-a-war-crime/article35888768.ece
13 August 2021||JAKARTA,||AS--Indonesia-Virginity Tests||Human rights groups welcomed Indonesia's decision to stop abusive “virginity tests” on female Army recruits seven years after the WHO declared they had no scientific validity. Army Chief of Staff Gen. Andika Perkasa said the Army will no longer subject women to invasive tests. He said applicants should only be assessed on their ability to take part in physical training and they will be checked for colour blindness, the condition of their spines and hearts to ensure they will not encounter life-threatening medical issues.AP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/as-indonesia-virginity-tests/article35888766.ece
13 August 2021||August 13 2021 00:00 IST,||Could India have performed even better at the Olympics?||The Tokyo Olympics is over and the euphoria generated by India’s best haul of seven medals at the Games — a gold, two silver and four bronze — is beginning to fade away. Before the country’s largest-ever contingent of 127 athletes left for Tokyo, there was talk of a double-digit medal tally. That didn’t happen and India’s performance placed it 48th among the 93 medal-winning nations. Could India have performed better? Mervyn Fernandis and Ronjan Sodhi discuss the question in a conversation moderated by Rakesh Rao . Edited excerpts: What were your expectations of India in terms of medals and what do you think of the outcome? Mervyn Fernandis:I expected at least eight to nine medals, though many projected double digits. I expected us to get medals in shooting and archery. Seeing the performances of the players in the World Cups and other world tournaments, I thought we would get eight to nine medals. We have fallen short by about two-three medals. We could have got more. Wrestling was also part of the double-digits projection. Ronjan Sodhi:Shooting has probably been the biggest disappointment of the Games. We drew a blank not only this time but even in the 2016 Rio Games. There are lots of reasons why this happened. And I think a lot of introspection has to be done. Why could we not win a single medal? We had players who were World No. 1, World No. 2, but these are what I call fake rankings. There was a World Cup held where only a few nations participated [Most of the leading shooters did not participate in the World Cup]. It was mostly Indians participating. You win a gold medal there and become World No. 1? That’s not how it works. Let me call a spade a spade. It’s a horrible story. The coaches let us down again. The shooters are young, they have a promising future. But the whole coaching scenario has to be changed. See hockey, look at the support staff they had. They had more foreigners. In shooting, you have a coach, you’re giving him €6,000 and he doesn’t go to the Olympics. Why? You’ve given him a house, a car with a driver. And he watches everything on TV? All this has to be changed. I saw the professionalism in hockey. Neeraj Chopra and some other players also did well, even the wrestlers. But in shooting, our coaches are not equipped with the mindset that it takes to make a champion. Let’s start with Jaspal Rana, a shooter who participated at the Atlanta Olympics in 10-metre pistol. He didn’t win a medal. All his medals were at the Asian Games, Commonwealth Games, that level. Then you have Mansher Singh, who is a trap shooter but who went with the skeet team as a coach! Suma Shirur once came eighth at the Olympics. And she’s got one Asian Shooting Championships medal where she scored the maximum of 400 points and set a world record, I understand that. Ved Prakash — you look for him on Google and you won’t find his name easily. They’re not capable because they have not won any gold medals. There’s no psychologist or physiotherapist with the team. There was one girl, very young, from OGQ (Olympics Gold Quest) who didn’t really know what to do and what not to do. There was nobody with the team. I think people should be more mindful of all this. I think it’s time for the National Rifle Association of India President Raninder Singh to take note of this and change what has transpired in the last few years. I read a tweet the other day which mentioned that they (coaches) are dealers, which is true. There are dealers of cartridges and guns. They have their own interest in everything. A total revamp has to happen. There are some initiatives being taken to build Olympic champions. What do you think of them? RS:Let’s talk about OGQ. What are they doing? Are they building champions? You qualify for the Olympics and then they sponsor you. Have they taken anybody from the grass-roots level to make a champion? No. They’re just buying champions, not building them. That’s not what we need. Look at the state of sports in our universities and look at America. Stanford University has won over 20 medals at the Tokyo Olympics. Show me one (Indian) athlete from some university who has won a medal. And we all did what we did because of the financial help we had from our parents. When I saw Aditi Ashok’s mother caddying for her, I was reminded of my dad. He would carry my gun. Nobody helped me then. It was just the support from my family. Now look at the budget, at the amount of money these youngsters are getting. In spite of that they are not winning medals and that is shameful. What about the Target Olympic Podium Scheme (TOPS, a Government of India initiative) which has apparently spent Rs. 1,100 crores in the last five years supporting our athletes for Tokyo? RS:Those who are running TOPS are naïve. They go on the Internet, collect the data, give it to XYZ and say these people should be supported by SAI [Sports Authority of India] or TOPS. That’s not what is required. We don’t have the acumen in coaching and training. That’s why hockey has done well today. Look at Neeraj Chopra. Look at his coach, his support staff. Do you think the focus should be more on our domestic structures across disciplines? MF:I understand some national-level sports are being held, but in a very haphazard manner. We need to focus at the grass-roots level or else, it will be very difficult to scale up. We have a good number of junior players, but it has to be a continuous process. If you want to build champions, you have to start at the school level. I see it happening in wrestling. Since you mentioned hockey earlier, what did you both think of India’s hockey performance this time? That’s one sport where many say India exceeded expectations. MF:Everybody knows that we have been going to every Olympics with the hope of winning a medal. But we didn’t qualify for the semi-finals for over four decades. This time, India did extremely well by entering the semi-finals and then clinching the bronze. It is very important for a team to win a medal. We have people who always underrate our teams because they don’t win medals. However good you may be, if you don’t win a medal, nobody remembers you. So, this Olympics the men have won a medal and will be remembered for a long time. Looking back at the barren years, I can recollect that in 1984, we were very close to qualifying for the semi-finals. It was the same case in 2000. It was heartbreaking. Nothing succeeds like success. Not reaching the semi-finals is the biggest problem that we have faced. And this time, too, it was very important. Earlier, only two teams from each pool qualified for the semi-finals. Now, they’ve changed the format — four teams qualify for the quarter-finals, so it gives you a better chance compared to the past. And that’s what India did. They qualified for the quarter-finals. And they won against Great Britain and entered the semi-finals for the first time after 1972. That’s a real long time. But Ronjan will agree with me — once you enter the semi-finals of an Olympic event, there is every chance of you winning one of the three medals. So, this happened at this Olympics. RS:Hockey is something which is very, very dear to me. Coming from Punjab, hockey is something I have grown up seeing. The team this time trained very well in Bengaluru. They trained in isolation, in the bubble. Not only the men’s team, the women’s team, too, played so well. They haven’t won a medal, but I can hold my head high and go on and on for the next three years till the Games in Paris. This was just fantastic. This is going to change the entire scenario. And I can see people talking about the youngsters getting into the sport and so forth. So, I think this is incredible. And [in javelin], what Neeraj Chopra has done is absolutely amazing. Mervyn, how do you look at ways of building on these gains for hockey from Tokyo? MF:Not many would remember that we did not directly qualify from the Asian Games for the Tokyo Olympics. We lost to Malaysia, which in turn lost to Japan in the final. And now, we have won a bronze. When we go to the Commonwealth Games and Asian Games next year, what should we expect? The country will expect India to return with the gold medal, which we last won in 2014. You’ll be surprised, there will be so many other teams vying for that position. Also, let me tell you that let nobody get fooled by thinking that we are Olympic bronze medalists and the Asian Games will be a cakewalk. No, it’s not going to happen that way. You know, now that people are watching the Games, watching the standards of each team, they have realised it’s difficult even to qualify for the Olympics. About the areas of improvement, we have to start getting a goalkeeper and a drag flicker. Jugraj Singh was the first guy to start drag flicking in our country. We have to realise that without the short-corner specialist, you cannot perform well at the international level. Besides the goalkeeper and the drag flicker, there are four or five places which you need to be taking care of. [Goalkeeper] Sreejesh cannot be expected to go on. I had mentioned somewhere that Sreejesh is the guy who they [Hockey India] should utilise the services of for all sub-junior camps. I’m not talking about junior, I'm talking about the sub-junior level. Sreejesh should be the guy teaching the youngsters so their basics are strong. There is also a general feeling in hockey circles that many members of the present team do not speak English and therefore they find it difficult to understand instructions. In my view, it doesn’t matter as long as he or she is able to express himself or herself. That is important. Again, if past players can share even five or six things with the present sub-junior campers, some of that [advice] will hold the youngsters in good stead throughout their lives. And that will get passed on from generation to generation and they will feel, ‘Oh, this is going to make a difference to my abilities on the field’. Drag flickers is what we want to build for 2024 and 2028. A man like Jugraj or Harmanpreet can contribute a lot. I remember Jugraj’s drag flicks and the angle he used to change at the last minute. Some slight changes in the technique go a long way in attempting direct scoring (off penalty corners). Imagine a Savita Punia or a Rani Rampal going to these coaching camps that are there for the juniors and just spending three days or four days and sharing with them little things. It will make a big difference.  We need to focus at the grass-roots level or else, it will be very difficult to scale up. We have a good number of junior players but it has to be continuous process. Mervyn Fernandis||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/could-india-have-performed-even-better-at-the-olympics/article35888754.ece
13 August 2021||August 13 2021 00:00 IST,||Squaring up to India’s education emergency||During the COVID-19 pandemic, India enforced among the strictest, most generalised and continuous school and university closures creating in the process the largest education emergency in the world. Federal countries such as the United States and Brazil implemented a variety of school closures and remote/in-person education policies in different jurisdictions. Not so in India, where all States, irrespective of the pattern of evolution of the novel coronavirus disease, followed a uniform policy, with fewer variations. Policy and indicators The global Stringency Index, created by the Oxford COVID-19 Government Response Tracker (https://bit.ly/3iHOp8y), has tracked the closure of educational institutions across all countries since the beginning of the novel coronavirus pandemic. This indicator is one of eight “containment and closure” indicators and a health information indicator used to calculate the index. Indicators are coded according to the level of strictness of the policy. In India, the school closure indicator shows that of the 503 days, between March 5, 2020 and July 20, 2021, 404 days were characterised as being at the most severe policy response (requiring closure of all types of educational institutions); 62 at level 2 (with closure of some types of institutions) and only 37 days at level 1 (when closure was either only recommended or school opening was allowed with precautions). As a result, about 265 million schoolchildren have been taught exclusively through so-called “remote learning”, the largest number in any country for the longest period of time. This approach contrasted with the response in many other countries. Within a few months of the first lockdown of schools in March 2020, pandemic-hit Europe began resuming in-person schooling for certain groups of children or certain localities. Evidence was mounting of the harm caused to children and young adolescents — learning losses as well as socio-emotional stress — by prolonged school closures and of the ineffectiveness and inequalities of remote learning, even in technologically sophisticated environments. The Oxford Stringency Index shows that less affluent countries such as Uruguay and Vietnam, also took a more measured approach, imposing the severest policy responses in education only for 140 and 212 days, respectively. ( Table 1 ). India’s education policy response was similar to that of Brazil — surprisingly so, as the severity of the pandemic outbreak was much less here during 2020 than in Brazil. Schooling strategies When “hybrid” schooling models (i.e., a combination of in-person and remote teaching) were introduced, countries prioritised children of younger ages, of essential workers and those with special needs, for in-person learning. When the school closure policy was relaxed in a few Indian States during January-March 2021, only high schools were allowed to function to conduct public exams. By March 2021, 51 countries had resumed in-person education. In another 90 countries, including many in Africa, multiple modalities, rotation of children for in-person classes and part remote/part in-person options were being offered. Similar strategies were not systematically tried in India, even when relaxations were made for public gatherings at festivals and elections, prior to the second wave of the pandemic. India is, therefore, less prepared for school re-openings than many other countries. The trauma of the second wave has generated even more fears of schools becoming the epicentre of the next wave, though the recommendations of the Indian Council of Medical Research to reopen primary schools from July 20, 2021 and the gestures of some of the States now are promising. The Indian experience During these hundreds of days of almost continuous lockout, the youngest and the poorest among Indian children — Dalits, tribals and others, and lacking devices and electricity — struggled with online classes. Attendance’ data are neither available nor ‘defined. Many have just given up — especially those who had learnt little in schools. Existing education inequalities will increase.  The national Digital Infrastructure for Knowledge Sharing (DIKSHA) portal of teacher resources claims that usage increased to 3.17 billion “learning sessions” and 37.85 billion “learning minutes”, by the end of May 2021. The educational significance of these metrics is not clear. Meanwhile, many studies and reports from the field by numerous non-governmental organisations (NGOs) and individuals engaged with the recently formed National Coalition on the Education Emergency indicate that teachers, unprepared for remote teaching, forward social media links to their hapless students. Children are expected to submit homework and assessments also through WhatsApp or text. Kerala provided basic access to remote learning by June 2020 to its four million students through the KITE VICTERs educational TV channel, which broadcast classes for all subjects in each grade. It was made clear that such ‘digital classes’ are not an alternative to regular classes, but to bridge the academic gap. It mandated further continuous follow-ups by teachers. The State leveraged investments made over the last two decades in information technology for schools, including capacity building of teachers and teacher developed digital content. Nevertheless, the universal switch to ‘online’ mode has proved challenging. The Brazilian State of Sao Paulo gives some clues about the possible impacts of remote learning on India’s locked out children. A recent study published by the Inter-American Development Bank concludes that students in the State “had learned only 27% of the in-person equivalent under remote learning”. The risk of dropout increased by a factor of 2.5. Significantly, however, even a partial reopening of some high schools to allow in-person classes for a few weeks increased students’ test scores by 20%, relative to a control group. Tragically, for tens of millions of Indian children, the difficulties of remote learning may be the least of their troubles. With families ravaged by disease and job losses, teenagers are caring for the sick and younger siblings, or working for pay. Interruptions in child health services, early nutrition and mid-day meals have affected the growth and development of young children. Ironically, closed schools are seen as a commitment to children’s safety, while the higher risk of disease transmission by working children or the increase in malnutrition is ignored. As schools reopen, offering a few standardised “bridge” courses and “remedial classes” may seem like a facile antidote to the months of lost formal learning. Resuming the teaching of “the syllabus” — even a watered down version — and pushing children through to the next grade means kicking the can down the road. In designing appropriate programmes, the experiences of stakeholders will be invaluable. A complete change is needed India’s education emergency demands action on the education, health and livelihood fronts. It requires focusing on every child as an individual. Each school should prepare a safe school opening and child support plan, and should receive technical help for this. Teachers must be prioritised for vaccinations. Local adaptations and flexibility are essential. An ‘Education Emergency Room’ should be set up in every district to coordinate, implement and monitor local plans. Many activities have to be coordinated: develop health and sanitation measures in schools and protocols for public transportation; encourage children who were not engaged with schools over the last year to come back; develop tools to help teachers make quick diagnoses of students’ learning gaps; train teachers to use this as a guide to support children’s recovery; offer additional classes or activities; implement school health and nutrition; develop tools to accompany the educational trajectory of each student. Technology should be deployed safely for such purposes that identify and respond to children’s needs. After months of lockout, will India’s children now luck out? Sajitha Bashir is former Adviser and Manager in the World Bank’s Global Education Practice. She is part of the National Coalition on Education Emergency. Anvar Sadath is CEO of Kerala Infrastructure & Technology for Education (KITE), Government of Kerala. The views expressed are personal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/squaring-up-to-indias-education-emergency/article35888744.ece
13 August 2021||August 13 2021 00:00 IST,||Parliament is abdicating its oversight role||The monsoon session of Parliament which ended on Wednesday was a disappointment in several ways. This was the fourth straight session that ended ahead of the original schedule — other than the cancelled winter 2020 session. This meant that many important issues had not been discussed such as the COVID-19 response and strategy, the Chinese incursion into Ladakh, the economic situation, rising prices of many essential items, and farmers’ problems, to name a few. And of course, the news of snooping using the Pegasus system broke out just ahead of the session. Shrinking work time But Parliament hardly functioned. Both Houses were frequently disrupted as the Government and Opposition parties could not agree on the topics to be debated. The Lok Sabha worked for just 19% of its originally scheduled time, and the Rajya Sabha for 26%. The Government pushed through 20 Bills, mostly without any discussion. Of the 18 Bills passed by the Lok Sabha, only one saw discussion over 15 minutes. While the Rajya Sabha crossed this low bar for most Bills, only two Bills were discussed for over an hour. In 15 of these Bills, not even one member of the Lok Sabha spoke; each Bill was passed after a short statement by the respective Minister. The Lok Sabha proceedings show one Bill — the Scheduled Tribes (Order) Amendment — as being discussed for 10 minutes within which seven members spoke, two Ministers intervened, and the Minister replied. Every Bill introduced during the session was passed within the session. This means that there was no time for any scrutiny by members. While we have seen such behaviour in State Assemblies (in 2020, 91% of all Bills in 19 Assemblies were passed within five days of introduction), this is a new development for Parliament. In the period of the Fifteenth Lok Sabha (2009-14), 18% of the Bills were passed within the same session. This rose to 33% in the Sixteenth Lok Sabha and is at 70% halfway through the current Parliament. No scrutiny None of the Bills was referred to a parliamentary committee for examination. These committees provide a forum for parliamentarians to engage with experts, stakeholders and government officials to understand the implications of Bills. They deliberate on the consequences of various provisions, and recommend amendments. In recent years, we have seen significant changes made in Bills such as the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code and Motor Vehicles (Amendment) Bill as a result of the recommendations made by parliamentary committees. There has been a sharp downward trend in Bills being referred to them — from 71% in the Fifteenth Lok Sabha to 27% in the Sixteenth, and 12% in the current one till date. There was an amendment moved in the Rajya Sabha to refer the Tribunals Reform Bill to a select committee of that House, and the motion was rejected by 79 votes to 44. Given that there are currently 232 members, this indicates that nearly half the members were absent during the vote. Thus, we see that Bills are being passed without any serious examination by parliamentarians. They are most often not being referred to committees, there is hardly any discussion on the floor of the House, and in most instances, Bills are passed within a few days of introduction. Crucial Bills There were some important Bills passed this session. The Constitution was amended to allow States to identify backward classes (i.e., Other Backward Classes) for the purpose of providing reservations. A recent Constitution Amendment has converted the National Commission for Backward Classes from a statutory body set up by an Act of Parliament to a constitutional body. That amendment also specified that the President of India shall specify the list of OBCs. Recently, the Supreme Court of India had interpreted this provision to imply that the State government cannot issue the list of backward classes. The Amendment passed this session clarified that States have the power to do so. In 2012, the Income Tax Act was amended with retrospective effect from 1961 to cover certain transactions. A Bill passed this session reversed this provision of retrospective taxation. Famously, Vodafone was required to pay a large sum under the now repealed provision. The Deposit Insurance and Credit Guarantee Corporation insures all bank deposits against default (currently up to Rs. 5 lakh). The Act was amended to require an interim pay-out within 90 days if a bank was going through a liquidation or reconstruction. The General Insurance Business (Nationalisation) Act was amended to enable the Government to bring its shareholding in general insurance companies below 51%. The Tribunals Reforms Bill was passed. The Bill replaced an ordinance which specified the process of appointment of members and their tenure and service conditions. It retained two provisions struck down last month by the Supreme Court: the four-year tenure which the Court changed to five years, and a minimum age of 50 years for judicial members which the Court revised to allow lawyers with experience of 10 years. It would be interesting to see whether the Act is challenged in court, and how the Court reacts. There was no discussion in Lok Sabha on any policy issue. The Rajya Sabha had just one such discussion on the management of COVID-19 which lasted nearly five hours. The supplementary demand for grants for Rs. 23,675 crore was passed by the Lok Sabha without any discussion. Course correction needed To sum up, Parliament appears to be quite ineffective in all its functions. The reason for having a legislature separate from the executive is to have a check on executive power. This session, the Government got every Bill that it introduced passed as an Act, without any debate, and without any scrutiny by committees. Question Hour hardly worked. There was just one debate in the Rajya Sabha and none in the Lok Sabha on policy issues. A large supplementary Budget was passed in less than 10 minutes without even one member speaking on it. Parliament will have its 70th anniversary next year. Parliament also plans to move to a larger building. We will see many speeches celebrating these occasions. They will be just empty words in a brand new building unless parliamentarians get their act together. M.R. Madhavan is President of the PRS Legislative Research, New Delhi||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/parliament-is-abdicating-its-oversight-role/article35888747.ece
13 August 2021||August 13 2021 00:00 IST,||The many shades of intolerance||The Pew Research Center report, ‘Religion in India: Tolerance and Segregation’ (June 2021), has provoked several critical articles, which mostly present its findings as being about Hindu-Muslim relations. The survey, however, presents comparative data pertaining to four other major religions: Christianity, Sikhism, Jainism and Buddhism. Its conclusion, according to these articles, broadly confirms the growing influence of Hindutva politics on India’s social fabric. According to the report, “India’s concept of religious tolerance does not necessarily involve the mixing of religious communities. While people in some countries may aspire to create a ‘melting pot’ of different religious identities, many Indians seem to prefer a country more like a patchwork of a fabric with clear lines between groups.” However, interrogation of the conceptual foundations on which the report is premised could lead to a vastly different understanding of tolerance in India. Falling into a trap For instance, the notion of tolerance employed primarily relates to inter-religious issues. In Indian debate, the concept of tolerance has earned great presence ever since the lynching of Mohammad Akhlaq in 2015. In recent years, in discussions on prejudices or violence between Hindus and Muslims, the word ‘tolerance’ seems to have increasingly replaced the word ‘communal’, which dominated public discussions since the early part of the 20th Century, particularly since the Bengal Partition. Despite a considerable overlap in the connotations of these two terminologies, they are not the same. In the noisy political discourse around the Hindu Right, the erstwhile communalists have become the new nationalists — specifically, Hindu nationalists. An old communalist now calls himself a nationalist without shedding the skin of prejudices that he has been wearing all along. This has been possible owing to the well-oiled propaganda machine that the Hindu Right has been able to operate since the 1920s. Surprisingly, secularists of various shades have fallen into this trap. They have also accepted the deployment of the word ‘tolerance’ as completely normal. India has historically been a tolerant country, it is further argued, and is now increasingly turning into an intolerant one, particularly after 2014. Since Indians were tolerant in the past, they must remain so now and in future. According to liberals, this is the most persuasive way to convince Indians about the virtue of tolerance. The Pew Survey endorses this line of reasoning. Untouchability in India But has India been a historically tolerant country? Untouchability has been practised for ages in India and it remains widespread in both urban and rural areas. We may ask: what is the relationship between untouchability and tolerance? By all accounts, untouchability is an act of extreme intolerance. That being the case, how can it then be argued that India has been historically tolerant? Strangely, the issue of tolerance is not seen in connection with caste and is argued exclusively in the context of inter-religious communities. But the ideas of caste and intolerance are deeply entertwined — empirically, conceptually and historically. The socially dominant group in Hindu society that practises intolerance towards Muslims or Christians has been practising the same against Dalits in an organised way as a custom. The latter is justified on the ground that Dalits are historically inferior, whereas Muslims are historically oppressive, violent and disloyal. The truth is that caste is the enduring source of intolerance and segregation, and the rest emanates from it. So long as this connection is not recognised, any effort to make sense of India’s growing intolerance would be shallow and misleading. The Pew Survey seems to make this fatal mistake. In the limited space it offers to caste, it neither recognises this connection nor introduces it to its theoretical framework that helps formulate its profound findings. And, strangely, it finds that a majority Indians do not experience widespread caste discrimination. Shaikh Mujibur Rehman teaches at Jamia Central University and is the author of the forthcoming book, Shikwa-e-Hind: The Political Future of Indian Muslims||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-many-shades-of-intolerance/article35888749.ece
13 August 2021||August 13 2021 00:00 IST,||Another warning||A landslip has struck again in Kinnaur district of Himachal Pradesh killing at least 14 people and burying several others, just over a fortnight after a similar disaster killed a group of tourists. This time, the catastrophe has been even more severe, with mud, rocks and debris raining down on vehicles including a State transport corporation bus on National Highway 5. Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur has said that 60 people may have been buried and multiple agencies including the ITBP, National and State Disaster Response Forces were frantically trying to rescue survivors. Himachal Pradesh, a picturesque western Himalayan State that has made progress on social developmental indices, faces rising instability from environmental factors such as climate change and heavy monsoon rainfall. Landslips have become a familiar feature, and seismic events threaten to increase their frequency and aggravate the impact. The same NH-5 was similarly blocked by falling rocks in the wake of heavy rain in August 2019, along with several other roads, and the season witnessed a significant loss of life, particularly in Kinnaur. There is considerable scientific literature now arguing that Himachal’s mountain slopes are experiencing not just seismicity and rain-induced stresses but also man-made pressures to exploit hydropower and build more roads, and are being rendered even more fragile. Much of Himachal Pradesh is in the high risk zone for landslips, calling for great caution in pursuing disruptive projects, particularly hydropower. The Landslide Hazard Zonation Map of India marks over 70% of the State as ‘high risk’ and 14% as ‘severe’ to ‘very high risk’. The threat of earthquakes remains potent, as the mountains here are young in geological terms and therefore active, and about 32% of the State is categorised as a high damage risk zone for seismicity. A developmental model that prioritises heavily engineered structures such as dams and hydropower that involve rock blasting, tree felling and inundating large spaces clearly jeopardises the integrity of mountain slopes; roads developed along the slopes face the brunt of the impact, as the Kinnaur landslips show. In some cases, the roads themselves have been destroyed. A decade ago, the action plan on climate change published by the State identified some key hazards and wanted to take long-term remedial measures. It is time for an update, going beyond disaster management, and the recurring disasters only add to the urgency. There is wide support among local communities for sustainable tourism and an expansion of the farm-based economy, particularly apple growing. But these can progress only when environmental losses are halted. With greater rainfall and cloudburst activity, Himachal Pradesh is bound to face greater uncertainty. Maintaining the status quo can only make the ghastly episodes of falling boulders and lost lives a more frequent feature.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/another-warning/article35888737.ece
13 August 2021||August 13 2021 00:00 IST,||Eye in the sky||Anything that is related to space science, failure or success, is larger than life; for this is a new frontier for achievement and conquest within the realms of science and technology. The recent attempt by the Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) to place an earth observation satellite (EOS-3) in a geosynchronous orbit using the Geosynchronous Satellite Launch Vehicle (GSLV-F10) ended in failure due to a ‘performance anomaly’ — a malfunctioning of the trusted rocket launcher. All seemed to be well as the stage two and three separated as planned, but when the time came for the cryogenic third stage to light up, there appeared to be a failure and an ensuing deviation from the expected path, as seen in the control panel. There was an immediate disruption in the telecast which had been showing a view of the control panel, and the camera veered towards troubled faces, discussion and probably efforts to salvage the mission. Finally, Dr. K. Sivan, Chairman of ISRO, announced in a short sentence that the mission could not be accomplished. Speculation may run rife about the reasons for this unexpected failure, after many successful launches since 2017. ISRO had fewer launches during the pandemic in 2020 than it did in earlier years. This particular launch had originally been planned for March 5, 2020 and was called off because of a technical glitch a few hours before the launch. It is also to be mentioned that the cryo engine in question is of a Russian design originally, unlike that of the GSLV Mark III rocket, which is indigenous. The failure of this mission is worrying not only because it breaks a long, successful run, but because there are several important missions in the pipeline: Aditya-L1, the sun watcher, and the Gaganyaan mission, which will carry humans to space, are slated for the coming years. Thursday’s failure will increase the stress on ISRO scientists to doubly make sure the chances of success in these missions. In the meantime, the impact of this failed mission is being kept away from interested citizens for now. For some time at least, there will be no official word on what actually happened and how the mission failed, and this owes in no small measure to the propensity of ISRO to cover up and enshroud events in mystery, especially mishaps. Admittedly, the stakes are high, in terms of investment and national pride, but scientists, of all people, should wear the belief that failure is as much part of the game as success. From a culture of warding off eyes, the organisation should embrace the limelight. ISRO indeed has many stories to tell of scientific endeavour, the method and the manner of progress; and as it opens its doors to the public gaze, it can only rise to the skies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/eye-in-the-sky/article35888738.ece
13 August 2021||August 13 2021 00:00 IST,||Fight to stop big underground test||Washington, August 12: Conservatives and anti-war groups are pressing a last-ditch fight to stop the largest underground nuclear test ever planned by the United States — a blast they say can lead to earthquakes, tidal waves and indiscriminate slaughter of wildlife. The battle ground is Amchitka Island, a barren volcanic rock in the Aleutian chain off Alaska. A five-megaton detonation equivalent to five million tons of TNT, is to be set off there in October in a test of the Spartan anti-missile missile. The issue is now in the courts as the opponents of the test seek a restraining order against the A.E.C. They claim the blast could violate the partial test ban treaty of 1963, as well as damage the environment if it vents radiation into the air and carries it beyond the Soviet border 1,100 kilometres away. The test is known as Cannikin — the name given to a hydrogen device to be buried and exploded in one of the deepest, widest, and most expensive holes ever dug. The cost of constructing the site and exploding the device is unofficially estimated at about $120 millions (Rs 90 crores). Critics of Pentagon and A.E.C. spending call it a needless experiment claiming that the Spartan warhead part of the safeguard anti-missile system, is already obselete and that the test is a waste of money and resources.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/fight-to-stop-big-underground-test/article35888748.ece
13 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||Didn’t seek an extra paisa from anyone for COVID fight: FM||The government has not levied any extra taxes to manage the COVID-19 crisis, Finance and Corporate Affairs Minister Nirmala Sitharaman asserted on Thursday, adding that revenues were now so buoyant that the Centre was confident of paying States their entire GST compensation dues this year. “I want to highlight this point, even if I didn’t intend to say it I will say it nevertheless: COVID [crisis management] has not been financed by taxation,” the minister told industrialists at CII’s national conclave. “Individual tax assessees have not been asked for one additional paisa... nor has industry been taxed. We have not asked one extra paisa from anybody for us to manage the coronavirus pandemic,” Ms. Sitharaman added. While there was no direct reference in her speech to fuel taxes and cesses, Ms. Sitharaman said India would be “paying through our nose for fossil fuels” if the country was unable to become self-reliant in energy through a greater push for renewables. Stressing that inflation had only crossed the upper tolerance threshold of 6% occasionally due to seasonal factors, the minister indicated India’s economic recovery had not yet reached a level where liquidity support measures could be rolled back as was happening in some other countries. “I am glad that the RBI has that understanding that too quick [a] sucking out of liquidity from the economy may not give the necessary stimulus that is required,” she said. The minister said the focus on plugging tax loopholes had bolstered revenues so much that “we are sure that this year, the GST compensation will be paid to all the States in time so that they have money... to undertake all the developmental activity they need to take.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/didnt-seek-an-extra-paisa-from-anyone-for-covid-fight-fm/article35889179.ece
13 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||Goyal chides industrialists, urges them to introspect||A day after Prime Minister Narendra Modi urged India’s private sector to take more risks and make fresh investments, Commerce and Industry Minister Piyush Goyal tore into industry leaders for failing to help smaller Indian firms, structuring deals to circumvent rules and demanding protection in trade negotiations. ‘Should not be petty’ The government, he said, would protect Indian interests, but businesses shouldn’t be petty and seek easy access for the raw materials they need from abroad, along with protection for their finished goods. “I want the U.S., U.K. and Canada markets, but don’t let threads, clothes, wines and automobiles come in from abroad. If this is your approach, then industry has no future. Then forget about FTAs and market access, wherever you can sell your product, just manage it,” Mr. Goyal chided industrialists in a session on government-business synergy at the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) national conclave. ‘Fix industry synergy’ “Our synergy may happen later, but CII, Assocham, PHD Chambers of Commerce, FICCI should meet and get some synergy of their own. Let us have synergy in Indian domestic industry at least,” the Commerce and Industry Minister said. And reacting to a request for government measures to help smaller firms hit hard by COVID-19, Mr. Goyal asked the participating CEOs: “Tell me, how many of you are willing to pay your MSME [vendors] on day three of supplies. You have no constraints, unlike them.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/goyal-chides-industrialists-urges-them-to-introspect/article35889181.ece
13 August 2021||CHENNAI,||Sundram Fasteners turns a profit on higher sales||Sundram Fasteners Ltd. returned to the black with a standalone net profit of Rs. 112.55 crore for the quarter ended June. It had posted a loss of Rs. 23.48 crore a year earlier. Total revenue from operations rose 3.3 times to Rs. 939 crore, it said in a filing with the exchanges. Domestic sales rose to Rs. 560 crore (Rs. 133 crore) and export sales grew to Rs. 356 crore (Rs. 135 crore). “The gradual opening up of the economy from Q2 helped create an upward trend in demand as OEMs ramped up their production levels,” said Arathi Krishna, MD. “However, the second wave of COVID-19 did cause pressure on the Indian automotive sector... This proved to be a challenge for several OEMs across the country, forcing them to cut production or suspend operations temporarily. Despite this, the cost and efficiency improvement measures enabled the company to sustain its operating and net margins,” she added. SBL loss narrows Sundaram Brake Linings (SBL) reported a narrowing in standalone net loss to Rs. 1.32 crore from a Rs. 5.35-crore loss a year earlier. Revenue from operations more than doubled to Rs. 64 crore, the company said in a regulatory filing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/sundram-fasteners-turns-a-profit-on-higher-sales/article35889184.ece
13 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘July passenger vehicle wholesales rise 44.6%’||Wholesale dispatches of passenger vehicles (PV) in the domestic market rose 44.6% in July amid a challenging and uncertain business environment, the Society of Indian Automobile Manufacturers (SIAM) said on Thursday. Data shared by the industry body revealed that PV sales grew to more than 2.64 lakh units last month from about 1.82 lakh units in July 2020. Last month’s sales were also 39% higher than the pre-COVID July 2019 sales of about 1.9 lakh units. Among PVs, car sales grew 26% to about 1.3 lakh units while sales of utility vehicles and vans increased 73.7% to more than 1.24 lakh units, and 19.5% to 10,305 units, respectively. Two-wheeler sales, however, fell a little more than 2% to 12.53 lakh units, mainly due to a decline in motorcycle sales. The data showed wholesales of scooters rose 9.5% last month to 3.6 lakh units, while motorcycle sales declined almost 6% to 8.37 lakh units.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/july-passenger-vehicle-wholesales-rise-446/article35889189.ece
13 August 2021||CHENNAI,||ALL Q1 loss narrows to Rs. 282 crore||Commercial-vehicle manufacturer Ashok Leyland Ltd. (ALL) said standalone net loss for the first quarter ended June narrowed to Rs. 282 crore from Rs. 389 crore in the year-earlier period. Revenue from operations surged more than fourfold to Rs. 2,951 crore, the firm said in a filing. “The supply of electronic control units continues to be a concern, owing to the limited availability of semiconductors,” said Gopal Mahadevan, CFO. “The industry is also feeling the impact of high raw material prices, especially steel. The management expects them to soften going forward.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/all-q1-loss-narrows-to-rs-282-crore/article35889183.ece
13 August 2021||CHENNAI,||NCLT orders liquidation of Siva Industries||The National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT), Chennai, has rejected a one-time settlement offer made by the erstwhile promoters of Siva Industries and Holdings Ltd. to its lenders, citing that the proposal was not in conformity with the provisions of the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016. The tribunal also ordered liquidation of the company. The settlement proposal given by the erstwhile promoters appears to be more like a corporate business restructuring plan and resolution plan rather than a settlement simpliciter, the NCLT noted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/nclt-orders-liquidation-of-siva-industries/article35889175.ece
13 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||IT sector must eye at least 500 Rs. 5,000-cr. units||The technology sector in India should aim to build 500-600 companies with revenues of Rs. 5,000 crore or more in the next three-five years, from about 25-30 such firms presently, Union Minister of State for IT Rajeev Chandrasekhar said on Thursday. The Minister said during the CII annual meeting that the two attributes of trust and competitiveness had become important for all large clients around the world as they sought a new strategy in the post-COVID world. “I think that is the trigger for the Indian tech sector to suddenly expand their ambitions, expand their appetites,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/it-sector-must-eye-at-least-500-rs-5000-cr-units/article35889182.ece
13 August 2021||MUMBAI,||China’s GWM bags Trade Mark for Aure, may start production soon||The Registrar of Trade Marks recently granted a trademark to the Indian subsidiary of Chinese automobile company Great Wall Motor (GWM) for a mobility product Aure.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/chinas-gwm-bags-trade-mark-for-aure-may-start-production-soon/article35889177.ece
13 August 2021||London,||Ton-up Rahul and Rohit put India in control on day one at Lord’s||Rohit Sharma blended caution with aggression en route his highest overseas Test score of 83 as India gained early advantage, reaching 157/2 at tea on the opening day of the second Test against England here on Thursday. Put in to bat at the Lord’s after a raid delay, the Indian opening pair of KL Rahul (55 batting off 143 balls) and Rohit negated the overcast conditions on a good batting surface during the visiting team’s first century opening stand since the tour of 2007. Foundation They added 126 for the first wicket to set up a much-needed foundation for India. Rohit hit 11 boundaries and a six off 145 balls while Rahul also got a maximum to his name as he scored his second successive half-century. Rahul also had three boundaries to his name. It needed a magic delivery from veteran James Anderson, who got a 43-over old Dukes to jag back viciously and literally cut the batsman into half, ending Rohit’s dreams of a maiden Test hundred in a SENA country. The out-of-form Cheteshwar Pujara (9) was also snuffed out by Anderson (14-4-28-2) to bring some cheer in the English camp. There is something about Rohit’s defensive game that is breathtakingly beautiful. There are players if they defend, the dressing room starts shivering that there could be demons in the track but when Rohit defends he brings in a sense of calmness. It was an enticing first hour but the Indian openers displayed impressive technique and, more than anything else, appreciable temperament to tackle Anderson and Ollie Robinson’s testing new-ball spells. Anderson bowls two different inswingers without any apparent change of wrist position. The first one with a wobbly seam and other with an upright seam and fingers widened which looks to be shaping away but nips back in. Both Rohit and Rahul battled their minds to leave most of the deliveries on the ‘fourth off-stump’ channel. Both didn’t fiddle much with those incoming deliveries and knew where their off-stump was and covered the swing. If Rohit left it alone at times not offering any stroke, Rahul would present a dead bat but keep it close to his body, which ensured that he negated the maximum chance of getting a nick. The first 10 overs yielded only 11 runs but not for one moment did one feel bored or bogged down. First boundary The first boundary came in the 13th over bowled by Sam Curran. The moment the left-arm seamer drifted on pads, Rohit flicked one behind square for the team’s first boundary. Having done all the hard work during that first hour, Rohit understood the urgency to get a move on in the scoreboard and, in Curran’s next over, smashed four boundaries. The first one was a wide over-pitched delivery that he reached and hit it towards backward point and followed that up with a streaky boundary wide of slip cordon. Then came the best shot of the session, a back-foot punch through covers and then a flick through mid-wicket. In Curran’s next over, he got his sixth boundary to make a cautious start look good enough. Robinson wasn’t the same bowler in the post lunch session as he bowled more inswingers that drifted. Rohit brought up his 50 but the celebrations were muted. Mark Wood, the world’s fastest pacer, was brought after lunch but this time Rohit’s mistimed pull-shot fetched him a six and ‘chinese cut’ got him a boundary. The lofted shot in 2014 off Moeen Ali that didn’t beat the mid-on fielder and invited a million criticism was executed perfectly in 2021. Rohit kept the scoreboard moving and allowed Rahul to take 100-odd balls to reach 20 but confidence is infectious. Rahul, who was unable to get a boundary for more than 100 balls, suddenly stepped out and hit Moeen over long-off for a six. Once Rohit left the scene, Rahul upped the ante and finished the session with a glowing cover-drive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/rohit-rahul-brighten-up-lords-after-a-rainy-start-to-second-test/article35888968.ece
13 August 2021||London,||Kane transfer saga could define season||The compact surroundings of the recently built, 17,250-seat Brentford Community Stadium will usher in another Premier League campaign on Friday. In reality, though, a season that will be marked by the return of capacity crowds for the first time in 17 pandemic-blighted months will only start in earnest once a summer-long, potentially title-defining transfer saga is settled one way or the other. Harry Kane’s “will-he, won’t he?” move to Manchester City from Tottenham remains in the balance and may only be decided in the final days, perhaps even the final hours, of a summer transfer window that closes on August 31. Depth and quality If City, the star-studded defending champion, clinches a signing of the England captain — for maybe as much as $200 million — many will view the title race as over before it barely started, such will be the depth and quality of resources available to City manager Pep Guardiola. After all, City, which won the league by 12 points last season, has already bought midfielder Jack Grealish for a British-record fee of £100 million. If Kane stays at Tottenham? Well, it’s game on, given how City’s rivals stack up this season. Somewhat quirkily, the opening round of the Premier League, which starts with Brentford — a unheralded side playing top-flight football for the first time in 74 years — hosting Arsenal, is headlined by Sunday’s meeting between Tottenham and Man City. Hoping Kane doesn’t make the move north to Etihad Stadium — Tottenham aside, obviously — will be Chelsea, Manchester United and Liverpool, who are expected to be the main challengers to City. Much stronger Chelsea will be much stronger with the expected arrival of striker Romelu Lukaku for a reported $135 million. United has bought England winger Jadon Sancho and will add France centre back Raphael Varane, too, after spending a combined $150 million. Liverpool, the 2019-20 champion, crucially has star defender Virgil van Dijk back fit. City getting Kane, however, would leave Guardiola’s team streets clear of them all. Changes are being made to the way the VAR interprets offside decisions, which — according to referee chief Mike Riley — has “reintroduced the benefit of the doubt to the attacking player.” Four teams will have new managers this season. Rafa Benitez has been hired by Everton, leaving some fans unhappy because he was previously in charge of local rival Liverpool. Nuno Espirito Santo was hired by Tottenham despite clearly being down the club’s list of targets. Former Arsenal and France star Patrick Vieira will lead Crystal Palace in his first senior role in the league.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/kane-transfer-saga-could-define-season/article35889191.ece
13 August 2021||New Delhi,||Six Indians in second spot||Six Indians — Nihal Sarin, S.L. Naryananan, R. Praggnanandhaa, Arjun Erigaisi, D. Gukesh and N.R. Visakh — were among those in the second spot at 3.5 points behind Armenia’s Aram Hakobyan (4) after four rounds of the RTU Open chess tournament in Riga, Latvia, on Wednesday.  Leading results (involving Indians): Fourth round: Arjun Erigaisi (3.5) drew with Nihal Sarin (3.5).   Paulius Pultinevicius (Ltu, 3.5) drew with S.L. Narayanan (3.5); Aram Hakobyan (Arm, 4) bt Abhimanyu Puranik (3).   Aravindh Chithambaram (3) drew with Arjun Kalyan (3).   R. Praggnanandhaa (3.5) bt Sergey Pavlov (Ukr, 2.5); D. Gukesh (3.5) bt Benjamin Haldorsen (Nor, 2.5).   Kristaps Kretainis (Lat, 2.5) lost to N.R. Visakh (3.5).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/six-indians-in-second-spot/article35888955.ece
13 August 2021||New Delhi,||Indian team given a warm send-off||A 54-member Indian team for the upcoming Tokyo Paralympics was on Thursday accorded a warm send-off by Sports Minister Anurag Thakur and the national governing body, with high hopes that the country will return with its best ever performance. The players were part of the event virtually as they are in strict bio-bubble. The team has some of the brightest medal prospects like Devendra Jhajharia, seeking his third Paralympics gold (after 2004 and 2016) in F-46 javelin throw, Mariyappan Thangavelu (T-63 high jump) and world champion Sandeep Choudhary (F-64 javelin throw). India will compete in nine sports. Mariyappan, who had won a gold in the last edition in Rio, will be the flag-bearer of the Indian contingent during the opening ceremony on August 24. The Tokyo Paralympics will end on September 5. “The ambition and self-confidence of our para-athletes give inspiration to 1.3 billion Indians. In front of their courage, the biggest of challenges bow,” Thakur said in a video message. India achieved its best-ever performance in the Paralympic Games in the 2016 Rio Games with two gold, one silver and one bronze medal. PCI president Deepa Malik, who herself had won a silver in shot put at Rio 2016 Games, said, “We are going to see a record haul of medals as our athletes are in prime form.” PCI secretary-general Gursharan Singh will be the chef de mission of the Indian team. Badminton will make its debut at the Paralympic Games, which will feature seven Indian shuttlers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/indian-team-given-a-warm-send-off/article35888961.ece
13 August 2021||PATIALA:,||AP boys emerge victorious||Andhra Pradesh boys won the overall championship while the girls claimed silver in the sub-junior category of the sub-junior and junior National weightlifting here.  Medallists on last two days:     Boys, sub-juniors: Silver, 81kg: G. Ravisankar 254kg (110+144). 89kg: Sk. Lal Basheer 263kg (118+145) 263 kg - silver. Juniors: Silver, 89kg: A.S.R.K. Yadav 285kg (126+159).   Girls, sub-juniors: Gold, 81kg: Ch. Sree Lakshmi 172kg (78+94).   Silver, 81kg & above: R. Gayatri 156kg (65+91); 64kg: S. Pallavi 182kg (81+101) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ap-boys-emerge-victorious/article35889271.ece
13 August 2021||Belfast,||Kepa is Chelsea’s ‘super’ sub||Thomas Tuchel made the bold call, and Kepa Arrizabalaga made the big saves. Brought on as a substitute with seconds remaining in extra time, Kepa kept out two spot kicks as Chelsea beat Villarreal 6-5 in a penalty shootout to win the UEFA Super Cup on Wednesday. Tuchel, the Chelsea manager, has been informed by his team of statisticians that Kepa has a better record at saving penalties than first-choice goalkeeper Edouard Mendy, so the substitution was made in the 119th minute of a match that ended 1-1 after extra time. Kepa had already saved a penalty from Aissa Mandi when he dived low to his right again and parried out Raul Albiol’s attempt in what proved to be the final kick of the shootout at Windsor Park in Northern Ireland. As Chelsea’s players sprinted from the halfway line to celebrate with Kepa, one of the first to reach him was Mendy. “It’s fantastic how Edu accepts it,” Tuchel said. “ We needed to do what’s best for the team. ... There is proof that Kepa is better in this discipline.” Another trophy Less than 10 weeks after Chelsea’s 1-0 win over Manchester City in the Champions League final in Porto, Cesar Azpilicueta was again lifting a European trophy to the backdrop of fireworks and tickertape. Among the players celebrating on the podium behind him was Hakim Ziyech, who had his right arm in a sling after a suspected dislocated shoulder in the 40th minute — 13 minutes after putting Chelsea into the lead by converting a cross from Kai Havertz. That was cancelled out by Gerard Moreno in the 73rd for the Spain international’s record 83rd goal for Villarreal — breaking the record he shared with U.S.-born former Italy striker Giuseppe Rossi. Moreno exchanged a one-two with Boulaye Dia before lifting his shot over Mendy and into the top corner.  The result: Chelsea 1 (Ziyech 27) drew with Villarreal 1 (Gerard Moreno 73) ( after extra-time, Chelsea win 6-5 on penalties) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/kepa-is-chelseas-super-sub/article35889192.ece
13 August 2021||KOCHI,||Asian Games gold next target: Sreejesh||As a junior with a hockey club in Thiruvananthapuram many years ago, goalkeeper P.R. Sreejesh had gone to Kannur to play a tournament. Manuel Fredericks, then Kerala’s lone Olympic medallist with his hockey bronze at Munich 1972, had gone to meet the youngsters. “Fredericks had brought his medal to the ground...that was the first time, we saw an Olympic medal,” said Sreejesh in a function to fete him here on Thursday. This time Fredericks, also a goalkeeper, had a close look at Sreejesh’s hockey bronze which came in Tokyo. Fredericks had brought his bronze too and for the first time, Kerala had a look at its only two Olympic medals in history. Dr. Shamsheer Vayalil, the UAE-based chairman and managing director of VPS Healthcare, had announced a Rs. 1 crore cash award for Sreejesh and he had brought Fredericks — who hails from Kannur but who mostly lives in Bengaluru — to present the cheque to the star goalkeeper. There was a pleasant surprise for Fredericks as he was presented with Rs. 10 lakh for his 1972 show. Qualify for Paris Sreejesh said the hockey team’s next big goal was to qualify for the 2024 Paris Olympics. “Definitely, we have to win the next Asian Games (in 2022, in China), that is the easiest way to get into the Olympic Games,” said Sreejesh. “That is the first target, then we are going to host the 2023 World Cup in Odisha. The last time we played the World Cup, we couldn’t qualify for the semifinals.” Improve facilities Both Fredericks and Sreejesh spoke about the need to improve basic facilities to improve the hockey scene in Kerala. “Both of us are Olympic medallists and goalkeepers too...we need to offer more facilities for hockey in Kerala,” said Fredericks, now 73. “There is only one astro-turf for hockey in Kerala, in Kollam. That too had been converted into a COVID-care centre and for nearly one and half years, it has probably not been watered. “If we start private academies, and if VPS Healthcare supports us, we will have more children in hockey.” VPS Healthcare’s India head Hafiz Ali Ullat and corporate communications and CSR head Dr. Rajeev Mangottil also spoke during the event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/asian-games-gold-next-target-sreejesh/article35888963.ece
13 August 2021||Chennai,||Super Gillies will be under pressure against Dragons||After two consecutive defeats to Ruby Trichy Warriors — in the last league game and the first Qualifier — Chepauk Super Gillies (CSG) will be under pressure when it takes on Dindigul Dragons in the second TNPL Qualifier on Friday. In both games, the defending champion struggled to post a competitive score with only S. Radhakrishnan managing fighting half-centuries. Leading scorer Opener N. Jagadeesan, the leading run-getter for CSG, will need to come up with a big knock yet again to help his team start well. CSG will hope for more contributions from the rest of the batting unit, especially skipper Kaushik Gandhi. A thing that works for the title-holder, though, is the depth in its squad with quality First Class players. However, the availability of pacer Sandeep Warrier is still uncertain according to the team. On the other hand, Dragons played a clinical game against Lyca Kovai Kings in the Eliminator and will go in with confidence and momentum on its side. The team has a very good bowling unit. L. Vignesh and the two left-arm pacers R. Suthesh and Gurjapneet Singh proved to be a potent seam attack. M. Silambarasan provides the left-arm spin option. In its last two matches, the big-hitting Vivek Raj chipped in with vital half-centuries in quick time while chasing, but Dragons will expect better contributions from the top order. When asked about the over-reliance on skipper C. Hari Nishaanth, coach S. Badrinath said: “It is something that he has to do because partnerships haven’t clicked. “Hari has taken it upon himself and handled the pressure really well. But yes there is some concern at the top. The opening stands haven’t been great and we are addressing it.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/super-gillies-will-be-under-pressure-against-dragons/article35889313.ece
13 August 2021||WROCLAW,||Komalika, Sakshi, and Priya in finals||Komalika Bari and Sakshi Chaudhary reached the women’s individual finals of the recurve junior and compound junior categories respectively at the World youth archery championships here on Thursday. Komalika defeated Japanese Juri Shibuya 6-4, Kazakh Ziyodakhon Abdusattarova 6-0 and Japanese Mao Watanbe 6-5 (8-7) before beating American Casey Kaufhold 6-4 in the semifinals. Sakshi got past Kazakh Aizhan Seidakhmetova 142-141, Iranian Bita Asheghzadeh Oskouei 147-142, Mexican Dafne Quintero 147-145 and American Anna Scarbrough 144-142 to make it to the final. Rishabh Yadav, who lost to Robin Jaamta of Estonia 147-146 in the semifinals of the compound junior men’s individual event, will face Sebastian Garcia of Mexico in the bronze medal match. Priya Gurjar defeated Hallie Boulton (Great Britain) 149-140 to set up a gold medal match with Selene Rodriguez (Mexico) in the compound women’s cadet individual event. Parneet Kaur, who lost to Selene 142-141, will compete with Hallie for the bronze medal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/komalika-sakshi-and-priya-in-finals/article35888953.ece
13 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||National sports awards function pushed back||The National sports awards function, which is held on August 29 every year, has been pushed back since the government wants the selection panel to consider the performances of the athletes competing in the Tokyo Paralympics, to be held between August 24 and September 5. Sports Minister Anurag Thakur said the selection panel for picking the award winners has been formed but it would prefer to wait for some more time before going ahead with the selection process. “The National sports award committee has been formed for this year but Paralympics are yet to be held. We want to add winners from the paralympics also. “I hope and wish they will perform really well,” Thakur said during the National Youth Awards function. Like the last time, the sports awards function could be held virtually.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/national-sports-awards-function-pushed-back/article35888956.ece
13 August 2021||MUMBAI,||JSW Group announces cash rewards for Tokyo medallists||The JSW Group on Thursday announced cash awards for India’s Tokyo Olympic medallists and their support staff. Neeraj Chopra, who won the javelin gold, will be awarded Rs. 1 crore with his coach Klaus Bartonietz and physiotherapist Ishaan Marwaha getting Rs. 10 lakh each. Silver medallists Mirabai Chanu and Ravi Dahiya would be given Rs. 20 lakh each while bronze medallists Bajrang Punia, Lovlina Borgohain and P.V. Sindhu will get Rs. 15 lakh each. The coaches and support staff of these medallists will get Rs. 5 lakh each. The members of the men’s hockey team will get Rs. 2 lakh each along with head coach Graham Reid, head physio and assistant coach. Byju’s gesture Earlier, edtech major Byju’s had announced Rs. 2 crore for Neeraj Chopra and Rs. 1 crore each to the other individual medallists. “Sports has a critical role to play in nation building and it’s time that we celebrate our Olympic heroes, not just once in four years, but every single day,” Byju’s founder and CEO Byju Raveendran said. “We hope this small gesture will help them in their journey going forward to win more laurels for the country and also encourage many more youngsters to dream big.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/jsw-group-announces-cash-rewards-for-tokyo-medallists/article35888957.ece
13 August 2021||KOLKATA,||WBC India Committee formed||With an aim to offer a pathway for domestic championship success for aspiring professional boxers, the World Boxing Council (WBC) has announced the formation of the WBC India Committee in collaboration with the Indian Boxing Council. The step will provide Indian pugilists more global opportunities. The WBC will also put an emphasis on safety and implement a ranking system for both male and female boxers, according to a press release. The inaugural WBC India championship is scheduled to be held in October at Jalandhar and will feature 10 professional boxing fights, including the first WBC India title fight between Chandni Mehra and Suman Kumari in the lightweight category.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/wbc-india-committee-formed/article35888954.ece
13 August 2021||Kingston,||Pakistan 34/2||Kemar Roach and Jayden Seales struck early for the West Indies as Pakistan reached 34 for two in a rain-shortened morning session after it was put in on the opening day of the first Test of the two-match series at Sabina Park in Jamaica on Thursday.  The scores: Pakistan 34/2 in 17 overs (at lunch) vs West Indies.   Toss: West Indies .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/pakistan-342/article35889403.ece
13 August 2021||NEW DELHI,||Chavan on top||Ajinkya Chavan topped the 50-metre free pistol open event in the shooting National selection trials on Thursday. The topper of the first trial, Arjun Singh Chema, shot 541 for the fifth place, one point ahead of Shikha Narwal who was the first among women in the combined field.  The results: 50m free pistol: Open: 1. Ajinkya Chavan 548; 2. Vikash Kumar 546; 3. Harsh Gupta 545 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/chavan-on-top/article35888970.ece
13 August 2021||Toronto,||Bopanna-Dodig pair in quarters||Rohan Bopanna and Ivan Dodig of Croatia beat Simone Bolelli and Maximo Gonzalez 6-4, 6-3 to reach the doubles quarterfinals of the $3,487,915 ATP tennis tournament here on Wednesday. In the $100,000 ITF women’s event in Landisville, US, qualifier Ankita Raina beat her doubles partner Renata Zarazua of Mexico 6-3, 6-2 in the singles first round.  The results:   $3,487,915 ATP, Toronto: Doubles (pre-quarterfinals): Ivan Dodig (Cro) & Rohan Bopanna bt Simone Bolelli (Ita) & Maximo Gonzalez (Arg) 6-4, 6-3.   $100,000 ITF women, Landisville, US: Singles (first round): Ankita Raina bt Renata Zarazua (Mex) 6-3, 6-2.   $15,000 ITF men, Monastir, Tunisia: Singles (first round): Aziz Dogaz (Tun) bt Rishab Agarwal 6-4, 7-5.   Women: Singles (first round): Jazmin Ortenzi (Arg) bt Bhuvana Kalva 6-3, 6-4; Anastasia Nefedova (US) bt Smriti Bhasin 6-1, 6-1.   Doubles (pre-quarterfinals): Kariann Pierre-Louis (US) & Ashmitha Easwaramurthi bt Shria Atturu (US) & Smriti Bhasin 6-2, 7-6(5); Noelia Bouzo Zanotti (Esp) & Vasanti Shinde bt Ganna Poznikhirenko & Mariya Pyrozhenko (Ukr) 6-0, 6-2; Daria Zelinskaya (Rus) & Renne Singla bt Feryel Ben Hassen (Tun) & Lina Qostal (Mar) 6-3, 2-6, [14-12].||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bopanna-dodig-pair-in-quarterfinals/article35889185.ece
13 August 2021||KOCHI:,||Anirudh, Anila win men’s and women’s quartermile||With the World Championships, Asian Games and Commonwealth Games all lined up next year, the search is on for quality quartermilers for the Indian relay teams. And university meets in Kerala often throw up good talent and are hence closely watched. But the winners in the men’s and women’s 400m in the 38th Mahatma Gandhi University athletics championships, which began in Pala on Thursday, were not really impressive. Training had been hit owing to the pandemic and it showed in the timings as M.A. College’s C.R. Anirudh won the men’s 400m in 49.60s while Anila Venu took the women’s gold in 56.60s. Both were far away from the meet records.  Important results (winners only):   Men, 100m: Omkar Nath (Mar Athanasius) 10.80; 400m: C.R. Anirudh (MA) 49.60; 1,500m: Adarsh Binu (St. Berchmans) 4:04.40; 20,000m walk: V.K. Abhijith (MA) 1:50:36.94; Pole vault: A.K. Sidharth (MA) 4.60; Discus: Melbin Siby (St. Peter’s) 41.58; Hammer: Alex Joseph (MA) 41.20; Javelin: Anandhu Ayhappan (MA) 59.78.   Women, 100m: S.S. Sneha (Assumption) 12.05; 400m: Anila Venu (Asspn) 56.60; 1,500m: Anumol Thampi (Asspn) 4:44.80; 20,000m walk: K. Akshaya (MA) 1:56:53.13; Pole vault: Arsha Babu (Alphonsa) 3.40; Shot put: Nelsamol P. Saji (MA) 11.83; Discus: Niya Rose Raju (Asspn) 34.40; Javelin: Divya Mohan (St. Peter’s) 34.25 .      University and All Saint’s won the titles in the Kerala University inter-collegiate Wushu championships here on Thursday. University came first in the men’s section with 11 points while All Saint’s dominated the women’s event to finish with 19 points.  The results (winners only):   Men, 52kg: Vidhu S. Uday (University, Thiruvananthapruam); 60kg: Sahil (MSM, Kayamkulam); 65kg: M.S. Rahul (Mar Ivanios, Thiruvananthapuram); 70kg: Moneesh Mathew (St. Cyril’s, Adoor).   Women, 48kg: K.K. Sinisha (All Saint’s, Thiruvananthapuram); 52kg: Vandana Viswanathan (All Saint’s, Thiruvananthapuram); 56kg: Swathi S. Kumar (SN, Chempazanthy); 60kg: Anjumol (SN, Kollam); 65kg: Krishna Preethi (Government College, Kayamkulam); 70kg: Anjana Lekshmi (University, Thiruvananthapruam); 75kg: Arya Kishore (All Saint’s, Thiruvananthapuram) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/anirudh-anila-win-mens-and-womens-quartermile/article35889176.ece
13 August 2021||Paris,||British||British sprinter C.J. Ujah, who won an Olympic silver in the 4x100m relay in Tokyo, was on Thursday suspended for an alleged anti-doping breach, the Athletics Integrity Unit announced. If the case is proven, the team will be stripped of the silver it won behind Italy.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/british/article35889402.ece
13 August 2021||August 13 2021 06:59 IST,||Sudoku — August 13, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-august-13-2021/article35889871.ece
13 August 2021||August 13 2021 00:00 IST,||Follow the QR codes||In Puducherry’s Vambakeerapalayam, many homes now sport a QR code on their front doors. Sanitation workers scan them every day before collecting segregated waste from each home, which is then deposited at a transfer station — a vehicle on which there are more codes — and taken to a recovery facility. All through this process, the collected waste is being digitally traced. A diverse group of urban planners, designers, journalists and individuals from the development sector that make up the collective, ReCity Network, has made its presence in the coastal city to tackle waste mismanagement and littering. Puducherry is just one of the many tourist locations that the collective is concentrating on, in the past four years of its existence. A need to contribute towards the cities they live in was ReCity Network’s driving point. Says co-founder Meha Lahiri, “We understood cities, we knew the city’s waste, land, water, transport are all resources. The moment they are looked at as resources, citizens might feel an ownership towards their city.” Cut to 2021, they have multiple projects that span across Nainital, Goa, Mussoorie, Puducherry, Mahabaleshwar, Munnar, Konark, Dalhousie and more. “Most tourist cities in themselves are small but the influx they have to manage is at least 10 times more than the population. How does a city prepare itself to manage this much pressure, especially from a waste perspective?” asks Meha. The team believes that the way forward is to create circular waste management systems that would ensure that the waste diverted from landfills is reused. Now, they are bringing the material back to brand owners to reuse. With the help of technology, they measure the plastic movement from one’s door to when it is back into the product of one’s brand. Their work in Puducherry is part of a three-year project called Keep: Namma Pondy Clean. A wall mural activity in collaboration with Paint Puducherry group will also be executed in the city through August. Marina beach and Rock beach in Puducherry also sport isolated artworks that pin on the perils of littering. The project is now operational in six wards and works with 145 sanitary workers across the wards. “If you find a city so visibly clean and beautiful, your behavioural response will be to not litter. There need to be design changes in the city that propagate the idea of anti-littering,” she says. Initiatives like using multi-layered plastic waste of the city to make benches, help. In Mussoorie, Nainital and Dalhousie, there are 20 such benches for tourists. The long-term goal for the collective is this: “We are looking at diverting 10,000 million metric tonnes of waste and have worked with at least 5,000 waste workers across cities,” Meha concludes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/follow-the-qr-codes/article35889161.ece
13 August 2021||August 13 2021 00:00 IST,||Madras on your mind||If you are on the hunt for homegrown, small businesses in Chennai, then Nivedita Ganeshram’s Instagram page is a great find. The city-based digital strategist — who is gearing up for her first pop-up this weekend — hit upon the idea in August 2020. “Back then, a lot of my artiste friends started running their own small businesses, from baking to organic skincare. I wanted to cheer them on,” says Nivedita. The performing Bharatanatyam dancer adds that a video call with a friend, led to the idea of starting a separate page for artistes, @madrasfinds. “This is our humble journey towards bringing a ‘shop local’ revolution in our country,” she adds. The page is a good resource to find brands, artistes and influencers from the city. A pop-up, says Nivedita, seemed like a natural progression. Themed ‘Ancient Madras’, to commemorate Independence Day, the upcoming event features several brands such as cheesecake label 22 Roses, Hersh Calligraphy, Garden Store, Davrah (filter coffee), Sangiah (upcycled fashion), Qidhan (organic food staples), Studio Melt (artisan soy candles) and Hotchpotch (Resin home decor). She says, “My top five finds would be food subscription service The Good Life Eatery, The Beachville Coffee Shop, Serious Sweets, Fuller Earth Botanicals, and granolas at Fruit Print.”  The pop-up is on August 14 and 15 at House of Chase, Alwarpet, 10.30 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/madras-on-your-mind/article35889160.ece
13 August 2021||August 13 2021 00:00 IST,||Line of discontent||One evening in June, 1976: Cyril John Radcliffe, 1st Viscount Radcliffe, sat in his garden under the yellow magnolia reminiscing. He’d had a good life. Except for that spot of bother in 1947. It was July when he set foot in a strange land — this Jewel in the Crown. The heat had been unbearable. So far removed from England’s summer sun. When he saw the ‘natives’ scurrying about, he realised his choice of clothing was a mistake. But, to his defence, this was the first time he was setting foot in this country and by God, he disliked it. A few hours after disembarking, he counted the days when he could go back home. He reminded himself he had work to do. But, getting down to work in this sweltering heat was impossible. The climate, the people, the food…everything was strange and confusing. In despair “Why? Oh, why was I chosen for this job?” he wondered for the nth time. This job had been thrust on him by no less than the Viceroy himself and ordered to ‘Go and get it done’. He had five weeks to complete his task. “Oh well, best get on with it,” he said to himself. At Shimla where he worked, the temperature hovered between 20 and 22 degrees. It was warm, yet nippy in the shade. The rains were expected anytime. From the window of his office room, he had a clear view of the apple orchard. He had to tear himself away from that soothing sight and get back to studying ordinance maps and census reports. He was chairing two boundary commissions — Punjab and Bengal. He had no clue where these regions lay.  Arguments and delays Time was of the essence. His assistants tried to help him out, but they were also in a constant argument. There was a further delay because the provincial assemblies of Punjab and Bengal had to vote for the division of the two provinces — a legal obligation. Other problems he faced was the unyielding demands, communal tensions, doubtful census numbers, tough economic administrative and defence consideration…and the interference of the Viceroy. In his briefing, he had been told to take care of the ‘other factors’. He had no clue what it was. The one thing that was not ambiguous was the deadline — August 15. He knew he had no time to see the lands whose future lay in his hands and that was going to cost everyone dearly. He managed to make time to fly over parts of north India in a Dakota to get an idea of how the land lay. Final decision He submitted his final plan on August 9, 1947. Punjab and Bengal were to be split in two. The new boundaries were announced on August 17, 1947. In just five weeks, he had decided the nationality and fate of millions of people. The violence that followed saddened him. He burnt his papers, refused his 40,000 fee and left…never to return. He sighed as he watched the sun set. Some wrongs could never be set right.  (Radcliffe was responsible for drawing the borders for Pakistan and India. Punjab was split into two: West Punjab became part of Pakistan and the East Punjab belonged to India. Similarly, West Bengal became a state of India, and East Bengal (now Bangladesh) became a province of Pakistan.)   ...getting down to work in this sweltering heat was impossible.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/line-of-discontent/article35889752.ece
13 August 2021||August 13 2021 00:00 IST,||Dive into history||A Flag, A Song and A Pinch ofSalt   by Subhadra Sen Gupta  India’s freedom struggle and the people who fought valiantly for this play an important part in the freedom movement. This book pays tribute to the freedom fighters, each of whom had their own contributions in the centuries-long struggle. Police batons, prison sentences or the hangman’s noose — nothing could stop them. They stood up against the biggest colonial empire in the world and all they had was their courage and passion for freedom.  Mukund and Riaz   by Nina Sabnani  The story is set against the background of the partition of India and Pakistan in 1947. But friendship knows no barbed wire fencing: children play games, enjoy ice-cream and feel the loss of friends. Based on the memories of her father, animator Nina Sabnani made this film for the Big Small People Project, Israel, using the art of women’s appliqué work, common to both Sindh in Pakistan and Gujarat in India, to provide a rich and textured visual experience.  Victory Song   by Chitra Banerjee Divakaruni  The year is 1939. The freedom fighters will stop at nothing till they send the British back. The day after her sister’s wedding, 12-year-old Neela’s father decides to go to Calcutta and join a protest march called by the Congress. He promises to be back in a week. But when three weeks go by and there is no sign of him, Neela decides to take matters into her hand. She arrives in Calcutta with a mission. Her father has been jailed for joining a protest march, and Neela has to rescue him before he is deported to the Andaman Islands. But can a little girl outwit the mighty British Empire? Set in a dramatic period in India’s history, this racy adventure will keep you hooked till the last page.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/dive-into-history/article35889757.ece
13 August 2021||August 13 2021 00:00 IST,||1911: Status quo||Owing to mass protests, the partition of Bengal is annulled and the two parts that were created six years back are reunited.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/1911-status-quo/article35889710.ece
13 August 2021||August 13 2021 00:00 IST,||India then and now||Population  1951: 36,10,88,090  The 1951 Census of India was the first after Independence and Partition of India.   2021: 1,39,46,55,546 GDP  1947: Rs. 2.7 lakh crore  2021: Rs. 135.13 lakh crore Income per person (per annum)  1947: Rs. 274  2021: Rs. 1,44,495 lakh Literacy level  1947: 12%  2021: 74% Satellites launched  1947: 0  2021: 342 satellites for 36 different countries Highest-grossing Indian film  1947: Jugnu (Rs. 50 lakh)  2021: Master (Rs. 300 crore) Cost of Petrol (per litre)  1947: Less than 30 paisa  2021: More than Rs. 100 Gold price (per 10 gm)  1947: Rs. 88.62  2021: Rs. 50,000 approx. Universities   1950: 30  2021: 984 Nobel laureates  1947: 2 (citizens of British India)  2021: 3 (citizens of India) Tiger population  1947: 40,000  2021: 3,900||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/india-then-and-now/article35889688.ece
13 August 2021||August 13 2021 00:00 IST,||Independence Day||Across 1 The Prime Minister unfurls the flag here (3,4) 4 Raja ___ Mohan Roy, founder of Brahmo Samaj (3) 6 "____ Man's Burden", term coined by Rudyard Kipling (5) 8 ____ Chandra Bose, founder of the Azad Hind Fauj (6) 9 British used ___ gas on protesters at Gowalia (4) 11 ____ of Kutch: The India-Pakistan border at Gujarat (4) 12 ____ Besant, supporter of self-rule (5) 15 The Black ___ of Calcutta, a notorious dungeon (4) 16 Badshah Khan belonged to North-___ Frontier Province (4) 17 ___-March-1930: Start date of the Dandi March (6) Down 1 _____ Act, an anti-sedition law, was passed in 1919 (7) 2 Mahatma Gandhi, The ____ of the Nation (6) 3 ____ Sultan fought in the Anglo-Mysore wars (4) 5 Dhanpat Rai, also known as ____ Premchand (6) 7 Rani Laxmibai was the queen of _____(6) 8 ____ Vallabh Bhai Patel, the Iron Man of India (6) 10 Clement _____, PM of UK at the time of independence (6) 13 Kesari: ____paper started by Bal Gangadhar Tilak (4) 14 The rule of the ___ India Company began in 1757 (4) 15 The salacot was a ___ worn by the British in India (3)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/independence-day/article35889719.ece
13 August 2021||August 13 2021 00:00 IST,||Forgotten stalwarts||Known as Captain Lakshmi, she met members of Subhas Chandra Bose’s Indian National Army (INA) in Singapore. When she heard that Bose was looking to involve women in the organisation, she met him and the result was the Rani of Jhansi regiment, which Lakshmi went on to head. In 1945, she was arrested and imprisoned in Burma. Post independence, Lakshmi, who was also a doctor, continued to work towards several causes. In December 1984, she led a medical team to Bhopal after the gas tragedy. She also worked to restore peace in Kanpur, in the wake of the anti-Sikh riots of 1984.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/forgotten-stalwarts/article35889671.ece
13 August 2021||August 13 2021 00:00 IST,||SUDOKU||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/sudoku/article35889744.ece
13 August 2021||August 13 2021 00:00 IST,||Line of discontent||One evening in June, 1976: Cyril John Radcliffe, 1st Viscount Radcliffe, sat in his garden under the yellow magnolia reminiscing. He’d had a good life. Except for that spot of bother in 1947. It was July when he set foot in a strange land — this Jewel in the Crown. The heat had been unbearable. So far removed from England’s summer sun. When he saw the ‘natives’ scurrying about, he realised his choice of clothing was a mistake. But, to his defence, this was the first time he was setting foot in this country and by God, he disliked it. A few hours after disembarking, he counted the days when he could go back home. He reminded himself he had work to do. But, getting down to work in this sweltering heat was impossible. The climate, the people, the food…everything was strange and confusing. In despair “Why? Oh, why was I chosen for this job?” he wondered for the nth time. This job had been thrust on him by no less than the Viceroy himself and ordered to ‘Go and get it done’. He had five weeks to complete his task. “Oh well, best get on with it,” he said to himself. At Shimla where he worked, the temperature hovered between 20 and 22 degrees. It was warm, yet nippy in the shade. The rains were expected anytime. From the window of his office room, he had a clear view of the apple orchard. He had to tear himself away from that soothing sight and get back to studying ordinance maps and census reports. He was chairing two boundary commissions — Punjab and Bengal. He had no clue where these regions lay.  Arguments and delays Time was of the essence. His assistants tried to help him out, but they were also in a constant argument. There was a further delay because the provincial assemblies of Punjab and Bengal had to vote for the division of the two provinces — a legal obligation. Other problems he faced was the unyielding demands, communal tensions, doubtful census numbers, tough economic administrative and defence consideration…and the interference of the Viceroy. In his briefing, he had been told to take care of the ‘other factors’. He had no clue what it was. The one thing that was not ambiguous was the deadline — August 15. He knew he had no time to see the lands whose future lay in his hands and that was going to cost everyone dearly. He managed to make time to fly over parts of north India in a Dakota to get an idea of how the land lay. Final decision He submitted his final plan on August 9, 1947. Punjab and Bengal were to be split in two. The new boundaries were announced on August 17, 1947. In just five weeks, he had decided the nationality and fate of millions of people. The violence that followed saddened him. He burnt his papers, refused his 40,000 fee and left…never to return. He sighed as he watched the sun set. Some wrongs could never be set right.  (Radcliffe was responsible for drawing the borders for Pakistan and India. Punjab was split into two: West Punjab became part of Pakistan and the East Punjab belonged to India. Similarly, West Bengal became a state of India, and East Bengal (now Bangladesh) became a province of Pakistan.)   ...getting down to work in this sweltering heat was impossible.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/line-of-discontent/article35889759.ece
13 August 2021||August 13 2021 00:00 IST,||The Mahatma and the Nawab||The popularity of Tamil theatre as a medium of mass entertainment and communication made it an able ally in the freedom movement. Several events in the struggle for independence such as the Jallianwala Bagh massacre, the Nagpur flag satyagraha and the hanging of Bhagat Singh were represented in Tamil theatre as songs and incidents interwoven into the scripts. People thronged to the plays, and some sequences were so popular that the plays were advertised with specific references to them. Artistes such as S.S. Viswanatha Dass even wore khadi costume onstage. Mahatma Gandhi’s ideals and spirit ignited the fire of nationalism among several theatre artistes. One such artiste was Nawab Rajamanickam Pillai. Born in 1906 in Thanjavur, Rajamanickam Pillai took to theatre at an early age. After initially training in the troupe run by K.T. Nataraja Pillai, a renowned stage-harmonium player of those times, he joined the Boys Company run by Jagannatha Iyer, the Bala Meena Ranjani Sangeetha Sabha, around 1914 and came under the tutelage of Sankaradas Swamigal. Among Pillai’s colleagues were several actors who would go on to become well-known names in the world of cinema such as M.R. Radha, K. Sarangapani and S.V. Venkatraman. In 1933-34, Rajamanickam Pillai along with a few others started the Madurai Devi Bala Vinoda Sangeetha Sabha, running it successfully for more than three decades. Early on in the troupe’s journey, it had a celebrity visitor in Mahatma Gandhi, who, on an invitation from Rajamanickam Pillai, watched a performance of Nandanar in Coimbatore. The event is well documented. “I wish that this Sabha’s activities will prove beneficial to the nation,” wrote Gandhi in the visitors’ book, signing his name in Tamil. A touched Rajamanickam Pillai considered this a great blessing. He ordered charkas for the entire troupe from Tirupur and taught them to spin cloth, using it for their uniforms. The name of the troupe was embroidered on them and inside, an emblem of the tricolour flag of the Indian National Congress. Play with a message In 1939, Rajamanickam Pillai staged Inbasagaran , a play by writer and freedom fighter C.A. Ayyamuthu (‘Kovai’ Ayyamuthu), where a scene showing the protagonist spinning the charka was included. The climax had a lengthy dialogue where the hero touched on themes such as the spirit of cooperation, upliftment of the poor, promotion of education, and development of employment opportunities for the youth. True Gandhian Rajamanickam Pillai was an ardent Gandhian in thought and action, who believed that yoga was essential for both physical fitness and mental wellbeing. His troupe’s daily routine began with a yoga session and, in the prayer sessions, the troupe paid obeisance to national leaders as well, whose portraits adorned the puja room along with those of deities. Such was his devotion to the Mahatma that Rajamanickam Pillai named his daughter, born after the leader’s assassination in 1948, Chandragandhi. In the days leading to August 15, 1947, the troupe was performing at Balakrishna Theatre in Tuticorin. Rajamanickam Pillai decided to commemorate the momentous occasion. On the night of August 14, as the troupe performed the play Dasavatharam , a few minutes before midnight, a backdrop depicting the map of the country was unfurled in the middle of the play. A lady stood in front of it on a lotus, dishevelled and in chains. “Ten boys, five on each side, flanked her, wearing face masks representing various national leaders. When the clock struck 12, crackers went off and the chains binding her snapped, and in her hands appeared the national flag, charka and a trishul , denoting the birth of a free country,” recalls Manickam, one of the veteran stagehands, who then as a five-year-old boywas part of the troupe. It was an electrifying moment, with a conch and nagaswarams adding to the emotional build-up. The scene was a huge success. That it had no relation to the play was of little consequence, and Rajamanickam Pillai, on popular demand, enacted it in subsequent shows for more than a week. A hugely delighted audience awarded him the title ‘Sudhandhira Nataka Mani’.   The writer, a heritage buff and amateur Tamil theatre artiste, thanks Rajamanickam Pillai’s family for their inputs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/the-mahatma-and-the-nawab/article35889392.ece
13 August 2021||August 13 2021 00:00 IST,||Steeped in secularism||At the turn of the millennium, when the Hindi film industry was looking for new voices to break the monotony of mindless violence and NRI romance, Rakeysh Omprakash Mehra emerged as a filmmaker who was unapologetic about the roots of Hindi cinema and dared to tell original and relevant stories. Rang De Basanti (2006), Delhi-6 (2009) and Bhaag Milkha Bhaag (2013) are significant landmarks for anybody researching the relationship between popular cinema and society. When intolerance and hatred for the other was gaining currency, Mehra was showing a mirror to society, urging: “Rehna tu, hai jaisa tu”. Mehra’s recently released autobiography, The Stranger in the Mirror (Rupa), is laced with the honesty and warmth that mark his films. Written in collaboration with marketer-author Reeta Ramamurthy Gupta, the memoir chronicles an eventful life that has helped shape Mehra’s persuasive narratives that negotiate human imperfections. Like most of his films, the autobiography too has no single narrator. Instead, it uses the voices of many creative people who nurtured the untrained filmmaker’s vision over the years. From Rahman, Aamir Khan, and Waheeda Rehman to Abhishek Bachchan and Sonam Kapoor, these voices give us a sense of the pixels that make the picture. Mehra, who grew up in a cubbyhole in the precincts of a Delhi five-star hotel where his father started his career as a dishwasher, had a close look at the dance of wealth and want. Having flown kites from the rooftop of his grandmother’s home in Old Delhi, he had moved in spaces that define cultural coexistence. Blissfully unaware of its poetic past, he used to play hide-and-seek as a child in Ghalib ki Haveli and sit on the emperor’s throne in Red Fort for a lark. Years later, armed with the tools of advertising, it was this immersive secular experience that found a reflection in his cinema, particularly Rang De Basanti and Delhi-6 , his most significant works, which have become even more relevant than when they were released. Even Bhaag Milkha Bhaag is more a Partition story than a biopic of a sports legend. Mehra took creative liberties to showcase how Milkha Singh outpaced the ghosts of Partition. Penchant for risk Mehra showed his penchant for risk right from the start with his debut film Aks (2001), which dealt with the philosophy of life and death, good and evil, in a highly stylised fashion. But it was Rang De Basanti that marked his arrival on the big stage. This heady amalgam of the heroes of the freedom movement and a group of vibrant graduates seeking direction pricked the conscience of the youth and encouraged them to take on corruption in all its forms. The candle march that became a staple feature of civil society movements was first seen in RDB , in which a group of young people stand up against alleged corruption in the purchase of MiG fighter planes. Interestingly, Mehra is a product of the Air Force Bal Bharati School, which had a replica of the fighter plane parked in its precincts. A sportsman, Mehra almost made the cut for the water polo team in the 1982 Asian Games, and often uses sporting similes to describe his work. He once told this journalist that he is like a referee in a football match: “I blow the whistle only when somebody is offside.” This frees the artiste, and the autobiography is full of anecdotes where Mehra allowed his creative partners to take a deep dive without fearing the destination. It was under his direction that Sonam Kapoor seemed like an accomplished actress and Farhan Akhtar looked compelling as a sprinter. It was his freeflowing jugalbandi with A.R. Rahman and Prasoon Joshi that enhanced the experience of RDB and Delhi-6. Who can forget ‘Masakali’, ‘Sasural Genda Phool’ ‘Masti Ki Pathshala’ or ‘Khoon Chala’? The book provides a window into the madness behind the method. When most filmmakers start with romance, Mehra was keen to make a social statement before turning to a timeless love story with Mirzya (2016). An incorrigible romantic, here again he focused on human imperfections, in collaboration with Gulzar. He once told me that you can fall in love multiple times. “Yes, you remain loyal to one person, but you can experience the emotion many times, and every time it gives a different kick.” The book tells the real-life love story of the Punjabi Mehra and the South Indian P.S. Bharathi, who, he says, tries to edit out the flab from his life and films. Those close to him point out that Mehra is a rambling narrator, and this tendency to meander sometimes creeps into his films too. To make a sporting analogy, he often tiptoes around the target for far too long before landing the punch. And when the lilt in music is missing, the gaps look glaring. Perhaps that’s why his latest film, Toofan (2021), feels tepid despite its powerful performances. But it is his honest approach and the dash of idealism that wins our hearts even when the mind demurs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/steeped-in-secularism/article35889362.ece
13 August 2021||August 13 2021 00:00 IST,||Gandhi’s impact on Bihar’s music||Music was central to Gandhi’s philosophy. In 2017, to commemorate 100 years of the Champaran Satyagraha (1917), Chandan Tiwari, an independent folk artist from Bihar, collated Gandhi Geet from the folk songs of his State. Former journalist and scholar Nirala Bidesia, who worked with Chandan to source and document these songs, recalls, “They aroused emotions even 100 years later. Many others came up with songs, which had been lost and forgotten, and we added them too.” Chandan, composer and singer, calls her repertoire, ‘Purbiyataan’, or folk songs of the East. Born in Bihar’s Badaka village, she says, “We realised that Gandhi had left a deep impact on the culture of Bihar and it is reflected in the songs.” Chandan and Nirala have sourced folk songs that belong to the category of ‘desh geet’ for Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav on August 15. “From 1857 to 1947, folk songs took on the colour of resistance to colonial rule. Shaadi ke geet (wedding songs); sohar (sung when a child is born); chaiti, kajri, hori (songs of the season); ropni (performed during sowing paddy); katni geet (performed during the harvesting season)... all began to reflect the freedom struggle,” says Nirala. In one song, Gandhi is portrayed as both groom and brother-in-law, who will bring swaraj as the bride price: Gandhi baba banle dhulhawa, dulhin bani sarkar... /Haithin vilayati, binthi kare saab, jija gaone mei debo swaraj, charka chaalu rahe. ( Gandhi is the bridegroom, the ruler is the bride. The officer says he will give freedom with the farewell of the bride, keep spinning the charkha.) It is well known that when Gandhiji arrived in Benaras, he met the most famous courtesan of the city, Vidyadhari Bai, and requested her to organise funds for the freedom movement through her art, music and dance. Thus was founded the Akhil Bharatiya Tawaif Sangh in 1920. Similarly in Kolkata, Gandhi met the well-known courtesan Gauhar Jaan and asked her to raise money for the freedom struggle. “Gandhiji gave a clarion call to the women of Bihar to join the freedom struggle. There are many songs related to this,” says Nirala, citing a song in Bajjika, a dialect spoken in Eastern Bihar and Nepal. Saiya bulki debai, nathiya debai, haar debai naa; aapne desh ke sankat ke ubaar debai na. (Beloved, I will give my nosepin and necklace/I will give everything to draw my country out of crisis) Songs for sepoys A composition by Rasool Mian (1872-1952), a follower of Gandhi and the father of Bhojpuri folk, roused the sepoys in the British army to quit their jobs and join the Independence movement, for which he was arrested. The song was: Kaab le gorki ke karab ghulami balma/ Chhod de ekar tu dihal salami balma. (Till when will you serve a foreign queen, beloved? Quit and stop saluting her, beloved.) Rasool Mian also composed a song on the assassination of Gandhi: Ke hamra Gandhi kei goli maral ho, dhamadhum teen go/ Gandhi baba jaat rahal Birla Bhavan mei/ Dushman khad rahe paap lei kei mun mei. (Who shot my Gandhi with three bullets? He was on his way to Birla Bhavan where the enemy stood with a heart filled with sin.) Nirala and Tiwari also ferreted out old and forgotten songs from the works of legendary Bhojpuri writers such as Mahendra Misr and Master Aziz. Nirala, who explains the context and meaning of the songs at Chandan’s concerts, says the collection has grown because of the response from people everywhere. “This project is a way of telling the story of our freedom struggle through Bihari folk music,” says Chandan. Choosing folk music was a significant decision for her, as she wanted her music to resonate with the sentiments of the people of the land. Chandan, who began her career singing on TV shows, has won many awards, including Sangeet Natak Akademi’s Bismillah Khan Yuva Puraskar. She can sing in several Bihari dialects, including Bhojpuri, Maithili, Maghi, Awadhi, Nagpuri, Angika and Bajjika, as well as in Hindi and Hindvi. For her current project, she has collected more than 35 songs and sought the blessings of three Gandhians from Bihar — Sachidanand Singh in Muzaffarpur, Ghanshyam Shukla in Siwan, and Krishna Bihari Mishra, who now lives in Kolkata. She is also exploring the possibility of taking these songs to schools and colleges, either physically or through digital renditions that she is happy to share with anyone interested.   Gandhiji gave a clarion call to the women of Bihar to join the freedom struggle. There are many songs related to this,” says Nirala||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/gandhis-impact-on-bihars-music/article35889394.ece
13 August 2021||August 13 2021 00:00 IST,||Revisiting Semmangudi’s repertoire||Naada Inbam recently hosted a vocal concert by Sunil Gargyan to celebrate the birth anniversary of Semmangudi Srinivasa Iyer. Trained by P. S. Narayanaswamy, a prime disciple of Semmangudi, Sunil turned emotional when speaking at the beginning of the performance about his guru’s gurubhakti. A short recording of Semmangudi’s alapana was played to show how the very first phrase of the elucidation would bring out the core of the raga. Sunil also spoke of Semmangudi’s deceptively simple sarvalaghu swaras, his Patanthara shuddham, and how brevity marked his music. The songs selected for the evening were those that were rendered by Semmangudi. The first kriti was ‘Siddhi Vinayakam Anisham’ in Shanmukhapriya. The elaborate sarvalaghu swaraprastara at ‘Prasiddha Gananayakam’ had the Semmangudi stamp. This was followed by a neat rendition of ‘Vinaradana manavi’ (Devagandhari, Desadi talam), one of the Sriranga Pancharatna kritis composed by Tyagaraja. Sunil then sang the Semmangudi version of ‘Rave Himagirikumari’, the Thodi Swarajathi by Syama Sastri, in a stately pace. This was followed by another Syama Sastri composition, ‘Marivere gati’ (Anandabhairavi) in Misra Chapu. The raga alapana by Sunil brought out his creative instincts. On the violin, M. Vijay stood up to every challenge of the vocalist in the ragavisthara and in the swaraprastara segments in the pallavi. Unhurried alapana After Tyagaraja’s bhavapriya kriti, ‘Srikanthaniyeda’, Sunil chose Semmangudi’s favourite Sriranjani kriti ‘Marubalka kunnavemira’, again by Tyagaraja. The swaras were at Dari Nerigi. The kriti was preceded by a leisurely alapana, which was endearing for its old-world style. Dikshitar’s ‘Balakrishnam bhavayami’, in Gopika Vasantham turned out to be an excellent choice. This kriti is in the second vibhakti. The piece de resistance was the Kalyani composition, ‘Birana brova idi manchi samayamura’ by Tharangampadi Panchanada Iyer, set in Adi talam (tisra nadai), rendered after a detailed elucidation of the raga. Swaras were at ‘Ni paada pankajamu’. The thani by Kallidaikurichi Sivakumar (mridangam) and Madipakkam Murali (ghatam) was enjoyable. They elegantly brought out the innate beauty of tisra nadai. Sunil wound up the concert with ‘Srinivasa thiruvenkatamudaiyan’ (Hamsanandi) by Papanasam Sivan and ‘Parulanna mata,’ the popular Javali in Kapi by Dharmapuri Subbaraya Iyer. The concert is available on the Parivadinimusic YouTube channel.  The Chennai-based writer   specialises in   Carnatic music.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/revisiting-semmangudis-repertoire/article35889378.ece
13 August 2021||August 13 2021 00:00 IST,||Music series to mark 31st anniversary||Hamsadhwani will celebrate its 31st anniversary from August 15 to 18, 6.30 p.m., with a series of concerts by well-known artistes. The programme also includes brief talk by eminent Tamil scholars on ‘Desa Patru’ to commemorate the 75th Independence Day. Presented in association with Sri Krishna Sweets, the events will be streamed on Hamsadhwani’s YouTube Channel. The schedule: August 15: ‘Isaiyum - Desa patrum’ by Gayathri Venkataraghavan (vocal) with B. Ananthakrishnan (violin), B. Ganapathyraman (mridangam) and Sunil Kumar (kanjira). August 16: Sunil Gargyan  with R. Raghul (violin) and Poongulam Subramaniam (mridangam). August 17: Namasankirtanam by Mohanam Academy of Music led by Rajeevi Ganesh. June 18: A concert by Ramakrishnan Murthy  with Sandeep Ramachandran (violin), N.C. Bharadwaj (mridangam) and Anirudh Athreya (kanjira).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/music-series-to-mark-31st-anniversary/article35889381.ece
13 August 2021||August 13 2021 00:00 IST,||Play on Kasturba||To mark Independence Day, the Hindi play Kasturba , written by R.K. Paliwal and directed by Mohammad Ali Baig, will be streamed via BookMyShow on August 14 and 15. The emotional, family-focused play zooms in on the life of Kasturba Gandhi when she was confined with the Mahatma in Pune’s Aga Khan Palace from 1942 to 1944.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/play-on-kasturba/article35889385.ece
13 August 2021||August 13 2021 00:00 IST,||Inviting Indian composers||NCPA, Mumbai, in association with Symphony Orchestra of India (SOI), has launched a new initiative, ‘Call for Composers’, inviting Indian composers to send their compositions to be performed by the musicians of SOI and the SOI Chamber Orchestra. Applicants above 18 years can apply. Candidates must mail a PDF score and audio (MP3) of their composition to soi@ncpamumbai.com with the subject line ‘Call for Composers – [name]‘. Audio files can be notation software audio renderings, MIDI mock-ups, or live recordings. For the instrumental category, solo instruments or any small, medium or large ensemble may be sent. Composers may submit up to two works. Last date of application is September 12. For details, log on to the websites of SOI and NCPA.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/inviting-indian-composers/article35889386.ece
13 August 2021||August 13 2021 00:00 IST,||Thematic concert||As part of its Rendezvous series, SPIC MACAY will host vocalist Saketharaman’s thematic concert ‘Samatva’. It will be premiered live on August 14 on Spic Macay’s and Saketharaman’s YouTube channels. Saketharaman’s concert will feature songs by various Indian composers and social reformers, who stood against caste discrimination, including Avvaiyar, the Azhwars, Purandaradasar, Kabir, Narayana Guru, Kanakadasar, Subramania Bharati, Tiruvalluvar, Ramalinga Adigal and Mayuram Viswanatha Sastri. Saketharaman will be accompanied by Sai Rakshith, N.C. Bharadhwaj, Sunil Kumar and Sumedha.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/thematic-concert/article35889388.ece
13 August 2021||August 13 2021 00:00 IST,||Virtual music festival||Sri Parthasarathy Swami Sabha’s Yuva Sangeet Utsav 2021, a virtual global talent festival, will be inaugurated on August 14 by senior musician Aruna Sairam. The inaugural concerts will be by Spoorthi Rao (5.45 p.m.) and Kruthi Bhat (7.15 pm.). Iswarya and Soundarya will perform on August 15. More than 120 young and up-and-coming artistes will be performing during the two-month long festival. The events can be viewed on the Sabha’s Facebook page and YouTube channel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/virtual-music-festival/article35889384.ece
13 August 2021||August 13 2021 00:00 IST,||Workshop on rhythm||Kalakriti School of Music has organised an interactive workshop ‘Rhythm and Talam’ for aspiring singers, instrumentalists and dancers. It will be conducted by Ghatam Karthick on August 17, 19, 24 and 26, from 8 p.m. to 9 p.m. on Zoom. For registrations Whatsapp 90438 88961.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/workshop-on-rhythm/article35889389.ece
13 August 2021||August 13 2021 00:00 IST,||Debut||Mohana Ramnath, disciple of Sheela Unnikrishan, will present her Bharatanatyam arangetram on August 14, 4 p.m. at Vani Mahal, T. Nagar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/debut/article35889364.ece
13 August 2021||August 13 2021 00:00 IST,||And now, the joy of sultry dinners||Now, we burst out of home between lockdowns, measuring time in peaks and waves. After many months of solitude, it is comforting to sit in a restaurant again, revelling in the familiar ebb and flow of conversation around us, even if it is muffled by masks and visors. The hospitality industry, brought to its knees by the pandemic, is fighting back with energy and grit. Over the few months, every week has seen a new café, bar or diner launch. In response to the darkness of the pandemic, spaces are now bright and optimistic, filled with flowers, music and sunshine. Menus are comforting, but creative, starring local ingredients. And, most importantly, to reassure nervous customers who now prefer to eat outdoors embracing the city’s sultry warmth, restaurateurs are carving out joyful, greenery-draped oases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/and-now-the-joy-of-sultry-dinners/article35889162.ece
13 August 2021||New Delhi,||‘Forming panel to probe oxygen deaths’||Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia on Thursday said that he has written a letter to Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya that the Delhi government is again forming a committee to ascertain the deaths due to oxygen shortage during the second wave. He also said that the Central government-appointed Lt. Governor of Delhi should not block it. “When the Delhi government had formed a high-level committee to inquire into deaths due to oxygen shortage, the Central government through the L-G, cancelled it. How will you get the data? The data will come only from an inquiry,” the Deputy Chief Minister said during a ‘digital press conference’. Questions from the media were not allowed during this digital press conference. “Today, I have written to the Union Health Minister that we want to make this committee and do the inquiry and we will again send the file to the L-G. An authentic inquiry is necessary. The Central government should allow the committee to be made and allow the inquiry. I hope that we will get the Central government’s support on this,” he said. The Minister said that it would be wrong to assume that there were no deaths due to lack of oxygen during the second COVID-19 wave in the Capital. It will have to admit that there have been deaths due to the lack of oxygen in Delhi, he said. “So far, about 25,000 people have died due to COVID-19 in Delhi, but it is not known how many deaths occurred due to the lack of oxygen,” he added. On April 24, Jaipur Golden Hospital, a private hospital, had said 20 critically ill patients had died overnight, and the hospital “linked” the deaths to oxygen crisis. However, the Delhi government submitted a report to the High Court in May stating the deaths were not due to oxygen shortage. Don’t want to debate Mr. Sisodia said that right now he does not want to debate whether the Central government had asked Delhi to give data on deaths due to oxygen shortage by August 13. “The Central government said that States did not send data on deaths due to oxygen shortage and we said that data should be asked first. Now, [we] got to know that data was asked till August 13. The debate whether [we] received the letter [to submit the data by August 13] or not is very small, so I’m leaving it. We will talk about it later. You will say that it was sent, and we will say that we didn’t get it, but I’m not getting into it now,” Mr. Sisodia said. On Wednesday, Mr. Sisodia had said in a statement that it was “never mentioned” that the data can be submitted by August 13. “If there is any such letter that says so, then it must be shown by the Centre. In any case, the Delhi government will soon submit a report to the Centre,” he had said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/forming-panel-to-probe-oxygen-deaths/article35889009.ece
13 August 2021||JAIPUR,||Rajasthan schools, colleges to reopen from September 1||The Rajasthan government on Thursday allowed reopening of schools from Classes IX to XII as well as the universities, colleges and coaching institutes with 50% capacity from September 1. The orders were issued after Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot approved a Group of Ministers’ recommendations to restart academic activities. First jab must The teaching and non-teaching staff as well as the drivers of buses, cabs and auto-rickshaws ferrying the students to and from schools will be required to get at least one dose of COVID-19 vaccine 14 days before the educational institutions reopen. Online education will continue only for the students of I to VIII Classes till further orders. According to the guidelines issued by the Home Department, no morning assembly will be allowed in the schools, while the standard operating procedure for preventing the spread of infection, including the maintenance of social distancing the hygiene, will be strictly complied with. The coaching institutes will be allowed to reopen on fulfilling the condition of full vaccination, with both the doses, of their teaching and non-teaching staff. They will also be required to upload the information of the number of students, seating capacity and vaccination on the official portal. Second wave closure The educational institutions in the State were closed during the second wave of pandemic earlier this year, when the lockdown was once again brought into force. A Group of Ministers was subsequently appointed for deliberating on the reopening of schools and laying down new guidelines.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/rajasthan-schools-colleges-to-reopen-from-september-1/article35889171.ece
13 August 2021||New Delhi,||No COVID death for second consecutive day||Health Minister Satyendar Jain inaugurated 300 ICU beds and a telemedicine centre at Sant Nirankari Ground COVID Care Centre in Burari on Thursday. A total of 750 physicians of the British Association for Physicians of Indian Origin (BAPIO) will provide knowledge support to the COVID Care Centre, the government said. “This 800-bedded COVID Care Centre is being upgraded with more than 300 ICUs, ventilators and a telemedicine centre and will be one of the best and the most unique field hospitals in the world. Many said this task was impossible, but we made it possible with our devotion and commitment to work for the people of Delhi,” Mr. Jain said. Meanwhile, the Capital reported only 49 new COVID-19 cases in the past 24 hours, taking the total cases to 14,36,938, as per a bulletin released by the Delhi government. There was no death reported for the second consecutive day and the total number of deaths stood at 25,068. A total of 71,348 tests were done in a day and that test positivity rate (TPR) was 0.07%. Of the total cases, 14,11,368 people have recovered and there are only 502 active cases. The COVID vaccine stock of the city on Thursday morning would last for eight days and there were 5,76,490 doses of Covishield vaccine and 3,37,670 doses of Covaxin, informed another bulletin.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/no-covid-death-for-second-consecutive-day/article35889000.ece
13 August 2021||New Delhi,||HIMS will transform healthcare system: CM||The Delhi government is set to implement the world-class Health Information Management System (HIMS) soon in line with its bid to bring a transformation in the healthcare system of the Capital. Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal dubbed the HIMS a “monumental step” towards getting the people of Delhi “freedom from their problems” and said the project will bring about a revolution in the healthcare infrastructure of Delhi making health management seamless and levelling it with the standards of developed countries. The system will be implemented by next year with the Health Department having completed vendor selection and the bidding process and working to streamline the project and place it in front of the Delhi Cabinet. The project was reviewed by Mr. Kejriwal on Thursday. Health cards As part of the project, health cards will be assigned to each citizen which will be a repository of medical information. Doctors will be able to see patients’ medical history using the card and patients will be able to take appointments from home. “The Delhi government is committed towards providing the best and the most modern healthcare facilities to the people of Delhi. HIMS is a monumental step in this direction, so we must be extremely serious towards its implementation and expedite the timelines,” Mr. Kejriwal said. After the implementation of the HIMS, the government stated, people will “get freedom” from long queues of hospitals and be able to get a doctor appointment by accessing an online portal from the comfort of their homes. Patients will be designated a time frame to meet the doctor and will be able to get consultation as per it. According to the government, surveys across the city will be conducted soon to make sure every citizen can get their e-Health card made. The cards will also be made at hospitals and other dedicated centres and distributed through a door-to-door campaign.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/hims-will-transform-healthcare-system-cm/article35889007.ece
13 August 2021||JAIPUR,||Varsities merge for the first time in Rajasthan||In a first instance in Rajasthan, a private Vedic university has merged with the State-funded Mohanlal Sukhadia University in Udaipur, with the transfer of all movable and immovable properties and human resources to the latter. The merger was claimed to be a step towards strengthening education in the traditional knowledge system. The Kallaji Vedic University’s campus, built on 50 bigha s land near Nimbahera town in Chittorgarh district, will come under the control of the Mohanlal Sukhadia University following the merger. Officials of the two institutions discussed academic and legal aspects of the merger as well as the future plans under the new education policy earlier this week. Mohanlal Sukhadia University Vice-Chancellor Amarika Singh said on Thursday that the merger would promote research in Vedic sciences, literature and culture and help create new employment opportunities in these domains. The office-bearers of Kallaji Vedic University have since met Governor Kalraj Mishra, the Chancellor of State universities, and apprised him of the merger. Prof. Singh said a “letter of dedication” had been submitted to the Governor, informing him of the approval of merger by Mohanlal Sukhadia University’s Academic Council. A joint meeting of the boards of members of the two institutions has also given a go-ahead to the proposal. Constituent institute Prof. Singh, who was earlier a professor of chemistry at the Institute of Engineering and Technology, Lucknow, said the Kallaji University would be known as a constituent institute of the Mohanlal Sukhadia University.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/varsities-merge-for-the-first-time-in-rajasthan/article35889169.ece
13 August 2021||Ambala,||Farmers protesting near Vij’s residence detained||The police on Thursday detained over 100 farmers who were protesting near the residence of Haryana Home Minister Anil Vij against the rounding up of a local farmer leader in connection with showing black flags to the convoy of the Minister. However, the farmers were later released. According to police, the Minister was coming back to his residence after attending a meeting in Chandrapuri Colony at Ambala Cantonment on Wednesday evening. When he was crossing the place, some of the protesting farmers showed black flags to his convoy. Stones were also thrown on one of the vehicles of the convoy, police said. Police later rounded up farmer leader Navdeep Singh in connection with the incident, following which a large number of farmers gathered near Vij's Ambala residence on Thursday. Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU) senior leader Wajinder Kamboj said they were protesting in a peaceful way, but the police detained them at police line premises. Later all the protesters, including Mr. Singh, were released.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/farmers-protesting-near-vijs-residence-detained/article35889167.ece
13 August 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||Odisha to map stretches vulnerable to tidal surges||The Odisha government has directed engineers of its Water Resources Department to prepare an action plan for the coastal stretches of the State, which are highly vulnerable to storm surges, within a month. The State plans to raise saline and flood embankments along the coast to prevent tidal surges from inundating human habitations. As there is every possibility of increased frequency and intensity of the cyclones in the future, raising and strengthening of embankments has become vital. While taking stock of the chances of coastal inundation in a high-level meeting chaired by Chief Secretary Suresh Chandra Mohapatra, the making of an action plan in consultation with local people to strengthen flood embankments was stressed. “Raising the height of the embankments would save people from tidal surges and inundation in future,” Mr. Mohapatra said. The Chief Secretary also directed the identification of “at risk” areas from where permanent evacuation appeared to be the only scientific solution. Cyclone-prone area “With around 17% (480 km) of India’s coastline, Odisha faces around 35% of cyclonic storms along with tidal surges. The State is the sixth most cyclone prone area of the world. There are also flat terrains with fertile agricultural land with dense population adjacent to the coastline,” said Anu Garg, Secretary, Water Resources. She said that as per the review, around 1,636 km of saline protection embankments, and 5,864 km of flood protection embankments, had been built in the last few years, mostly in districts such as Ganjam, Puri, Jagatsinghpur, Kendrapara, Bhadrak and Balasore. In the last ten years, Odisha has faced seven very severe to extremely severe cyclones. The coastal belt witnessed tidal surges of 3.5 metres to 4.5 metres during cyclones, thereby causing large-scale saline inundation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/odisha-to-map-stretches-vulnerable-to-tidal-surges/article35889168.ece
13 August 2021||New Delhi,||‘Fill up vacant minority panel posts by Sept. 30’||The Delhi High Court on Thursday extended the deadline given to the Centre to nominate persons to all the vacant positions in the National Commission for Minorities by two months. Justice Rekha Palli said the process, which was earlier directed to be concluded by July 31, be completed by September 30. The High Court’s decision came after the Centre made a plea to extend the deadline by a period of three months. Efficient functioning The High Court had earlier directed that the nomination of all the vacant positions be filled on or before July 31 in order to ensure that the commission functions efficiently and the purpose of the commission as envisaged under the National Commission for Minorities Act, 1992 is also fully given effect to. The Centre had sought the extension on the account of the COVID-19 situation in the country during the months of April and May. Abhay Ratan Bauddh, in his petition, has said that only the post of vice-chairman of the commission was functional since October 2020, while the remaining positions, including that of the chairperson and members from Buddhist, Christian, Parsi, Sikh and Jain communities remained vacant. No action yet The petition said that the posts started becoming vacant around April 2020 and since October 2020, only one post was functional. It claimed that despite bringing the issue to the attention of the Ministry, the government has not done anything to fill up the posts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/fill-up-vacant-minority-panel-posts-by-sept-30/article35888997.ece
13 August 2021||Lucknow,||Farmers will vote against BJP: Akhilesh||Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav on Thursday took a swipe at the BJP for its plan to hold a programme to connect with farmers in Uttar Pradesh, saying the BJP is remembering them as elections are near. Farmers, he said, will vote unitedly against the BJP in the next State polls. “It is heard that the BJP, which cultivates talks, will hold a ‘Kisan Sammelan’ in Uttar Pradesh. When the time has come for the ‘Annadata’ to become a voter, the BJP remembered farmers. Farmers are not going to fall into the trap of BJP. In 2022, farmers will vote unitedly against the BJP,” the former Chief Minister said. The BJP is going to launch a farmer outreach programme from August 16 to 23.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/farmers-will-vote-against-bjp-akhilesh/article35889172.ece
13 August 2021||Basti,||Five killed as car rams truck in U.P.’s Basti||Five members of a family were killed and two others injured when a car rammed a truck here on Thursday, police said. The incident took place around 5.30 a.m. at Puraina crossing when the family was going to Jharkhand from Lucknow. The driver lost control over the vehicle and it rammed into a container truck, they said. The occupants were trapped in the car after the accident. While five among them died, two, the driver and a 13-year-old girl, were injured, police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/five-killed-as-car-rams-truck-in-ups-basti/article35889173.ece
13 August 2021||New Delhi,||Over 80% of ICU beds occupied: BJP||Leader of the Opposition in the Delhi Assembly Ramvir Singh Bidhuri on Thursday alleged that despite claims by the AAP government that most of the ICU beds in the Capital were empty, nearly 80% of these were actually occupied. The BJP leader sought to advise the Delhi government to focus on dealing with the situation rather than “accusing the Centre for everything” and termed “unfortunate” that it was trying to level baseless allegations against the Central government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/over-80-of-icu-beds-occupied-bjp/article35889005.ece
13 August 2021||New Delhi,||‘North body rolls back licence fee hike’||The Aam Aadmi Party on Thursday claimed that the BJP-ruled North Delhi Municipal Corporation has rolled back its “unjust” order to raise licence fees after pressure from the AAP. “More than 5 lakh traders participated in a signature campaign launched by the AAP against rising trade and factory licence fees and put pressure on North body to take the order back,” AAP MLA Atishi said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/north-body-rolls-back-licence-fee-hike/article35889001.ece
